u2018-10-01-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] Ladies and gentlemen, The 4th day of the fall session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that, in the chair of this meeting, Lajos Szűcs and Dezső Reliable notary will be of assistance to me. Welcome to our guests and everyone who's watching our work. Dear House, László Varju applied for a pre-meeting speech from the DK faction: I have a message from a home care provider. Here you go.
u2018-10-01-1	Thank you very much. Dear fellow Members, I didn't see you in front of the House last Friday when we were protesting here with the home nurses. I didn't see you, because you weren't here; you fled from the moment to meet them, to meet those who should be looked into the eyes of those you don't consider human. Since you were too cowardly to set up this meeting, honourable members of the government, I have brought you a letter to listen to this. You can't get away from this, so I quote what you said to you, which you wrote through me, by the way: I come to you because I see no way out of my situation as a home care provider. My son was born ten years old, born premature, followed by a stroke. After an infection, he fell into a coma and has been unconscious for ten years. He doesn't have a visual, his hearing is the only thing that works. Unfortunately, he can hear me sometimes when I can't show myself strong for a moment, and I start crying. It's been happening a lot lately. I have to feed my little boy special formula and give him oxygen tanks. I don't have mornings, no nights, no weekdays, no weekends. I fight every hour of every day to keep my little boy alive. I've been doing this for ten years. It's been ten years since I've slept more than four hours in a row. I'm not getting a pension because the state says it's not a job. [[Péter Cseresnyés: That is not true...]] The care fee I get for this is 52 thousand forints. This does not cover not only our lives, but also the formula, the oxygen bottle, and the medicine. I'm gonna supplement the care fee by making decorative pillows for kids, trying to sell them. This will be medicine, oxygen bottle, diaper, anti-seizure. If I can't sell it, I don't know what's gonna happen. Me and my little boy could both die from the state, no one would ask where we went, what happened to us. I can't do this anymore. If my little boy goes to the hospital, unfortunately, it happens all the time, don't think I can rest. I have to take care of her at the hospital because there aren't enough people there to help me all the time. I have to take the pills, the diapers, because they don't. And in the meantime, I'm gonna have to worry about not holding the kid for three months, because then they're gonna automatically cancel the care fee. I can't understand how this country became such an inhuman and heartless place that no one cares, that tomorrow my child will still be alive. Congressman, please do something, because we're not gonna last much longer. I know we're not alone in this. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. That is what you fellow Members have done to people with such a fate, and they have not asked much; they have asked you to immediately raise their supply, their fee, by 50 thousand forints. I went to a family this week to see all the things they've heard written here about how they live their everyday lives. I'm not even going to agree to how to pay for the 60,000 forints of medicine from the 50,000 forints care fee. What home-care people are doing today is incredibly hard work, I can tell you, it's not life. I know this hard work, I grew up in a mining family, I know what it is, but I wouldn't trade with them, and I'm convinced you wouldn't trade with them. Why are you so against giving these people 50,000 forints more now, Mr. Secretary of State? Instead of saying nice words, you have to do it now, not wait. What is so stressful about this success-sounding government that works in this country? Because how much money are we talking about here, fellow Members? A half a stadium? Or is it that someone has a luxury watch on their hands, and that one family could get their nursing fee increased for ten years? They wouldn't be able to pay for this one, Mr. Secretary. They would be able to finance the whole thing. Where did the man get out of you, my dear fellow Members? How is it that you're bored looking at your phones, pushing them, or doubting what I'm talking about? [[Péter Cseresnyés: No one is looking at your phone!]] My fellow Members, look in the mirror and act immediately. Give the caretakers what they want or be ashamed of forever. Thank you very much.
u2018-10-01-2	In response, Secretary of State Bence Rétvári has the floor.
u2018-10-01-3	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, There is no discussion or doubt in any good - feeling person that those who actually care for their children at home or their relatives make superhuman efforts to make their everyday life easier for their children, parents, or any other relative. But since you've mentioned the mirror, Your Honour, let me have a mirror for you. You stood up here, and now you've spoken emotionally. But when you were Secretary of State of the Ministry of Economics for three years, you didn't raise a single care fee with a penny. [[Interviews from the ranks of the MSZP.]] Now, you're obviously speaking in a way that every good-hearted person agrees to make a raise as soon as possible, as much of a raise as possible. [[Agnes Kunhalmi intervenes.]] "Let's give as much help as possible to those who care for their children at home. But if you were talking about a mirror, did you see that when you were there yourself, and you could also decide about EU money, what decisions did you make to benefit these people? That your prime minister used his power to do that, or that he would take out more dividends from his own companies and get various state corporate benefits? Or did you speak when our fellow Member, Márta Mátrai, submitted a proposal to increase these people's benefits around 2004? Around 2004, 14 years ago. And then did you say that the proposal should be supported? We agree in substance with what you are saying, and I will say it, obviously I have said it several times, and I repeat to you today how much we are doing, doing and doing, and we will continue our positive series of measures on this issue. But please, when you get up and try [[László Varju: Let's hear what you're going to do, Secretary of State. The president's ringing the bell.]] In a kind of instructive tone, think back to your three-year secretary of state, and that at that time these people's benefits were raised by zero forints. However, we have not only raised the fund and the increased care fee per item, but we have also introduced a new category, the special care fee, precisely so that those who care for their children and relatives in the most serious situation will have an even higher allowance. [[13.10]] Of course, everyone would like to raise it, but there are times when these amounts freeze when you are Secretary of State of the Ministry of Economy, and sometimes they grow; some are smaller, some to a greater extent. [[László Varju: You have reduced it, Mr Secretary of State.]] The basic care fee has also increased from 28 500 to 32 600 forints, raised from 37 thousand to 48 900 forints; and those who care for their most serious relatives have increased the care fee from 37 050 forints to 58 680 forints. It is indeed possible to raise this, it is not between us and there has never been any kind of debate. But after all, in recent years, we have increased this product by 60 percent. And we will continue to see visible increases in the coming years. But this is not a series of measures that we have just started, honourable Member, but a 60-percent increase for those in difficulty. Your zero percent is up 60% in recent years. And please calm him down, you may not be able to reassure him, but inform him who wrote this letter to you that precisely because he is caring for this patient's child at home and therefore unable to work, we introduced to them a surplus of HUF 50,000, which could obviously still be more, but we introduced even this HUF 50,000, which he receives as a supplement to his pension because his pension income is obviously lower than if he didn't spend 24 hours a day caring for children, but he worked 8 hours a day. [[Intercom from opposition benches: Aren't you ashamed, really?! Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] That's why we introduced this surplus of 50,000 forints. You could have also introduced it in 2004, when my fellow Member Mátrai proposed it here in Parliament, or when you were State Secretary for the economic portfolio for three years. And they also acquire pension rights, including service hours, and these people are entitled to health care, who really care for their relatives with superhuman work. [[László Varju intervenes.]] We'd like to raise that. Honourable Congressman, We are all aware of this life situation. You met them, I met them. You have consulted with them, I have consulted with them, and not only with me, but also with other State Secretary of our Ministry, and other officials, besides those mentioned by you, with the National Association of the Autistics, the National Association of the People with Mental Disabilities and Their Assistance, the National Association of the Hungarian Blinds and Sensitives, the National Association of the Association of the Associations of the Disabled, the National Association of the Deafs and the Representatives of the National Alliance of the Sietvaks; and they have left in a different tone than you have just said. They said that there are constructive discussions that seek a real solution. In the coming weeks, the government will discuss this proposal, make a decision on it, and all stakeholders will be informed about it in the autumn, will be informed of it, and from January onwards care fees will continue to increase. ) Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]] Thank you very much. (Applause in the pro-government benches. )
u2018-10-01-4	On behalf of the MSZP he applied for a pre-meeting speech entitled Lajos Korózs: in respect of the elderly. The congressman has the floor.
u2018-10-01-5	Thank you for the opportunity. Dear House, Dear fellow Members, On the World Elderly Day, we must also welcome our elderly countrymen from here, the House. We're talking about 2.6 million people, almost a third of society. At the same time, we have to say that a lot of our retired countrymen live in terrible bad conditions, incomes are low, pensions are low, about 600 thousand people from the retirement society whose pension is less than 100 thousand forints, and we also know precisely that for the ninth year now, the minimum amount of old age pension has not moved a bit. A sociological survey has just demonstrated that the minimum pensioner life, the single pensioner's household, is above 80,000 forints. I have to note here: this study and this measurement is carried out by civil society organisations, because for the third year, the Central Statistical Office, which I normally call the government statistical office, has not carried out these calculations. Another survey shows, fellow Members, that when they asked pensioners what they thought was a pension they could live comfortably from, they usually mentioned 240 thousand forints, and when they asked which is the smallest pension from which they could live a decent life, they said that it was the 100 thousand forints. There is quite a difference between 28 500 forints' minimum old-age pension and the pension of 600,000 people below 100,000 forints' pension and the minimum pension. I have mentioned several times in various parliamentary genres the measures that your government has taken during the two cycles. The possibility of flexible retirement has been abolished, thus eliminating early retirement and early retirement, and I think there is no man in Hungary, no matter which bench he sits in in Parliament, who can explain to a man who has more than 45 years of working time that he cannot retire. It is true that it is well over 60 years old, but it is always rising, the retirement age is rising by six months a year, and it cannot retire simply because, as a result of the government's measure, there is no early retirement, no early retirement or early retirement, no reduced amount of early retirement. In addition, invalidity and accident disability pensions have been abolished. Please, in Europe, but in the civilised world there is not a single country where there is no invalidity or accident disability pension, in Hungarian: an insurance relationship. And unilaterally, only women have been allowed to retire with 40 years of entitlement, if they choose to retire, and all opportunities for men have been abolished by eliminating the flexibility of retirement. Dear fellow Members, Dear House, It was only during this government term in April that I tabled 21 proposals on how to help the elderly, the needy, the pensioners and the disabled. And on all occasions, these were usually questions that required written answers, and I received meaningless answers. I would like to quote from this:. Social security... in a pension system all amendments and discounts are preceded by long preparatory work, given the number of people involved, the impact for several decades and the financial coverage of all of these. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. [[13.20]] Please, I understand this because I speak Hungarian, and I can also decode the information I receive. But tell me, how the hell are these 28 500 forints gonna make a higher old-age pension? ? 'Cause what I understand here is that I don't expect irresponsible decisions from the government. However, on one side they do not allow, for example, the existence and payment of several million HUF pensions, and on the other hand 600,000 people's pensions are less than 100,000 forints. It does not need to be a head counter, that which can be saved in one of the headings, and then the so-called pension fund does not need to be touched in substance, it could be used to finance the pension of the underprivileged. It is no coincidence that pensioners have been demanding the restoration of mixed indexation for years, a pension correction programme and, above all, the abolition of millions of pensions. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2018-10-01-6	Once again, Secretary of State Bence Rétvári has the floor.
u2018-10-01-7	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, You may be in a similar state of consciousness as László Varju's fellow Member, because there was a roll call in this Chamber, here in Parliament, about who wants to take their pension from pensioners for a month and who doesn't. You are indeed part of the faction whose members stood up here in Parliament in 2008 and voted to take a month's pension from all Hungarian pensioners. There has been no example in Hungary since the change of regime, that people, following the instructions of foreign advisers, will take away their monthly income from Hungarian pensioners and thus want to meet their real owners, foreign investors, moneymen and politicians. Honourable Congressman, The pensioners will never forget that for you. And you can say any nice speeches here in Parliament, or any other fellow Member, you really are sitting on that bench of shame, as one government, socialist politicians and their former free Democrats who have taken away pensioners who have reduced pensions. Not only did they inflame the value of pensions, but they took me away and took me away from pensions. Compared to this, since 2010, we have raised pensions by 23 percent overall, which, if compared to the pensioner shopping basket, represents an increase in real value of almost 10 percent. Today was the meeting of the Elderly Council, and you must have read the news on this, honourable Member, where it has been confirmed that, fortunately, the Hungarian economy is doing so well today, that not only salaries and wages have grown since 2010, overall, salaries have increased by 51 percent in Hungary, not only taxes can be reduced as a result of the family-type tax relief, but also pensioners can benefit from this surplus. Not only wages are growing to a noticeable extent, but pensioners can also receive some of this growth in the form of a pension premium. This is expected by November this year, as it happened last year, and because we are expecting higher economic growth, it is also possible that the pension premium will be higher this year than last year. It's good news, it's worth all of us being happy about. Only because if I look at the amounts, when we paid the pensions premium for the first time in November 2017 in Hungary, no government has ever paid a pension premium in Hungary before, only Fidesz and KDNP [[Deficiencies in the lines of the MSZP fraction.]] And not because we have simply made such a decision, but because the economy already has a performance that can give pensioners a surplus. Our socialist fellow Members may laugh at this amount of 10,000 HUF or a few thousand HUF or more, but it is important for pensioners to be able to receive a pension premium in the second year. Last year, the total amount of this was HUF 24 billion. In addition, on Christmas 2016 and 2017 we were able to give Erzsébet vouchers to pensioners due to the performance of the economy, and we were able to repeat this on Easter 2018. This represents a total surplus of HUF 81 billion for 2.7 million. When you tried to save on pensioners and took a month's pension from 2.2 million people, you pulled 82 billion forints out of the pensioners' pockets. Only the pension premium, pension supplements and Erzsébet voucher total HUF 129 billion, so it is much more, and to this effect count the increase in the purchase value of pensions of 9.5 percent. Congressman, if you were so observant to the elderly, why didn't you vote for the Women 40 here in Parliament? With a simple push of a button, they could have proved that they were facing their former self and could not only take away from pensioners but also give to them. Since then, 229 thousand women have taken this grandmother's pension and can help the family, even the care of grandchildren. You didn't do that. When he yells out that he is a disgrace, when he probably yells out to his fellow Members that they made this decision eight years ago, that they couldn't even support women in Parliament to retire after forty years and to deal with the family, the grandchildren. And if you look at the amount of average monthly pensions, there is also a difference if you add different benefits. That is why your calculations are obviously fraudulent, since neither the widow's pension nor the pension premium nor other entitlements or benefits are taken into account. Nor did he take into account the fact that it is easier to make a living for an elderly person or an elderly married couple thanks to a reduction in the cost. He did not even consider that within the framework of the Erzsébet program we could offer 260 thousand pensioners holiday, relaxation and bathing opportunities. And I could tell you how much more positive things have been. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-10-01-8	The next speech before the agenda will be delivered by Mr Tamás Mellár, Member of the Group of Dialogue: on current matters! It's an address. Here you go.
u2018-10-01-9	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear fellow Members, I'd like to say a few words about the end of the century story. As you know, the 88th edition of the Századvég was completed, and the printing version of this was created, and it was not printed, but placed in a trash can. The electronic version was on the web for a very short time, but then it was taken off the web, and the editorial board was completely modified. The former editorial committee was dissolved and a new editorial committee was formed. Why is this news interesting? Obviously, it is interesting because the century End is not an ordinary magazine, but an ideological newspaper of the government. The former editorial committees included people like Prime Minister Viktor Orbán and Speaker László Kövér. So I think it's a very important question of what's going on in the Centuries. By the way, this step fits very well in the line that it seems that the conservative press has started to pay off, as the Hungarian Nation, the Weekly Reply, has ceased, they have transformed Mandiner to mention only one or two of the past, and we will see what else will follow. What made it clear in the pro-government circles that this story could have happened at the end of the century? This number 88 is about annuity, about different forms of annuity, perhaps the most important of which is that if you are in a monopoly position, you can realize annuity, and if the policy is placed on the market, then you can also generate incomes like annuity, as opposed to normal profits. And, of course, corruption is also such an allowance-type thing. These questions were discussed in this issue by Péter Mihályi and Iván Szelényi, who wrote the first opening study, as well as Ákos Bod Péter. According to information, it was these two studies that the government circles could not tolerate, and that is why they intervened in the story. Besides, Iván Szelényi should be very proud of you, for he was worth it in his long life that the study was banned and banned in the communist system. Of course, of course, it is a Hungarian peculiarity that, while this issue was banned and at the same time dangerously spread, you can see a lot of downloads, because somehow they were able to play red tape and spread like samizdat. It follows that more and more people are reading it, which may otherwise be a joyful thing, since it will at least accomplish its purpose. But as an old man, I have a feeling of déjà vu, because we've seen it before. For example, in 1984 a number of the Mobile World was crushed and the editorial committee led by Ferenc Kulin was dismissed and instead filled with party-like soldiers. [[13.30]] I'm asking what's actually going on here. Do me a favor and tell me that. Because we have learned from history that the Bolshevik revolution is devouring its children, but is the cabin revolution also devouring its children? Thank you very much.
u2018-10-01-10	I give the floor to State Secretary Péter Cseresnyés. Here you go.
u2018-10-01-11	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, I don't know if you've got the right address, and you've given this speech in the right place, because maybe the editorial should have written it and asked what happened. [[Agnes Kunhalmi keeps interrupting.]] But you seem to have had some nostalgia in one of your speeches last time...
u2018-10-01-12	I haven't spoken to Congresswoman yet. And if you keep this up, I won't.
u2018-10-01-13	...to the Kádár system, and now...
u2018-10-01-14	Please, Mr. Secretary. [[Noise, interruptions.]]
u2018-10-01-15	... perhaps in this direction he formulated...
u2018-10-01-16	Mr. Secretary, I'd like a moment of your time, please. So far, I have appreciated the restraint of the opposition representatives to shout relatively little, but I do not want this to get out of hand. Congresswoman, when you get the floor, you'll get a microphone. Let the Secretary of State answer, if I may. [[Agnes Kunhalmi: Communist tempo.]] Well, you should know. [[Delight and applause in the pro-government benches.]] Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2018-10-01-17	Thank you very much. I'm trying to be careful, and I'd put it in a double quotation mark that the thief cries out a thief, as he said here from the MSZPs benches. So you seem to be living with a certain nostalgia for the Kádár system, but you must acknowledge that there is freedom of the press. Each article, every study, every summary that comes out of the pens of scientists, journalists or people dealing with public life is free to publish it by an editorial committee, or you can say that they do not deal with it. But today there is freedom of the press in Hungary [[Agnes Kunhalmi keeps interrupting.]] each magazine is free to decide that it operates without administrative, legal, economic restrictions. You have proven that, more precisely, Mr President, you have demonstrated in your speech that the study indicated can be read, so it is accessible and it has not been banned by anyone. There seems to be a problem with your thinking. We don't have unspoken questions. [[Interventions, noise from opposition parties.]] And there are no problems, no taboo issues that no one wants to know about. For example, even on matters of illegal immigration, where you express a completely different opinion than the majority of the Hungarian people. Nearly 90 percent of Hungarian citizens say that there is no need to bring illegal immigrants into the country, and your group, the Dialogue, stands up to this and strongly proclaims that these people are needed by Europe and the Hungarian society. That is what we should be talking about, Congressman, to face the Hungarian citizens, to tell them that you are doing exactly against them, against their will! However, it is unusual for Tamás Mellar to argue with the intellectual circle behind the Századvég magazine. Maybe you're not doing this because you're not criticizing the editorial committee because you know you're not unbiased about the century's end? He's not unbiased, because he even lost his case against the century's end. You said it wasn't true, and you insulted Századvég Gazdaságkutató Zrt. He had to apologize for his reputation and apologize, and I would stress that he had to apologize to Századvég Gazdaságkutató Zrt. Is that why you said this speech, Congressman, looking for an opportunity to strike back in public and say false things again, or to spread ideas that do not have any basis for reality? Apparently, he wanted to raise your private dispute to the level of public life, to the level of public speaking. It's not the first time this has happened in your group, we're used to it. This is, of course, how we deal with your speeches in the next period. And, Congressman, perhaps another personal remark. If you consider yourself conservative, explain to me what you're doing in a far-left group in Parliament. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-10-01-18	On behalf of the Jobbik faction, Congressman Tamás Sneider asked for the floor: "How much is a worked-out life worth? Here you go, Congressman. It's time for Congressman Tamás Sneider.
u2018-10-01-19	Mr President, Dear House, On the occasion of the World Elderly Day, I warmly welcome the ages of my parents and grandparents. The generations whose members were the ones who built our country with two hands. Today, they are pensioners who, after their years of work, rightly expect to live a peaceful, peaceful life under adequate financial conditions. However, this legitimate expectation often falls short of reality. A third of the pensioners live below the minimum living age, and nearly half of them are considered poor. In such a situation, a caring state takes a number of measures to improve the lives of the elderly, but unfortunately Hungary cannot be called a caring state from this point of view since 2008. This was when the situation of the elderly and pensioners began to deteriorate. As is known, during the Socialist Party, this story began with the adoption of the 13th month pension, raising the retirement age. All of this continued under the current government, taking away the private pension insurance assets of HUF 3000 billion, ending the service and early retirement. Measures that have had a negative impact on the elderly today, the retirement society, could be listed. The purchasing value of pensions is decreasing and cannot keep up with the increase in wages at all. It is well known that there is a pension increase linked to general inflation in Hungary today. The continuous impairment of pensions is due to the fact that inflation, calculated on the basis of the consumer basket of pensioners, should be the basis for the increase in pensions. Therefore, many people are receiving humiliatingly low pensions that do not allow basic livelihoods. At the same time, the gap is increasing and only those receiving a luxury pension can feel the increase. A 3 percent increase for a pension of HUF 60,000 means HUF 1800, for an allowance of 1 million HUF 30 000. Jobbik therefore considers it essential to increase the benefit of small and medium-sized pension recipients in a differentiated way. In the short term, this should ensure that the minimum old-age pension is not less than HUF 50,000. In our firm opinion, the elimination of wages can be achieved in the longer term by means of the Hungarian indexation. The essence of this is that the rate of the pension increase would be determined by both the increase in the price of the products consumed by pensioners and the combination of real wages. Dear House, Jobbik's old demand for decently raised children to receive a pension supplement. This would remedy an important injustice, which would mean appreciation for those who take on the challenge of raising children. It would also be an important element of social change. Dear House, There are jobs that are so stressful that even those who want to do this can't do it at nearly 60 years of age. Many Hungarian workers who lose their jobs at the age of 55-60 are in an unpredictable situation. That is why Jobbik considers it important that men also have the opportunity to retire after 40 years of work. It would also strengthen the unity of the family if men, after 40 years of work, could enjoy their pensions together with their wives and take more care of their grandchildren. Finally, the elderly need security. Signal-system assistance must be modernised. You need to be available to everyone. It is essential to increase the rates of care and increase the wages of social workers. Those who move to the nursing home need proper accommodation. An old-age home building and expansion programme should be launched immediately, as more than 28,000 people are still waiting to receive residential care. Currently, the government spends much less than the EU average on pensions. [[13.40]] While the EU average represents 11 per cent of GDP, in Hungary it is only 9 per cent, and next year it will be only 8.5 per cent. There is therefore a lack of the Hungarian state, which must be replaced as soon as possible. This is what we call attention to on the occasion of World Older People's Day. Thank you, Mr. President. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2018-10-01-20	Once again, Secretary of State Bence Rétvári will respond. There you go. You have the floor.
u2018-10-01-21	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, I think the respect for parents, mothers and fathers here in Parliament sounds a little strange from your mouth. But regardless, we, all of us, must truly appreciate the people who have borne the burden of this country on their shoulders for years, decades, after a war, have rebuilt it; it must manifest itself not only in words but also in actions. But it is also better in words that it manifests itself in sincere words, that the practice and the words do not divide here in Parliament. Remind me that you had a frankness attack in Szekszárd earlier, which a recording could prove. On this point, you explain that a kind, cute child should appear here in Parliament to be the better Members. You'd rather be radical than the Yellers, but what the Yellers can do, you can't do here in Parliament. When you always stand up here and try to quote your own words as a kind, cute child, both as a politician and as a man, you can always remember that you consider it a sort of posture, a kind of political profiteering, an opportunity to get a vote. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai: Oh, my God! Oh, my God.]] 'Cause that's what Szekszárd was talking about years ago, that this is an important element of Jobbik's change of style. But when it may be possible to stand up for the elderly here in Parliament with decisions or votes, you have never once done so. [[Intruder from Jobbik's benches: No, it's not true!]] They did not do so when they could have voted in favour of this proposal at the launch of the Women's 40. They didn't vote for it, the whole Jobbik didn't vote for it, and apparently their consciences are still bothered by it, eight years after their bad decision. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: Psycholog yourself, not us, please.]] When it should have been voted in Parliament to reduce the VAT on basic foods, you did not vote for it. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: Why shouldn't we vote?]] When we should have voted in favour of a budget resource, say, the "Efficient Budapest" programme, to build new, more modern hospitals in Budapest and Pest County, to renew the old ones, which would have been a very important issue for the elderly living here, you did not vote for it here in Parliament, these government proposals were not supported, and I could still list them. [[Ádám Mirkóczki: Is there no pension increase just because we didn't vote for it?]] You have taken the Hungarian Socialist Party's proposal for a pension increase, I see you've made it very personal. Even our colleague Lajos Korózs did not mention it, although he is no longer here now that they had previously proposed to amend the pension increase calculation, which Jobbik has taken over. The MSZP has not brought it up, but Jobbik has brought forward this socialist proposal. It's a little XV. You have a sense of district déjà vu at a time like this. So this is your proposal, more precisely this socialist proposal, which Jobbik is now asking for on the government, from the pockets of Hungarian pensioners it would have drawn an average of 4090 forints per month between 2011 and 2016, i.e. 49 080 forints per year would have been shortened by this proposal. The socialists, it seems, have already been rejected, you have warmed it up. There may still be such replacement goods between Jobbik and the left, as we saw in the campaign, not an example. I think it is important today after the meeting of the Elderly Council, which we have already talked about here, that this year, as a result of the good economic policy of the government and the diligence of the Hungarian people, we can pay a pension premium. You know, when the Parliament accepted the proposals that stimulated the economy, and as a result of which we are now able to pay a pension premium to older people, you said that you would not support them individually and overall, because in six months the Hungarian economy will collapse from them. Not only did it not collapse, not only did it remain on a level, but it grew to such an extent that we were able to add many, many tens of billions of forints in this year's budget, and we will be able to give this to pensioners at the end of the year. If it had been up to you, not only would it not be women 40, not only would it not be a reduction in the rent, not only would it not be an Erzsébet programme, but it would not be a cover for the pension premium, but you might also be looking for proposals from investors and IMF advisors in London to find out where to cut back in a painful way for pensioners as well. As I mentioned earlier, according to the decisions of the Fidesz-KDNP government, Hungarian pensioners could have received a voucher three times, which was a concrete manifestation of the respect that we sincerely felt. Similarly, last year's pension premium amounts to HUF 24 billion, which will be HUF 10 billion this year, the pension supplement and other measures can be classified together with the pension increase. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties. Dr. László György Lukács: Shame on you! It's sad.]]
u2018-10-01-22	At the same time, the LMP representative, Antal Csárdi, submitted a speech before the agenda:, Hundreds of thousands are waiting for the National Assembly to resolve their problems. Congressman's got the floor.
u2018-10-01-23	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, We are years after the Hungarian Parliament decided on the final repayment and years have passed since foreign exchange loans were forinted. And yet today, as a result of foreign exchange lending, about 200,000 executions are under way. If you look at the number of evictions, you can say that at this rate more than ten thousand families will be evicted until the end of the cycle. This affects about 30-40,000 people, which means that the entire population of Cegléd is placed on the street from an infant to an old man, or the entire population of Pope from an infant to an old man. I think that last week, at the end of September, there has been a very important step forward in this matter. By decision of the European Court of Justice of 20 September IC/51/27, the European Court of Justice has taken a decision which clarifies the obligation of Hungarian legislation, the whole Parliament, to reopen the issue of foreign exchange credit contracts here. Allow me to quote a few sentences from this decision:. The conditions relating to exchange rate risk must be understandable to the consumer not only from a formal and grammatical point of view, but also in relation to the specific content, in the sense that the generally informed, reasonable and prudent average consumer should not only be able to recognise that the national currency may be devalued in relation to the currency in which the loan is registered but should also be able to assess its impact on his financial obligations and the economic consequences thereof. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Dear House, Anyone who has seen a foreign exchange loan contract in his life knows precisely that there is no such contract in Hungary. There is no contract in Hungary today in foreign exchange transactions that would have demonstrated to the consumer, i.e. the debtor, exactly, in an experiential manner, the economic consequences of the risk that he took up debt in foreign currency. I think that this is where the responsibility of the Hungarian Parliament enters, the responsibility of the Hungarian government, because now we have an opportunity in our hands again. Once again, we have an opportunity to hear the decision of the court, to ease the situation of Hungarian debtors so that they do not have to go to court individually. I think it is our responsibility to help more than 200,000 debtors who have been unfairly forced to take full responsibility, full risk, without information. It is a rhetorical question, indeed, that the Hungarian Government knows this European court ruling, and it is a much bigger question that, in view of this, it wishes to do something to help those foreign exchange lenders who go to sleep every night without knowing that they did not receive a letter about the eviction tomorrow. [[13.50]] Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen of the Government, Dear Government, It is a very important matter, not a political one, and I very much hope that I will not hear in the response the various ways of the past eight years. Thank you very much.
u2018-10-01-24	I give the floor to Mr. Csaba Dömötör.
u2018-10-01-25	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, I would like to assure you that, as has been the case, the government is looking at every opportunity to help the credible, but it is worth seeing that when we talk about such a complex issue as housing, like the issue of loans, we cannot ignore at all what situation we started from. You didn't talk about it at all. [[Antal Csárdi: Because it doesn't matter! It doesn't matter!]] It was this government that tried to achieve a permanent separation from the terrible era of foreign exchange loans with dozens of measures. You know as well as I do that the amount of foreign currency loans your party has joined has increased by a hundred times in their time. It was this government that first announced an eviction moratorium, introduced the exchange rate barrier and, moreover, introduced the final repayment. In 2014, new measures, such as HUF 3600 billion, came in. Only about 500,000 families are in a better position. Then the bank was accounted for, which allowed people to get back the money that the banks took unfairly from them. On average, the repayments were reduced by 25-30 percent. You didn't tell me about them. That these were steps in the right direction, honourable Member, if you have one minute to pay attention, allow me to quote the data that, in the second quarter of 2012, the stock of over 90 days late loans was still 367 billion, and by the second quarter of 2018, this stock was reduced to 72 billion, so there is a strong downward trend. This also means that over the last six years, the stock of late housing loans has fallen to a fifth. In order to approach this from another point of view, the rate of foreign exchange loans fell from 70% in 2010 to less than 1 percent. I am telling you this, honourable Member, because the opposition parties, whatever you claim, have not supported this fight at all. For example, the MSZP did not vote to ban foreign exchange loans and limit unilateral interest rate increases by banks. It's about your ally. The introduction of the exchange rate barrier and thus the help of foreign exchange legitimists were not supported by the vote of the Jobbik fraction or the MSZP, but as far as your party is concerned, you have not voted for the asset manager, the financier or the forintation, just as no opposition faction has voted for the latter. So, among opposition parties, some caution would be warranted when anyone is called on to raise homes and credit. As for things beyond foreign exchange loans, because I think it is important for you too, it was the current government that launched the most important home creation programme so far. There's a philosophical difference between our parties. We prefer private property, and you're thinking about a rental. In any case, I consider it a serious achievement that the CSOK, the preferential loan and the preferential VAT-based home creation programme have helped some 80,000 families so far. Your speech missed all of this. To support all this from another place, I mean that the program has been successful, over the past year, 30 percent more apartments have been built than a year ago. That doesn't mean for a minute that you can just sit back and not have anything to do. In fact, this is why the government is considering how to further expand this home creation programme, for example, with targeted support from families living in rural settlements. That's what this is all about, Congressman. The preparatory work on this is already under way and the relevant decisions are expected to be taken in the autumn. Honourable Congressman, I'm not sure we agree on all the professional issues, but it might be excessive to say so. It doesn't have to be that way, but there's one thing I'm sure it's hard to bridge between us. You have been involved in the election campaign in ending the current home creation programme, the programme which is intended to replace the period of foreign exchange lending, and we are tooth and nail sticking to this programme. What I can tell you is that if you really care about the housing of Hungarians, the setting-up of homes, then feel free to call a Bureau meeting, withdraw this proposal, and feel free to record it with a tape recorder and make it public. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-10-01-26	The KDNP's representative, Imre Vejkey, will now follow:. The Brussels-Strasbourg-Soros Triumvirate will continue to force it on us with its pro-immigration policy. The congressman has the floor. Here you go.
u2018-10-01-27	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Today and the past years have been all about the fact that the cosmopolitan triumvirate of Brussels-Strasbourg-Soros has put and places more pressure on our country in order to force its pro-immigration policy on us, forcing migrants to accept us, and finally taking away our right to border protection. Ladies and Gentlemen, They are celebrating because the position of the Triumvirate in the Sargentini report has won. They are celebrating because they believe that their open society has won over the indigenous peoples and nations of Europe. They believe that they have won and that they have been able to destroy the Christian civilization that forms our roots. They think we've been broken, but they're wrong. They're wrong because they didn't win, because they didn't even break our spine with a 7th article that was classified as a nuclear bomb. We continue to walk our own path; our own path, sticking to our thousand-year-old national Christian values, protecting sovereign Hungary along with all its citizens. Ladies and Gentlemen, Remember, our freedom fights have always been about not making decisions for us. That's why we're fighting our freedom fight against the BSS triumvirate. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai: BSS?]] Because they want to take away the right to apply for asylum from us and the Member States, because they want to legalise economic immigration towards Europe, because they want to create organised migration routes, because they want to eliminate the criminality of illegal border crossings as well as the organisation of illegal migration. Ladies and Gentlemen, The BSS Triumvirate wants to give more money and more influence to Soros organisations that sponsor immigration. This is what the European Commission's latest proposal is about, and this is what the Commissioner for Migration said in the United Nations, the UN Global Migration Package, supported by Brussels, and the pro-immigration proposals before the European Parliament, as well as the statements issued by the Soros network. Remember, the Commissioner for Migration of the Brussels Commission, in his speech to the UN General Assembly, has already said that they want to take border protection away from the Member States in order to allow migrants in. Mr Avramopoulos also pointed out that they wanted to organise, legalise the influx of economic migrants and urged the implementation of resettlement programmes. Ladies and Gentlemen, It also shows that they do not want to take border protection away from Member States in order to close borders and stop migration, but, on the contrary, only to open borders for migration. Ladies and Gentlemen, The BSS Triumvirate will therefore continue to work to force its pro-immigration policy on us. Let's not give in to coercion. Let's not let the BSS blackmail Hungary. Let us fight because it is up to us, our future, our national Christian Hungary will continue to exist, or it will only be a heap of ruins. Let us be courageous and stand up for our Hungarian and Christian values! Remember the words in the apostle Paul's letter to the Romans 12:21 - "Do not let evil defeat you, but overcome evil. " I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]] [[14.00]]
u2018-10-01-28	I give the floor to Secretary Pál Völner. Here you go.
u2018-10-01-29	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear fellow Member, We all remember the beginning of the spring session in 2015 when Prime Minister spoke here in the House and indicated that a new migration is preparing at the eastern borders of the Union, for which we must prepare, and that the negative consequences of immigration must be protected from our country and that the Union should be protected. We also remember that almost mockery received this prognosis for the future from the opposition benches. They said that there was no such thing in the air, and even during the summer, it was denied, when thousands of immigrants lined up at the Eastern Railway Station, who flooded Hungary, the Balkans, without any legal border crossing, and moved on to Western Europe. We remember very well that in the autumn of 2015 we made our package of laws on border surveillance, with which we once again made border crossing illegal. We have regulated how and in what form we can legally pass through Hungary. We have isolated the asylum from immigration, which is being washed up until today on the opposition side and on the Brussels-Strasbourg-Soros axis, which you referred to, which continues to force us to continue to accept these quotas without any selection and defence considerations, who are encouraged by them in remote countries to wait for them here in the EU and come as many as possible. Of course, we do not know their underlying intentions, we do not know why and what benefits these movements specifically hope for, but we can see that what they are doing is not good for the Union and Hungary. Whether we are talking about terrorism, crime, social or identity problems that they cause, they are all a threat to European and Christian culture. However, they also want to divide the role of the scapegoat into us; there was a European head of state who said that the problem was that Viktor Orbán did not defend the Hungarian border in time. I do not fully remember that any objections were raised there in the summer of 2015 when Willkommenskultur was announced in Germany. In hindsight, they explain all kinds of false accusations that occurred at that time; they are very amnesiac or selective, so we can conclude, because there are written documents about who said what and when in this case. It can also be seen that the legislative packages, the measures that we have taken, or the border control measures that are now being brought before the Court of Luxembourg after the Commission has attacked them, so Brussels will continue to attack the Hungarian border protection measures; or we can think about the Stop Soros package, which we recently adopted, in which we have also launched infringement proceedings against our country, we can see that they will not give up, they will continue to force it. No matter how many voices they speak and what they say, the intention behind it is always palpable and proven. The speech by Dimitris Avramopoulos clearly shows that the Commissioner probably does not feel this way about migration. We can also see Greece's attitude from the outset, who are a Schengen border; they are never criticised for not protecting the Schengen borders. I also note that, even in the summer of 2015, we did not defend the Schengen borders, but Greece, however, did not raise such criticisms about Greece, and we were constantly concerned about us. It can also be seen that all of our measures, which, say, demonstrate the dubious activities of Soros networks and organisations, these NGOs, will be screened and transparent, will receive the same attacks from the Commission. Let us think here about the law on transparency of organisations supported from abroad, which is also under infringement procedure, and we have reached the Luxembourg court in record time. And we see images of President Juncker, György Soros or Vice President Timmermans sobbing in Brussels, or they are happy to see each other, and they may also be talking about how Hungary could be broken into this line. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2018-10-01-30	Dear House, Last among the speakers, Mr Máté Kocsis, leader of the Fidesz Group, will comment on the current issues. Here you go, Congressman.
u2018-10-01-31	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, The European Parliament campaign has started, and although the date seems distant next May, it is still part of our daily lives. We can consider the Sargentini report adopted in the European Parliament to be an open point. However, at the beginning of the campaign, it is clear to all European citizens that a high stake is not a big risk if we say that it will be the European Parliament elections with the highest stakes so far. The question is whether the pro-immigration or anti-immigration forces will be the majority. Today, in the current, expired European Parliament, pro-immigration representatives are in the majority, and they are doing everything they can to punish or brand those who oppose their opinions. Hungary is against it, and indeed, my fellow Members, it is not the Hungarian Government, it is not the Hungarian Government alone, but the will of the majority of Hungarian voters, the majority of Hungarian voters, which has already been made clear in several forums. It was one of the last, desperate attempts of pro-immigration politicians in Brussels when the EU Commissioner for Migration, Dimitris Avramopoulos, made three things clear at the UN General Assembly last week. The first is that they want to take away border protection from Member States, the second is that they want to legalise the influx of migrants, and the third is that they are urging the implementation of resettlement programmes. This is the number one political declaration that makes us doubt what the real intention is. And the fish reeks of his head. This head is Brussels and its political elite. It is also clear to everyone that the victory of this elite, the political and ideological foundation of this elite, is the American stock market speculator, George Soros, through his network. [[Intercoms from opposition lines.]] He wants to intervene without democratic legitimacy, to put pressure on the Member States that are in the way of his plan and who do not want to give up the right to border surveillance. Opposition outrage means nothing more than telling the truth. Dear Parliament, If it is an opposition, the Hungarian Soros network and the Hungarian opposition have been activated along these interests. Their domestic political dreams are still cherished abroad, and there are campaign bluffs at home to distract attention from the real European debate. Soros portals attack the Hungarian Prime Minister with simple campaign bluffs. Dear Parliament, This week, on Wednesday, the Parliament will begin to negotiate a resolution rejecting false attacks, which rejects the false statements that the European Parliament has accepted about the conditions of acceptance, and rejects the intention to withdraw Hungary's right to border surveillance by standing on the ground of national sovereignty. István Ujhelyi, a Socialist Member, indicated as a Member of the European Parliament that he wanted the Parliament to negotiate this parliamentary resolution as an EU agenda. From here, I would like to send a message to Mr Ujhelyi that there is absolutely no obstacle to this, and we will support his initiative, even because we would like to give him the opportunity to tell the Hungarian Parliament how he changed between 2015 and 2018 that he does not support any procedure under Article 7. It should also be possible for him to report the background of this change of opinion, and also to give him the opportunity to tell us what consideration he had for voting against Hungary, and for what reason he had, in any moral sense, committed treason. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]] Mr Ujhelyi will probably have to fight for his seat on the European Parliament list, so if I look at it correctly, he will not be afraid of the most aggressive political attack. However, we would also like to make it clear to him that the Hungarian position in the future will be as consistently represented not only in Europe but also here, unfortunately in the Hungarian Parliament, even against István Ujhelyi, who voted against Hungary quite clearly. We welcome him to the debate on Wednesday. Thank you for listening. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]] [[14.10]]
u2018-10-01-32	On behalf of the government, Mr. Csaba Dömötör will answer. Here you go. [[Dr. László Varga: Hard answer!]]
u2018-10-01-33	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Indeed, the election campaign, the election campaign in the European Parliament, has started, and we know this not only because Gábor Demszky is active again or the leader of the opposition again, but also because the government is subjected to similar pressure. And if someone is looking for an answer about the plans of European immigration supporters for the autumn season, it is best to look at what the EU Commissioner for Migration, Mr Avramopoulos, has said at the recent UN General Assembly in recent days. It clearly advocated the need for migration, in particular by expressing that the development of legal routes is an essential element of a balanced and comprehensive immigration policy. That's what he said, not us. It also praised the resettlement quotas and said that the resources available for migration between 2014 and 20 were spent on asylum applications, not on border protection. There are a lot of problems with this resolution, with the EU Commissioner's resolution, and then we put it nicely. Let us start by saying that the Commissioner for Migration has no authority to make such a commitment on behalf of the EU Member States. First of all, because the Commission is not a single decision-making body, but an executive body, and the Member States have not authorised it to implement such a plan. On the other hand, this resolution is unacceptable because the EU countries are not at all in agreement on whether they want a quota. For example, Hungary does not want at all, 98 percent of Hungarians clearly said so in the referendum. Moreover, the resettlement quota appears not only in the position of the Commissioner for Migration, but also in the European Commission's resolution published in writing in mid-September, so it is a corporate position, and the reheated resettlement plans do indeed make it even more serious that, as confirmed at the EU summit, they also want to take the right of border protection out of our hands. It failed at the last summit, but that does not mean that it will not be tried at the next EU summits. And we also know that it is to make it worse that, hiding behind the cover of the Dublin reform, they also want to take the right to judge asylum applications out of the hands of the Member States, so the right to decide who the refugee is and who the economic immigrant is. Under these circumstances, we can ask why they want to take over border protection and why they want to continue plantings. The statements of the Commissioner for Migration also answer that question. Two weeks ago, he talked about: "We need to create a much more controlled and proactive labour migration to address the economic needs of the Member States. For them, therefore, migration is primarily an economic opportunity and necessity. They don't want to stop it, they don't want to stop it because they think it's good, no matter how dramatically it undermines Europe's security, and then we haven't even talked about the economic consequences. What is now represented in Brussels goes against all democratic principles which they refer to on every street corner, because they know very well that 70 percent of European citizens are opposed to what is happening now, but they are also pushing these plans because they know that after the European Parliament elections next year they may no longer have the opportunity to implement them. If you think that next year's election can change direction, then you're right, we agree on that. Because there has never been such an important European election, and in view of the political landscape, not only Hungarians, but also European citizens know it very well. Next May, we will have to choose between an open society of self-sacrifice and alternatives to a Christian democratic Europe that guarantees security. There can be no question where our political community stands, which side it stands in this fight. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-10-01-34	Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches before the agenda. I would like to ask Mr Dezső Liberty to present the speakers who are not on the agenda.
u2018-10-01-35	Dear Parliament, Szabolcs Szabó, LMP; Zoltán Fenyvesi, Fidesz; Péter Ungár, LMP; Dóra Dúró, independent; Lorántné Hegedűs, Jobbik; László György Lukács, Jobbik; Ander Balázs, Jobbik; Brenner Koloman, Jobbik; Dániel Z. Kárpát, Jobbik; László Hajdu, DK.The following representatives applied for the speech before the agenda on Tuesday: Sándor Székely, DK; Sándor Szabó, MSZP; Bence Tordai, Dialogue; Ander, Balázs Jobbik; Szabolcs Szabó, LMP; Péter Harrach, KDNP; György Hubay, Fidesz. On Tuesday he applied for a speech after the agenda: Péter Ungár, LMP; Dániel Z. Kárpát, Jobbik; Andrea Varga-Damm, Jobbik; Gábor Bányai, Fidesz. On Wednesday he applied for a speech after the agenda: Péter Ungár, LMP; Dániel Z. Kárpát, Jobbik.
u2018-10-01-36	Dear Parliament, The agenda for our meeting starting today is coming up. We shall decide on the agenda, the duration of the meeting, the speaking time limits on the basis of a proposal put forward by the President. We are now deciding on the amendments to the agenda. The MSZP Group has proposed that H/1487 on the protection of Hungary's sovereignty and the rejection of slanders against Hungary. The Parliament will address the proposal for a resolution as an item on the agenda on the European Union issue. Anyone who agrees with that, please vote by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] I find that the visible majority of this House has accepted the proposal. We are now deciding on a proposal on the agenda put forward by the President. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the recommendation on the agenda. Please also vote by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] Thank you very much. I declare that the visible majority of Parliament has adopted the agenda. Dear Parliament, In the absence of a committee agreement, on the basis of the motion tabled by the President, we are now deciding on the Commission's discussion and decision-making. I ask the Honourable Parliament to ask the designated Economic Committee to ask B/1655 B/1655 on the domestic security of nuclear power in 2016. for a decision to be taken on this proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I find that the House has asked the designated committee to take its decision by 121 votes in favour, 51 against and without abstention. The election of Commission officials and members will follow. I would like to ask Mr Lajos Szűcs to present the S/1747 presented by the President. The content of the personal proposal.
u2018-10-01-37	[[Without sound:]] Section 1: The Parliament...
u2018-10-01-38	I'd like the voice for Louis Szűcs, please.
u2018-10-01-39	Section 1: 5/2018 on the establishment of parliamentary committees, the election of its officials and members Section 2 of the parliamentary decision is amended as follows: the Parliament elects Dr. Tamás Harangozó, MSZP, instead of Dr. László Varga, vice-president of the committee; Dr. Tamás Harangozó, MSZP, instead of Gyula Molnár, MSZP, member of the committee. Point 2: This Decision shall enter into force upon its adoption. Budapest, 1 October 2018 László Fat.
u2018-10-01-40	Dear Parliament, It is now time for a decision to be made again. I ask this House to accept S/1747. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The House adopted the personal proposal unanimously by 172 votes in favour. Now, ladies and gentlemen, at 2:20 p.m., we will move on to the discussion of interpellation and immediate questions. Mrs. Loránt Hegedűs, representative of Jobbik, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of the Prime Minister's Office:. What will happen to you, Budapest? It's an address. Congresswoman's got the floor.
u2018-10-01-41	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, As the municipal elections approach, more and more are being heard about the government's intention to fundamentally transform the local government system. The fact that there will be strong mergers in smaller settlements, together with cuts, is old news, and we see this happening step by step. [[14.20]] The only question left to ask here is whether the small villages will be liquidated by slow bleeding or by the power of the law. However, the fact that the fate of Budapest's local government will be permanently sealed has only recently become apparent. According to our information, they would nationalise virtually everything called tasks and companies supplying them. Public services such as the maintenance of public spaces, water and sewerage services or burial would all be included in a large public holding. But after the HÉV, the BKV would become a state, as would traffic management and parking. Of course, the need for centralization to absorb everything is also due to the spirit of the municipal law of Fidesz. So these plans are not surprising at all, nor is it that the effective operation of a complex system can only be imagined by nationalisation by the government, which, let's face it, is a serious poverty certificate. At the same time, it is particularly harmful what Fidesz is doing in connection with the so-called extremely important public interest activities and, in particular, the key developments in Budapest. According to a recently adopted law, real estate development will be carried out through government-defined building parameters and official procedures, a central planning office, a designated builder and a trustee. What we've thought of so far as a flagrant abuse of some large investments in Budapest has now become a system. And as we can get used to this, the main feature of the constructions carried out in the management of the party state is the cost of multiple constructions, i.e. corruption with a noble simplicity, which is unduly increasing compared to the planned one. Dear Secretary of State, The fate of the headquarters of the Carpathian Basin, the capital of our nation, is a guide to the future of the entire country. So please state what centralization plans the government has for Budapest. Will the self-determination of the municipality still have substance? I'm looking forward to your reply.
u2018-10-01-42	I give the floor to State Secretary Balázs Orbán. Here you go.
u2018-10-01-43	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and I'm relatively new to this chair, so please allow me to begin with a general remark. There's a saying I'm worried about you, not you. Listening to Jobbik's speeches, I always think of the opposite. So when you talk about health care, it's done by a representative who helps doctors work abroad. [[Defiance and interruptions from Jobbik, DK and Dialogue.]] When you talk about anti-Semitism and racism, it is done by Members who have made exactly such comments in the future [[Constant interruptions from Jobbik, DK and Dialogue.]] And when you speak of oligarch affairs, you do so as representatives of a party captured by an oligarch, according to your own declaration. The same is the case in municipal matters. You speak and act as an expert in the local government sector that, in fact, the Hungarian people do not expect you as city manager or as a person in charge of the municipal system. The latest sign of this is the loss of the so-called Jobbik capital in the interim municipal elections in Tisavasvár. [[Continued noise, interrogations from the opposition benches.]] I thought it was important to make this general comment because of this, which is why you seem to be constantly concerned about local government, why you continue the disinformation campaign on the loss of local government and accuse the government of this, while the government has done a great deal since 2010 to strengthen the local government, the worthy local government. It was the Orbán government who freed more than 2,000 settlements from government debt of over 1,500 billion, and helped the smallest settlements to get the most out of trouble and the smallest municipalities. But the same is the case for larger settlements, there is the same disinformation campaign with your strong participation, while all we are doing is launching a program called "Modern Cities" which is designed to include 3,500 billion forints in the development of municipalities and larger settlements, mainly from budgetary and domestic sources. Along the same logic, we are also launching a so-called "Modern villages" programme against the general budget reserve for next year, which is precisely the point of allowing people living in the smallest settlements to enjoy the right to self-government, and they should not really be able to live the way it was before 2010. If we're talking about Budapest, let's not be hypocrites. The development of Budapest cannot take place without the cooperation of the government, the executive power and the local government. That's what history teaches us. All major developments in Budapest, river regulation, bridges, construction of railway stations, Parliament, museums and road development were both implemented in partnership between the state and the municipality. We were the only ones able to ensure the conditions of this partnership, and the new Orbán government, which stood up after the April 2018 election, is therefore setting up a dedicated organisational unit to manage cooperation, partnership and development agreements between the municipality, the capital of Budapest and the state. Therefore, I would also like to ask you and Jobbik to worry not about Budapest but about Budapest, but about this in speeches based on this type of disinformation campaigns. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] It can't be done. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-10-01-44	I will give the floor to the congresswoman once again for a return answer. Here you go.
u2018-10-01-45	Dear Secretary of State, You know, I get the impression that when you guys answer or say something in response to a question you're asking, you're always talking about not giving specific answers, but talking about crickets, bugs, all kinds of things. [[An intervention from Jobbik's ranks: That's right!]] just not the specific case that we have put before you and that we expect an answer to. He would have honored and honored the people of Budapest if he had given an open, straight answer. But you know what, Mr. Secretary? Obviously, you wouldn't dare, because what I've told you is true to the last word. They probably do want to nationalise all the public tasks, all the large companies with public tasks that are currently owned by the local government. They probably want to continue to centralize, and probably the project list that has been published for all the major projects in Budapest is just a cover plan, a cover story so that they can continue their corruption. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] I don't accept the answer. Thank you. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2018-10-01-46	I ask the House, and it accepts Mr. Secretary of State's reply. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The House adopted the answer by 117 votes to 50, with one abstention. Csaba Tóth, representative of the MSZP, submitted an interpellation to the Prime Minister's Office:. What will happen to you, Budapest? It's an address. The congressman has the floor.
u2018-10-01-47	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, In recent weeks, the number of people in Zuglo complaining of the noise of take-off and take-off aircraft has increased sharply. At a height of 400 to 500 metres above the residential area in several parts of the district, machines make life miserable for the people living there. Many complain that they wake up before 6:00 a.m. to the noise, and they can't sleep after 23:00 p.m. I also received a letter in which the man who lived there told me indignantly that he counted 42 planes flying over his apartment between 6:00 a.m. and 12:00 a.m. in the morning. HunagroControl Zrt. According to his information, new instrument-based standard departure procedures were developed to ensure legitimate and safe air transport, which entered into force on 16 August. The new navigational requirements result in more accurate trailing, resulting in the overall reduction of noise-related areas in and around Budapest. The fact is, however, that noise has become much higher in some parts of the district. The strategic noise protection action plan of the Budapest Liszt Ferenc International Airport, on the website of the Agricultural Ministry, makes the following findings for the period 2013-2020:. With a 5 percent decrease in passenger traffic in 2006 and a 21 percent decrease in the number of aircraft movements in 2003. [[14.30]] We cannot expect a significant increase in machine movements in the coming years. According to the current forecasts, the aircraft traffic of Liszt Ferenc Airport will remain below the number of machinery movements of 2011 in the noise mapping process for many years, and consequently the noise load will be lower in the years to come, and consequently the number of stakeholders will be lower than in 2011. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. The forecasts of the report in 2013 have now been shown to be incorrect. This is supported by HungaroControl Zrt. It also issued a communication at the beginning of August 2018. From this it is clear that the flight over Hungary in July was twice as large as the forecast. For the first time in a long period of time, Budapest airport traffic exceeded 11,000 machinery movements, and the latest forecasts show that by the end of this year a two-digit increase is expected in the traffic of arriving and starting machinery. This is supported by airport developments and network compressions. The northwest of Budapest is the prevailing wind, so 70 percent of the flights from the airport take off in the northwest direction, i.e. towards Pest, and 30 percent take off in the southeast direction, towards Üllő and Vecses. Due to the prevailing winds and the airport's capabilities, a significant part of the aircraft is now unable to avoid Zuglo. With regard to the above, I would like to ask the Secretary of State what measures they intend to take to reduce airspace noise in Zuglo, which threatens the peace and health of the people living here. I'm waiting for your answer. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2018-10-01-48	Mr. Sándor Farkas has the floor. Here you go.
u2018-10-01-49	[[Without sound:]] Thank you very much. Mr President, Honourable Congressman,
u2018-10-01-50	Mr. Secretary, one moment. Mr. Secretary Farkas' microphone, please. Thank you. [[It's happening. The name of the Secretary of State appears on the display.]] Here you go.
u2018-10-01-51	Thank you very much. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Dear Parliament, The operation of Budapest Liszt Ferenc International Airport is of particular economic and social importance in Hungary, it provides thousands of jobs, increases the competitiveness of the country, but because of conflicts of interest due to its location, we have to face several problems. Among the negative effects are the flight noise affecting the aerodrome environment. Due to the location of the airport and the orientation of its runways according to the prevailing wind direction, the noise of air traffic inevitably affects the residential areas of the capital and surrounding settlements. There is no longer a coherent uninhabited zone that would allow aircraft to approach or leave airport runways throughout uninhabited or rarely populated areas. Air traffic routes and aeronautical procedures have been developed taking into account strict international and domestic standards. Air transport professional organisations shall endeavour to ensure that the noise load affects as few inhabitants as possible and that the noise of aircraft results in as little interference as possible. On 16 August 2018, the airport's take-off procedures were amended to fully comply with the applicable legislation and to guarantee the maintenance of the required safety level while maintaining the airport's capacity. Before the introduction, HungaroControl Zrt. a number of public involvement studies, including noise load tests. On the basis of the results, the take-off procedures introduced have resulted in both positive and minor negative noise load changes in the areas concerned overall. As a result of the modification of the runway of the take-off procedures, the flight path of the take-off aircraft was significantly further away from Annex XVI. From the southern border of the district, the involvement of Istvánmező, Kisugló, Nagyzugló, Rákosfalva, Turkish region has decreased. The modification of the take-off procedures will lead to a change in noise load, but the noise load test carried out by the independent expert shows that the change of 3 decibels as the criterion for re-designing the protection zone is not achieved anywhere. In addition, I would like to point out that the increase in flight data referred to by the Member in July 2018 should not affect the population of the capital in any way, as these aircraft typically pass at a height of 10 to 11 thousand metres above the surface. Air transport procedures are sufficient to meet the noise levels, but it is not possible to ensure a seamless environment, despite all good intentions and measures, there will continue to be areas where air traffic noise will directly affect its inhabitants. The government will continue to make every effort to minimise the noise burden arising from the flight to the population living in the vicinity of the airport. We are seeking to reduce disturbing air traffic noise, we are looking for new solutions, we are constantly looking at the legislative environment and, if necessary, we are taking measures to amend it. Thank you very much for your attention, and I ask for my answer to be accepted. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2018-10-01-52	It's Congressman's word again. I ask you to accept the Secretary of State's reply.
u2018-10-01-53	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The reply of the honourable Secretary of State does not at all reassure the people of Zugló who are suffering from airspace noise. However, it is not calmed down by X, XIII, XVI, XVII. or XVIII. Not even residents living in the district, who are forced to bear the noise. And I would also like to draw your attention to one very important point. At the beginning of the year, the result of a British research conducted among people living in the area of Heathrow airport in London. It was found that aircraft noise increases the risk of stroke and heart disease by 10-20 percent. According to data, every 10 decibel increase in noise levels increases the number of cardiovascular hospital treatments by 3.5 percent. Since we have not heard any specific suggestions from you, Mr Secretary, to resolve the problem, I cannot accept your answer. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2018-10-01-54	I ask this House to accept the answer. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The House adopted the answer by 115 votes to 42 with one abstention. Ágnes Vadai, a representative of DK, has submitted an interpellation to the Minister of the Interior:. Kaspersky Lab is no longer available, but is the family of Russian intelligence chief yet? It's an address. Congresswoman's got the floor.
u2018-10-01-55	Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Dear fellow Members, It has not been six months since I told you in this House that the use of the Kaspersky Lab virus in Moscow on state aircraft is a national security risk. You denied, apologies, past eight years, and then two months later, a government decree was quietly issued to ban Kaspersky's software on state machinery. That's right. As they say. Of course, this is not the end of the blooming wedding between the Orbán Loser Government and the Putini Russia. According to the news, the Orbán system's settlement policy is not only loved by the Syrian dictator's moneyman or members of international terrorist organisations dealing with illegal migration. Turns out you gave a settlement policy to Sergei Nariskin's family, who happens to be a head of Russian intelligence. [[Gergely Harvester: Unbelievable! Moore in the opposition benches.]] But you also allowed one of the key figures of the Russian underworld, Dimitri Borisovich Pavlov. But there's more, I'll tell you more. One week ago, the Finnish authorities left 17 locations with a hundred policemen to catch a Russian businessman in Finland. He's suspected of money laundering and tax evasion. However, it is much more interesting that he has scrapped Finnish warships and purchased strategic Finnish islands in recent years. How interesting that according to the information of the Hungarian press, you also gave him a settlement policy! The Finnish press also confirmed that the businessman acting on behalf of Russian military interests has a residence address in Hungary. If you come to Hungary, you have to be a terrorist, a criminal, or a spy, or we won't let you in! Too bad they didn't write that on your billboard. Dear fellow Members, Comrade Kádár and Comrade Brezhnev's former kiss seems to have been a low-key foreplay compared to what you're doing to the Russians. I am therefore asking you, Mr Secretary of State, I am sorry that Mr Sándor Pintér is not here, why the national security control of the settlement bond holders has not been carried out. If it did, have you ever fired the entire apparatus, including political leaders, for inadequacy? You're gonna make up for the due diligence? I also ask how many Russian spies, how many terrorists, how many international criminals were allowed into Hungary without the knowledge of the Hungarians in Europe. [[14.40]] Mr. Secretary. Your answer, please begin by allowing me to see who is living with us, who you have let in with a settlement bond. If you don't have anything to hide, then obviously that won't be a problem. [[Gergely Harvesto: That's right!]] Thank you very much. [[Applause in DK's ranks.]]
u2018-10-01-56	I give the floor to Mr Károly Kontra, Secretary of State.
u2018-10-01-57	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and We have not allowed any of them in, honourable Member, to answer the most important of your questions. In all cases, the implementing Ministry of Interior bodies carrying out the control mechanism of the residency bond programme shall act in accordance with Hungarian law, in the interest of Hungary's legitimate interests. This also applies in the event of a change in the circumstances of the person with the right of establishment, the law also provides for the possibility of enforcing Hungarian national interests. All persons participating in the settlement bond scheme have been screened by the competent bodies. The people who submitted the settlement policy go through a four-time filter, also examined by the Immigration and Asylum Office, the police, the Counter-Terrorism Center and the specialised services. The legislation also provides for the possibility of reviewing residence permits. In cases where it was found that there was a national security risk for holders of a residence permit, the permits were reviewed and withdrawn. Who you can see in the register of those who have an establishment obligation, honourable Member, the laws and Hungarian laws determine, we implement these laws. The bodies under the control of the Ministry of Interior have acted in accordance with the laws in force when issuing the residence permit, which was confirmed by the chairman of the National Security Committee of the National Assembly after the meeting of the Committee on 17 September 2018, honourable Member. As regards the situation in Finland, the situation in Finland, the economic affairs of a Russian businessman living in Finland should not be counted on by the Hungarian government. If you would like further information, our respectful proposal is to contact the Finnish authorities with confidence, and if, in addition to the press reports mentioned here, you have concrete evidence to report. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-10-01-58	Once again, the congresswoman has the floor.
u2018-10-01-59	Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, From what you've told us, there's more to it than we thought. If four public authorities have scanned those who have received settlement bonds, yet they have allowed terrorists, criminals and Russian spies into Hungary, then someone has made a very serious mistake. The question now is whether the professional performers made mistakes or had to take instructions. To be honest, Mr State Secretary, I think that European Hungarians, Hungarian citizens, have a right to know who they live with. Right now, all we know is that you have allowed terrorists, criminals, people who commit crimes against humanity, Russian spies. Is there any money, Mr. Secretary, that you can do that for? Is there money they can ignore the interests of their country? And is there any money they're willing to risk the safety of Hungarians for? ! [[A statement from the opposition: Believe me, there is.]] That answer is unacceptable. And I think that everyone has a right to know who we live with, so we must show Hungarian citizens about the residency bonds [[The president's gonna turn off the speaker's mic.]] - if you have any further I can't accept the answer. [[Applause in DK's ranks.]]
u2018-10-01-60	The congresswoman did not accept the answer. I'm asking if they'll accept it. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The House adopted the answer by 117 votes to 40, with one abstention. Erzsébet Schmuck, a representative of the LMP, has submitted an interpellation to the Minister without a wallet for the expansion of the Paks Nuclear Power Plant:. The Danube's wildlife or economical operation is being sacrificed in Paks or both? It's an address. Congresswoman's got the floor.
u2018-10-01-61	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister, In the last month, at the mouth of the Paks Nuclear Power Plant cooling water canal, the temperature of the Danube's water has, according to official measurements, approached the 30 degrees Celsius limit in the permits, which, if exceeded, would have required the power plant to be shut down in order to prevent environmental damage. There is a legitimate question: if the power plant is having difficulty complying with environmental standards already with its current capacity of 2000 megawatts, after the planned expansion, when cooling a reactor with a capacity of 4400 megawatts will have to be ensured, how will fresh water cooling be a suitable solution, especially when we are living in a climate change period and hot and dry periods are expected. In the context of the case, it was also found that the investment was granted an environmental permit by the experts claiming in advance that the combined application of drought and heat can only occur once a hundred years, which is obviously impossible, since we experienced it for a few days in August, as we have seen several times in the last decade, and this also raises the need to review the environmental permit. While the Orbán government has always tried to justify the pointless Paks expansion by reason of security of supply, LMP has been saying for years that the Danube-water cooling of the existing and planned reactor block poses a supply and safety risk during the summer period. At present, the designers expect that the power plant will be recharged by reducing its performance or even shutting it down until there is more water in the Danube. However, all economic calculations were made for 95 per cent utilisation, new blocks, other than mandatory maintenance, must operate on a continuous basis with maximum performance, otherwise they will never produce repayments for large-scale foreign exchange loans for their construction. Therefore, in the interest of the river, they will either give up economic activity or sacrifice the living life of the Danube to avoid financial bankruptcy. I am therefore asking Minister why the new blocks are planned to be cooled with the Danube water and how the 95 per cent utilisation in the recovery calculations of enlargement can be achieved if the blocks are to be debited regularly on hot, dry summers. I would like to ask the Minister how he plans to review the environmental permit. I'm looking forward to your reply.
u2018-10-01-62	I give Minister Süli the opportunity to respond. Here you go, Minister.
u2018-10-01-63	Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Thank you for asking, because for the first time I see you worried that the Paks Nuclear Power Plant will be able to function properly. So far, the question has always been that it should not be built, so this is an encouraging change. This summer, it's been a very warm summer, and there's nothing wrong with that. I can also give you an example that when block 14 was built, we designed the cooling water to a minimum of 100 years, and interestingly, it happened that year. So when we talk about 100 years of data, we never know how likely those hundred years are, which is why there are technical and technical barriers. Taking into account the experience that we have acquired so far, the 14th block in thirty years of operation average, so taking into account these experiences... considering the power plant along the Danube, which has also charged the temperature of the Danube with 2000 megawatts capacity for more than 40 years, considering that the four blocks of the Tisza power plant had been operating properly even with a much smaller capacity of Tisza, no one has been able to demonstrate any damage so far except that they are concerned. By the way, we are concerned because we live in the area, but besides worrying, we have designed technical solutions, reserves in the new block system that this heating barrier, which is now prescribed, is 30 degrees and this is 500 meters from emissions, on the new block with much more favourable conditions, much less cooling water, and the pumps will be safely placed 2 metres deeper than the one currently planned. So I can clearly say that we will always be able to respect the limits imposed by the Authority and included in the technical considerations and other analyses as regards the new block. In fact, with regard to blocks 1-4, the rule is that if we cannot maintain 30 degrees, we must not stop the block, but reduce the power plant's performance by reducing the load, so that this temperature limit can be maintained. By the way, the cooling tower version, as I said, was tested during the project, and the analysis showed that fresh water cooling is always more favourable than the cooling tower version. In the few days that may occur, the block performance may be reduced due to the higher temperature of the cooling water. [[14.50]] Otherwise, the cooling tower version always has lower power than the blocks, as we are talking about a closed cooling system, which is normally less efficient. So I have to say that, by examining all the conditions, it can be concluded that we do not need to modify the environmental permit. We designed the block with proper technical reserves, and, as I mentioned and told you the other day, we are not heating up the entire cross section of the Danube with this cooling water, but only one lane, and there is a suitable reserve. In the beginning, the site was 4,000 megawatts, 4 thousand megawatts of power are suitable for the removal of heat from the Danube. This is the case now, and even with additional technical measures, the installation of after-fridges, the construction of other estuary works, we will resolve that we will never get into a temperature barrier on the new block. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-10-01-64	I ask Congresswoman to accept the Minister's reply.
u2018-10-01-65	Thank you very much. Minister, you should not hope that we will come a step closer to the need for the Paks enlargement. I'm sure you won't hear this from me or the LMP. One thing is certain: the environmental permit was granted by experts saying that drought and heat can occur at most once a hundred years. This has happened for at least two days this summer. Minister, it would be worth a little more to deal with the effects of climate change. I very much hope that you will also listen to President János Áder tomorrow, when the debate on the national climate change strategy begins. I have already suggested that the government should take a lesson from President Áder about the serious problems climate change will cause. You cannot say that very often in the coming years the situation that happened this summer in August will not come up. I would like to ask you once again for a review of the environmental permit.
u2018-10-01-66	Congresswoman didn't accept the answer. I ask the House to accept it. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The House adopted the answer by 117 votes to 25, with 16 abstentions. Szabó Timea, a representative of the Dialogue, has submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Justice:. How is it possible that the activities of the Grand and Trocsányi Attorneys' Office are not incompatible with your mandate as a minister under a contract concluded with the Prime Minister's Office? It's an address. Congresswoman's got the floor.
u2018-10-01-67	Thank you for the floor. Dear Minister, Mr Benedek Jávor, MEP of the Dialogue, published a contract between the Prime Minister's Office and the Grand and Trocsányi Law Office, which entrusted your law firm with representing the Hungarian party in the case that Austria brought at the European Court of Justice against the European Commission, challenging the legality of the Hungarian state aid invested in the Paks expansion. According to the contract, the office represents the Hungarian government at a gross hourly rate of HUF 120,000, up to HUF 300 million gross. In addition, the office is also conducting an analysis of the Hinkley Point nuclear power plant lawsuit, which will give you a total of HUF 364 million to represent your law firm, while 2 million people are still moaning on the burden of foreign exchange loans, in which case you also represented the banks against the debtors. It is also a remarkable point in the contract that your law firm must work closely with you, Minister. But what is more worrying than the psychological aspects of dual identity is that the contract stipulates that the office's activities are not in conflict with your ministerial mandate; if they are, the office must immediately inform the government, i.e. you. I see in advance, Minister, that in your reply you will defend that you no longer have an active relationship with your law firm, but let us not forget that until spring you were a part of the Great and Trocsányi Law Office, which you once terminated in the first half of the year, but you still do not know where this property has migrated to in your immediate environment, to family members, friends, clients, business partners or where. There is no evidence that this property was not transferred to the party close to you. And even though your recent asset statement shows that your ownership interest is currently zero percent in the office as a member, we know very well not to kid ourselves, your interest remains in the office. [[Dr. János Latorcai, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]] Dear Minister, Please explain to us that you, as the Minister of Justice, are primarily responsible for lawmaking and enforcement, how you imagine it acceptable, credible and compatible that the government entrusts your own minister, i.e. your company, with representation in the case, even if it happened in a consortium. Plus, for an hour that people can't even dream of, but they don't even earn that amount or even half a month. What about the property you gave up, what proof is there that that property is not linked in any way to your person? Minister, I look forward to your reply. Thank you.
u2018-10-01-68	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. I would like to welcome my fellow Members and Minister, who will answer the question of interpellation that we have just said. And if you listen, Congresswoman, you will hear it.
u2018-10-01-69	Dear House, First of all, I would like to thank the congresswoman for having been paying special attention to me for years and to the Great and Trocsányi Lawyers' Office. Although I do not know what I have earned this attention, I am always happy to talk to the congresswoman. [[Noise on the opposition side.]] As you know, I didn't come into public life from the world of politics, and I have a university, scientific, and legal background. In the Grand and Trocsány Law Office, given my role in public life, I've been taking a break from my legal activities for over 11 years. I would like to note that lawyers who play a role in public life and therefore stop their practice are proud to be attached to the law firm, and this is independent of world views, party positions and continents. In your interpellation, Mrs President, you will deliberately or out of indiscretion completely ignore the legal features of law firms. Not only can the lawyer not engage in legal activities, he cannot exercise ownership rights, so I have not received any income from the office since 2007. Here I am responding to the apparently malicious suggestion of Mrs. Congresswoman regarding the part of the estate relating to family members, mates, and other avoidances. To reassure the Member, I must inform her that I have not transferred any of my office's assets to anyone before 2007, and that the office has reduced capital, and that my share of the property has therefore been cancelled by means of a reduction in capital. The Law on Lawyers provides for the existence of a member of the law firm as a condition for the suspended status of a lawyer. I have the right to cease my activities as a lawyer, and I also have the right to retain the legal status of a member, and I am sorry, but I do not think I should resign for your sake. On this basis, I declare that the accusations, allegations and references concerning the Great and Troy Lawyers' Office and my person are without any basis on the basis of the above, and do not have any real content. Although I have no doubt that I will not be able to convince the Member to do so, I can assure you that I will always be happy to have this dialogue in the future. Turning to the specific case referred to in the interpellation and related to the provision of state legal representation, I first declare that I am not familiar with the case referred to by you, the contract of assignment was concluded by the Prime Minister's Office and not by the Ministry of Justice. In order to answer the question in the interpellation, I was informed of the matter at the Prime Minister's Office. The Great and Trocsányi Law Office was appointed in this case because the law firm had previously, in the previous proceedings before the Commission of the European Union, effectively represented itself with Linklaters of London and Rothschild. This mandate contract establishes the same consortium in order to ensure effective litigation. The commission fee does not belong solely to the Grand and Trocsányi Lawyers' Office, but to the three members of the consortium representing the court. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Knowing the qualities of the law firm, I am reassured that the Great and Trocsány Law Office is acting as an agent in this particular case. Although it is not at all related to the case, there is a reference in the interpellation to the legal representation of the law firm bearing my name against foreign exchange lenders. I suggest that you find the Great and Trocsányi Attorney's Office in order to take on a case that Szabó Timea will contribute to in the future. Although this proposal may not be effective, it may be worth a try by the congresswoman. Thank you very much for your attention, and I ask for my answer to be accepted. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[15.00]]
u2018-10-01-70	Thank you very much, Minister. I will ask Congresswoman to accept the Minister's reply. Here you go.
u2018-10-01-71	Of course, I am not at liberty to accept that answer. Dear Minister, what did you do to deserve my attention? Well, by paying an hour for the office bearing your name, you'll get 120,000 forints. Do you know how much you're getting today for a month's suffering and work for a home nurse? 52,000 forints. The law firm that bears your name gets a multiple, a hundred times a month, a thousand times a month. 52,000 forints a month, 120,000 forints an hour. That's the difference. And I didn't ask if it was legal. I asked the three questions that were acceptable, credible and compatible. I believe that you consider this to be legitimate and completely acceptable, so much of the Hungarian people do not consider this acceptable, so neither do I. It is also charming that your partner, Peter the Great, has said that you have received this contract because you have worked for it. Don't you think a home nurse doesn't work to get 52,000 forints a month? I can't accept the answer.
u2018-10-01-72	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear House, Congresswoman did not accept Minister's reply, so I ask you and you accept it. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the ministerial reply by 114 votes in favour, 40 against and one abstention. Dear Parliament, Member László Salacz, representative of Fidesz, has submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Justice:. By circumventing the laws, can Migration Aid avoid paying taxes? It's an address. Mr László Salacz has the floor; State Secretary Pál Völner will answer. Here you go.
u2018-10-01-73	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, In 2015, Europe and Hungary were reached by modern-day migration. Unseen masses arrived without any control at the borders of Hungary. More than 400,000 people passed or stayed in Hungary, which posed a serious security risk to the country. The sense of danger was not unfounded, as in Europe over the last three years, the number of victims of terrorist attacks from a migration background has exceeded 300. Hungary, in the light of the interests of the Hungarian people and its obligations under the Schengen Convention, has built the technical border closure, strengthened border protection and created a legal border closure, despite international and domestic opposition pressure. Thanks to these measures, the illegal influx of immigrants into Hungary has ceased. Hungary has proven that illegal migration can be stopped on land. It is clear from George Soros' statements on immigration that the billionaire plans to change the population of Europe and Hungary. The Hungarian government asked the people to agree to abandon the Christian culture and to introduce a foreign population. The overwhelming majority of Hungarians have clearly stated that they do not wish to become an immigrant country. Not only are the leaders of foreign countries and the European institutions involved in the implementation of the plan, but also domestic organisations dressed in civilian robes are working to support immigration. It is annoying that, as long as the state spends more than 900 million euros on border protection, false civil society organisations help migration by all means. In view of this, the Parliament adopted provisions on the immigration special tax with the entry into force of 25 August. The openly pro-immigration Aid announced in mid-August that it would become a party, specifically with the intention of circumventing its obligation to pay taxes and continuing its activities as a party to support migration. It is outrageous that the organisation supported by billionaire György Soros wants to openly circumvent Hungarian laws and continues to ignore the will of Hungarian people. On this basis, I respectfully ask the Secretary of State that by circumventing the law, Migration Aid can avoid paying taxes. I look forward to your reply, Secretary of State. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-10-01-74	Thank you very much, Congressman. As I have already said, Mr President, the Secretary of State, Mr Völner, will answer his question of interpellation. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2018-10-01-75	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear fellow Member, The primary duty of the Hungarian state is to protect its citizens and our national culture. The Hungarian government recognised the emergency behind migration in time, so the budget spent hundreds of millions of HUF to curb immigration, to protect the Hungarian and EU borders against immigrants. It should also be borne in mind that, since the immigration crisis, public security in Europe has been deteriorating, as since the migrant crisis began, there have been 347 deaths from migrant attacks in Europe. As the Member mentioned, during the national consultation on the Soros Plan, the Hungarian people have clearly completed the questionnaires by over 2.3 million voters, breaking all previous record of participation, saying that they want a united strong response to illegal immigration, calling for a strengthened protection of borders instead of resettlement. The openly pro-immigration Aid, who openly committed to avoiding paying the immigration special tax, announced its intention to become a party in mid-August. The transformation of Migration Aid into a party can also be regarded as a confession to organise immigration in exchange for support from abroad. If an organisation would like to avoid paying the immigration special tax by not continuing its activities as a civil society organisation and would like to do so as a party, it is obviously aimed at circumventing the law. I must also add that the recognition of the intention itself reflects the existence of a special tax payment obligation, otherwise this manoeuvre would be unnecessary. According to the Parliament's decision in July, organisations supporting immigration have to pay a special immigration tax. According to the relevant provisions, from 25 August, as Mr President mentioned, if organisations assisting immigration, domestic or foreign organisations providing support do not comply with their tax obligations, then the organisation they support will be subject to the tax. The immigration special tax is also based on the principle of self-taxation, the subjects of the tax will determine, confess and pay the tax themselves. Compliance with the obligation will be monitored by the National Tax and Customs Office. The first declaration had to be submitted by 17 September and the special tax rate is 25 per cent of the immigration special tax base; the Hungarian State can only use all the proceeds to carry out border protection tasks. It is important to note that the main objective of the immigration special tax is not to increase tax revenues, but to ensure a fair distribution of public burdens. It could also be said that at least part of the cost of border protection is borne by the person who causes these costs. All revenue from the special tax is tagged revenue, i.e. can only be used to carry out border protection tasks. The special tax on immigration serves the security and protection of Hungary as well as border fences, enhanced border protection and legal border closure. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Since there is no new under the sun, it was expected that Soros organisations supporting illegal migration would want to play the law again and would not want to pay the immigration special tax. One thing is certain: if organisations such as Migration Aid want to play the legislator's will, the framework must be adapted to prevent them from doing so. In addition to a number of unclear, unanswered questions, it also arises in connection with Migration Aid's activities by considering itself as a political party, a political party, and to this end it is transformed into a party, or it wants to carry out its activities as a party. One thing is certain: in Hungary, no organisation can avoid legislation on legal operation and taxation. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-10-01-76	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I ask Mr László Salacz to accept Mr Secretary of State's reply. Here you go, Congressman. [[15.10]]
u2018-10-01-77	Dear Secretary of State, I accept your answer with great respect. [[Gergely Harvesto: Thank God!]] The Parliament's Judicial Committee has already taken the appropriate step, at its last meeting it adopted a resolution asking the Ministry of Justice to examine the legislation in force and to initiate amendments to the legislation in force in order to ensure that pro-immigration organisations act in accordance with the rules binding on them. Dear Secretary of State, I ask the Secretary of State to support the committee in eliminating the possibility of circumvention. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the benches of the governing parties. Interjection from the same place: That's right!]]
u2018-10-01-78	Thank you very much, Congressman. As we have heard, Congressman has accepted the Secretary of State's reply. Dear Parliament, MEP László György Lukács, representative of Jobbik, has submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Human Resources: Why does Viktor Orbán like that Hungarians are struggling with most of the diseases in Europe? It's an address. Mr László György Lukács has the floor; State Secretary Bence Rétvári will answer. Here you go.
u2018-10-01-79	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, The fact that our country's health system is going through a very difficult time is beyond discussion. If there were three points to summarize the cause of the crisis, perhaps we could highlight the next three large areas. Unfortunately, Hungary has managed to achieve something unique at European level with what is shown by Eurostat's latest data, which suggests that the supply system has a serious deficiency. Based on the shortcomings of the supply system and the resulting mortality of 100,000 inhabitants, the Hungarian figure is double the European average. If we translate this into the language of numbers, it means that in our country, if we look at men, 20,000 more men die than the European average is permissible. We could save 20,000 lives and men's lives with a well-functioning health system. But we are also double above the EU average in preventable deaths. One of the main areas of preventable death would be prevention and good operation of the public health system, but unfortunately, my fellow Members, we do not see any signs of lung cancer or leading colon and rectum cancer causes of death, as well as giant posters anywhere in the country, but instead the government communicates with completely different messages. But if you look at the year of families, because 2018 is the year of families, then the government also has a great deal of challenges in the field of health care, because now it is well-known and known by everyone that Hungary has one of the worst mortality rates. To give a deterrent example, not only is this indicator bad, but it is also constantly growing, with regard to circulatory disorders, heart disease, and respiratory death. Unfortunately, Hungary is able to increase the number of deaths every year. 4600 more people died in Hungary in circulatory disorders, heart disease and respiratory diseases than in previous years. And the third point is the perpetuation-looking crisis in health, which now not only focuses on the media, but also on people's everyday lives, which is a crisis phenomenon in different places in the country every day. Overall, it is therefore brave to say that we have disappointingly poor health indicators in Hungary, which I think follow directly from the government's ability to demonstrate one of Europe's most disappointing health policy performances. In view of all this, it is worth asking, and it would be good for the Minister himself to be able to give an answer here, because he is the person concerned as the former health worker, but instead we can ask Mr State Secretary what the government is planning. Has it ever bothered the government that Hungary is a European motorist in these indicators? And do you even care that we approach the average best? What measures will the government take to avoid a permanent health crisis? Or is the patients safe, the workers in the Hungarian hospitals? [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] And will there be any chance that Minister Miklós Kásler will ever respond to all of this? Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches. Noise. Several congressmen are talking to each other behind the benches.]]
u2018-10-01-80	Thank you very much, Congressman. Before I speak to Mr Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen, I would be honoured if you would take a seat. I'll wait. My fellow Members, I am waiting for you to take your seats. [[It's a short break. It's happening.]] Mr. Secretary of State has the floor. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2018-10-01-81	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, It's always interesting when the representative of the medical exporter starts to worry about health care. [[Moors and interruptions from Jobbik's benches.]] In action, he's against it, in words he's speaking for it. In Jobbik, I see that it is consistent with such questions today. Allow me to draw your attention to some of the data that may have escaped your attention, or may not have made it that far, or you have deliberately withheld it. If we look at the extent to which the number and proportion of people under the age of 65 who have died from chronic illness have decreased in Hungary since 2010, we can see what you would have liked to see as the difference between the average of the European Union and the average of Hungary has decreased by 15 percent, while the proportion of people who died for this reason has decreased by only 10 percent at EU level, so the difference between the EU and Hungary has decreased by 5 percent. Males also had a higher decrease in Hungary, 18 percent, and 7 percent of women; this is the average of the 15 percent decrease. In both men and women, thank God, in Hungary it is now less dangerous for people under the age of 65 to die from chronic illness, and thus the scissors have also decreased between the Union and Hungary. If you look at in another survey how many percent of the population have some chronic disease, you could see that 69 percent of the population, more than two thirds of the population, were struggling with it in 2009, while by 2014 it fell to less than half and 45 percent of the population. So you can see a positive result here, too. Mr. Congressman, I hope you have not missed the fact that since 2010, the average life expectancy of Hungarians has increased by nearly 2 years for men and by 11 months for women, and we have also reached a level that is important psychologically for the difference between the EU and the Hungarian average, that now the average life span in the EU is less than 5 years. [[Tamás Sneider: Last year was reduced... Dr. László László György Lu-kács: The European average...- Tamás Sneider: He has just fallen...]] and the difference between the average life of Hungary. These are not self-changing changes, honourable Member. There is obviously an advantage in terms of the general development of medicine, which the Hungarian government intends to allow as much space as possible in Hungarian health care by increasing the annual budget of the health budget by HUF 647 billion between 2010 and 2019, which is 1.5 percent of GDP, which is only the rate of growth, so healing institutions can manage with more money. But besides the extra funding for healing, it is also important to prevent the disease, which is why it was important that we acted effectively against smoking and banned smoking from many places, from community places; we introduced a chip tax to make food less unhealthy; in schools there were new filter buses in the framework of reformmenza; in 2014 we introduced new vaccinations for all free, vaccination against pneumococcal at 2 and 4 months and 1 years of age; in the following year, in 2015 we introduced voluntary vaccination against cervix by girls who were adolescents; in 2015 we introduced HPV protection vaccinations, which were very high at 80 per cent; and in 2017 we introduced a vaccine against meningococcal C for free of charge for 2 months and 2. These vaccinations and programs have all helped to protect people's health. Like I said, you can see that in average life expectancy. And with the salary increase program, we tried to give doctors and nurses more financial appreciation for the work they do every day. Not to do what you personally did, to send them abroad, but to appreciate them at home as much as possible. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2018-10-01-82	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I ask Congressman to accept the Secretary of State's answer. Here you go, Congressman.
u2018-10-01-83	I cannot accept the answer, Mr Secretary of State, Mr President. If you like to highlight a person as the cause of everything, or the cause of every mistake, then I suggest that we take one person out of the crowd, go there, say, to Prime Minister Viktor Orbán, and ask him what role he has, for example, in relation to health. And for example, while Hungary is constantly slipping to the end of the list in relation to healthcare in the European Union, Lőrinc Mészáros is constantly coming up on the list of billionaires. But you may also ask that until doctors and nurses have rubber gloves on their hands, Rachel Orbán's hands will have 12 million forints on them. In fact, you can ask, and we can also talk about the fact that doctors left this country with low-cost planes, while Viktor Orbán and his friends walk around with billions of oligarchs in airplanes, private jets, God knows where, usually football matches. [[15.20]] Secretary of State, go over there and ask Viktor Orbán [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Why the Hungarian people can't count on it, and why patients and doctors shouldn't be safe in hospitals, clinics. Thank you very much, I cannot accept the answer. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2018-10-01-84	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Congressman did not accept the Secretary of State's reply, so I ask you to accept it. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 114 votes in favour, 34 against and 1 abstention. Dear Parliament, Congressman Imre Vejkey, representative of KDNP, has submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Human Resources: å How does the Government strengthen the foster care system? It's an address. Congressman Imre Vejkey has the floor. Secretary Bence Rétvári will answer. Here you go.
u2018-10-01-85	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, In 2013, the Fidesz-KDNP administration adopted the XXXI of 1997 on the protection of children and child care management. a bill amending laws and certain related laws relating to the transformation of foster family status and special care. The amendment that entered into force on 1 January 2014 was a significant step forward to promote the social prestige of foster parenting. The aim of the introduction of a foster parent's employment relationship was to ensure a high level of professional, moral and material recognition of the foster parent's profession and regulation creating conditions similar to those of employment, in order to ensure that children from their families receive as much family care as possible. Several coordinated measures have led to a steady increase in the proportion of children in foster care compared to institutional care. It increased from 56 per cent at the end of 2009 to 65 per cent by the end of 2017, an increase of around 10 percentage points. The remuneration of the foster parents in relation to the employment relationship introduced on 1 January 2014 has become indexed to the minimum wage and has been linked to full health insurance and pension rights. The introduction of a legal relationship meant a real increase in employment and thus also contributes to achieving the employment rate agreed in the Europe 2020 strategy. From 1 July 2015, benefits in kind were extended to children in foster care, young adults. The source of the central budget for foster care is also increasing year after year. That is why I ask the honourable Secretary of State: how do you assess the past few years of the foster care system? Also, what does the government do to further strengthen the foster care system? I look forward to your reply, Secretary of State. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-10-01-86	Thank you very much, Congressman. We will hear the answer from Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2018-10-01-87	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Thank you very much for your appreciation and information on all these points. It is good that the Fidesz-KDNP faction association is stable in supporting the government's ideas in this regard, because unfortunately, from the opposition side, we could not receive support on this issue of a consensus-based foster family network; for some reason, political short-term considerations have always set aside the fact that it is in the child's short, medium- and long-term interest, and it must always be in the children's interests first and then anything else. As you pointed out, the number of children who can spend their weekdays and weekends with foster parents, not under institutional conditions, has increased fortunately, as it is in the child's primary interest. For children under 3 years of age, this figure has increased from 74 to 86 percent, and for children between 3-6 years of age, from 85 percent to 91 percent of those who are already in foster care, and not under institutional conditions, children under 12 years of age have overall increased from 76 percent to 85 percent. Even for permanently ill or disabled children, the number of foster parents has increased from 51 to 59 percent. This is not self-inflicted, but this requires very diverse government measures, intervention, and, of course, the expansion of resources, as in the case of foster parents, we have been talking about an average threefold increase in income since 2010, and it has also been very helpful that the legislative environment has changed: on 1 January 2014, the large-scale amendment of the Child Protection Act entered into force, which also laid down this main principle regarding the placement of children under 12 years of age, that they should be placed in foster parents as far as possible, unless the child's interest requires something else because the child has a long-term illness or serious disability, or that joint custody with siblings requires something else. But in addition, if the child's interests do not require them, he must place them in foster care. A foster parent who cared for a child was not yet employed in a foster family in 2010 and did not receive an allowance of the same amount as now, at that time he received 15,000 forints a month. The HUF 15,000 has now increased to HUF 60,000, and three children have increased the allowance from HUF 45,000 to HUF 120,000. In addition, there are, of course, educational fees, supplies, family allowances and benefits granted by the State in kind for children. The budget for next year was not supported by the opposition, but the remuneration for the foster parents will increase further, with HUF 850 million more for the following year than we are spending this year. We are trying to increase foster care not only from the budget, but also from development sources. For this reason, one of the EFOP programmes, the title of which is "Infrastructural and professional development of foster-parent networks" will provide HUF 1.2 billion in surplus to the foster-parent network. There is, as the name clearly suggests, infrastructure development, but there is a measure to improve quality care, territorial coverage, care measures for children, purchase of tangible assets, further training, competence development, knowledge enhancement, various training courses. However, it is important to have the national campaign that is taking place, since yesterday, September 30, the deadline for a national drawing and small film contest has been completed. These will soon be more widely known. This is an awareness-raising campaign, which will also have more elements, including both professional and entertaining events. This also shows that we have a nation-building responsibility to properly respect foster parents both morally and financially, and that more than 23,000 children and young people may be given a little more attention during the campaign. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-10-01-88	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I will ask Congressman Imre Vejkey to accept the Secretary of State's answer.
u2018-10-01-89	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, First of all, I would like to thank you for your reply. I must point out that, as has already been the case, the Hungarian government can count on the support of Fidesz-KDNP in the area of further strengthening of foster care. Of course, we cannot be satisfied, since it is a clear goal for all children to have family care, so we must continue to work to raise as many of the children of their families as possible in foster care and to have as many children as possible in foster homes as possible and to receive high-quality care and good education. With thanks, I accept your reply once again. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-10-01-90	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, As we have heard, Congressman has accepted the Secretary of State's reply. Dear Parliament, Ms Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, representative of the MSZP, has submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Human Resources, but Woe to that assistance with a title of more than ten lines at the beginning. Here you go, Congresswoman, you have the floor.
u2018-10-01-91	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Surprised you didn't finish reading the title, Mr President, I'd like to start with the title, "Woe, however, to the help that, instead of building dams, will always only support the crumbling houses, and when you see the crisis perpetuating, you will not seek and eliminate the causes inherent in the structure of society, but rather develop a constant ability to treat problems symptomatically. For the structural flaws of society, whether they are caused or not, the elite is responsible for being elite, so in this case, social work is what you are doing wrong with your other work. The error is not (...) the institutional perpetuation of the symptomatic treatment and the false overestimation of the willingness to do so, leading to the dangerous psychological deformity of the whole society. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. [[15.30]] The above quote comes from István Bibó, and it fits perfectly with what the health government in Hungary is doing today in order to ensure basic care. Currently, there are 248 permanently unfilled dental and 334 permanently unfilled GP districts in Hungary. I know, Mr. Secretary, that you're going to say that we told you last week, but until we get a normal answer to our questions, I'm going to tell you every week. Eighty-five percent of these districts were abandoned under Fidesz governments, i.e. because of Fidesz and Fidesz health policies. Fidesz's response to the ever-empty districts was to finance all card money and various other forms of practice. However, they did not lead to any results. This is what we see in the fact that the number of permanently unfilled GPs has increased by 103 since 2015, the number of GPs has decreased by 65 since 2008, and the number of GPs has decreased by 62 since 2008. In other words, we can see that although the number of GPs and GPs is decreasing, the number of unfilled practices is increasing. Mr State Secretary, we now see that the number of Hungarian residents who do not get to GPs every day is almost millions, because they cannot get there because of the vacant posts. If we look at the coral, we have even worse data: more than a third of the general doctors are over 65, Mr. Secretary of State. From week to week, we ask when they really want to address the health problems in which we ask questions. Mr State Secretary, I think that it is not a matter of words that sound and that we have to do it twice, because the last eight years have been for you, but that we want the actual answer at last. I'm waiting for your answer. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2018-10-01-92	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2018-10-01-93	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, The Hungarian Socialist Party's parliamentary activity always takes interesting turns; sometimes their predecessor party chases István Bibó, and then the successor party quotes István Bibó here in Parliament. It's wide enough, sometimes here, sometimes the pendulum tilts over your shoulders. But what they did in health was clear: it was a very, very large and difficult damage to repair; the 600 billion forints that were withdrawn from health care are extremely painful; the four hospitals that were shut down are burning wounds; the 16,000 active beds that have been removed are a constant sense of absence; the 6,000 medical workers who have been laid off would still be extremely useful for health care today; the one month's wage that has been taken from all health workers has greatly reduced confidence. In addition to the hospital daily allowance, you had a proposal for basic care, general medical care, which you referred to in your current interpellation, and this was a visitation fee. After all, you wanted to reduce the number of recipients of health care by making patients pay for visits to the general public, thereby reducing the burden on the general public, but in fact, you would have put patients at greater health risk and set up a completely unfair system, since you would have made poor people sicker. This was your health policy: let those who have no money be twice as sick, stay less in the hospital, and visit less of the general practitioners. The problem you raise is that the general practitioners are elderly, not only in Hungary, but surely you know that it is a problem all over Europe. Not only will there be about 500 000 health workers missing from the health system in Europe, in the EU countries by 2020, but one third of German general practitioners are now retired and will withdraw from their general health care activities within five years. So other countries have to face a similar situation, which is why it was important for Hungary to improve the care of general practitioners and the facilities of the clinics. Both EFOP and TOP constructions are available for this purpose, with a total value of HUF 35 billion in four calls, but you said a few penny increases in card money. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and When you were on the government in 2010, the income of an average Hungarian general medical practice was HUF 867 570. 867 570 HUF! Today, the average income of a general medical practice is HUF 1 596 242. This is not a few pennies, honourable Member. Between 867,000 and 1 million 596,000 forints, there is a 70 percent increase, and a 74 percent increase is more than enough for a general practitioner today. When a person plans his career either as a career starter or older, he sees it more rewarding to act as a general practitioner in Hungary, since his practice every month, of course, of which much has to be covered, is not only his wages, but there is certainly something else in it, not 867 thousand, but nearly 1.6 million forints. As you know, we have said here in Parliament several times that the government grants a non-refundable grant of HUF 4 million for the purchase of practice law, giving general practitioners up to HUF 20 million to settle down as a non-refundable grant, thanks to the practice competitions, we have managed to provide dental care for 573 thousand residents and 175 thousand people in recent years, which is more advanced than if socialist government continued beyond 2010. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-10-01-94	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I'll ask the congresswoman to accept the Secretary of State's answer. Here you go, Congresswoman, you have the floor.
u2018-10-01-95	Thank you, Mr. President. I can't accept it. Mr Secretary, when will the time come when you will not be working for the past eight years, not for the period before 2010? [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Now! Didn't you listen?]] Secretary of State, they've been ruling for over eight years. If we ask the Hungarian population today what is the biggest problem in Hungary, two thirds of them bring up health care. And who are they blaming? The current administration. They're not pointing back eight years, they're blaming themselves. Secretary of State, you can renovate clinics only where you are and where you have a GP, a pediatrician and a dentist. That's where you can renovate and install new equipment. It's about to reach a million people who don't get their GP every day. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Everyone gets there!]] It's your fault. I've given you the data, Mr. Secretary. Every year, the number of practices they can't upload increases. And you know, Mr. Secretary, I don't care how old doctors are in Germany, we don't live in Germany, we live in Hungary [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] and now find a solution to this problem in Hungary! Thank you, Mr. President.
u2018-10-01-96	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, The congresswoman did not accept the Secretary of State's reply, so I ask you, and you accept it. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 113 votes to 38, with no abstentions. Dear Parliament, Congressman Gergely Arató, a representative of DK, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Human Resources. When does the government commit itself to solving the situation of kindergarten educators? It's an address. Congressman Gergely Harvesto has the floor. Here you go.
u2018-10-01-97	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, Not just on one hand, but on one finger, I can count the Orbán government's education policy measures that really serve the children's interests and the interests of the country. Now, this is the one extension of kindergarten, when building on the achievements of previous governments, they allowed all children to go to kindergarten. The only problem is that, as the profession has drawn attention to this at the time, it is not enough to impose it, the conditions must also be provided for it. [[15.40]] This requires a kindergarten teacher in addition to kindergarten. And while you've been putting together a series of winning reports since the start of the school year, and instead of being broken up, you are stubbornly denying that there is a shortage of teachers, the facts deny that. In the field of kindergarten teachers, in kindergartens, there was a previous shortage of kindergarten teachers, but at that time only small settlements were affected. As a result of your activities, it has now been achieved that it is becoming increasingly difficult to fill the kindergarten teachers' posts in Budapest. In mid-September, 300 vacant posts were announced. Only the capital XX. Of the 17 kindergartens of its district, 41 kindergarten teachers are missing to give just one example, but the situation is difficult in several other districts in Budapest. Similarly, they are looking for kindergarten teachers, and there is a serious shortage of kindergarten teachers in Nyíregyháza, Székesfehérvár, Veszprém, Debrecen, and I could continue. The profession is getting older. About 55 years of age are the average age of teachers in kindergarten. A large proportion of fresh graduates are looking for other jobs or going to work abroad. This has a very important role to play in the introduction of the teacher's career model in such a way that pre-school teachers spend at least three years in the internship category, during which they earn less than pre-school nurses. So the municipalities are in a very difficult situation. They are trying to find teachers with a substantial income supplement, only because the norm is extremely low and they have little resources to do so, it is very difficult for them to solve this problem. Therefore, the situation cannot be resolved without significant additional costs, in particular by increasing the pre-school norm for municipalities and increasing the pay of early-stage caregivers. That is why I am asking Mr Secretary of State when you are finally going to settle the wages of the kindergarten teachers, especially those who start their careers, and to raise this significantly. Since the start-up wage does not cover the rental costs, does the portfolio consider providing housing support for early-stage teachers to become more kindergarten teachers? Finally, the wallet is willing to make legislation more flexible at least temporarily so that a kindergarten group can be provided with a kindergarten teacher and a pedagogical assistant. In the short term, this would also ease the situation. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2018-10-01-98	Thank you very much, Congressman. We will hear the answer from Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2018-10-01-99	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, The questions you are now asking, you have tried to find answers in your own era, during your own governance. In 2004, you were protested before your former workplace, the Ministry of Education, and even at Parliament for closing preschools in the capital and rural areas. In the course of the operation, they put the keys that were the key to the institutions, mostly kindergartens, that you closed. This was then your answer to the problem that you have just raised, that these kindergartens have been closed, and then the protesters have taken away the key to the kindergarten and school that you have closed, and you have given the keys to the institutions that you have closed. In 2004, you became State Secretary at the Ministry of Education. So you had to come up with a different solution, Congressman, and you shared it with the students of Klubradio in February 2006 how to explain the problems that you have now raised 12 years ago how this problem should be addressed by the then MSZP-SZDSZ-socialist It's done according to government. It was your suggestion that non-graduate kindergarten teachers should be employed in small-town kindergartens in Hungarian: you invented a kindergarten without a kindergarten teacher. That was the socialist response at the time. [[Noise and interruptions from the benches of MSZP and DK. Dr. Ágnes Vadai: It's over! Let's talk about the current situation.]] I don't know if they're gonna lock up or hold kindergartens without a kindergarten teacher. [[Moraj in the benches of opposition parties.]] You wanted to follow this direction, we didn't want to follow this direction. [[Noise, interruptions. The president's ringing the bell.]] But, as you said, from the age of three, we made preschooling mandatory for everyone. And we have also made a lot of other extra resources and additional opportunities. We don't believe in kindergarten closure. We believe in opening kindergartens. Not in layoffs and wage cuts, what you did in 2008 when you took away a month's wages from kindergarten teachers, but in our belief that there will be an increase in salaries here, there will be more and more children in kindergarten, and more kindergarten teachers will be able to deal with them. If you look at next year's budget, you can also see that kindergarten support is increasing year after year. A surplus of HUF 4.5 billion can be calculated by the kindergarten maintainers, and if you look at the increase, the monthly unit amount will increase from HUF 81 700 to HUF 97 400, i.e. from HUF 81 thousand to HUF 97 thousand. This is, after all, a better direction than reducing salaries or closing kindergartens. If you look at what kindergarten seats have been created from various sources, budgetary sources, TOP sources and VEKOP sources, then you can see that since 2010, there have been 9,000 new kindergarten seats in Hungary. This was also necessary because we introduced compulsory kindergartens from the age of three, and because we believe that this is a beneficial measure for children and families to raise children. Until July 18, 3187 new kindergarten seats were created from TOP and VEKOP only, and 58 040 kindergarten seats were renovated. We didn't lock up, we created a new one, and we renovated the old one. Today, 95 percent of four-year-olds are in kindergarten, which was an important objective, and we are first in Europe, both in the European Union and in the OECD. We raised the salary of a beginner by HUF 60 700, from 122 thousand to 182 thousand, and a teacher who worked 20 years in college earns HUF 152 thousand more than you did in your time. You, who have not just been dismissed, gave an average of 149 145 HUF, which is 301 455 HUF. And fortunately, the replacement is now a little more encouraging than it was at your time, since the 960 retired kindergarten educators will be replaced by 1372 kindergarten educators this year. Finally, Hungary has a future, and this is not about closure. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-10-01-100	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I ask the congressman to accept the Secretary of State's answer.
u2018-10-01-101	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State, Your memory is extremely selective, and we have established this several times. Somehow he forgets the 50 percent wage increase, which we gave to the teachers and not just on paper. [[Intercoms and noise in the pro-government benches.]] or you forget that the kindergarten seats with which you boast were built on the basis of the new Hungary programme adopted during the Gyurcsány government. But more importantly, my dear Secretary of State, your history lessons unfortunately do not stroke the child's head in the Micimackó group, they do not fix the books, they do not hold any development work, in Hungarian: just because you look back from your own greatness, you insult the previous government, you do not become any more kindergarten teachers, you do not get higher wages, there will be no more kindergarten teachers, there will be no more occupations, there will be no better quality kindergarten care. Since you're not dealing with children, you're dealing with your own ego, I can't accept the answer. Thank you very much. [[Delight and applause in the benches of DK. Interpretings at the same place: That's right!]]
u2018-10-01-102	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, The congressman didn't accept the Secretary of State's answer. So I'm asking you to accept it. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 113 votes in favour, 40 against and no abstentions. Dear Parliament, Congressman Antal Csárdi, a representative of the LMP, has submitted an interpellation to the Prime Minister. When does the government wish to take the side of the people against the banks? It's an address. I would like to inform the Member that the answer will be given on behalf of Minister of Justice László Trócsányi, who is competent according to the Prime Minister's request, on behalf of Minister of Justice Pál Völner. There you go. You have the floor.
u2018-10-01-103	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, In the previous cycle, the government extended the eviction moratorium until 30 April 2018 according to a KDNP proposal. The proposal of the debtor chamber, supported by us, suggested that this moratorium be extended until 31 December 2019, because during this time Parliament has the opportunity to find a solution to the situation of those who have suffered foreign exchange credit. Unfortunately, this proposal has been voted down, and evictions have started at such a pace that if there is no change, more than 10,000 evictions will take place by the end of the cycle, which means that more than 30,000 people will be on the street. [[15.50]] Thirty thousand people are like putting the entire population of Cegléd or Pope on the street. At the same time, there has been a significant change. The European Court of Justice took a decision in Case C-51/17 on 20 September. This decision and its provisions open a new chapter and allow the Hungarian Government and the entire Parliament to reconsider their position on the issue. The European Court of Justice states, inter alia, that conditions relating to exchange rate risk must not only appear in the contract from a formal or grammatical point of view, but also be understandable in relation to specific content. It also describes how the average consumer, the sufficiently prudent consumer, should be able to understand and understand from the point of view of a reasonable consumer that the exchange rate change affects the economic situation of the debtor not only in summary terms but also in what way. Based on these, it is now really necessary to suspend immediately, and I think evictions should be reviewed, foreign exchange credit contracts should be reviewed. What can't go on is that we have such an EU decision ahead of us, such a court decision, and we let our own citizens get on the streets and lose their homes. Yet, there is an opportunity for the government to provide an escape route through its own regulatory system to these debtors. I'm not looking for those responsible. I'm looking for a solution. I therefore ask with all due respect: the Government is willing to examine the content of foreign exchange credit transactions in the spirit of the European Court of Justice's decision, to use its regulatory system to prevent further amok running by financial institutions and to suspend evictions until a satisfactory solution to all unfair foreign exchange loans is reached. I look forward to your reply with great respect. Thank you very much.
u2018-10-01-104	Thank you very much, Congressman. As I said, Mr President, the Secretary of State Pál Völner will answer your interpellation question. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2018-10-01-105	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The laws adopted in 2014, including the determination of the HUF exchange rate, were based on the Curia's 2014 legal unit decision. On the basis of the Curia's decision, the provision of the foreign exchange-based consumer loan agreement that exchange rate risk is borne by the consumer against a more favourable interest rate is a contractual provision falling within the scope of the main service, the unfairness of which can be examined and established only if the content of the general informed and prudent average consumer was not clear and understandable at the time of the conclusion of the contract; therefore, it is in line with the decision of the EU court. The Court of Justice of the European Union in September 2018 OTP Bank and OTP Factoring Zrt. In its reply to the opening decision, the Commission stated that, despite the amendments made by foreign exchange-credit laws, as I mentioned, the original contractual terms of the contract, which were not individually negotiated, could be examined in terms of compliance with Directive 93/13. The unfairness of the contract condition for exchange rate risk should not be investigated unless a national court finds that they have been clearly and clearly formulated, therefore, if the national court finds that they have been established. In the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union, it was once again clear that it is for the referring court alone to take a decision on the classification of the conditions in the light of the circumstances of the case in question. In accordance with the requirement of a clear and understandable wording, the financial institution is obliged to provide sufficient information to borrowers. The conditions relating to exchange rate risk should also be clear from a formal, grammatical point of view and in relation to specific content, as the Member mentioned. Thus, the consumer must also be able to assess the economic consequences of his financial obligations. In this respect, the judgment does not present any significant novelty compared to the decision taken in 2017 in the Roma-related case. On the basis of the judgment, it is for the national court to take into account that the loan agreement contains a risk-finding statement which must be interpreted in conjunction with the additional information provided. For example, in the specific case, borrowers were also provided with a document containing additional information on exchange rate risk and examples of calculation. It can therefore be seen that an individual consideration of the court is absolutely necessary. Overall, as I said, it is therefore for the national court to assess the quality of this, its occurrence, i.e. the exchange rate risk. Mr President, Mr President, you mentioned the moratorium on implementation and other issues. Since 2010, it has been this House that has constantly extended the moratorium and, most recently, at the initiative of KDNP, it is also the winter moratorium period from 15 November to 30 April, contrary to the previous period from 1 December to the end of February. So in this sense, this House has done for the debtors in this area as well. The second is that if we talk about the validity of the foreign exchange credit contract, especially foreign currency crediters, in the interpellation, there is a lawsuit pending, then in the enforcement case, the court may continue to be asked to suspend the enforcement procedure until the trial is completed. So the present legislative framework also gives debtors the opportunity to exercise their rights, or, if there is good judicial practice, if the development reaches the point of having a joint decision in Curia, then, in my opinion, the possibility, in law, for this House to create a law that can further help debtors to solve the large number of cases without individual consideration is once again open. Of course, we are open to this, and we just need to get to where we got to in 14 to see what case law the national courts will develop on the basis of this decision. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2018-10-01-106	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I ask Congressman Antal Csárdi to accept the Secretary of State's answer. Here you go.
u2018-10-01-107	Dear House, Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Unfortunately, I can't accept the answer. The reason why I cannot accept the answer is because this court decision gives a perfect basis for the Hungarian Parliament to make a decision under its legislative law that helps debtors not to have to start these lawsuits individually. I think that if evictions are not suspended, it will be very difficult to remedy the damage that has been caused to the debtors until then. We also know that this issue has not been resolved today and that the risk sharing has not taken place today and that the information has been completely zero. I'm sorry, we've all seen foreign exchange credit contracts that didn't include these information to the extent expected. So, unfortunately, I can't accept the answer.
u2018-10-01-108	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, As we have heard, Congressman did not accept the Secretary of State's reply. So I'm asking you to accept it. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament accepted the State Secretary's reply by 114 votes to 40, with one abstention. Dear Parliament, Congressman Balázs Simon Róbert, representative of Fidesz, has submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Justice:, What is the stage in the infringement procedure for the Stop Soros package? It's an address. Mr Simon Robert Balázs has the floor. State Secretary Pál Völner will be the responder. Here you go.
u2018-10-01-109	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, Europe was hit by a massive wave of immigration in 2015. Thousands of people have come to the territory of our country from unknown places and purposes, avoiding all controls. [[Gergely Harvester: Because you didn't check it!]] All we have to do is think about the events at Keleti Railway Station or the crowd of people on the highway. Hungary first recognised the need to prevent this process and to protect the country and Europe through our borders. The Hungarian government, defying opposition disbelief and international pressure, built the border fence and created a legal border closure, which resulted in the cessation of illegal immigration into Hungary. It is well known to everyone that the Merkel-Macron-Juncker axis attacked and attacked Hungary with full force because it fulfils its obligation under the Schengen Convention. As time passed, it became increasingly clear that Hungary is facing a well-organized, massively supported, coordinated machine. [[16.00]] This machine has a central figure who is George Soros. After the intention of the billionaire and his dependants became completely clear, the Hungarian government had an obligation to ask the Hungarian people whether they wanted a multicultural Hungary based on a thousand years of Christian culture or a mixed population. The unanimous outcome of the national consultation confirmed that Hungarians do not want Hungary to become an immigrant country. In the opinion of the people, Parliament adopted the Stop Soros Act package by a large majority on 20 June. György Soros has made it clear earlier that a political attack must be launched on countries against immigration, and they must be severely punished. Brussels also obeys the order, Parliament adopted the Sargentini report in a conceptual procedure, and previously because of the Stop Soros legislative package, the Commission initiated infringement proceedings against Hungary. On this basis, I respectfully ask the Secretary of State at what stage the infringement procedure for the Stop Soros package is. I look forward to your reply, Secretary of State. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2018-10-01-110	Thank you very much, Congressman. To answer the question, I would like to ask Mr Pál Völner, State Secretary. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2018-10-01-111	Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to point out in advance that we consider the Brussels procedure to be another political pressure. The launch of the procedure itself speaks for itself, because, at the end of June, the Hungarian Parliament adopted the two laws, the soul of the Soros network, the Open Society Foundations, turned to the European Commission, and the Commission spokesperson announced on that day that he would examine the law and, within four weeks, formally launched proceedings against Hungary. However, there are no coincidences, the European Commission launched infringement proceedings against Hungary in response to the Stop Soros legislative package with its formal request on 20 July, while at the same time turning to the European Court of Justice on the Hungarian asylum legislation and bringing the infringement proceedings initiated at the end of 2015. On 19 September, the Government sent its reply to the formal request in connection with the infringement procedure initiated by the European Commission in connection with the Stop Soros legislative package and the related constitutional amendment. In the reply sent, the government made it clear that it is in favour of the legislation, because it serves Hungary's safety and does not conflict with the framework of EU and international legislation. The asylum and immigration issues, the assistance of refugees and the organisation and support of immigration have been properly separated. At the same time, we must also bear in mind that the right to security is our basic Union value, which is called inalienably the competence of the Member States in Article 4 (2) of the Treaty on European Union. Article E of the Fundamental Law also emphasises that Hungary is contributing to the creation of European unity in order to complete the freedom, prosperity and security of European peoples. The Fundamental Law falls within the competence of sovereignty in all Member States of the European Union and is above EU legislation, if any change were to occur, all EU Member States would lose their right to self-determination. Our response to the formal request will probably not be satisfactory for the European Commission and will send a so-called reasoned opinion to the Hungarian Government. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, At the parliamentary elections on 8 April 2018 and the 2016 quota referendum, the Hungarian people made it clear that they wanted to live safely. The aim of the amendment of the basic law remains to protect Hungary's national sovereignty and to stop the introduction of foreign populations into the country, and the Stop Soros legislative package makes the promotion and organisation of illegal immigration punishable. Unfortunately, the Brussels panel also openly pursues a pro-immigration policy and, disguised as legal proceedings, launches political attacks on us. Practically all Hungarian border protection and immigration policy decisions and laws have been challenged, the rules on immigration rules, transit zones and Hungary has been threatened because of the immigration special tax. They want to weaken Hungary's border protection, or if this fails, they want to take away the right to border surveillance from us. I have bad news for the pro-immigration forces and opposition politicians who support this: the Hungarian government will continue to refuse to give in to external pressure, but at the same time we are facing any further legal and political debate. Please accept my reply. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-10-01-112	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I will ask Mr. Robert Balázs Simon to accept the State Secretary's answer.
u2018-10-01-113	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Dear House, As can be clearly seen from the comments and from the State Secretary's response, the influential people and institutions supported by György Soros are doing everything they can to break Hungary in the fight against illegal immigration. In spite of the attacks, Hungary's Government and the Fidesz-KDNP faction continue to fight with every means to make Hungary a country of Hungarian people. In view of this, I accept Mr Secretary of State's reply. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2018-10-01-114	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, As we have heard, Congressman has accepted the Secretary of State's reply. Dear Parliament, Congressman Gábor Staudt, representative of Jobbik, has submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Justice:. The laws are worth as much of them as they are, or is an enforcement system in which compliance with the laws depends on the Members of Parliament present? It's an address. Congressman Gábor Staudt has the floor.
u2018-10-01-115	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, Jobbik has been fighting for years to protect those who are being implemented, including paying particular attention to foreign exchange lenders. We do this because not all debtors are in a difficult situation from their own fault, and for those who have received foreign exchange loans, we can clearly say that they are victims of bank fraud. This statement is true even if they are able to pay their increased repayments, but they have to meet claims that do not actually involve banks. The representatives of Jobbik not only try to help those in need with speeches from Parliament, but also with personal presence among the people at evictions, and not only in one case have we managed to prevent Hungarians from being put on the streets. We find that in many cases the executives do not even comply with existing legislation, and there is no force to force them to do so. Yet, as our country deserves security from illegal migration, , the debtors before eviction shall also be entitled to protection. When we confronted you in Parliament that there were still serious anomalies in the implementation system, you generally replied that not the Jobbik representatives, but the laws protected these people, even though we were present. The representatives of Jobbik always act when they have the opportunity to do so, so that Hungarian people and Hungarian families do not get on the streets, but in many cases it is only up to us to attend these evictions. The question arises: if we are not there, then who will act, who will enforce the law. Unfortunately, the answer is no one. Unfortunately, there are quite a lot of opportunities for breaking the law, starting with the fact that banks sell questionable claims to collecting companies in the order of hundreds of thousands, which, in the end, if they cannot recover them with a nice word or threat, turn to the executives. The number of executions thus received and launched is around 700,000 in Hungary, and the value of the case is increasing year by year, which amounts to more than HUF 300 billion of capital each year. For the above reasons, I would like to ask the Secretary of State when they will take action to review all executions before eviction from a legitimate point of view. Don't you think that until that happens, we should order the suspension of eviction immediately? Are you willing to reconsider the state administration of judicial enforcement and to abolish the current private entrepreneurial system, which puts profits ahead of legality more than once? I look forward to your substantive answers, Mr. Secretary. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2018-10-01-116	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Mr Pál Völner, State Secretary. Here you go, Secretary of State. [[16.10]]
u2018-10-01-117	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, As regards enforcement procedures, a number of laws have been put in place in recent years, which have had a positive impact on debtors, and we all know that since 2010. It is important to point out that, at the same time, the balance of enforcement procedures is a legal factor which cannot be ignored in the legal procedure, where a legal balance must be struck between the interests of the applicant for enforcement and the interests of the debtor. As regards enforcement procedures, the Government took home protection measures with effect from 1 September 2015, and the Debt Settlement Procedure Act was incorporated into the Enforcement Act at the same time as the entry into force of the Private Bank Act, with the obligation to notify notaries requesting enforcement in respect of residential immovable property, Auction Buyers from 1 July 2016. The Vht. 138/C. Since 1 September 2015, since 1 July 2016, the executing officer has been required to notify the notary competent for the location of the property of the executing party of the fact that the confiscation of immovable property has occurred pursuant to Article 5 of the Act on the registration of the enforcement right. The fact that the residential property is evacuated is subject to Article 154/A. § 11 shall also be obliged to notify the notary competent according to the location of the property within 8 days of the date of delivery to the executioner. The purpose of the notary's notification is to ensure that the debtor and his family with residential property, holiday home, are in a position to leave his property if the notary has tried, within the limits available, to provide for the housing of the debtor and his family, in so far as the debtor and his family need it. The Vht. It was necessary for those unable to enter the private bankruptcy procedure because of a lack of assets or income or other grounds for exclusion who could lose their housing depending on the outcome of the enforcement procedure to be able to provide effective assistance to public and municipal bodies in implementation. The amendment applies not only to families with children, but to all families. The Vht. expressly provides that in all cases where a minor person is involved, it is necessary to involve the competent guardianship authority. The debtors involved in the enforcement procedure therefore have the possibility to seek legal advice from the territorially competent legal assistance service, so it is not necessary to employ Members of Parliament, as well as to request the competent family and child welfare service, or to contact the social department of the local government for any assistance. In the enforcement proceedings, the debtor or the debtor may, in the course of enforcement, lodge an ordinary appeal and an enforcement objection aimed at examining the enforcement proceedings of the court in terms of legality and legitimacy, and, if irregular, terminate the infringement. The enforcement objection shall apply in relation to any enforcement activity governed by the implementing act. In the event of a remedy, the debtor may also request the suspension of the enforcement procedure. In the event of an effective remedy by the debtor, the court shall terminate the enforcement measure or even the enforcement already ordered. If the appeal brought in the course of the court's proceedings has not resulted in a result, the debtor may also bring proceedings for the termination or restriction of enforcement under the rules of civil procedure. The court enforcement proceedings are also regularly monitored by the Hungarian Faculty of Executives of the Court, which may lead to disciplinary action against the infringer. So there is a legal framework for implementation; the activity carried out by Members reminds me of disaster tourism. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2018-10-01-118	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I'll ask Congressman Gábor Staudt to accept the Secretary of State's answer. Here you go.
u2018-10-01-119	Mr. Secretary, I cannot accept your last remark. The disaster of not putting Hungarian people on the streets? That disaster? The representatives of Jobbik, when they were outside, helped, and it seems, and this earlier speech you made here in Parliament, also confirms that if Jobbik's representatives had not been present, no one would have complied with the Hungarian legislation there. There was no executive faculty, there were no such excellent organisations and legal aid representatives of Jobbik there. And one more thing, Mr. Secretary, you don't just have to think about big things here. When we presented in the Judicial Committee that, for example, a vehicle should be exempt from enforcement, not just because of, say, the debtor, a disabled debtor, but that, if his child is disabled, it should be one of those categories, you rejected it. I have to think that it is not important for you to actually solve this social problem from these little things to the big ones. Thank you. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2018-10-01-120	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear House, Congressman did not accept the Secretary of State's reply, so I ask you to accept it. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 111 votes in favour, 42 against and 1 abstention. Dear Parliament, Congressman László Varga, representative of the MSZP, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Human Resources:. The doctor is absent, the nurse is absent, yet the Government is silent. Why? It's an address. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2018-10-01-121	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, I hope that we will be able to engage in a dialogue on the state of health in Hungary without any personalities. That's what you'd expect from me, and I'd hope for something like that on your part. At least that's what the voters would have expected from you, and that's what they would have expected all day. Medical training is one of the expensive forms of training in all countries, including Hungary, which is one of the driving forces of emigration, in Hungarian, that other countries are seducing Hungarian doctors and otherwise well-trained doctors with the promise of good financial conditions and better conditions there. These countries include Germany, the United Kingdom, the United States, the Netherlands, Belgium and Austria. According to some data, for example, in Slovakia, our doctors can earn twice as much, in Austria and the UK, in Germany five times as much, in the Netherlands and Belgium up to nine times as much. And let us not forget that a comprehensive wage arrangement has recently taken place in Romania. This serious lack of doctors clearly has a very negative impact on the health system. No wonder, then, that we have been hearing phenomena in recent months, such as in Miskolc, when one bank has enforced its mortgage rights in connection with, for example, a radiotherapy machine. Indeed, this machine could not function for a long time, it could not serve the patients in Miskolc and the area. And it is no wonder that we are hearing, for example, that in the Diósgyőr part of the city, care is gradually being dismantled under these conditions, we have observed this at all levels of care, and practically also with regard to the eradication of the Diósgyőr hospital. There's a shortage of doctors in Nógrád County, and there's been a recent report from his lips hospital that all the anesthesiologists have resigned. Obviously, you're trying to deal with these problems with symptomatic treatment, appearance solutions, redirect doctors from other institutions, but, let's say, an ophthalmologist can't perform an emergency care function in a department, a neurologist can't come to the pathologist's place, and residents can't be left unsupervised, they can't always take all the responsibility for care. In addition to the material ones, it is obviously a huge problem for doctors to have unpredictable work patterns, a lack of appropriate conditions. Obviously, in countries that are targeted to them, what happened recently at the Honvéd Hospital could not happen, for example, to take the overtime money from doctors. I therefore ask the honourable Secretary of State why the problems of the emigration of health workers are being denied or presented as insignificant. When will there finally be real and meaningful wage arrangements, and when will the conditions be substantially improved? Thank you, Mr. President.
u2018-10-01-122	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2018-10-01-123	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Where medical wages are, don't ask me; László György Lukács's colleague has up-to-date information in this regard, as he intends to lure Hungarian doctors and health workers abroad with these promises. [[Dr. László György Lukács: Don't lie, Bence!]] I can give you an account of how much we have increased the wages of health care workers and how much we have increased the framework that the health fund can manage. [[16.20]] The doctor's gross basic salary has increased by HUF 207 thousand over the last two years, which is what they are loaded with on-call, over-work and other so-called mobile wage elements, so that the increase in income may be higher with the doctors and we are in the process of raising 65.5 per cent for the professionals, as the next year will still increase the wages of nurses and workers by 8 per cent. This is what we wanted to do to help us try to compensate and turn our predecessors, the very big mistakes that we had at your time, into positives, because you wanted to privatise from health care, which you couldn't, which was given to people at a very low level. The OECD has shown you a very sad certificate, a very sad picture: before 2010, between 2003 and 2010, in particular, you have been the only government in the OECD country to have reduced expenditure on health in proportion to GDP throughout the socialist government. In all other countries, all other countries have grown to a smaller or greater extent, but in your case, under your governance, Hungary was the only country when this was reduced. Nowhere else have all the developed countries, including Romania and Bulgaria, done what you have done to take away health care and spend less on health care in proportion to GDP. On the other hand, since 2010, there has been the seventh highest increase in healthcare expenditure. We now spend HUF 647 billion more on health than you have spent in 2010 with the 2010 budget. This means that what we can devote to health care and healing has been noticeably expanded. This is why increased wages have also been created, for a good part of them is in the wages of doctors and a good part is in the wages of nurses. We did not choose the direction you chose to keep patients away from them with a visit fee, hospital daily allowance, and to reduce health standards by reducing 16,000 beds and 6,000 health workers, or by closing four hospitals, but we tried to improve, renovate, expand, for example, 77 hospitals in whole or in part in Hungary. You could have chosen this path instead of the closures. We've referred to foreign examples here, and so have you. The president of the German Federal Medical Association said that Germany lacks 10,000 doctors, that 10,000 doctors are missing from hospitals and clinics, so they have problems not only in general practitioners, but also in hospitals and clinics. This is why their allies from Hungary, such as Congressman László Lukács, are obviously trying to take Hungarian doctors abroad. Fortunately, however, more and more doctors are performing in Hungary. The number and proportion of doctors with operating permits per 10,000 inhabitants is an important number, honourable Member, it is worth paying attention to while in 2010 it was 34, now it is 40, so the number of doctors who are in the service of the residents has increased. And the number of doctors going abroad has also decreased to a very large extent. This was 845 in your time, and now 334. Mr President, during your time, there has been a radical rise in the number of doctors going abroad, and in our time the number of doctors going abroad has decreased by 60 percent, and we would like to go on this path. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-10-01-124	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I will ask Congressman László Varga to accept the Secretary of State's reply. Here you go.
u2018-10-01-125	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, My efforts to avoid pointing back his answer were futile. According to all research, healthcare is the biggest problem for Hungarian people, and they would have expected an appropriate response from you. Mr Secretary of State does not know that, for example, the Northern Hungary region was the last place in terms of the health parameter in 2016 when compared with the regions of the European Union, and that all Hungarian regions deteriorated. Amazing! If you think there were problems under our administration, then why did you reduce the number of beds in health care by 2 thousand compared to 2010 levels? How is it that, at your time, 85 percent of the permanently unfilled GP's and Dentist's districts were created? 85 percent! Only 15 percent can be transmitted earlier. It's just happened that private drug spending has been way ahead of public spending. This is the balance of your governance. There are very few answers to what you have said to Hungarian society in relation to health care. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2018-10-01-126	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear House, Congressman didn't accept the Secretary of State's answer. So I'm asking you to accept it. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 114 votes in favour, 42 against and 1 abstention. Dear Parliament, It's 16 hours and 25 minutes, which brings us to the end of the interpellation period. Now we move on to immediate questioning. Dear Parliament, Members of Tamás Sneider and Márton Gyöngyösi, the representatives of Jobbik, want to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: "How credible is the government's policy? It's an address. I'll ask Congressmen. [[Martin Gyöngyösi reporting.]] Team Leader's starting. I give the floor to Mr Márton Gyöngyösi, Head of the Group. Here you go.
u2018-10-01-127	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Mr. Prime Minister, For three years, you have kept only migration topics on the agenda. We hear nothing from you but and only about combating migration, which we believe is a very important challenge, and therefore Jobbik has put very important proposals on the table. We are very pleased that both Prime Minister and Fidesz have acted effectively against migration. And although we have constantly said that settlement government bonds must be issued, we have constantly said that the border guard must be restored to ensure border protection, you have not accepted this, but have stubbornly resisted this proposal. Now that you have put your proposals on the agenda in the European Union, now that the European Union finally seems to have accepted many of our proposals and that many of Hungary's positions are now being shared in the European Union, now that you finally realize that there is nothing more important than effective border protection, now that Juncker has finally spoken in his annual speech about the need to strengthen Frontex and put it in the service of national border protection, you, Prime Minister, are now acting like a hysterical little child, and you come up with such amazing ideas that the European Union wants to take away the gate key from you, while it is quite obvious in the draft text that Frontex would be subject to Hungarian law and subject to Hungarian command. I do not know why Prime Minister is acting this way now, why he does not accept this proposal and why he does not cooperate with the European Union in order to protect our borders effectively. I look forward to Prime Minister's reply. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2018-10-01-128	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. I ask the Prime Minister with respect for the answer. Here you go, Prime Minister.
u2018-10-01-129	Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, It can be helped to hear only the sentences and measures dealing with migration from the government's work. You can read the paper, and I would also suggest that the representatives of Jobbik follow the government briefing, where we tell you exactly what the government is dealing with every other week. If they do so, they will immediately see that the claim that we are dealing only with migration does not hold up. As far as the European Union proposal is concerned, I would just like to say to you that I am not the only Prime Minister who does not accept it, many prime ministers are criticising this proposal. We will discuss this on 18-19 October, and I see that, after there are many of us who do not think this proposal is good, this proposal will be nothing. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-10-01-130	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. A one-minute rejoinder is the word of the faction leader. Here you go.
u2018-10-01-131	Mr. Prime Minister, What I see is that you do not fully stand the test of credibility on this issue, either. [[Defiance on the pro-government side.]] As you have talked for three years about the protection of borders, you have talked about how Europe's borders should be protected together with the European Union in both domestic and European fora. You and several of your ministers and fellow Members have repeatedly spoken about how to implement common European border protection, including through the strengthening of Frontex, both at home and in international fora. [[16.30]] Prime Minister! Now, when Juncker finally comes up with a proposal that could provide an important basis for negotiation in order to protect Hungary and European civilisation, you are, since you are using this topic exclusively for internal political purposes, acting like a hysterical child. Prime Minister! Your government's credibility is at stake, and Europe's security is at stake. Be a dear, take this question seriously. Thank you. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2018-10-01-132	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. A one-minute rejoinder is due to Mr. Prime Minister.
u2018-10-01-133	Not on my behalf, but on behalf of all other European prime ministers who oppose the Commission's proposal, I refuse to call half Europe and half of Europe's prime ministers a hysterical child. As far as the facts are concerned, in the matter of credibility, I can say that I have seen some absurdities here in the Hungarian Parliament, but wasn't Jobbik the party that burned EU flags? Isn't this the party that has the programme or programme that doesn't accept membership of the European Union? So, as a matter of credibility, I suggest we pick another line. [[Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks. The president's ringing the bell.]] As regards the specifics, the Hungarian Government presented a package of proposals to strengthen border protection during the Bulgarian Presidency, the essence of which is to protect the external borders without taking national sovereignty away from anyone. This proposal is on the table, it will be discussed, it is a Hungarian proposal. It is possible to protect Europe's external borders without taking national sovereignty away from Member States. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-10-01-134	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. Dear Parliament, Congresswoman Ágnes Kunhalmi, representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question:. Why is Corvinus being private? It's an address. Congresswoman Agnes Kunhalmi has the floor. Here you go.
u2018-10-01-135	Thank you very much, Mr. Speaker. Prime Minister! You want to privateize the Corvinus University, one of the most pathetic universities in the country, which also provides theoretical economics training. The Higher Education Act has been amended by transferring from EMMI to the Minister of Innovation, and there is a rumor that it will continue to migrate to a private foundation, or public foundation, which will also be created with private capital and public capital. Years ago, you said that I looked back at your sentences repeatedly, that Hungary needed an English language business school, and repeatedly said that unfortunately, it would be good for our competitiveness, innovation and ability to attract capital if there was a good training place in Hungary. I could agree with that, by the way. The goal that you have set is, by the way, an attractive goal for me, and as the leader of this country... I accept that. But I think that there is a place in Hungary that provides practical training, such as the SEED school, which was created by OTP, that could be supported, but there is the University of Pallas Athena, which, I understand, is not superb as it should be, but there is a training facility that you would like to support. I ask Prime Minister: 1. What's the real purpose of making Corvinus private? 2. Why do you want to be private at Corvinus University? 3. Will privateized Corvinuson remain in state-funded places, in what proportion and in what form? And the fourth, Prime Minister, is there any theoretical economics training, serious theoretical economics training at the new, privateized university? I'm honored by your reply.
u2018-10-01-136	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. I give the floor to Prime Minister. Here you go, Prime Minister.
u2018-10-01-137	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Thank you very much for your interest. What I know about this case, I'd be happy to share with you. The first thing I would like to draw your attention to is that in 2014 we published our programme for higher education, and there you can read the section "Training in Higher Education" in which we intend to try to introduce new forms other than the previous forms of operation. This programme was also revised in 2016, but this point remained unchanged, so it is a publicly announced plan that has been up since 14 years. The answer our minister can give through me is that this university can, by its size, be the most quickly and internationally recognised, high-quality university. To your question of whether there are other plans, I can tell you that there are other candidates. When they heard in higher education that we were thinking about new forms other than exclusive operation, other universities also submitted applications that they would also like to negotiate with the government about the transformation of operation. However, I say we only try one for the time being. These are difficult new operating models, we have not tried them in Hungary. There is a risk, so we need to proceed with careful, thoughtful and prudent measures. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-10-01-138	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. In return, Congresswoman Agnes Kunhalmi has the floor. Here you go.
u2018-10-01-139	Prime Minister! My question to you about getting out of a state-funded place at this university and maintaining serious theoretical economics training is to be kind enough to answer. You know, in the first Széll Kálmán plan, you've lost a lot of money from higher education. This money hasn't been returned since. Are you sure that privateization is the first way to fix public universities, Prime Minister? In recent years, he has said many times in his career that we must not privatise either in health care or in education, because we can never provide our citizens. The nationalization, when you created the KLIK, created it based on the same logic, and now you want to privatize me, Prime Minister. András Lánczi said that the one you put there as a rector, that what is called corruption is the essence of Fidesz policy. I'm not talking about stealing, you know, but what was the original intention of building a new capital class through this. Thank you for your reply.
u2018-10-01-140	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Mr. Prime Minister has the rejoinder, and I would like to ask Mr. Abbot, please... I have spoken to the Prime Minister.
u2018-10-01-141	I thought we were making friends, but if we're not, we're not. [[Deterioration in the pro-government benches.]] First of all, you are saying it is false, Madam honourable Member, because we have not withdrawn the money from education, but what you have withdrawn, we have put back. And if that's the case, then let's talk about the fact that they took a month's wages from teachers, closed schools, didn't give the municipalities the money they needed to spend on education, so they bankrupted them and made them raise a debt of HUF 1300 billion. After all, I do not believe that your statement that we have reduced the amount of resources available in education is correct. It was the other way around, you did all this, and we're gonna make it up to you one step at a time. I am not talking about the fact that the Hungarian Bálint Mafia system, which operated through PPPs, still depresses the Hungarian education budget. And to the question of maintaining the former forms of education, we intend to do so, and Minister Palkovics is at your disposal. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-10-01-142	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. Dear Parliament, Congressman Imre László, a representative of DK, wishes to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question: It's an address. Minister asked Mr. Bence Rétvári, Secretary of State, to respond to the urgent public task. I ask you, Congressman, whether you will accept the person who is responding, or you will personally expect an answer from Minister.
u2018-10-01-143	No, thank you, Mr. President. I insist on the Minister's identity. I'd like you to visit us.
u2018-10-01-144	Thank you very much. Minister must answer at the hour of the third immediate question. Dear Parliament, Mr László Hajdu, representative of DK, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question. Is Fidesz so afraid of the mayor-elect? It's an address. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2018-10-01-145	Mr. Prime Minister, Dear House, Since István Tarlós announced that he may not wish to resume his position as mayor, you are suggesting that you can abolish the direct mayor election. The reason is obvious, if they do not have one or at least a medium candidate, this would be István Tarlós, then they do not dare to test themselves in the opposition in Budapest. [[16.40]] If Fidesz doesn't stand a chance to win, would you rather cancel the race than run into an awkward defeat than this Sunday in Rakospalota? That's how they wanted to postpone the Sargentini contract. also vote in the European Parliament. There are two thirds of the opposition in the capital, and you only like to refer to the people if we can somehow con a victory, as you did in the parliamentary elections when you could form a two-thirds government by 49 percent, or less than half, during the vote. But if the government loses, then the people don't matter, will Viktor Orbán appoint the Mayor? ! Dear fellow Members, Mr. Prime Minister, The fact is that Budapest is not Felcsút, here the Prime Minister cannot decide everything in one person. Only the Budapest people decide about Budapest, only they have the right to choose the mayor. I ask the Prime Minister whether this news, yes and no, we can and cannot choose, is that true, because the Democratic Coalition will start collecting signatures against it. [[Defiance, applause in the ranks of the governing parties.]]
u2018-10-01-146	I give the floor to Prime Minister to answer. Here you go, Prime Minister.
u2018-10-01-147	Congressman, thank you very much for your question. It looks like yesterday was a long and intense celebration. [[Defiance in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] Anyway, I'd like to congratulate you on the 15th. To the newly elected mayor of the district, I wish him much strength and health, and I wish his work to serve the citizens of the district well. As far as the suggestion is concerned, I can tell you that Budapest is extremely important in the government's thinking. We regard the capital as the capital of the nation, which is also the home of the Budapest people. It is important to us, it is important to the government in Budapest. I like working with István Tarlós, and I hope that he will earn the confidence of the capital once again. You also spoke of fear of defeat. Although I can't exactly follow which party you are sitting in right now, but if I remember correctly, neither the DK nor the MSZP won the mayor election in the capital, but we won twice, I don't think we should be afraid of anything. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-10-01-148	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. It's a one-minute rejoinder, Congressman. Here you go.
u2018-10-01-149	Mr. Prime Minister, Thank you very much for the congratulations. I'll give it to you. I have to add that this has been completed in a very hard struggle, and it can be quite difficult for the future in the 15th century. The fate of the district, because the Minister of Finance was there and told the voters, if and if not Tamás László, the Fidesz candidate wins, in which case the black flag can be displayed, because no money is due to this district. If this is the way it is in Hungary, if the mayor is not Fidesz-colored, then it cannot win. I'm sorry, because in that case, all the other findings concerning the capital are also doubtful to me. Thank you.
u2018-10-01-150	Thank you very much, Congressman. One-minute rejoinder, Prime Minister.
u2018-10-01-151	For the sake of the facts only, I would like to add or add to my fellow Member's comment that the amendment to Rule 15 of the Rules of Procedure of the Court of Justice of the European Union was adopted by the Court of Justice of the European Union and by the Court of Justice of the European Union. The government is not competent in the financial affairs of the district. Annex XV is amended as follows: district money from the capital and the XV. district and district-to-borough negotiations are decided within the framework of the allocation of resources. I wish you every success in these negotiations. In addition, I am happy to be of service to you in any way whatsoever that is provided under Article XV of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. it is in the interest of the people living in the district of Budapest. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-10-01-152	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. Dear Parliament, Congresswoman Erzsébet Schmuck and Lóránt Keresztes, the representatives of the LMP, want to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: what will happen to them? It's an address. [[Interviews from Fidesz: You mean with the LMP? The LMP? Defiance and applause in the ranks of the governing parties. The president's ringing the bell.]] The floor is for Congresswoman Erzsébet Schmuck, and I ask my fellow Members to listen carefully.
u2018-10-01-153	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr. Prime Minister, Not with us, but with them. I think that my current questions are very topical, because today is the World Older Day. Perhaps a week ago, the result of the research that examined the situation of pensioners in 18 OECD countries was published, and unfortunately, the result of the research is that Hungary is the last of the 18 countries, i.e. the last in the line. It is particularly bad for us to be able to involve older people in the work. The report found that they had poor health, poor well-being, and, unfortunately, we are at the end of the line in terms of physical and material security. Unfortunately, the Hungarian pensioner society no longer says this in the report is breaking up with the few with high pensions and many low pensioners. Unfortunately, low pensioners do not stand a chance of catching up, as the inflation-following increase means that high pensioners will receive up to tens of thousands of forints of pension increases and the low pensioners will only receive a few thousand forints. Unfortunately, this is compounded by the increase in the gap between pensioner society and the active workforce, as pensioners can only benefit from GDP growth and economic growth if GDP exceeds 3.5 percent. Obviously you know, Prime Minister, that there is a need for a comprehensive programme to improve the situation of pensioners, but there are urgent tasks and urgent steps. I would therefore like to ask you this: do you plan to raise your minimum pension from HUF 28,000 to at least HUF 50,000? Do you intend to abolish forced retirement in the public sector and plan to raise the care fee? This also affects tens of thousands of pensioners. I hope that I will receive very specific answers from Prime Minister and, in addition to yes and no, when.
u2018-10-01-154	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. I give the floor to Prime Minister Viktor Orbán. Here you go, Prime Minister.
u2018-10-01-155	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and The specific answers will be given to you by the minister, if you turn to him, I can give you the criteria that lie behind each decision we make. You are just in time to ask me about this, because today was the meeting of the Elderly Council, where the pensioners were so kind and I was invited, and these questions that you have just mentioned here have been thoroughly reviewed. Minister Kásler was also present, so we could also look at the issue of elderly care and patient care. I want to deal briefly with older people and work, both this morning and now. For a long time, in Hungary there have been regulators that have led people specifically towards retirement, given the high unemployment rate. You may recall that, before the current government was in operation, unemployment was at 12 percent in 2009-2010. Today, the situation has changed, and today we are not facing unemployment, but the fact that, as a result of the Hungarian model, the economy is developing in such a way that there are few people we need in the economy than more, so it is important for the elderly to be able to stay in the labour market if they choose. As a first step, we set up pensioners' unions. If I remember the number in this morning's preparatory material, there are 106 pensioners' cooperatives in the country, this can outsource more than ten thousand people, and as of 1 November, new general rules will be in place, which will result in pensioners getting a job, of course, only paying income tax on their wages, and social contributions neither they nor their employers. I think it's in large numbers, at least in part-time. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] bring pensioners back to the labour market. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-10-01-156	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. A woman representing a one-minute rejoinder has the floor. Here you go. [[16.50]]
u2018-10-01-157	Prime Minister, I was hoping you wouldn't say that the ministers would answer. I have repeatedly submitted the bill that the minimum wage should be at least 50,000 forints. In Slovakia, the minimum wage is three times the Hungarian minimum wage, the Hungarian pensioner's minimum wage is 28 500 HUF. (Sic!) [[Intercoms from the ruling parties.]] We also know that hundreds of thousands of pensioners have pension and pension benefits below 100,000 forints. This is a very big problem. A hundred thousand forints, especially if the pensioner is alone, if you consider the retired consumer basket you cannot make a living. I think, and I ask you, Prime Minister, to ask your ministers to draw up the answers to these questions as quickly as possible, and to really monitor the increase in pensioners' pensions, especially those of low pensioners, so that they can live fairly after twenty to thirty-forty years of work.
u2018-10-01-158	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. One-minute rejoinder, Prime Minister. Here you go, Prime Minister.
u2018-10-01-159	It was a long time ago, but I recall that at some point in the period of my first government, we once made a pension increase that raised the smaller ones more and the bigger ones less. It's a miracle I survived. We were everything but decent people. So I would like to tell you that once the Hungarian society held a big debate on this issue, and I have noticed that Hungarian society does not support this type of pension raising model. But if you think we should open this question again, then we can open it, but I have a different experience. As far as the pension premium is concerned, as a result of today's Ministry of Finance consultation, I can say that pension premium will be paid again this year, and this will be somewhere above the amount of HUF 16,000. As far as the level of pensions is concerned, it was a huge achievement in 2010 to maintain the purchasing value of pensions. I could do better than that. For my part, I welcome, I have all the proposals available. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] to discuss the aim of which is to increase pensions significantly, in proportion to the capacity of the economy. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-10-01-160	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. Dear Parliament, Kocsis-Cake Olivio, a representative of the Dialogue, wants to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: "Are you a security risk to the Hungarian people, Paks?" It's an address. Congressman's got the floor, please.
u2018-10-01-161	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Mr. Prime Minister, Fifteen years ago, the most serious malfunction of the Paks Nuclear Power Plant occurred. In 2003, there was a serious accident in the Paks Nuclear Power Plant Unit II, radioactive-saturated gases were also released into the air, emissions were well above the permitted daily and monthly levels. Once it's done, it can happen again. While the government considers nuclear power to be completely safe, the Paks Nuclear Power Plant is now considered to be extraordinary if all four blocks are operational. In 2017, four times, five times in 2016, eight times in 2015, 12 times in 2014 due to power reduction, electrical failure or control failure. This year has been particularly poorly established in terms of reliability. So far, 12 times the block performance had to be reduced due to various errors. The reason for the ever-increasing series of shutdowns is not reported in the news. However, we do have information that there have been two changes that may be related to serial errors. On the one hand, instead of the 12 months in the normal and original authorisation plan, they switched to the 15-month fuel exchange cycle, which means more frequent monitoring and maintenance than before. On the other hand, they started using new types of fuel cartridges, specifically the manufacturer, Rosatom, will try these tapes here in Hungary, Paksot will be used as a test laboratory and Hungary will be used as an experimental plant. My question: Did you examine the reasons behind the repeated errors? What measures are being taken to ensure that the operation of the Paks Nuclear Power Plant does not pose a safety risk to the Hungarian people? Paks II. can these errors be detected? Thank you for your reply.
u2018-10-01-162	Thank you very much, Congressman. I ask Prime Minister Viktor Orbán for the answer. Here you go, Prime Minister.
u2018-10-01-163	Honourable Congressman, I am proud that there is a member of the government who has already seen and even launched a nuclear power plant from within, and even knows how it works, and this also provides the opportunity for the representatives of the Hungarian Parliament to receive first-hand information on any professional issue. So I'm asking you to feel free to address the minister with professional questions. As far as my personal position is concerned, because that's all I can talk to you about, it sounds like I see the Paks Nuclear Power Plant as safe, and the Hungarians have lived with it for decades. I think it's a tried thing. I can also see that power plants are being built elsewhere in the world. In France, I know that the party closest to your heart is on the government, where the old nuclear power plants are being renovated and new ones are being built. So I don't consider it a god-forsaken idea that nuclear power plants play an important role in the energy sector in a country. In Hungary, this power plant accounts for 35-40 percent of electricity consumption, and we still have to get 30 percent of Hungarian needs from abroad. Please also note that electricity costs 90 forints a kilowatt hour in Germany, and the consumer pays 36 for the same energy in Hungary today. We find that competitive industry can only operate with cheap energy, and if there is a competitive industry, there is employment, wages are growing, there is consumption and there is a future for citizens in the country. Therefore, as I have done so far, I will continue to support the extension of the nuclear power plant's operation and even its new construction, and I will answer your question directly to the fact that I consider this nuclear power plant to be safe. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-10-01-164	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. I give the floor to Congressman Kocsis-Cake Olivio for a one-minute rejoinder. Here you go.
u2018-10-01-165	Thank you for the floor. Perhaps I should have asked the Minister, János Süli, because Prime Minister did not reassure me with his reply. [[Intercoms from the ruling parties.]] The same Russian technology is built on Paks II as Paks I, and we can see that there has been a serious accident, and there have been several malfunctions. [[Noise, interruptions from the ranks of the ruling parties.]] Nuclear power is not a toy, and there will be serious consequences if it is built with the same technology as Paks II. So I wasn't reassured by your answer. Thank you very much.
u2018-10-01-166	Thank you very much. Congressman was not reassured by the answer. Prime Minister, you have one minute. Prime Minister, please.
u2018-10-01-167	I'm gonna do an experiment, see if I can... This has been a big debate, Mr President, you have not yet sat in the parliamentary benches, but the Hungarian Parliament has discussed this issue in several rounds, and this has come up as a serious issue, which you have just mentioned here, namely that if we build a Paks II, it is worth building on what technology it is worth. There were arguments to bring in Western European technology or American, but a lot of experts said that since it is basically located on a site, we should not operate two different technologies at one site, because it carries a higher risk. We ran these arguments here, measured them, compared them, and finally decided that it was not worth installing two different technologies on one site, just because of safety, we should stick to earlier technology. That's how you made the decision that you're asking me about. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-10-01-168	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. Dear Parliament, Member Sándor Kovács, a representative of Fidesz, wants to ask the Minister of Justice an immediate question:. When can we see clearly about Csaba Czeglédy and the people who have already been harmed so many times by the left? It's an address. Minister Pál Völner has appointed Minister of State to respond to an urgent public task. Congressman tells me that you accept Mr Pál Völner as a replyer. I therefore give the floor to Mr Sándor Kovács. Here you go.
u2018-10-01-169	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, It has long been known to the public that Csaba Czeglédy and his associates, the local government representative of the MSZP-DK-Cooperation, have been prosecuted in criminal networks for a long time because of the suspicion of serious damage to the state, in a business-like manner, especially due to the crime of fiscal fraud. Hopefully, as soon as possible, we can see the case quite clearly, given that Csaba Czeglédy represented MSZP and DK as lawyers on several occasions. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai's intervention.]] This vast series of frauds with clearly left-wing involvement, which now seems to be entangled throughout the country, is the greatest shame that not only the state, but also one of the most vulnerable social groups, the elderly people employed in temporary employment, and the students, have been harmed by their activities. For us, settlement of damages has been a priority since the outbreak of the Czeglédy case in Parliament, but this must be done as soon as possible because of legal liability. [[17.00]] We therefore hope that the final decision will be taken as soon as possible and that the perpetrators will be able to pay for the damage they have caused. If the indictment occurs, the procedure will hopefully also reveal to whom or whose pockets several billion forints of money landed. According to the results of the investigation, 22 loaded companies, led by Csaba Czeglédy Human Operator Zrt., have committed several billion-dollar crimes. It worked. We are therefore talking about a very extensive criminal network, the first significant result of which is that Human Operator Zrt. In the first instance judgment of his macoons, the court declared the defendants guilty of the crime of criminally committed fiscal fraud, which is a particularly high financial disadvantage. According to the judgment, the operating school association was only necessary for the execution of the crimes. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] According to the documents at the disposal of the investigating authority, Czeglédy received millions of loans from Altus Zrt., which can be linked to Ferenc Gyurcsány, who is currently strengthening DK benches. In view of all this, I would like to ask the Secretary of State when we can see clearly. [[Gergely Harvestó: Doesn't time matter? We're just asking.]] Csaba Czeglédy and the Left [[Gergely Harvestó: No time limit?]] of people who have been hurt so many times. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2018-10-01-170	Thank you very much. Congressman, I would like to draw your attention to the time limit. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: Cute attitude!]] Secretary Pál Völner has the floor, please.
u2018-10-01-171	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, As you said, Congressman, Csaba Czeglédy and his associates operate nine school cooperatives across the country, in a fictitious manner. These cooperatives were handed over the works acquired by Czeglédy's company. Students and, in many cases, adults and pensioners were reported to the school associations, and they were often sent from one organization to another. School cooperatives did not comply with their tax obligations and did not even submit a tax return. The total damage to the state was HUF 6.3 billion. According to our press reports, the investigation is currently in its final phase, and the documents will soon be handed over to the prosecution, and they will soon be able to prosecute the suspects. Thus, the Czeglédy case is likely to be brought to justice at the beginning of next year. The investigating authority is currently presenting the case files to suspects and their defenses. The defendants have a month to make different motions on the case after the document was filed. Of the suspects, only Csaba Czeglédy is currently under pre-trial arrest, the other suspects are awaiting the outcome of the criminal case under house arrest or an exit ban. [[In the notary seat, Sándor Szabó replaces Dezső the Believer.]] The court extended the arrest of Csaba Czeglédy until December 5th. The former socialist politician, who worked for Ferenc Gyurcsány and the MSZP, could not get out on bail for HUF 50 million. The main argument against his parole was that the reasons for arrest that had been established previously persisted. This is the danger of repeating a crime, or the danger of disrupting the procedure. As Congressman said, it was in the interests of the government of pensioners and students, in addition to law enforcement, which is the responsibility of the courts and the determining authorities. Thus, on 14 November 2017, Parliament adopted a proposal for a decision which opened the way for the swiftest possible settlement of damages for victims. For your information, those concerned may have submitted their claims by 30 June. Thank you. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2018-10-01-172	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. It's a one-minute rejoinder, Congressman. Here you go.
u2018-10-01-173	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, I think that, in addition to the Hungarian Parliament, the Hungarian court will act legally, and will find the judgments or judgments that will compensate the injured Hungarian people... which, hopefully, they will be able to collect on the basis of normal court judgments in Csaba Czeglédy and those left-wing circles to which this sum has migrated. Thank you so much for the opportunity. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2018-10-01-174	Thank you very much. A one-minute rejoinder is the subject of Secretary of State Pál Völner. Here you go. [[Intercoms from DK's ranks. The president's ringing the bell.]]
u2018-10-01-175	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. As my fellow imager mentioned, indeed, the settlement of claims should not be a burden on the State, but it will have to be reimbursed by those whose responsibilities are laid down in criminal proceedings. They will be transferred to the State by way of assignment after the necessary procedures, and will be ironed on the perpetrators if possible and possible. Also remarkable and truly worthy of study is the thread that connects the criminal organizations of Altus and Csaba Czeglédy. The examination of this also deserves some follow-up, I suppose. Hopefully, the criminal proceedings will also clarify the fibres that are directed towards MSZP or DK through Ferenc Gyurcsány. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2018-10-01-176	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Congressman György Szilágyi, representative of Jobbik, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: "How credible is the government's policy? It's an address. Congressman György Szilágyi, the notary of the Parliament, has the floor.
u2018-10-01-177	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. I think Prime Minister remembers the slogan of the late Malév, the slogan of the Malév that you and the Socialists have bankrupted. [[There's a grumble in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] , which ceased in 2012, during the first Orbán government. The slogan may still apply today, if we think that István Garancsi's fidesz oligarch travels you on a luxury private machine costing HUF 17 000 million for hobby-luxury trips; the Garancsi, who is one of the biggest winners of your more than eight-year government, has made a lot of billions in recent years thanks to you. I think it is more than worrying if the Hungarian Prime Minister accepts such valuable luxury trips from an entrepreneur who wins the sum of the tenders for EU and Hungarian budget money under his administration. This is also worrying according to the Hungarian laws in force, but morally, morally absolutely unsuitable. It is enough to think only of the code of ethics of government officials, in which it is included: a binding gift cannot be accepted. I believe that if it concerns government officials, then perhaps it should be applied to the head of the government. Yes, I know you're talking to Zsolt Semjén there, he's also an expert on luxury trips, and I'm sure you're defending yourself by giving him these gifts as a private person. I believe that the Hungarian Prime Minister, as long as he is a Prime Minister, should never be a private person, he should serve this country as a Prime Minister. And the problem is that you say that you get these gifts as a private person, but then, when you later award the public money as a decision-maker to the entrepreneurs who gave you their gift, you don't do it as a private person. My question is, you do not find the adoption of such luxurious gifts to be a prime minister to be of concern. I'm waiting for your answer.
u2018-10-01-178	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Prime Minister Viktor Orbán. Here you go.
u2018-10-01-179	Congressman, allow me to congratulate you on discovering the Spanish wax. What you object to has been so for 30 years. [[Interviews from Jobbik: When? West Africa! Banana Republic!]] I've been like this for 30 years. I'm gonna do it again next week, and I'm gonna do it in the weeks that follow. I am convinced that the Hungarian Prime Minister, if there is an international event [[Interview from Jobbik's ranks: Football game!]] which affects Hungary, whether it is sport, culture or economy, then be there, sport is important to us. [[Intruder from Jobbik's ranks: "Dude's money!" The president's ringing the bell.]] I've been there, and I'll still be there, and even if they attack every week, the next time my work and my time lets me go, I'll leave. [[An intervention from Jobbik's ranks: That's what they call a bitch! A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2018-10-01-180	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. In return, Congressman György Szilágyi has the floor. Here you go.
u2018-10-01-181	So you don't think there's any concern that an oligarch will pay you luxury travels, and then you'll get something from him. Of course, it's natural for you, I think. Then it is also natural that your Secretary of State, Csaba Dömötör, lied, did not tell the truth when he replied to my fellow Member's question that you paid for these trips, not István Garancsi. Then it is also natural for you that Csaba Dömötör's brother-in-law, István Hollik, said that friends are just like that, sharing what they have. [[Deterioration in opposition benches.]] Prime Minister, what else will they share with you, such as Lőrinc Mészáros, Andy Vajna or even István Tiborcz? Castles? Bank accounts? Land? Where does such grating lead, Prime Minister? ! Especially when you don't think that's a concern. Believe me, this is the beginning of corruption, a hotbed of corruption when someone thinks so as Prime Minister. [[Dr. Pál Völner: Talk about the point.]] Imagine how the other people sitting around you are thinking about this. He too will think that I can do anything, since the Prime Minister accepts these gifts [[Dr. Pál Völner: Don't start with yourself.]] Then I can do it. This is very worrying, and it is of no use to Hungary, believe me.
u2018-10-01-182	Thank you very much. A one-minute rejoinder is due to Mr. Prime Minister. Here you go, Prime Minister. [[17.10]]
u2018-10-01-183	I would like to reiterate that this has been the case for 30 years, and no one has ever opposed it before. [[A statement from Jobbik: It's bad enough that it's been like this for 30 years!]] You're the first one to do that. And as far as being indebted, all I can say is that I would like to see the man who can tie me down. But as far as the attack is concerned, if you're going to go Goose, be fat: it's no coincidence that you're the person who's constantly conducting sharp and personal attacks on the members of the government. I understand that, because you have serious personal grievances, because your family was a personal beneficiary of the one-armed robbers, and we banned them, and that's a serious loss for you. I understand the inexcusable anger that has come from this, but I advise you to put it aside and move on. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. Dr. Agnes Vadai's intervention.]]
u2018-10-01-184	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. Dear Parliament, Congressman Attila Móring, representative of KDNP, wishes to ask the Minister of Agriculture an immediate question: It's an address. The Minister asked Mr Róbert Zsigó, State Secretary, to reply in response to an urgent public task. [[Attila Móring József:]] The congressman indicates that he accepts the person who is responding. Congressman Attila Móring has the floor. Here you go.
u2018-10-01-185	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Dear House, At the beginning of the autumn parliamentary period, it is worth assessing how they took place, the results of the usual inspections ordered by the National Food Chain Safety Office, namely the Nebih, during the summer. According to a survey published in June, Nébih is the first in the ranking of European authorities, and Hungarians vote the most in confidence for their national authorities. As a result of the food safety strategy adopted in 2013, information to the public has improved to obtain credible information on the activities falling within the competence of Nebih. I think we all see why the summer period is of paramount importance for inspections: there are a lot of people who spend their holidays on beaches, various festivals and other events that move larger crowds. The summer camps visited by tens of thousands of children are also not forgotten, and the quality of food they consume is particularly important from their point of view. The traceability, storage and preparation of raw materials are important, and it is also essential to examine the medical fitness of workers there. Dear Secretary of State, In addition to the traditional food controls for years, for the first time this year, additional areas and activities supervised by Nebih were also checked. The focus of traditional food controls was on commercial and catering facilities in seasonally operating and touristly frequented places, beaches, food sold at large-scale events, the catering of youth and children's camps, the production and distribution of ice cream and street catering, buffets and moving hosts. Special attention was paid to seasoned, pickled, meat preparations, grill products, ice cream, seasonal vegetables and fruits. That is why I am asking the Honourable Secretary of State how he evaluates the checks carried out by Nebih. What shortcomings were observed during the inspections? What are the areas and activities of the seasonal food chain control in the summer? Thank you very much. I'm looking forward to your reply. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-10-01-186	Thank you very much, Congressman. As I said, Mr Róbert Zsigó, instead of Minister, responds to what has been said. Here you go, Secretary of State. You have the floor.
u2018-10-01-187	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, First of all, I thank you for raising this subject before the Parliament, because it really concerns every customer, every Hungarian family. First of all, I consider it important and effective work to be carried out by employees of both the National Food Chain Safety Office and county government offices each year during summer inspections, as this action contributes to the ability to monitor at a risky time for this touristic aspect, including on the food safety side. Congressman, allow me to answer your questions with some figures. During this year's inspection series, over 5,600 facilities, including some 2,700 catering facilities, were checked by professionals. In the case of popular foods in the summer, almost 15 thousand items were tested, 2.4 percent of which, which means 335 items, had to be withdrawn from the market. In general, errors occur, of course, in a sector this is inevitable, but overall, I can say that ever since Nebih started its work, there has been a steady improvement in the food chain. Weaknesses in the control of the various establishments in the food sector occur mainly in terms of hygiene conditions, the quality of marketed products and the health fitness and qualifications of workers. With regard to product testing, it is important to note that the number of products withdrawn from the market has decreased significantly in proportion to previous years. Overall, I can tell you that the work of the Agricultural Ministry and Nébih is not primarily characterised by increasing unnecessary administrative burdens, but by working for decent producers and entrepreneurs, as well as for consumers and families. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-10-01-188	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. A one-minute rejoinder is the congressman's word. Here you go, Congressman.
u2018-10-01-189	Thank you very much for your reply, Mr Secretary of State. I think it should be pointed out that the primary aim of the checks was not to impose penalties, but to help entrepreneurs comply with the legislation. Thank you very much. [[Defiance in the ranks of the opposition.]]
u2018-10-01-190	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr Róbert Zsigó is also entitled to a one-minute rejoinder. Here you go, Secretary of State. You have the floor.
u2018-10-01-191	Thank you very much, Mr. President. As the Member said, according to a recent EU survey, Hungarians are the most likely to vote for their national authorities. This result faithfully justifies the effective approach and structure in which we operate. We took advantage of this complexity when planning the summer inspections, so that the first farmers could be checked this year, but the restaurants in the vicinity of Lake Balaton, along the Danube, were also checked by professionals to make suitable fish and fish products available on the market. In addition to official work, transparency is of paramount importance, and therefore data on summer seasonal inspection can be found on the Nébih website. I can assure you and the Parliament that the Agricultural Ministry will continue to work to ensure that healthy, safe, high-quality food is placed on the table of Hungarian families. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-10-01-192	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Member Tamás Harangozó, a representative of the MSZP, wants to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question with the title "The Stowaway of the Nation." Congressman Tamás Bellozó has the floor. Here you go.
u2018-10-01-193	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Indeed, at least two of them have competed for this honorary post, as we have known since last week that the MÁV has had a notary hanger, who has not paid for its train trips some 600 times and has accumulated some HUF 9 million as a punishment. The other competitor, Prime Minister, obviously you, who turned out to be flying a 17 billion forint private-luxury plane to satisfy your pleasure by not paying for this service. In the first case, we know what will happen, the MÁV itself has revealed that they will order enforcement against the human being, and will press criminal charges against the MÁV who does not pay for his travels. In the second case, we were given several solutions, one of which was said by your young, educated colleague sitting next to you. He said that the Prime Minister would decide whether or not to enter this path into his declaration of assets. I ask you, Prime Minister, to seize this opportunity and order your young colleague to order order, perhaps we are not there yet. Perhaps you believe, Prime Minister, that you must abide by the laws, and you do not decide what you must write in your declaration of property and what you do not. The other one was much more interesting, István Hollik, who tried to cut himself off by saying that there was no problem here, because this private plane would have started anyway. I hope that this interpretation will not be pushed any further, although the bluffers would be pleased if this were the main rule. I'm sure you've noticed that every tram, every train, every bus leaves even if we don't want it and we're not on it, so maybe even the citizens would interpret that they could travel for free after the Prime Minister. I don't think that's a good way to go. Prime Minister, I have two questions. Do you have to abide by the laws of Hungary? My second question is how many times this year he flew this plane free of charge. I'm waiting for your answer.
u2018-10-01-194	Thank you very much, Congressman. The answer is addressed to Prime Minister Viktor Orbán. Here you go, Prime Minister. [[17.20]]
u2018-10-01-195	Mr President, The situation is that the laws must be followed by everyone, so the Prime Minister must, not only must, but also by me. [[Intercom from Jobbik's benches: Almost always...]] The situation seems that for 30 years I have been attending every sporting event involving a Hungarian team, provided that my time and work allow. So far, no one has raised any objections. I don't know exactly why all of a sudden it's a hit thing. [[Tamás Sneider keeps interrupting.]] I'm not going to give you an exact number on the way back, but I'm going forward: so if my time and work allow me this week, and if I can, I'd like to go to the Greek Nationals game. I hope my schedule will allow that. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the benches of the governing parties. Németh Szilárd István: Go, Hungarians!]]
u2018-10-01-196	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. A one-minute rejoinder from the congressman, please.
u2018-10-01-197	There must be one reason, Prime Minister, that no one has dealt with this, that they did not know very well that they were flying a private plane of 17 billion dollars for free. [[A voice from the benches of the governing parties:]] Prime Minister, this is governed by two laws. One is tax law, which states that if you accept a gift of great value, then you have to pay a fee. The other is the Parliamentary Act, Prime Minister, which states that you must indicate a gift exceeding a month's income and above the basic fee of your representatives. I'm just saying, I've just Googled it: anyone in Hungary can rent a plane like the one you use for a trip to Budapest-Sofia for 15,000 euros in one direction. Please consider that that 15,000 euros in one direction will rise to the level after which you, following the laws, should pay taxes and, in compliance with the laws, should be included in your declaration of property. I think you do, and I think you're gonna have a lot of work to do if you don't do that. Thank you very much.
u2018-10-01-198	Thank you very much, Congressman. The Prime Minister has the floor for a one-minute rejoinder. Here you go, Prime Minister.
u2018-10-01-199	If I may, I will not enter into a legal dispute with you in this regard, I have made my point. I wonder why the Hungarian Prime Minister still doesn't understand why the Hungarian Prime Minister is going to any sporting event if he can, which is important to Hungarians. I think I should be there. [[Dr. István Apáti: There's nothing wrong with that...]] Obviously, we're not grinding in a mill, but please think about it, in case I'm right. And as long as he thinks, he grumbles to himself that, go on, Hungary, go on Hungarians, see if that will help us understand!
u2018-10-01-200	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. Dear Parliament, Congressman Zsolt Gréczy, representative of DK, would you like to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question, "The Holocaust Museum against the Jews?" It's an address. Congressman Zsolt Gréczy has the floor, please.
u2018-10-01-201	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Prime Minister! It was announced at the beginning of this month that next year the 75th anniversary of the Holocaust will open the House of Fate museum. The facility, which was completed three years ago, is empty because János Lázár, who had been leading the Prime Minister's Office, said as one of few decent official decisions, that the museum would only be opened if a consensus was reached on it. The consensus became hopeless from the moment you handed the project into the hands of the history-falsifying Mary Schmidt, of whom Randolph Braham, the most important researcher of the Hungarian Holocaust, stated that, I quote: "You once started as a Holocaust scientist, but eventually became a fierce nationalist Holocaust-distorterer. The Schmidt Mária, with whom the concept of the future exhibition interrupted the cooperation of Mária Mazshis, representing the great majority of Hungarian Jews; the Mária Schmidt whose concept was rejected by the IHRA, the International Holocaust Memorial Committee; the Mária Schmidt, with whom the world's two most important Holocaust memorials, the Jad Vasem Institute in Jerusalem and the Holocaust Museum in Washington refuse to take up a community because of the relativity of the Holocaust and the denial of the responsibility of the Horthy system. You have just found an orthodox rabbi, who, for unknown but probable reasons, has taken the role of collaborator, is willing to declare this concept kosher. The exhibition will be opened next year. I ask Prime Minister why they do this in such circumstances. And if the news that the Israeli government has already contacted you on this matter is true, then it would also be good to know what the content of this is. Why do you take this scandal to create a Holocaust museum not only without Jews, but even against the Jews? I'm waiting for your answer. [[Applause from the DK benches.]]
u2018-10-01-202	Thank you very much. The answer is addressed to Prime Minister Viktor Orbán. Here you go, Prime Minister.
u2018-10-01-203	I have two duties of honor. First, I must reject your statement regarding Minister János Lázár. I think that János Lázár did his job well, and it is not fair to attack with such remarks, and in his absence as you are permitted to do here. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: He took it upon himself...]] As far as the historian, Mary Schmidt, is concerned, it is not my place to classify the work of any Hungarian scientist, but I would just like to point out, for the sake of honor, that we do not consider Mary Schmidt to be a forger of history. We enjoy reading his writings, and I recommend others to do the same with a good heart. As far as the debate on the specific matter is concerned, I can tell you that the government is not involved in a dispute between Jewish denominations. [[Applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2018-10-01-204	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. A one-minute rejoinder from Congressman, please.
u2018-10-01-205	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Well, the minister who could say that a man with so much money is worth so much, I think he's saying a lot of things about a certain minister. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: The Gyurcsány...]] I would like to remind you that according to Mary Schmidt and the court historians appointed by her, the Hungarian state has almost no responsibility for the Holocaust. The Hungarian state was unable to protect its Jewish citizens. He deprived them of their rights, wealth, often their lives, and not even the Nazis forced them to do so, but it was an overreaction by the Hungarian authorities to comply with the Nazis. [[Interventions from the benches of opposition parties: That's right!]] And we didn't even talk about Hungary's first Jewish law in this parliamentary hall in 1920, to the eternal shame of Pál Teleki. [[Lajos Kósa intervenes. Dr. Agnes Vadai intervenes. The president's ringing the bell.]] You wish to rehabilitate this Horthy era from the Jewish wealth of Lendvay Street, I would just like to signal Minister Lajos Kósa, where your founding office was, if we are going into the affairs of such homeless people. So, Prime Minister, I'd like to ask you [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] I don't want you to open this exhibit, so be honest about this. [[Applause from the DK benches.]]
u2018-10-01-206	Thank you very much, Congressman. A one-minute rejoinder is also due to the Prime Minister. Here you go, Prime Minister.
u2018-10-01-207	Mr President, I think it is unwise to choose a two-minute parliamentary form to discuss this matter because of the weight of the case and the emotions associated with it. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: Let's discuss it somewhere else.]] But I can't get out of this because the laws have to be followed. I would like to point out that I do not think that this is the right way to discuss this issue. It's a serious thing, by the way. On behalf of the Hungarian Government, I can only tell you that there is a Holocaust Documentation Centre in Hungary on Páva Street. I remember that the Hungarian government gave a significant financial contribution, but he may have given me all the money. It's a fair memory center. I think that Hungary has nothing to be ashamed of about the memory of the Holocaust; we have something to talk about in the case of the Holocaust. With your suggestion that the responsibility of those then in power can be assumed, I agree, but as we relate to this historic tragedy, Hungary is correct. We did what we could. We were gonna do it or do another memorial museum. I want this to work, but if there is no peace around this case, then nothing will drive us to wait for these debates to rest. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] And then we can try to do it calmly. That's what I'd suggest to all of us. [[Applause from the benches of the governing parties. Dr. Agnes Vadai:]]
u2018-10-01-208	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. That concludes the hour of immediate questioning. We're taking a two-minute technical break. [[It's a short break.]] [[In the notary seat Dr. Lajos Szűcs will be replaced by József Attila Móring.]] [[17 .30]] Ladies and gentlemen, We'll get back to work. We now have a motion to negotiate a series of requests for inclusion. Dear House, The Jobbik Group has proposed that the National Assembly decide on the declaration of the year 2020 Trianon as a Memorial Year, H/467. Proposal for a decision on inclusion in the scope of this Regulation. The series of articles was rejected by the National Assembly Committee. Dear Parliament, First, I give the floor to the rapporteur, Mr István Szávay, the notary of the Parliament, within a five-minute timeframe. Here you go.
u2018-10-01-209	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, On June 4, 1920, the Trianon peace dictatorship was signed, which represents one of the greatest tragedies and most tragic dates in Hungarian history. On that day, it became official that nearly one third of our nation would be under the rule of the allies, the victorious powers of World War I, the neighbouring states. Since then, foreign Hungarians have lived in their own land as a minority. We have been wanting to draw attention to this date for quite some time, and we have been trying to reach some kind of consensus here in this House. In relation to this date, let us say now in Jobbik that Hungary, the Hungarian government, should be prepared for this date for almost a year and a half. This date is a holiday for neighbouring countries, and the neighbouring countries will obviously be like this for this date. This date should therefore be remembered in a manner worthy of us, and we should give a worthy answer to the expected flood of lies that the neighbouring countries will say in particular in connection with this date and the 100-year anniversaries of the various dates leading to this event. These hundred-year anniversaries, the hundredth anniversaries of events that led to the Trianon peace dictate, will soon begin this autumn. Soon we will arrive at the centennial anniversary of the closure of the First World War, and then there will be tragic events that eventually contributed to the disintegration of historic Hungary, including those dates this autumn on which little legitimacy of national assemblies in Novi Sad, Turócszentmárton or Gyulafehérvár have declared the dismemberment and break-up of our historic country. That is why my colleague Gergely Farkas and I proposed that 2020 be a Trianon Memorial Year, which gives me the appropriate answers to what I have just mentioned. You have voted down this proposal three times at the Commission level, while we also know that there is not a lot of debate between us regarding the strengthening of Hungarian communities abroad, the support of Hungarian communities abroad and the symbolic issues in general. Jobbik has already supported the most important national policy measures, so we have also touched on this issue a number of times, and I would like to reiterate that we just want to put a proposal, a framework, and we can argue about it, and we can touch it in a different way. We have asked you and your fellow Members, who, by the way, have shown some aching conscience, to refrain from voting off this proposal, to try in some way to reach consensus on this issue. We have made a recommendation to this end. In connection with this symbolic date, we consider it very important that the Hungarian Parliament make a symbolic declaration on one side and on the other hand determine the specific ways and possibilities of action, as we will remember this national tragedy, the national tragedy of a hundred years ago. The surrounding countries, as I have mentioned, will remember and remind us, and it can be guaranteed that they will humiliate Transylvania and other regions in a series of torn Hungarians, whether in the South or in other regions, forcing them to celebrate. We can already see the opening of this at the time when a high state award was withdrawn from Kelemen Hunor, President of the Hungarian Democratic Alliance of Romania, and even the withdrawal of Romanian citizenship was mentioned simply because he said that we Hungarians have nothing to celebrate on this day. Of course, we have to understand this: for neighbouring countries, these are celebrations, they have acquired territory, they have gained a country on these dates, but we have nothing to celebrate on this occasion, as we, for our part, continue to disagree with the way you generally deal with Trianon's case, because they are still in force by the previous government of national politics, which means that we must start singing, dancing and cheerfully. We believe that there is no place to celebrate here, but rather to face Trianon's sad reality to this day. We have therefore always supported the government's most important national political aspirations. We agree that financial support across borders is important and necessary, but we also see that certain conflict cases need to be taken on. If we do not agree with neighbouring countries on national policy issues, then we do need to stand up to those issues and, where appropriate, take matters that we may feel conflicting. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] This is obviously the way you deal with this issue, and you do not want to deal with it. Financial support is very important, but money is not everything; sometimes these issues need to be addressed and a clear answer should be given. It would be better if we could do this together. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2018-10-01-210	Thank you very much, Congressman. Now, ladies and gentlemen, one Member per group of Members can present his position within a two-minute time frame and the first independent Member can also present his position within a two-minute time frame. First, I give the floor to Mr Károly Panczél of the Fidesz Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2018-10-01-211	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Honourable Member of the Council of the European Union: First of all, on the proposal for a resolution, I would like to say to you that, while we are not negotiating here for the first time, either in the Committee for National Inclusion or in this House, I would like to draw attention to what you are aware of, by the way, that we have not had a proposal for a decision on Trianon since 2010, but we have a law, namely a law on the testimony to national cohesion, which commemorates one of Hungary's greatest historical tragedies and a peace dictatorship that has dismembered Hungary. In this law it is stated that it pays tribute to the memory of the people and communities who, even after this tragedy, were able to reconfirm Hungarians in both spiritual and economic terms and were able to survive this tragedy. And he pays taxes and heads to all those who have suffered a disadvantage, a grievance for their Hungarianness, or who have been forced to pay taxes with their lives for taking on their national identity. Honourable Congressman, At the same time, this law also states that all members and communities of the Hungarian community placed under the authority of several states are part of the united Hungarian nation, and that belonging over state boundaries is a reality. Honourable Congressman, In 2011, we adopted a new Fundamental Law, in which Hungary bears responsibility for Hungarians across the border. In 2010, we passed a law on preferential localization, a law on dual citizenship, and Hungarian voters across the border were given suffrage. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] All of this, and what you have said about economic, educational and cultural support, has created a union, and we intend to continue to do so in the future. With all due respect, let us not declare it a year of mourning now and perhaps raise the light of other states' celebrations. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-10-01-212	Thank you very much, Congressman. The next speaker was Mr László Keresztes, Head of the Group of the LMP. Here you go, Congressman. [[17.40]]
u2018-10-01-213	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Firstly, on behalf of the LMP fraction, I would like to point out that our faction considers this to be an extremely important positive initiative and, of course, we support the inclusion in the series of subjects. I also agree with the concerns of the rapporteur, István Szávay. We can see the signs that unfortunately these anniversaries are being used for internal political purposes in the neighbouring countries, and indeed there have been processes that can cause serious damage to the life of Hungarians living across the border and make it difficult to guarantee their rights. I'd like to have a little argument with my pro-government colleague. Indeed, positive measures have been taken and preparations have been launched for this memory from our own point of view, but at the same time I consider this proposal to be a forward-looking one, in particular the point that it should be possible to present the conditions of this tragic peace dictatorship that still apply objectively at international level. I myself have experienced in international politics that there are huge shortcomings, huge delays, just in providing information at international level. And likewise, it is very important that we act with one voice as a motherland political organisation, we judge this issue with one voice, and we act with one voice in order to ensure the right of Hungarians living across borders, and once again we can only provide the information at international level that there is a very serious debt here, even for the European Community, to receive the legitimate demands of Hungarians living beyond the borders, which are related to European values which are otherwise extremely important, especially in support of autonomy efforts. And in order to be able to conclude the right international weight and the right alliances, it is necessary to draw attention to the good examples that do correspond to European practice and which would benefit also in areas where the majority of Hungarians across borders live and rightly demand these developments. So thank you very much in advance, and I repeat, the LMP fraction is pleased to support this extremely important proposal.
u2018-10-01-214	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. The next speaker from the Dialogue Group is Mr Bence Tordai. Take your time, Congressman. We'll wait for you to put the microphone on. There you go. Now it's your turn.
u2018-10-01-215	Thank you for the floor, and thank you for your patience, Mr President. On the part of the Dialogue, we consider this initiative to be natural. Indeed, as the author said, Trianon was one of the greatest tragedies of the Hungarian nation, and it is a worthy idea to commemorate it a hundred years later. It is also necessary to remember, of course, the reasons for the development of Hungarian history, what led to this disaster, since this was not without precedent. When we remember this, I do not think that this policy should be built into this, but it must be made clear that this is an important part of the Hungarian national identity, even if we do not build up our thinking about ourselves today. It would not be too forward-looking if relations with neighbouring countries, neighbouring peoples, were defined on the basis of a 100-year old injury, and I understood the concerns of the ruling party, but I do not share them. I think that a good diplomatic work can be made to understand the neighbouring countries, the national communities where Hungarian communities also live, and as citizens, they are part of the political life of that country, but as compatriots, as national partners, they are clearly bound to Hungary by strong ties. So it can be made clear to one another that they are not directed against one another, but indeed, memory and, where appropriate, mourning have time and time. I can therefore absolutely support this initiative of Jobbik on the part of the Dialogue and, for my part, on the left, and in the vote tomorrow, we will support the inclusion of the series of subjects. Thank you very much.
u2018-10-01-216	Thank you very much, Congressman. The next speaker was Mrs Dúró Dóra. There you go. You have the floor.
u2018-10-01-217	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, I think that it should be self-evident for all of us to support this initiative, because it is indeed one of the greatest strides of Hungary, which we do not have to be afraid to call "sortingia." We do not need to make a holiday out of what is actually a day of mourning, and I think it is an extremely big derailment of national policy on the part of Fidesz, and I think that the main reason why they do not support this initiative is because it is an opposition motion. Despite the fact that Mr Károly Panczél spoke on behalf of Fidesz about the progress that has been made in national policy, such progress has indeed been made, and significant progress has been made, but at the same time, if we consider that, for example, an orange ball was held on the Fidesz initiative on 4 June, I think this in itself shows how much confusion there is still in the minds of Hungary, even in the minds of politicians, about Trianon. Therefore, we do have work to do to put order in memory policy and cultural policy. Here the devastation of 40 years of communism has an amazing effect, even to this day, on the generation that is growing up today, on how we relate to history. On the other hand, if we look at the fact that a hundred years later people who live in their own homeland as Hungarians still have to spend their daily lives in a lot of ways, even in countries that are members of the European Union, I think that this also draws our attention to the fact that we still have a lot to do with Trianon, and this is a motion that would also help solve these problems. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2018-10-01-218	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Member Mr László György Lukács of the Jobbik Group has applied for a speech. Here you go, Congressman.
u2018-10-01-219	Thank you very much for your attention. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Perhaps there are less important things to talk about than Trianon, and perhaps there are less painful things to talk about in this House than the fact of the Trianon peace dictate. That is why it is really important to mention it and it is also important to talk about what is preventing us from having a complete debate, a proper evaluation and a much stronger memory policy, and here the obstacle is perhaps in the power of the majority. We have seen it in recent times, and perhaps the recent comment by Károly Pan-czél has also shown that Fidesz is leaning away from these initiatives. I would now like to ask my fellow Member Panczél whether your solution is to ensure that the Fundamental Law gives sufficient strength and weight to commemorate this well, or that Jobbik has submitted it. I think that this is the problem with you, because when we had already submitted this, your fellow Member said a little more easily, not so far from you, Attila Szabolcs, who said that at the committee meeting, and here at the meeting of the National Assembly Committee, this proposal was discussed and rejected because during the autumn it was intended to present a consensus proposal to this House, i.e. a committee dealing not only with the events of 1920, but also with events referring to each other in the 18-19-20's, and so it is possible to examine it more fully. So neither the Trianon memorial itself was rejected, but the way to look at a larger period here is to be more fully examined. Ladies and gentlemen, This is a waste of time for you. Nothing else has been done, including Attila Szabolcs, who is no longer a representative, now still a representative, Károlyis Panczél, but that you are stalling. We don't have time, 2020 is very close. If you want something and another message to Károly Panczél, if you want to give something more to the nation today, to those who claim to be Hungarian, don't be afraid to give more. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Then it does not limit itself to the Fundamental Law, whether it accepts, if such a proposal is opposition-motivated to be and can give more than that, and there should be a fairer, full commemoration, which is more attentive to people than merely to envelop in the mockery of the Fundamental Law. I think you're sitting on the other side of the horse. The opposition's position is perfectly clear, and we thank them very much for their support, who have indicated the support. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2018-10-01-220	Thank you very much, Congressman. That concludes the speeches. I would like to ask Mr István Szávay, as rapporteur, if you would like to respond to what has been said in the debate. [[For signal:]] Yes, he does. Mr. Note, you have two minutes, please.
u2018-10-01-221	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would like to begin by thanking László Keresztes Lóránt LMP, Bence Tordai dialogueist and Dóra Dúró independent Member. It seems that that's why it made sense to raise this question. The majority of the parliamentary factions believe that this is a worthy dialogue, and I regret that the MSZP does not have a representative in it, but they, to the best of my knowledge, are also in favour of this issue, at least in the course of the debate on the subject, Mr Molnár spoke about it and argued and expressed his agreement. Mr Molnár also said in the Committee on National Inclusion that it is not a confrontational proposal, and that there should be some kind of dialogue on this issue, the opportunities leading to the resolution of the Trianon trauma. [[17.50]] We have therefore reached the point, my honourable pro-government fellow Member, that, on national issues, the Hungarian Parliament, not only Jobbik, but even the LMP, the MSZP, and even the Dialogue believe that it is worth having some substantive debate on these issues, and that only the pro-government representatives refuse to do so. This will be on your conscience from now on, fellow Members. President Panczél, we know each other well, we have been working together for a long time, and I am well aware of your commitment to this matter, yet I find it unacceptable that you are still shutting down from discussing this issue, even the substantive dialogue. Let us note that in 1920 there was an unparalleled and unjust peace treaty at the expense of Hungarians. This peace will be presented by Romania as a just decision, and in this peace, the Transylvanian Hungarians will be humiliated by this process, and you, the governing parties, believe that in this situation, in this anniversary, in an environment where Romania will be full of international public opinion about what a just decision has been made and what minority model state they are acting as, you believe that in this context, enough answer is that we have written something into the Fundamental Law eight years ago. We don't think that's enough. We are very sorry that you are even shutting down from meaningful dialogue in such an important national, national political matter. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2018-10-01-222	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear House, The decision will take place on our meeting tomorrow. The debate on the draft amendment before the final vote and the final vote on the draft law on the control of foreign investments in Hungary's security interests follows. Government referral T/628. On the House's IT network, it is available for all of us. In view of the fact that the Parliament decided to postpone the final vote at the meeting on 20 July, the national T/628/9. A proposal for an amendment to the final vote was tabled. Proposal for an amendment by the Legislative Committee before the final vote T/628/10. 1 and the report before the final vote T/628/11. Number 2 is available on our website. First, the position of the Legislative Committee and the formulated minority opinion will be presented in the debate. A total of 15 minutes are available, of which the majority opinion will have a maximum of 8 minutes, while the minority opinion will be presented in 7 minutes. I now give the floor to Congressman Sándor Hadházy, rapporteur of the committee. Here you go, Congressman.
u2018-10-01-223	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform the Honourable Parliament that at the meeting of the Legislative Committee on 27 September 2018, the House Rule 53. T/628 on the control of foreign investments affecting Hungary's security interests was discussed in order to submit a proposal for an amendment before the final vote. Bill No. 1. The committee adopted the report and the amendment before the final vote by 25 votes in favour, 7 against and 4 abstentions. Ladies and gentlemen, The control of foreign investments in major sectors that are outstanding for the national economy and for the needs of the population is in the fundamental interest of all nations, as the sovereignty of that State is violated without the control of these sectors. The proposed legislation is designed to enable the State to take action in the future against the economic influence of investors from foreign countries in certain sectors that could harm Hungary's security interests. In order to achieve the stated intention, the bill before us imposes an obligation to notify the Minister responsible for the sector if the company is active in economic sectors sensitive to the security of the country, such as the production of secret service equipment, the provision of financial services, the production of firearms and military equipment. According to the bill, it would also be necessary to declare the right of use or operation of equipment, equipment, infrastructure necessary for the pursuit of economic activity by a foreign investor. After examining the notification, the Minister may decide to take note of the transaction or to take a decision prohibiting it. In the case of a prohibition order, ownership rights relating to the share to be acquired shall not be lawfully exercised. The provisions of the draft submitted are in line with Community law, and several Member States have similar rules. I therefore respectfully ask my fellow Members to support this proposal. Thank you, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of Fidesz.]]
u2018-10-01-224	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The minority opinion will be presented by Mrs Anita Kőrösi. There you go. You have the floor.
u2018-10-01-225	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, In the extraordinary session, when the final vote was halted and the final vote was not held, we thought that there would be substantive amendments to this bill and that they would finally be in the interest of the nation. A 24-point amendment has been tabled, but no substantive amendment has been made to this bill. Let's see the title: The bill says about foreign investments that violate Hungary's security. And I'm telling you, this is a hotbed of corruption. Why do I say that? Because, as my fellow Member Sándor Hadházy said, the Minister will decide what kind of investment it constitutes, it will be his discretion that this violates the security of Hungary. One of the most important things is not apparent from the bill: what will decide on the conditions under which it will be determined whether this violates the security of Hungary or does not violate it. I would also like to draw attention to another important issue. We know that we will not be talking about investments of 1-2 million, as many as billions, tens or even hundreds of billions of forints of foreign investments in Hungary. The fine is between HUF 1 million and HUF 10 million. I think it's ridiculous. Indeed, higher penalties should be imposed on foreign investors who find that if the law is adopted, that it violates the bill, and that it is against the law. I wanted to highlight these two points, but my fellow Member Andrea Varga-Damm, who led to a halt in this extraordinary session of the bill and then to express his legal comments. But I wanted to tell you why the non-votes were born on the Legislative Committee. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2018-10-01-226	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. The speeches will now be held by the Members of the European Parliament, with a five-minute timeframe for each picture group and a three-minute window for independent representatives. I'll ask who wants to speak. I would like to take the floor first from the Group of Dialogue to Congressman Bence Tordai. As I said, the time frame is five minutes, Congressman. There you go. You have the floor.
u2018-10-01-227	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear fellow Members, There is a very important sense of lack of dialogue when it comes to foreign investments that violate Hungary's security interests, and I am talking about the most important foreign investment that will determine the country's fate for decades, the expansion of Paks. If there is a HUF 4000 billion investment here, a foreign investment that takes place from foreign credit, Russian credit, Russian suppliers, Russian technology, and which, by the way, is almost unanimously rejected by Hungarian citizens, how will this law protect us from the fact that the Paks expansion will happen? [[18.00]] If there is something that is really risking the security of Hungary, it is the expansion of Paks. I don't want to go too far back, but the examples of Fukushima and Chernobyl show quite well that nuclear power is not at all safe. The sad thing is, the same Russians, the same Russian company will build it and maybe run it in Paks II. a power plant that has gained great merit in Chernobyl. As my colleague, Kocsis-Cake Olivio, has already said, Paks I itself is experiencing continuous malfunctions. 15 years ago, a very serious malfunction occurred when radioactive gases entered Hungary's airspace, and a number of shutdowns, or at least performance suppression, and the shutdown of some reactors, have to be carried out every year in order to ensure that at least no major tragedy has occurred so far. There are a number of security issues in relation to the Paks enlargement. One is the fundamental security risk to our right to life, namely, a nuclear power plant is always life-threatening, and the fact is that there would be an alternative. There would be an alternative, because instead of continuing a concentrated, centralised energy generation, and this would be a decisive factor for the Hungarian energy policy over the coming decades, it would be much safer and human lives would not in any way be threatened if we switched to decentralised energy production if we supported small solar cells and other renewable energy sources; if we did not give up, say, this government would allow wind power plants to be installed, which in the last eight years, that it could not happen; if we were to withdraw taxes and other burdens on the use of solar cells and other renewable energy sources. So there would be a safe alternative here, which I'm pretty sure doesn't pose any risks. This Paks expansion is also a financial threat, and we have relatively sure calculations here, and we know very well that this will be a pay-per-view business. In fact, the European Commission also stated that the Hungarian Government supports this project with public funding. On a market basis, this would not be viable. We also know that the price of energy is constantly falling as the cost of renewable energy per kilowatt hour falls, so it is clear now that it is still cheaper to generate electricity with renewable energy in 2018 than with nuclear energy. Even though Germany is referred to by the dear Secretary of State and Minister, and even by the Prime Minister himself, it will not be true that the Paks cost, which is calculated now without counting the investment costs, is a realistic price. The big deal is that we will pay hundreds of billions of forints annually. So the Paks expansion is also risking the safety of our wallets. At the time, we did not even talk about the geopolitical dependence that links Hungary to Russia, but this is actually the goal of the entire Paks expansion, Putin assigns Viktor Orbán to him so that he can make sure again and again that there is no threat to the main instrument of his expansion of power in Eastern Central Europe: the Paks enlargement. After all, in terms of technology, fuel and even spent fuel, Hungary is connected to Russia. If Paks I and Paks II operate side by side, 80 percent of our electricity needs will be provided by these two plants. It is quite clear how vulnerable the country is in such a case that Putin can not only close the gas tap but also pull Hungary out of the outlet. There's no greater danger than that. We should fight this. Thank you very much.
u2018-10-01-228	Thank you very much, Congressman. The next speaker from the Jobbik Group is Mrs Varga-Damm Andrea. But before I give the floor, I would like to thank you for your cooperation and give the chair to Vice President István Jakab. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]] Congresswoman, you have the floor. Here you go. [[István Jakab, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]]
u2018-10-01-229	Thank you, Mr President, for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I agree with the people in front of me. If you recall the series of sessions before 20 July, you may have heard from me on two occasions all the legal problems that characterize this bill, and to be honest, I was pleased that at least two months later the House would vote in favour of such a shameful law. In addition to the fact that citizens of all countries welcome the efforts of their own governments to protect objects and economic factors of national security that represent the security of society, security of supply, but this law serves this only in words and addresses. Why do I say that? This legislation concerns the acquisition of ownership of persons and entities other than the European Union, the European Economic Community and the Swiss Confederation. I am sure everyone knows that with the establishment of the outrageous settlement bond, we have effectively managed to settle the masses of the world's scoundrels in Hungary and thus in the European Union, as we read from the news reports every day. So if the Hungarian government is so important to the security of Hungarian people and therefore brings such a proposal to the House, then let us say that years ago it should have been possible for people who not only violate the security of our country, but also European security, their activities and their economic activities, to stop coming into the country from having any kind of illegal activity. In this way, it is false to say that the Hungarian government wants to protect the security of the Hungarian people with this rule. The next legal problem with this, my fellow Members, is that this is a hotbed of corruption. Why am I saying this? On the one hand, I am saying this because if it really was to prevent them from acquiring property, it would have been regulated, for example, that the legal transaction to do so would have been invalid. No, that's not how it's regulated. It is regulated that ownership takes place, but ownership rights cannot be exercised. What are we talking about, please? If the aim was not to acquire ownership, the legislation should have stated that the contract to do so would have been null and void if the acknowledgement had not taken place. Now, the point is out of the bag, because there's the pre-emptive right institution, which is about the fact that if the Minister of the Interior doesn't back up, he doesn't acknowledge the acquisition, then within a certain period of time, the acquired property has to be sold, and the state's pre-emptive right is almost there. That's why the law doesn't declare it void, because what's the purpose? The aim is to allow the oligarchs around the government to enter into areas of ownership that are affected by these relations. But we might as well think about the next one. Isn't it that the government oligarchs don't actually trust their own? After all, in these fields, a huge number of new oligarchs have acquired ownership. The systems serving Hungarian society are already in the hands of the oligarch society around the government, but they don't trust their own, so that they don't accidentally bring someone into these shops that they didn't discuss with the leader, and then what can we do? There's the state's pre-emptive right. Ladies and gentlemen, Isn't that weird? Well, there's another loophole. The law says that the Minister of the Interior will have an obligation to control it. But he also says that if, within six months, he doesn't start taking action, then he can't take action, then this thing went through, then there's no way for him to prevent such acquisitions. If I put such a piece of legislation here and tell you how important this is for the national security of our country, will I allow such a loophole? Come on, fellow Members, let's think. And then, of course, you can talk about what I told you before, that, by the way, a better law firm can play this perfectly, so that they can become Europeans who acquire property. A hundred words end, my fellow Members, and this legislation reeks of not serving the real purpose. If you really wanted what we read in your explanatory statement and title, you would have passed legislation that would indeed serve our nation's security interests. That's not the proposal. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]] [[18.10]]
u2018-10-01-230	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Welcome, fellow Members. Dear Parliament, As no further speakers have made themselves known, the debate is closed, and the decisions will take place tomorrow at our meeting. Dear Parliament, Next up is the 1999 LXXVI on Copyright. Discussion of the Commission's reports and a summary amendment proposal submitted for the amendment of the Act. The government referral is T/1358. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. Dear Parliament, First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. I give the floor to Mr László Salacz, rapporteur of the committee. Here you go, Congressman.
u2018-10-01-231	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that the LXXVI of 1999 on copyright was discussed at the meeting of the Legislative Committee on 27 September 2018. T/1358. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in the House Rules 46. It adopted it unanimously by 34 votes in favour. Ladies and gentlemen, People with disabilities are able to use their rights and opportunities only with significant difficulties or not at all. They are equal members of society, mitigating their disadvantages, establishing their equal opportunities, each of us has a shared responsibility and obligation, both in Hungary and in the European Union. The aim of the bill before us is to alleviate the disadvantages of our fellow citizens by means of detailed and extended regulations. The bill aims to facilitate access in the European Union and to extend the scope for which authorisation is not required under the conditions. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you, as you did at the Legislative Committee, to support the bill before us. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2018-10-01-232	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I will ask Mr Pál Völner, State Secretary, if he would like to speak at this stage of the debate. [[Dr. Pál Völner says no.]] Mr Secretary of State points out that he does not wish to speak at this stage of the debate. Dear Parliament, No rapporteur was presented by the designated Judicial Committee. It is now up to Members to take part in the time-frames on the agenda. A two-minute speech is not possible in the course of the debate, since there is a time-frame negotiation. I give the floor to Congresswoman Andrea Varga-Damm, Jobbik Group. Here you go.
u2018-10-01-233	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, How interesting that in this House it is always something in which the party and opposition agree to come from an international scene! How strange that foreign organisations, of which we are members, can make proposals, present to us and to the international arena topics that are absolutely agreeable and provide or establish institutions for solidarity and solidarity between people. In my previous comment, I had to make criticisms, because the government is not on top of the situation, and its objectives, the real goals, cannot be enforced in that legislation. In this legislation, I have to say that we all have to support this proposal, but I am extremely sorry that such a proposal does not come from the home country, from the government, but from some kind of international agreement generates the preference of a social group and its interests. In this copyright law, we regulate the access of our disabled compatriots and people with disabilities in the world to copyright. I was also wondering when I first met this legislative proposal, why, my God, this was an open question. Why has it been tens of years, even in international space, that no one has ever thought before to recognise such situations of life or conditions with such legislation, such an international convention? But what's late doesn't go away. Fortunately, there were certainly speakers in the international space who were able to create this possibility. We are constantly expressing ourselves in this House and outside the House, outside the House, about our fellow countrymen with disabilities, trying to overcome some of their difficulties, trying to overcome the disadvantages they cannot overcome by reason of their state of health or by some kind of inborn disorder. Solidarity is certainly a measure of a society. We live in a global world where our disabled fellow humans, even if technology is developing, are much more difficult to obtain all the information, to get into the circulation that is characterized by today's accelerated world. For our part, in the Jobbik Group, we very much welcome the fact that even if it is relatively late, it has been revealed in the international space and the conclusion of this convention has been shown. In particular, I welcome the fact that, on two issues, the Convention has referred the decision to national jurisdiction, one being the circle of persons and the other being the consideration or freeness of use. I am very pleased that the government has defined the widest number of people with disabilities, including disabled groups whose condition is significantly more favourable than those for whom the Convention was originally drawn up. I also particularly welcome the fact that there will be no compensation for this issue under national legislation. In view of all this, of course, the Jobbik Group supports this bill, and we hope that our fellow people with disabilities and all those in the world who are affected by this condition can gain access to copyrights in an unlimited and wider manner, thereby improving their quality of life. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2018-10-01-234	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, I'm asking if anyone else would like to take the opportunity to speak. [[No one's reporting.]] I do not see an application; the debate is closed. I will ask the Secretary of State if he wishes to respond to what has been said. [[Dr. Pál Völner: Yes.]] Yeah. Secretary of State, you have the floor.
u2018-10-01-235	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, I would like to thank the factions for their constructive attitude during the debate on the bill. In response to what my colleague, Mr Varga-Damm, Andrea, said: since copyright goes beyond the borders, it is fortunate that we have been able to solve this problem in this form. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2018-10-01-236	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, The Commission's reports to be submitted for the adoption of the Agreement establishing the International Organisation of EUROFISH and the discussion of the summarised amendment will follow. The government referral is T/1356. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. Dear Parliament, First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. I give the floor to Congresswoman Mónika Dunai. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2018-10-01-237	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen of the State Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that, at its meeting on 27 September 2018, the Legislative Committee discussed the publication of the Agreement establishing the International Organisation of EUROFISH, T/1356. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in Article 46 of the House Rules. By 36 votes in favour, i.e. unanimously, on the basis of Article 36 of the Rules of Procedure. Ladies and gentlemen, The purpose of the bill we are discussing is to announce the agreement on the establishment of Eurofish, an international organisation for the development of fisheries in Central and Eastern Europe, which was established with Hungarian participation on 23 May 2000. The accession opens the possibility of raising fresh water and aquaculture production in Hungary to the world level. Eurofish helps Member States to disseminate information, promote economic operators in the Member States and support sectoral projects. Eurofish helps companies from Member States to appear at major international trade fairs and exhibitions, so the Hungarian fish management industry could be found at events that will be of paramount importance in promoting domestic fish and fish products. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you, as you did at the Legislative Committee, to support the bill we are discussing. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]] [[18.20]]
u2018-10-01-238	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, I will ask Mr Sándor Farkas, Minister of State, to speak at this stage of the debate. [[For signal:]] Yes, the floor is yours.
u2018-10-01-239	Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I just want to thank you for the unanimous decision of the Legislative Committee. It appears that this proposal, although a few amendments were tabled, was both legal and spelling issues. Thank you for your constructive work. Thank you very much.
u2018-10-01-240	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that the designated Foreign Affairs Committee has not presented a rapporteur. It is now time for the speeches by its representatives. I give the floor to MEP Zoltán Magyar, Jobbik Group. Here you go.
u2018-10-01-241	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Mr. Secretary. As we have already said in the general debate, we can support this proposal, because it contains all the provisions that are a substitute and which we agree with. When we explained our criticisms, they were more about what this proposal did not contain, and unfortunately we did not receive any substantive answers at the committee meeting, that is, that we do not see the role of Hungarian fish in this system. We are very pleased that this topic will be brought together and raised to the international level, but the practical implementation of this is still very far away in our country. I am thinking here that our consumption of fish is a fraction of the European average, not even a quarter. If we could achieve every year that only one kilogram more fish is eaten by all Hungarians, it would still take us 18 years to reach the EU average. I think, beyond international agreements, there would be a great deal of domestic work to be done. Not to mention XXI. 21st century quality and XXI. We would like to see products from prepared fish materials on the shelves, which are made not from foreign cans, but from Hungarian fish. The same way I said in the general debate that today it is no longer a matter of going into a multinational shopping mall or buying live chicken, so that we can then cut it, pick it, open it and eat it at home, just as today it is not an acceptable thing, nor is it a sought-after product that let's say, live fish are processed by housewives or landlords at home. We would finally like to see quality, prepared and understandable raw materials from the Hungarian fish at this age, and then I think that this appetite for fish consumption and habit would be much more popular in Hungarian society, which could then be a public health and a lot of other aspects, since the Carpathian Basin is very suitable for providing quality freshwater fish for ourselves or for the rest of the world. This is particularly important in the light of the fact that the seas are virtually empty, the quantity of fish that eats and catches people has fallen to a fraction, and now fish that appear in aquaculture and large cage enclosures are harvested there as well. This could increase the role of the Hungarian fish. Once again, I urge Mr Secretary of State to draw up a national programme for this. Jobbik has submitted the amending proposal to the budget, and in addition to the international agreement, which I would like to emphasise once again, we would expect such improvements, but here we have talked about habitat development, we have talked about invasive species, and while we are at it, let me conclude that there are still 200 former fishermen in Hungary, who have been cheated very badly. Mr Secretary of State knows that the former Minister here, among the walls of Parliament, among other things, has promised my question that these people and their families, who are in the profession of poverty and are banned by law, will receive compensation for this. To this day, they have not received a single forint, which is a nasty thing to do when a minister promises it in the nation's temple. It would be good to have some sort of retrospective compensation for them, because they are expecting it, and perhaps they would ease the anger, their legitimate anger towards you, which we have at the moment. [[Intercoms from Jobbik: That's right! That's right.]] Thank you for the opportunity. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2018-10-01-242	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I'm asking if anyone else would like to take the opportunity to speak. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. The debate is closed. I'll ask the Secretary of State if you'd like to answer. [[For signal:]] No. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, There is a debate on the Commission's reports and a summary amendment to the proposal for a Memorial Day for farmers. The representatives of Béla Turi-Kovács, Miklós Simon, Sándor Farkas, István Jakab, Sándor Font, János Bencsik and György Czerván, Fidesz and László Szászfalvi, KDNP submitted H/893. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. Dear Parliament, First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. I give the floor to Congresswoman Mónika Dunai, rapporteur of the committee. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2018-10-01-243	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that at its meeting on 27 September 2018, the Legislative Committee discussed the T/893 Memorial Day for farmers. A proposal for a decision. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in Article 46 of the House Rules. It was unanimously supported by 36 votes in favour. Ladies and gentlemen, In the past of Hungary and in the present of Hungary, farmers and Hungarian farmers play both a decisive and even a country-sustaining role. This has been the case in the past, as is the case today, and we hope that it will continue in the future. In order to protect the country, they did their part in every situation, and often demonstrated their patriotism, despite the great difficulties and the burden of the landlords, they had to ensure their own and others' well - being. This proposal for a resolution is an expression of appreciation for our fellow countrymen who, in the past and today, provide food for all of us through their sweaty work. When we talk about this social layer, we also mean the population of Hungarian villages, who, with their endurance and devotion, preserve the irreplaceable values of rural life. The Government of Hungary supports the strengthening of rural rural life by all means available, it is enough to mention only the support of young farmers or the Hungarian villages programme. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to support the resolution proposal in the same way as at the meeting of the Legislative Committee, where, as I mentioned at the beginning, the committee unanimously supported the proposal for a resolution, so that from now on it will be 17 September for the Hungarian farmers' day. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2018-10-01-244	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, I'm asking you, on behalf of the author, there's someone who wants to speak. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. I'm asking Mr. Secretary of State on behalf of the government. [[For signal:]] He won't say anything. [[Magyar Zoltán: My button is pressed. Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks: "The Little Eminent!" Defiance from Jobbik's ranks.]] Just a moment, please. [[Noise.]] One moment, please. I'll be right there, my dear fellow Member, just know there's a chain of command we're following. Dear Parliament, We now have speeches from Members. I give the floor to MEP Zoltán Magyar, Jobbik Group.
u2018-10-01-245	Thank you for the opportunity, Mr. President. I would like to thank Mr Secretary of State for having honoured the late debate here with his presence, because at the time of the general debate we already had the opportunity to exchange ideas on this proposal and at the committee meeting, but I cannot stress that, of course, the Group of the Jobbik Movement for Hungary supports this initiative. We believe that, indeed, our country is a country blessed with agricultural conditions and an agricultural past where it is worth celebrating and celebrating. We hope that the government will give us every opportunity, every means to ensure this. But in order to be clear for everyone, I have tabled some amendments together with my fellow Member, Mr Ander Balázs, which just urged that the majority in the government would have made it possible for the families who do not know it personally to accept this Memorial Day to be a worthy celebration for the farmers, but for the Hungarian families who are generally farming. Because I fear that if these amendments are not accepted, there will be very, very many Hungarian families in the countryside who will not be able to think with sufficient devotion and satisfaction of this very important memorial day. [[18.30]] I would just like to say three very briefly, which I would have thought was most important, so that it could be adopted, so that we could have a worthy memorial day. One is that we have tried to distribute European Union and domestic resources more fairly, and we have tried to do so in the form of proposals for decisions in the form of legislative amendments, because it is absolutely absurd for you to judge the governments of the time from the opposition, before 2010, by the way, quite rightly, by the fact that in a country called agricultural centre in the middle of Europe, a significant part of development resources is indeed taken away by the most capable. As I say, we agreed with this statement, the only problem is that unfortunately we should still agree, because this ratio would not have improved, but the scissors continued to open up, and today it is even more possible to say to Hungary that the development money here, in combination with rural development and agricultural funds, I think, is going to get a much higher proportion than it should. This numerically means that practically two thirds of the resources are taken by the 10 percent most capable agricultural stakeholders, which is a brutal imbalance. The other thing that we would have called attention to if it had been adopted is the land issue, because it is not only about resources in this area, but also about the possibility, there is a way for an average Hungarian family farmer to get to additional areas, who could complement his estate to viable areas, who could increase efficiency, and in this very, very bad way they were fooled, when faced with their earlier promises, not only by increasing the domestic land fortune, but also by increasing the possibility of the state's ownership policy by increasing the state's territory, but on the contrary, privatizing practically all of the Hungarian land's assets, and since then we can see who has acquired these lands: the circle you have recapitalised, almost without exception. So I accept, and I know that there are lots of land, not even in small numbers, a few acres of land that they have actually been able to obtain locally living, indeed family farmers, but the greasy bites, we both know, Mr. Secretary of State, who got them. We have said these many times here in the walls of Parliament. So we have tabled such amendments not because of what you have accused us of practically ruining the beautiful wording of the memorial day here, but because your colleague said so at a committee meeting, but rather because we would like to make this day a better memory, and we would like everyone involved to be proud to remember the farmers of the day before and now, because it is very important to have a lot of talk about them here, too, and to work for us here in Parliament. I hope that, if this amending army has not been adopted now, we will have the opportunity next time to carry our will through another law, because it is quite absurd to say that the past is the past, and let us not talk about the past, after spending 700 billion forints of rural development resources in this European Union cycle, there are many regions in Hungary today where the village is still linked to poverty and lack of prospects, and everyone who can try to get out of there. I think that if these billions had been spent carefully and not overbilled, there would be a lot more villages in Hungary today where the majority feel that it is worth staying, having children, starting a business, and seeing a completely different landscape. Thank you, Mr. President. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2018-10-01-246	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Szabolcs Szabó, LMP Group. Here you go.
u2018-10-01-247	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Indeed, it is very important here that we constantly remember the role of farmers and farmers in Hungary. On the one hand, what Mónika Dunai said is that they produce food, and we also export a significant part of it, so there is a very important economic importance to this. On the other hand, it should also be taken into account that Hungary is a cultural landscape. The fact that we can live in this country, and we know this country in this way, has a prominent role to play in this, and so it is maintained, and this is a major part of the activity of farmers. In another part, it was created in very close cooperation or in the light of historical history, in collaboration with the water experts; it is enough to look around the valleys of the Danube or Tisza to see what cultural landscapes have been created. So what is important is that, despite the fact that, if you alone look at what percentage of GDP, say, of agriculture or agro-business in the expanded sense, even if I look at it this way, 11-12 percent, in terms of employees, let's say, 3 percent, this actually has a much greater significance than this 3 and 11 percent show. That is why it is important to have such commemorative days, and I absolutely sign this, and I consider it eligible. It should also be mentioned that here there is a reference to István Nagyatádi Szabó in connection with the Memorial Day, since this memorial day is adapted to his birthday. Here it is to be remembered that we are talking about the first substantial division of land, which is associated with the name of István Nagyatádi Szabó. What, of course, those who know a little bit about agriculture and the historical background of this, know precisely that this has had a limited effect and know exactly where this story went wrong. But it was undoubtedly the first time in Hungary that we tried a little bit of the feudal structure to step away and give land to people who either didn't have land or had very little land. Of course, I'm telling you, it had a limited effect, because it only affected a few hundred thousand hectares overall, but this was, let's say, the hallway to the later division of land, which started at 45. So in this respect, it is important to remember István Nagyatádi Szabó himself, because it is important to know that this is where it first crystallized, that a major part of Hungarian society begins to understand what Gyula Illyés, Géza Féja and I can tell you that millions live in extreme poverty in the 1920s and 1930s. And that was the first attempt in this direction to move forward. I'd like to mention here a third thing that I've been thinking about about about the farmers' Memorial Day. Of course, these historical backgrounds are important, and it is very important to sign that we remember the significance of this, but we will have to start thinking about how to resolve the contradiction that people who are working on agriculture today professionally and really working very hard from vision to blindness, but these people, in spite of the fact that they are doing agriculture, really want to live an urban way of life. So access to services, be it cultural service, commercial service, any other service, but they want to live an urban way of life. The main problem in rural areas today is that they do not actually get this kind of urban lifestyle, and the real recognition for farmers would probably be that, in addition to recognising this activity here in the Carpathian Basin for hundreds of years, we will try them in addition to the XXI. To serve them according to the requirements of the century, according to their internal needs, by providing them with an urban lifestyle. And I can firmly say that this is what I would like, and I have dealt with this as a researcher, and this has been the result of the surveys that have been carried out when we have examined and interviewed villagers and agricultural entrepreneurs. That's what I suggest we work on in the future. Thank you.
u2018-10-01-248	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman László Hajdu, Democratic Coalition. Here you go.
u2018-10-01-249	Mr President, I am a member of the Legislative Committee, and I would rather be in this quality, but in agreement with the Memorial Day, our faction, of course, supports this parliamentary resolution so much I would like to add to the previous solo that I am the parliamentary representative of an external district where there are still land estates and small parcels, about 1800 small parcels. [[18.40]] This memorial day gives me the opportunity to mention, although I know that this change will happen, that there are still 2600 more so-called named property, but those who are undivided in common ownership, I fear, in the country, this memorial day will be held with a few oligarchs, a great landowners celebrating. These are certain undivided common-owned landowners, and there are those in California, some in Australia, some in Germany, for example, during the period of ragweeding, that we could in principle mow down and bill the undivided joint owners, all the 2600, only the postal costs would be more than the fine if we knew the exact address of these people. So when we learn about the Nagyatádi land program, we learn about it, and we will remember it in comparison to what I agree with, that there should be such a memorial day, I come from the county of Peace, so I go home to village days in this respect, and I know that in a slightly forced way, but try to recall the old world there, in a small village in the county of Békés, so that the whole village is owned by two people. So it would really be a fair, beautiful memorial day if all the peasants living in it were celebrating, but that's a little different. But I will return here: We have been doing this in Rákospalota for years, despite the fact that it is part of Budapest, the XV. It has a district of Budapest, and there is all kinds of small production going on there from paradise, and on such a village day, where we bring trenching machines, tractors, many things, we show people, so it is also an opportunity to present the old historical culture in a settlement. That is why I think it is right that our history and our agricultural culture, which grew out of this line of servants after feudalism, this people should not forget how our ancestors... In Rákospalota we do a great deal by, for example, in the local history museum, all the old memories that could be collected, because Rákospalota was a people of servants on the Károlyi estate, who produced a primer for the markets in Budapest, and also in another profession, in a special profession, in flower production there were very good cancer palaces, the Pest County, then Pest County was not only Rákospalota... Therefore, the fact that we are including it in a parliamentary resolution can only be supported. I wanted to express my doubts about the importance of this holiday being a little disturbed by ownership, and on the other hand, that the big owners might probably send their helpers here for this celebration, but we hope that they will sponsor such a holiday. Thank you very much.
u2018-10-01-250	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I'm asking if anyone else would like to take the opportunity to speak. [[No signal.]] I do not see an application; the debate is closed. I give the floor to Deputy Minister Sándor Farkas, who wishes to respond to what has been said in the debate.
u2018-10-01-251	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, I thank the Legislative Committee for its resolution and its decision, and, as we said last week in the debate, I said, we believe that this commemorative day, this very important day of remembrance, is the creation, creation and now the retention on 10 September, from 2019 onwards, a very important date for small-scale farms living on the ground, for people who actually have and have such land. But I would not like to start again the debate that we had here once last week, about the problems that arise at the moment with the undivided common property or perhaps with regard to the law on land, what kind of opinion you have, what kind of comment you have. I would rather agree with Szabolcs Szabó, in part, on the fact that he suggested that the small-scale population, whether owner or worker in peasant farms, would like to be a citizen of the city at all costs, and this will create a new sociological situation in the countryside or have already created it. I fully agree that this should be seen, and this issue needs to be addressed, because it seems to be the future, that is how people see it, and they do not want to stay on the farm or in a small settlement. It is therefore our responsibility to find those points or those living conditions, that care, that social network, or whatever it is that somehow can bind the people living in the small settlement. It's not an easy task. I have worked in a small settlement for forty or a few years, and I know very well what it means to see the history of a two thousand settlement for forty or a few years, and I feel it, and I know that, in this, I think, there will be a few more issues, in which I hope we will not only argue, but also reach agreement in Parliament. I think that this memorial day is a very important moment in the agriculture that is now, so to speak, emerging, and perhaps even closer to the outcome than it was up to 5, 10, 15 or 20 years ago. I thank my fellow Members very much for their support for this law, and I hope that this will happen tomorrow. Thank you very much.
u2018-10-01-252	Thank you, Deputy Minister. Allow me, it is a special pleasure and opportunity for me to be in charge of the meeting now, since it concerns me in the same way. I think I might have been able to afford this much for once, this one sentence. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place tomorrow. [[For signal:]] My dear fellow Member, I am in a huge problem now because I have already closed the debate before Mr Vice-President, and I see that my colleague, Mr Simon Miklós, has just applied. I'm in a very difficult situation. [[Dr. Miklós Simon: I would like to speak on behalf of the authors.]] But as a pointer, of course, it's only closed, but here you are, my fellow Member.
u2018-10-01-253	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would like to say a few words on behalf of the authors. I, János Pócs and Béla Turi-Kovács, would like to quote the merits of István Nagyatádi Szabó from the biographical memoir published in 1935 by the Szabó István Nagyatádi Memorial Committee, János Mayer's retired Hungarian Minister for Royal Land Arts, who says about István Nagyatádi Szabó, that his appearance in the field of Hungarian public life is a new chapter, because through István Nagyatádi Szabó entered into the legislation through István Nagyatádi. István Szabó had a vision of the nation, as László Ravasz said, and his fact was that he obeyed it. The vision was given by God, who created Hungarian talents. One more thought:. There was something about Ferenc Deák's individuality from his ancient Hungarian wisdom, silence, and certain judgment. I would like to thank my fellow Members for their support for this initiative. Thank you very much to the government of national cohesion for giving us the opportunity to set this Memorial Day. I would like to add so much to the thoughts of my fellow Members that, in my view, commemorative days are a role model for the country. [[18.50]] This was, in my opinion, the aim of József Torgyán in the 2000s when he first made this proposal. We wanted István Nagyatádi Szabó to remain in the memory of farmers, small farmers, so that we could add it to the list of role models by a day of memory. I would like to thank you once again for your support, and I hope that this proposal for a resolution will be given an opportunity in tomorrow's vote. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-10-01-254	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The decisions, as I announced earlier, will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of today's agenda. We now have post-scheduled speeches. Szabolcs Szabó, Member of the LMP Group, applied for a post-meeting speech:. Would the government be willing to solve the road transport problem that has made the lives of Soroksarias miserable? It's an address. I give you the floor, Congressman.
u2018-10-01-255	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, In the last month, we have heard a lot, a lot, about the transport problems in Csepel and Csepel, my constituency. I myself mentioned this several times in Parliament. However, I think it is important to note that we should not forget that the situation in Soroksár on the other side of the Kis-Danube is no better than it is, and that there is a very urgent need for Soroksár's help. The fact is that, on the one hand, as in the case of Csepel, it can be seen here that more and more people from the southern part of the Budapest agglomeration come to Budapest in the morning and travel home at night. Suburbanisation has such a damaging side effect, which, unfortunately, was simply not followed by transport infrastructure. My office, for example, is in Soroksáron on 144 Grassalkovich Road. If we go outside the office, I have a bad habit of smoking, and I hope no one takes that as a commercial, and everybody quit, so I'm telling you, we can't talk to each other, like the one who walks down the street because it's so noisy. There's so much traffic on Soroksár on Grassalkovich Road. In addition, there is an even bigger problem, namely that the Budapest-Kelebia railway line cuts through the district in Budapest. It is worth three places to cross this railway. There is the intersection on the Tárcsás street level, there is the intersection on Vecsés út, but unfortunately it doesn't lead anywhere, so the road network on the other side isn't built, and there's another way to make a big detour on the Ocsai road if you want to cross over to the other side of the district. The only problem is that it belongs to the M0, and all the connecting parts of the M0, so the M51 and the opening section of the M5. In English: where do people travel from one part of Soroksár to another or to shopping malls on the other side? At the intersection of Tárcsás street. I can suggest to everyone that if you have a little time and drive a car, you should once come over there and see how unmanageable the situation is, that the barriers are kept almost down, because 80 trains leave there every day about a day, and there are very narrow, narrow streets where they tried to sort out traffic a little with a one-way ride, but in reality, what happens is that during the peak period a row of 100 meters is formed. The problem is not only that the person sitting in the car cannot move forward, but it is unnecessary, it involves pollution of air and noise, I say to the people on the side of the road, it has to imagine very narrow, narrow roads, thus damaging their health. If you live there, you can't get in and out of your car, in Hungarian, in the morning, you can't get to work, you can't go home at night, because he gets stuck in traffic, and since, I'm telling you, we talk about one-way streets a lot, so the ambulance can't drive properly either. This must be changed in any way. A short-term solution would be that at least the M51 and the M5 entry section would be free of charge. I've already brought this up to the Ministry, but they turned it down. I would suggest to the government, once again, that you consider this, because this is the solution to the traffic of the Tárcsás street crossing. It wouldn't be a big loss, let's be honest. And the other way would be to get a railroad underpass. There used to be a railroad overpass, but it was bombed back in World War I. That wouldn't even meet the current requirements, it's just the stumps. What we should do is build a railway subway near Vecsés Road. Everybody knows that. I've been to the MÁV, they've admitted there's a lot of traffic, they should, but they can't do anything about it. I went to the MÁV when the construction of the Budapest-Belgrád railway line was in the design phase, the design of the renovation, but it was not possible to put it into this 750 billion project, unfortunately it fell out. From now on, it would be up to the municipality. The district government had enough money to make a plan for this, and it ran out of money for it, since it doesn't have 10-15 billion. And the capital doesn't have any money. That is why it is important for the government to spend money on this, because the Soroksharans are worth not letting them stand in traffic and breathe bad air. So I'm asking the government to support this project. Thank you very much.
u2018-10-01-256	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, After the agenda, Mr Zoltán Fenyvesi, Member of the Fidesz Group, has applied for a post- Agenda speech:. All year long, Balaton! It's an address. I give you the floor, Congressman.
u2018-10-01-257	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear House, Tourism has been growing in Hungary for years, above the world and European averages, and these numbers fall year after year. In 2017, this ten million country hosted nearly 12 million guests in commercial accommodations, and they spent nearly 30 million guest nights here. Based on this year's statistics, 2018 is expected to exceed the record so far. In the first seven months of this year, the number of guest nights in Hungary increased by 5.6 percent compared to last year, and the income of accommodations also increased by 8.5 percent. Until the end of July this year 7.1 million guests spent a total of 17.5 million guest nights in the Hungarian accommodations. The domestic travel activity of the Hungarians remains lively, as shown by the 4.7 percent increase in the number of domestic guests in the first seven months. In addition to the SZÉP card, the expansion of domestic tourism is also supported by the increasing amount of money for Hungarian families and the increasing number of people who spend their leisure time. In the first seven months of the year, wages increased by 12%. After Balaton Budapest, the second most important tourist destination in Hungary. More than 15 percent of the country's commercial accommodation revenues come from this region. More than a quarter of domestic guest nights, or 25.5 percent, are realised in this area. The Balaton must not only be interpreted on the basis of coastal settlements, but also in a broader sense along with the background settlements. The area of Lake Balaton is about to develop enormously, as we know that the government is planning HUF 365 billion to make improvements in the region of Lake Balaton. The aim is to create a four-season Balaton, reduce seasonality, increase residence time. The tourist performance of Lake Balaton has also shown a confident increase in recent years. In 2017, the number of guests in commercial accommodations in the Balaton region increased by 46.2 percent compared to 2010 and the number of guest nights increased by 36.4 percent. We see that the number of both domestic and foreign guests increases significantly year after year in Lake Balaton, but domestic traffic is the determining factor for all guests in the Balaton region, and three quarters of the guests arrive from home to Lake Balaton. In the first seven months of 2018, the number of guests and guest nights in the Balaton region continued to increase, both in foreign and domestic terms. The revenues of commercial accommodation in the Balaton region increased in the first seven months of this year, 13.2 percent higher than in the previous year. [[19.00]] For me, for the county of Veszprém, Ajka, Tapolca, Sümeg, representative of the Káli Basin and the Balaton Uplands, it is a welcome fact that the increase in the tourist performance of Veszprém county exceeds the entire Balaton region: between January and July 2018, 8.5 percent more guests spent nearly 9 percent more nights than the same period of the previous year. In particular, the number of foreign guests and guest nights increased by 10 percent. In the first seven months of this year, the revenues of commercial accommodation in Veszprém County increased, the total revenue was 20 percent higher than in the previous year. In most of my constituency, the Káli Basin, Badacsony, Sümeg, Tapolca and the Lesence region, most people live in tourism. However, the Balaton Uplands await visitors not only in summer, but also in autumn and winter with rich programs. It is necessary to mention the trout and wine festival held in Tapolca on the weekend, as well as the harvest parties, the Wine Triathlon,. Hello Autumn!, the bass festival in Badacsony, Szigliget, the Márton Day Vigságságság, the boiled wine cooking competition and the jelly beauty contest in Badacsonytordemicen, the end of the year splash in Ábrahám Hill and the New Year's Szigliget, the cellar tours in the Lesence region, St. George's Hill and the Balaton Highlands, which continue to welcome tourists from both home and abroad. 'Cause let's not forget, all year round, Balaton. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2018-10-01-258	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, After the agenda, Mr Péter Ungár, Member of the LMP Group, asked for a speech:. Queen of the West 4.. I give you the floor, Member.
u2018-10-01-259	Thank you very much. I would like to talk about a subject that, although it has been mentioned many times in the Parliament, has never been about the region of Western Hungary, such as the county of Győr-Moson-Sopron and the county of Vas, and this is the housing problems, the problems that housing poses, especially in the region of Western Hungary close to Austria. I would like to start with where this problem is most acute in this region, Mosonmagyaróvár, which is not only close to Austria, but also Slovakia. What you can see here is that the apartment prices are dramatically high, often higher than the rent of an average 60 square meters flat in downtown Budapest, and this is because people move in from Slovakia and to a lesser extent from Austria, thus pushing up a rent for a higher rate of payment. Here it can be seen that, in addition to being a very serious problem in rental prices, this is a very serious problem, for example, in places such as medical care and school care, because there are more than 15 thousand people in Mosonmagyaróvár who are not registered, either because of guest workers or because of Hungarian internal migration, or because of other reasons, and they receive medical care in the same way, or, let us say, school for their children, but they do not pay taxes on the spot, they do not take part in public transport on the spot, so they must be present in Mosonmagyaróvár. It is also known that although the construction started on some level around Mosonmagyaróvár, this does not mean enough apartments to push down these funnyly high prices, which someone who, say, tries to raise a child on a Hungarian salary in Mosonmagyaróvár cannot afford to pay. I would like to turn to Győr, where the number of people who commute on a daily basis is smaller, but it is also significant, as well as because of the fact that the rental prices have increased significantly here as well. In Győr, the other problem, which appeared here, is slowly leading to Sopron's problem, as it is equally problematic in both places, that is the problem of the workers' hostels. Workers' hostels mean family houses, real estate, which are then issued to internal migration or to Serbian or Ukrainian workers. In these hotels, 12-13 people often live illegally, who often do not comply with community standards, make noise, in cities where basically family people are trying to raise children, make them incompatible, and these people are a major problem in this respect. At the same time, it should be said that workers' hostels, although they are a problem for residents, for people who have moved from Eastern Hungary to Western Hungary because of internal migration, have no other option, they usually do not get a sublet in the market, and that is why they are forced here. In Sopron, it is also a huge problem that many people leave after a week or two without paying or paid black, so a very significant part of the rent market in Sopron is black, much more than in Budapest. This could be resolved in one way: the LMP has a proposal for a solution to this issue, as regards the region of Western Hungary: the state, the municipality and the employer support the rent fee themselves to a variable extent. So to support the growing rent itself, partly by the state, partly by the employer, which the employee has to pay because he moved to a place where the rents are more expensive. This would also mean that, in fact, we would support in a state way that the housing market would become white. It is very important for the housing market to become white, because it is possible that more apartments can be built on a market basis. Szombathely's problem, which is also serious in the area of housing. In addition to the fact that there is also this commuting, the surrounding factories and jobs, there are also very large internal migration pressures, hundreds of Serbian and Ukrainian workers, thousands of people who also represent a significant burden on the rental market, which is very narrow anyway, especially in Szombathely. I can give you an example of Zalaegerszeg, which is the same example. In Zalaegerszeg in the Austrian transport company Gartner, if you buy a hundred truck drivers, there are no 30 of them who are Hungarian. The rest are Serbian or Austrian. This means that both Zalaegerszeg and Szombathely and other parts of Vas County and the whole region face housing problems that arise in part from internal migratory pressures and arise partly from foreign migrant workers. Thank you very much.
u2018-10-01-260	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, After the agenda, Mrs Dóra Dúró, Member of the Council, spoke with the title "The Heart Voice." I give you the floor, Congresswoman.
u2018-10-01-261	Thank you for the word. Mr President, Dear Parliament, I would like to talk to you about an issue in which I believe very deeply in its truth and correctness: the issue of abortion. This is concerned by a proposal that briefly suggests that mothers listen to the baby's heartbeat before abortion and then make their decision. I would also like to prove to you in my speech and in future debates that abortion is primarily a matter of value. Many times, we hear concerns about childbearing that material well-being affects how many children are involved, but at the same time it is my point in this matter that, for example, in Poland, which counts 37 million souls, thousands of abortions are carried out each year, even though they are countries with similar historical fates and similar economic performances as our country. In Hungary, there are less than ten million of us and there are still 30 thousand abortions. The argument raised very often in relation to abortions is that prevention should be given greater emphasis, and it is the information on contraception that needs to be further broadened, which is indeed true, but at the same time the revolution has already taken place in this case. Each research in Hungary shows that the proportion of women affected by pregnancy or potentially affected by childbearing is above 90 percent in the relevant age group. So we can say that while, let's say, in the 1950s, the same number didn't reach 50 percent, today the proportion of those defending in some way is over 90 percent. And if we add that there are some who are aware of these processes, whether because of religious motivation or because of anti-drugs, but consciously do not defend themselves in this way, then we can say that we will no longer be able to make great progress in this regard. What we have been able to prevent by spreading contraception has already been done by magnitude. At the same time, this has an additional negative effect that the maternal age of having a child has indeed become extremely excessive, and now the Hungarian women are almost 30 years old when they have their first child, and at the age of 30, for example, a woman is three and a half times more likely to be barren than the same woman at the age of 20. So this birth control approach also contributed to the emergence of the problem of infertility. [[19.10]] My third question, which I would like to talk about, is a certain serious crisis and a reference to this, which is made possible by the current Hungarian legislation. According to surveys, 10 percent of mothers regret having made such a decision a month later, one month after the termination of pregnancy in Hungary. In a heightened emotional situation, a mother makes irreversible decisions about her own child, and a month later, 10 percent of women regret it. This represents 3,000 Hungarian children each year, and every research confirms that as time progresses, the proportion of those who repent of this act increases. In Macedonia, similar to my heart-sounding proposal, almost identical regulations were introduced, which was reported by a Macedonian Member of Parliament at a demographic conference in Budapest. As a result, they managed to reduce the number of abortions by 20 percent a year, which is a huge step forward, I think. With us, having the same effect would mean about 6,000 children a year. Finally, allow me to quote two people who have already spoken in this debate. One of them will be Gábor Gavra, editor of the Weeks, who wrote in this paper that Dóra Dúró only proposed to communicate with each other at least once in life between the fetus and the mother who decided on his fate. That's all I'm proposing. Also, I would like to quote László Falcon to you, who wrote, "The question is to extend the legal concept of man from before birth to conception. The nature and scope of such an extension of legal personality would be comparable only to the abolition of slavery, but even more significant. With this, man's legal personality would in principle reach its ultimate limit and completeness. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] That's why I want to fight. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2018-10-01-262	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, After the agenda, Mrs Hegedűs Lorántné, Member of the Jobbik Group, asked for a speech. It's an address. I give you the floor, Congresswoman.
u2018-10-01-263	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear fellow Members of Parliament, [[Turning to opposition benches:]] Allow me to stand like this, not turn my back on anyone. If the President will allow it, he may be more comfortable and more worthy. I would first like to answer a question, especially now, with the local elections approaching, what is the point, what is the real content of the local government today. In order to make our situation as simple as possible, the municipal law itself, by the way, I will summon the municipal law created by Fidesz to you now. This is exactly how the answer to this question goes according to the norm text:. Local self-government is the right of the community of voters of the settlement, in which the sense of civic responsibility is exercised, the creative cooperation within the local community unfolds. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. This is an extremely beautiful and meaningful sentence, but let's see how this happens in everyday life, for example, in Szentendre, a settlement led by Fidesz, within the NER system, how they interpret their own law. On 29 July 2018, a non-specific motion was submitted to Members, namely that the last area of conservation of the Danube coast there, which is still unbuilt, is of local importance, which is a connected Danube coast lane, the so-called Posta Beach, would now be transformed as proposed, and a significant part of it would be built up. What exactly is going to happen here? Please respectfully, a CYEB Kft. a company with a core capital of some HUF 5 million, which has surprisingly good Fidesz connections, has submitted its development ideas and the current classification, which, by the way, is green surface classification, which gives us little or no opportunity to install, I would like to change them by significantly increasing the percentage of installation. Overall, compared to the current ground level, they would build an office building of about 15-17 metres, or more precisely two large office buildings next to each other, practically on the Danube bank, with a significant part of the current green area being used. In total, this would reduce the area of the Postman Beach by 3842 square metres. The design contract, the settlement settlement contract, which would be concluded by the municipality with the investor, is only about whether the amendment that has to be implemented in the local construction regulations will be paid by this investment company. There is no mention of the fact that, by the way, this investor is entitled to, say, a billion-dollar asset right by increasing construction parameters in such a significant way. There is no mention of what infrastructure investments are still needed, obviously with the community's money. But there is not a word that, by the way, not so long ago, just two years ago, through community planning, a concept of integration or a rehabilitation training has already been realized here. Let's call it a rehabilitation idea, because it is not about office buildings and major buildings, but about how to make this beach more beautiful and better, and to make it as useful as possible for local and Szentendre residents and anyone who visits it. Unfortunately, the Fidesz majority accepted this with virtually immediate effect. The interesting thing about the whole story is that a negotiated procedure has been laid down for the implementation of the local construction regulations in Hungarian: practically, they have taken away the possibility of creative cooperation, which the municipal law also presents as an opportunity to us, and they have deprived the local people of it. I encourage all, especially the Szentendres [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] So that they do not abandon themselves, stand up for their rights, because the local construction regulations as regulations have not yet been adopted, even their right and opportunity, and even their duty to interfere with their future. Thank you so much for listening. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2018-10-01-264	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, After the agenda, Mr László György Lukács, Jobbik Group asked for a speech:. Gucci, Prada, Micheal Kors. Not just these designers, but the drugs. What can we do to reduce zombie drugs? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2018-10-01-265	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, As weird as it is to say these fashion brand names, which, by the way, contain designer designers, fashion and clothing elements, not only carry them as sugar, but also new psychoactive substances called designer drugs. This is the name that we use for these drugs, and everyone knows them that way, but recently it has also been a particular type of zombie drug that produces special symptoms or special conditions, which is an alpha of new psychoactive substances. What kind of problem is that? If a person has been in social media in the past, he has seen the videos in which young people or less young people, who have the effect of such a drug, are almost out of themselves, not knowing anything about themselves, mostly along the public transport routes in Budapest, or even on Hero's Street. This is a huge problem, by the way, the spread of infection and zombie drugs on the market. Not only in Budapest, but also in the countryside, in my constituency and in my wider home, in Jász-Nagykun-Szolnok County, they also have cases in their heads, whether in Kunmadaras or Tiszaföldvár or even in Zagyvarékas, where they influenced the lives of young people, and after the use of drugs, they led to a crime. [[19.20]] Sadly, there was also a death in Squireland, where an older single woman was killed by a person likely under the influence of such a new psychoactive substance. So we are not far from saying that we are dealing with a new or a new era of plague, because we already knew that the designer drugs, which were mostly made in the east, were made by exploiting various chemical mechanisms and adding compounds to each other, and that they were almost new every day, but the so-called zombie drugs were even worse than that. What the state can do, what the legislators can do, we also have to deal with, because it is not enough to look at the fact that we are talking about the issue of public safety in relation to zombie drugs on the one hand and health on the other, but we also have to find a way to resolve it. It's undisputed, as I said, that your public safety side is a problem. Perhaps the solution here could be legislation and even regulation in the Btk., in which I know that this sounds a little weird, the burden of proof would turn around a little bit. Whoever's in such an intoxicated state is under some kind of influence, whatever it is, would be in security custody. And although we do not know because these are not yet detectable drugs based on recent tests, the result should be known later in the course of the procedure to prove that the drug that you have consumed, under the influence of which you are under the influence, is not an illegal drug. This could be one of the solutions, on the one hand, to public security. The other: obviously children and young people, who are the most exposed to this zombie drug, would be informed about it. Although we can be critical about this, and we could also say that the national drug strategy so far has not achieved the right effectiveness in prevention, it is unlikely that it will achieve the right effectiveness in relation to zombie drugs. Thus, the third option would mainly be a much more effective control of the place where these drugs are traded, and this could be a much more thorough review and control of online sales. We know that it is very difficult to regulate the Internet or even regulate the circumstances of the customer in such a way that they can be filtered out, but in some way the spread of this modern-day plague could be prevented. However, we legislators must also consider how quickly we can combat the spread of these drugs. It has been common practice that, in general, it comes in at the same time as the medical salad law, as a kind of feedback from government regulations, the designation and designation of those new psychoactive substances, even the designation of their compound, which always tries to keep pace with the government's intention to prohibit these substances. It is just that, ladies and gentlemen, in these drug labs they are light years ahead of the law enforcement authorities, and by the time someone invents one of them and can identify it as harmful, the third to fourth version has already been manufactured and ordered on the Internet. So we legislators could do a much more flexible, flexible, a better and faster response to both a legislative environment and a government regulation environment, and then it could be complemented by prevention, on the one hand, and the repression of criminal power on the other. And then we shall not proceed, and I shall conclude with this as a settlement in one of my constituencies, Kunmadaras, where, over the past three years, the crime of such drug use or related crime has been constantly and very spectacularly increased. My fellow Members, this situation needs to be addressed very quickly. I hope that, on the one hand, the legislation and, on the other, the government can get to the top of the situation and do something about it. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2018-10-01-266	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, After the agenda, Mr Ander Balázs, Member of the Jobbik Group, applied for a post- agenda address:. Respect for the years, appreciation for the elderly! It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2018-10-01-267	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, It's World Elderly Day. There will certainly be celebrations and meetings in many places this week by various pensioners' organisations, and there will also be pro-government politicians and representatives who will repeat these words, that respect for the elderly, respect for the years, and the various variations of these. However, if we look at what Hungarian reality is like, we can compare it to what was observed in archaic, primitive societies, that there was also the fact that the elderly were disturbed by a tree, that the strong members of the tribe began to shake that tree, and then the one who fell was really old, so it was, that this primitive, archaic society got rid of it, and the others were able to live for a little while longer. The appreciation that a society has for its young people says a lot about the values of this society, its culture. The fact is that in Hungary, too, ageing has been a victim of short-term political goals, even though it should be a matter of long-term and social consensus, because our elderly compatriots who have worked for it, who have built this society, who have raised children, deserve it. But again, in many cases, reality looks different. It has become a plaything for politics, a policy that has a psychopathic effect. It should be seen that he has such tendencies, because if we look at the character killer and the other person, the opponent, the method of treading the ground, which prevails here in Hungary, then we have to ask how these people could demand real respect and respect for our elderly countrymen. Of course, the fact that the proportions have been brutally overturned has contributed to all of this, and the social ties have been torn apart. If we look at the fact that in the early 1960s only 9 percent of the elderly were in Hungary, it has now increased to 19 percent, and by the middle of the century it will reach a one-third rate, or if we look at 65 elderly people in a hundred childhoods in the mid-1990s, but now it is 120, then we should see that we are talking about a social class that is very broad and is very vulnerable to politics because of its demise and economic strength. The results of all of this, that the proportions could be overturned, of course they go back decades, that the Hungarian chorus has fallen over, that our population situation is catastrophic, and that from the demographic upheaval in which we are now, we can very easily reach the bottom of the demographic wave tomb. It is no wonder, since in 1958 there were authors called Hungarians in the book "Birth Control" who could say that the population density in Hungary is ten times as high as in the Soviet Union, there is no need for this, and abortion is much cheaper than childbirth. That's how we got here. This is how we got to the point that raising human capital in Hungary does not enjoy the kind of appreciation that should otherwise be appreciated, as it is our future. This is how we became an ageing society, and since Keynes, everyone should know that there is a very strong link between the structure, age composition of the population and the economy, and there are very strong links. The ageing recession, which has a tremendous force here in Hungary, can destabilize our society as a whole. On such a day, it should also be said that the public health situation in which Hungary has drifted and that the regent governments have thrown it into, how much it would require that people who work decades of honor be valued, and, say, after 40 years of employment, men can retire to enjoy the life they still enjoy, to be able to take a little more grandchildren or to devote themselves to their hobbies that they have earned. Unfortunately, this is not the case in Hungary. The gentlemen who, based on their own life situation, imagine that everything is very nice, everything is very good, even the possibility of early retirement has been abolished in Hungary. Many of our elderly countrymen live alone, they should be cared for, respected by workers who work in the social sphere in faith to make the days of these elderly people more beautiful. These will also need to be discussed at these meetings with pro - government representatives. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2018-10-01-268	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, After the agenda, Mr Brenner Koloman, Jobbik Group, spoke with the title of the Western Hungarian region, the Balkan road network. You have the floor.
u2018-10-01-269	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, In the title I did not exaggerate when I spoke about the Balkan road network in the Sopron region. Most people in Hungary would probably think of this region as a highly developed region. [[19.30]] This, in a sense, from an economic point of view and because a significant part of Sopron workers already work in neighbouring Austria, may well be true. At the same time, the roads are indeed Balkan in comparison with the national average. The situation is simply astounding and unworthy. I would like to offer you a very small addition to this, which I have experienced as a candidate in the Sopron region, walking through the settlements. I spoke to the mayor of one of the smaller settlements. He asked me, Mr Brenner, when do you think the road to the settlement was renovated in full last time. I leaned back and said a year, 1975. The mayor was shocked that Jesus Mary, Mr Brenner, had this renovation in 1973. In addition, I would like to quote some data from Magyar Utút Zrt. from its report on the subject, in order not only to demonstrate rhetorical elements of the Balkan road network in the Sopron region, but also to support what I have to say with dry facts. So, the county roads have an uneven index of 253 kilometers, and on 573 kilometers Magyar közút Zrt. received a bad rating. according to the last relevant report. This is a very, very serious problem in people's everyday lives, as compared to the national average, the traffic load of these side roads is considered to be extremely high, because everyone goes to work in Austria, so everyone has to sit in their jeep in general every day. And people don't buy old-age jeeps because they're so wealthy, but because otherwise they can't get to their own settlements without having to suffer a broken axle. Out of 70 billion forints, all roads in the entire region could have been renewed immediately, honourable Members, had the political will to do so, and these funds would not have been used by local government leaders for systemic corruption or undeserved subsidies. I am aware that the renovation of these roads has indeed started in the last few months, and I think that we are very, very late here, mainly through European Union support. At last, this Hungarian region would deserve to be able to travel very quickly on roads that are really suitable for XXI. For a century, not on a Balkan road network. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2018-10-01-270	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát, Jobbik Group has applied for a post-meeting speech. It's an address. I give you the floor, Congressman.
u2018-10-01-271	Mr President, Dear House, From week to week, I can tell less of my pro-government fellow Members that eviction is indeed taking place in Hungary, we are witnessing terrible events. The fact that some 1,300 eviction events have occurred in Hungary since May in the year called the Year of Families is incredibly tense. Perhaps none of my pro-government fellow Members can explain this certificate with a good heart. I would like to tell you that with my colleague Zoltán Magyar and our excellent constituency leader Tibor Nunkovics, we visited Bajót last week in Komárom-Esztergom County, where we were present at the attempt to eviction an honest old mining man in his 70s. In a transaction based on typical home mafia methods, the ex-partner, the wife, assumed to have made loans in the name of the gentleman that the elderly had nothing to do with the use of. At the same time, even the document by which his ownership was transferred to this ex-partner seems to be clearly false. Although I wouldn't give a professional lawyer's opinion on my own in such a case, Jobbik of course provides legal assistance to a man who will have a trial in a few weeks' time, which will find out the truth at trial. It's gonna turn out to be a forgery against him, yet, a few weeks before the trial, they had the nerve to attempt to evict him. I would like to say that the contact with the professional on-site was carried out on behalf of the National Asset Manager. The settlement of the uncle's situation may also be ongoing because he is charged a fee of nine thousand or several hundred forints, and since he has been a miner for several decades, his pension can be estimated at approximately 200,000 forints. So you can see from the accompanying diagram that it is very easy for you to comply with this obligation unless you use mafia methods to make this man impossible and get him out of his home. I would also like to say that, in addition to trying to help in such cases, there will be another eviction attempt in Obuda, my narrowest habitat this week. I very much hope that we will be able to stop this by court at the last minute, because we can highlight the shortcomings of the social safety net here. We're talking about a man in his 50s who's had a stroke. Unfortunately, this happens to a lot of people. At a time when his employment relationship was terminated that under stress or for other reasons, only God knows that, but he suffered this health damage. Yeah, it took him a year to get back into the ranks of active people. It was a very tough fight on his part to finally get back into employment as an active person. The fact is that, at the expense of its accumulated debts, which is also not tens of millions of items, but a reasonable sum, he asked for a payment in instalments. So you still want to pay back what you've lost because of your health loss. It is obvious that all parties can be blamed here, and circumstances can be examined, but the amazing fact is that a working, productive Hungarian person who suffers health damage outside of his own faults actually has to lose his whole life is quite amazing. I must say that here, of course, you can rely on the help and support of the family. I myself will do everything in my power to help the local government, because I know that decent and good professionals work there. But it is untenable in itself that the social safety net should not extend to such a brutal crisis situation, so that the fundamental sense of security that you are speaking about here at ministerial level cannot go through that Hungarian citizen in an ordinary Hungarian situation. Because migration must be prevented, clear, conscious resettlement and, by the way, the exchange of people by Fidesz must also be slowed down or prevented. But how much sense does everything make if, in the meantime, a simple Hungarian person in everyday life, unfortunately, I wish it weren't, but in a typical Hungarian situation, the social safety net is not keeping it between us? ! This man is fighting for his right. I really hope that you can get the little thing he wants for a 60- or 100-month payout. He doesn't want to take anyone's money, he wants to pay back what he owes, he just wants to keep at least the lease he's in. I've brought a case here, not on foreign exchange credit, on purpose, to show that thousands and tens of thousands of people on the social security net are falling out. Regardless of the shady nature of the business in question, what kind of banking practices, business or even health damage is our joint responsibility not to leave anyone at the edge of the trench in Hungary. Thank you for the opportunity. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2018-10-01-272	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, After the agenda, MEP László Hajdu, Democratic Coalition, asked to speak with a title title to the memory of the goalkeeper's king. I give you the floor.
u2018-10-01-273	Mr President, I would like to remember a man who, last week, on the 27th, was escorted on the road to the eternal football fields, and we left him at St. Stephen's Basilica. Dr. István Géczi, who was born in Sajóörös, was a youth footballer, played football in Ferencváros, then played for the Hungarian national team. He became a university professor and was a congressman here for five years, in this House. We did not ask for or initiate last week to pay tribute to his memory with a moment of silence, but I think that I would like to commemorate Dr. István Géczi, the football player who could still play in a football team where 80,000 spectators sat on the bleachers and played in a select team that could beat Denmark here at 6:0 and in Denmark at 6:0. [[19.40]] At the age of 18, Dr. István Géczi graduated from Eger to become a youth selection goalkeeper. It's been transferred to Ferencváros, although it's been called by about eight teams. Within a month, he's already on the first team at Fradi. For 13 years, his name began the composition of Ferencváros. He had such a lucky gift that he never had to report an injured man. István Géczi played a bet match more than 509 times in Ferencváros, at a time when the Hungarian first-class teams were almost everywhere at European level. He was only able to get into the Hungarian National Team 24 times, but 24 times he was only the goalkeeper of a losing team two times. So I want to talk to you about a successful goalkeeper, a man who, in addition to being a select athlete, studied, graduated, became a university professor; he became head of the Department of the University of Gardens, and then became a dean, and retired from here. After no accident to XV. As a district man, he lived there for more than 50 years, and I will speak in memory of Dr. István Géczi at the XV. He also helped the sport of the district in a very special way. After that, as a teacher, he chose to raise supplies as his main profession. REAC's football team has become a wake-up call, since after 1945, more than 100-year-old association was closed and terminated. He was the founder of the REAC team, and he got back into the first class, the NB I, this football team, a completely different quality team. Dr. István Géczi, as a Member of Parliament, had several comments in the walls of this House between 1985 and 1990. I've been looking at his comments. I saw you on the defense committee for a while. After that, his personal proposal is also written in the minutes, and in the archive material he formed the Youth Committee. For the first time, the Youth and Sport Committee was formed in this House on his proposal. I think that István Géczi set an example in the way that sports can be played at international level, that it is possible to learn, to achieve an excellent and scientific degree, and that when someone goes down from the top, it is possible to work for replacements and Hungarian sports. He has hundreds of young people out of his hands today who are proud to be a Géczi student. I believe that young people today should also be remembered as an example, since last week was his farewell. He's got a lot of medals. He's an heir to the Fradi. I have to say, the only one who was also the goalkeeper of the KK-winner Hungarian team and many other Olympic medalists. Thank you for listening. I'll say good-bye. [[Applause from the benches of DK, Jobbik and the governing parties.]]
u2018-10-01-274	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches after the agenda. Thank you for your work. Parliament will resume its session at 9 a.m. Meeting day's closed.
