u2018-07-16-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] Dear Parliament, The first meeting of the Fourth Summer Special Meeting of the House is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that you will be able to assist me in the chair of this meeting, Mr Lajos Szűcs and Mr Dezső Szűcs. Welcome to our guests and to all those who monitor our work. I declare that Deputy Prime Minister Zsolt Semjén, on behalf of the Government, is the XXXVI of 2012 on Parliament. Law 35. On the basis of Article 1 (1) of the Act, the Parliament initiated the convening of an extraordinary meeting by 1617 and 20 July 2018. He indicated in the annex to his letter all the proposals that the Government initiated to negotiate at the extraordinary meeting of the Parliament. The letter and its attachment can be found on the website by representatives and interested parties. Dear House, I have a sad duty to fulfil by informing this House that István Balás died in the 70th year of our former colleague's life. István Balás, born in Debrecen, obtained his mandate in the second constituency of Borsod-Abaúj-Zemplén County at the first free parliamentary elections. From 1990 to 93 he worked as an independent representative in the Hungarian Parliament between 1993 and 94. Under his mandate, he was Vice-President of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Preparatory Law and Justice and Vice-President of the Committee on the Protection, Conflict of Interest and Examination of mandates. He worked as a lawyer for more than 30 years in addition to his political and civil activities. I would ask you to pay tribute to the memory of our dead fellow Member. [[The people in this room stand up and pay tribute to the memory of the deceased.]] Thank you. Dear Parliament, As a representative of the MSZP, Ildikó Bangóné Borbély applied for a speech before the agenda:. What should we not eat today? What are we in danger from? ? It's an address. Congresswoman's got the floor.
u2018-07-16-1	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary of State! Dear fellow Members, We talk a lot about security, and here we should speak separately about food safety in Hungary in connection with recent scandals. I would like to highlight some issues from the scandals of the last month, which are of great concern, since the wallet and the administration, it seems, have not been on top of the situation in either case, and we have not received reassuring answers since then. Let's start with the news released last week that the product was banned in Tiszafüred, at a company that manufactures sausages, the product was recalled for flour infection. What we saw this weekend was that communication didn't have a strong wallet and authority, because we didn't hear a single response in this case. Then, over the past few weeks, we have heard reports that in Hungary we had to recall smelly, bacterial-infected mineral waters from certain supermarket chains and shops. One such recall was related to the San Benedetto mineral water, about which, thanks to God, we read several times on the website of the Nébih and the specialty, but see a miracle about the Vivien mineral water, which was infected with bacteria, and Lőrinc Mészáros's interest was not once found any response on the website or any warning from the government to the population. And here I have to mention that in the case of Vivien mineral water, which received half a billion dollars' support from the Hungarian government, because at the MÁV only Vivien mineral water can be drunk by workers, and in great heat Vivien mineral water is distributed to the general public, we have not heard anyone speak from the government or the professional wallet in connection with the recall of this product. But what's most important here, and in the last few weeks, in the last few days, voters are most interested in the flour scandal that has been revealed in the last few days and weeks. Nébih acted only after the misfortunes, especially when the EU's Food Safety Office warned that frozen vegetables packaged by a Hungarian company were a serious threat, which had already caused 47 diseases and 9 deaths. Here the wallet stated that they would immediately withdraw tons of food from the market and ask the public to return it to the shops from which they bought it and to receive compensation. Meanwhile, I read every article I've read about this in the last few days, and I started to feel like the population was stupid again. All articles were about the fact that most of the diseases were because the population and the countries of the European Union were so vicious that deep-frozen vegetables were consumed raw as food. I looked into how the process of deep freezing should take place according to normal expectations and compliance with the rules. The vegetables are grown, then delivered to the cooling plants, and there they go through a serious washing and then heat-treated, which is called blancing, during which they are pre-cooked in hot water for 3-8 minutes, and then cool these vegetables very quickly below minus 18 degrees. Ladies and gentlemen of the State Secretary, With this, it can be reduced to zero per cent; if the companies comply with all food safety processes, the proportion of this infection can be reduced to zero per cent. Well, it's not our fault if we're gonna eat vegetables raw. You know, we learned at school that vegetables should be eaten raw, because their vitamin content is the highest. [[13.10]] I am asking you now, and especially Mr Secretary of State, because I hope that he will answer you, that you have taken all the necessary measures, that you will communicate to the population as you would expect. When does it say that we consumers are not to blame? We would think that if we were talking about security, we could only get safe products in the shops in Hungary, and that the authorities would do the task they are entrusted with. Or should I ask you, is it possible that there are not enough professionals, not enough people paid, or maybe not enough checks? I would very much ask you to reassure the population, and now you really should issue announcements that the Hungarian population is in real danger of producing Hungarian food, and that they will not refer to the sandwiches thrown away by the Hungarian people for months, that it is the greatest threat for us. I look forward to your reply, Mr. Secretary.
u2018-07-16-2	If you wish to respond, I will give you the floor. Mr. Sándor Wolf is next.
u2018-07-16-3	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and First of all, I would like to rebut the statement made by the Congresswoman that the EU authorities would first have highlighted the flour contamination of various quick-frozen vegetables. On the other hand, my claim is that the microbiological problem has been identified and reported by the Hungarian food chain monitoring authority through the rapid emergency warning system for food and feed in EU countries. As early as 27 March 2018, the National Food Chain Safety Office drew the attention of consumers and hosts to the possibility of a quick-frozen sweet corn as a source of Listeria monoclonal diseases affecting the five Member States of the European Union. In order to eliminate the risk of infection, the Authority warned that fast-frozen vegetables should always be consumed after a thorough heat treatment. I would just like to note here, on the point made by the Member, although I am not a cook and I am not a kitchen artist, that blanching as an expression in the cold industry does not apply to every vegetable processing, it is a fundamental mistake. If we treat a particular vegetable at 7-8 degrees, it is almost, I might say, cooked, so it is going through a heat treatment that will mean a completely different texture and a different taste and pleasure for the consumer. The information on the case is continuous and transparent. Information related to the case concerning the population was immediately published on the Nebih website, as has already been the case. The bacteria, the disease of lisperosis and the prevention of it were already available on the Nebih website. Since the problem occurred, you can find detailed information for all interested parties. Official measures to the extent of the risks, communication that is understandable to consumers, which also characterizes the activity of Nébih in this case, contribute to ensuring that there is no epidemic in Hungary, no significant number of diseases. It should be noted that Listeria monoclonals also occur in our environment, including in raw vegetables, its presence in non-culinary products and in certain ready-to-eat products is permitted but limited. The investigation has been going on since spring, the presence of the flour is known from the beginning, but the presence in itself is not a problem, we can safely say that. By comparing the genetic stock of the bacteria causing the diseases and the bacteria found in the plant, it can be clearly demonstrated that the flour variety from the plant in Hungary was responsible for the disease and the serious consequences. Comparative testing is a time-consuming process, in which the European Union institutions helped the Hungarian authorities. In this context, it should be noted that consumer knowledge and knowledge play a major role in reducing risks in the food chain. Nébih will implement Hungary's food safety strategy with the help of its prepared experts, which includes food safety knowledge management and the development and operation of the knowledge centre. In line with these objectives, ongoing consumer information can help to improve consumer awareness and preparedness. We also stress that the primary responsibility for food safety lies with the food business operator. The measures taken by the Authority, together with the responsibility of the producers, shall ensure that unsafe foods are not placed on the market or that they are immediately withdrawn from the market when they are already placed on the market. In recent weeks, even the example of mineral water, which you mentioned, has indeed become known, or the suspension of the operation of a dairy product company that has also taken place in the past week. I believe that all these measures will make a major contribution not to deter, but to provide security for the marketing and consumption of Hungarian food products. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2018-07-16-4	Speaking also before the agenda, the leader of the LMP Group, Congresswoman Bernadett Szél, has applied:, How will Hungary be crisis-resistant? It's an address. You have the floor, please.
u2018-07-16-5	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Not so long ago, before the elections, in the campaign, we heard enough from Fidesz that if we stop György Soros, nothing would endanger Hungary's success and the future of Hungary. However, something has changed because in recent weeks we have been hearing more about certain grey clouds and the upcoming global crisis. It is very instructive to analyse the government's communication, the essence of which is that they have already protected Hungary from the crisis that has not yet broken out. In my speech before the current agenda, I would like to point out how this is not so and how many lies they are, are distorted by the fidesz politicians who claim it. We agree on one thing: a recession. In fact, I say that thanks to your past eight years, if there is a recession here, Hungary will be just as vulnerable as it was during the governance of your socialist predecessors. There is, however, one difference: it is not the socialists who will be responsible for this, but Fidesz and KDNP. Let's see what exactly the government's preparation was made of. They took it and raised the reserve by HUF 50 billion. Professionals say that this is a substitute act, but it is not even a substitute act. However, if we look at what is beyond this additional action, I can say that the situation is even more disappointing. For a very long time, we've been watching this country's story about how irresponsible distribution-robbery, campaigning, spending a lot of money on themselves by politicians, and then the restrictions. [[13.20]] And the cuts are here in this House, because the budget that Fidesz and KDNP are about to vote for is a austerity budget. I have said a lot in recent years that Hungary will not be competitive if we do not have excellent education. You didn't move your ears. Now the alarm bell is ringing by professionals who are a little more responsible than the pro-government politicians, and they said that if it goes on, there will be not enough teachers in Hungary by 2025. Education is already in critical condition. We would have doubled what we could devote from the Hungarian budget to this area. However, I have just listened to the fact that the current Prime Minister is talking about what I have been talking about and talking a lot about the need to create high value-added jobs here. How do you want to create high value-added jobs if education is not financed, honourable Members? Because in the budget you will soon be voting on, there will be less education in real terms next year than before. This is a disaster! You are talking about wanting to be successful in the EU and even the most successful. How do you do that? I ask the question if the money is not intended for the most important area. In addition to the fact that you want to vote in favour of the budget for austerity, we must say quite frankly that in the last eight years you have not been able to get the Hungarian economy on its own feet. In fact, we have become more and more a assembly plant for developed countries. And even though they see these problems, they didn't really change it. One has already admitted that it is indeed a problem if we are so dependent on the car industry. Because what is the industry, what is the sector that a crisis achieves for the first time? The car industry. What is Hungary most dependent on? From the car industry. And then you keep going to Moscow with a variety of excuses, and Moscow politicians come here and build a nuclear power plant that is expensive on the one hand, unnecessary on the other, and extremely dangerous on the third. However, this money could have been used to create the largest infrastructure investment in Hungary in recent years. We could isolate the homes of many Hungarian families, which you said back in 2010. I say that everyone should understand that if Hungarian companies renovate the houses and homes of Hungarian families from Hungarian sources, they will create crisis-resistant jobs and the money will remain in the country. Compared to that, you're building a nuclear power plant with Russian money and Russian technology that connects this country to another empire with a thousand threads. This is not sovereignty, and this is not a crisis-proof workplace. The other is that you would have had every opportunity to create an innovative new sector in Hungary, the renewable energy sector of this 21st century. Company. Everyone who wins in this world votes for smart revolution and goes in the direction where renewable energies are used. Many young Hungarians leave this country because they do not want to work with a nuclear power plant, but want to develop renewable systems. And if they were not filling foreign companies with strategic agreements, but helping Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprises, that would have been crisis management. You've missed all of this. Thank you.
u2018-07-16-6	I give the floor to Secretary Peter Cseresnyés. Here you go.
u2018-07-16-7	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Mrs. Freckles! While listening to you, I found it difficult to engage in dialogue or debate with a Member who denies or does not know the basic facts. Because when you talk about the fact that the Hungarian economy is not prepared for a potentially difficult situation, you are unaware of the situation that your former allies created by 2008, 2009 and where you had to lead this country out with a continuous economic growth after two or three years and various statistics on this. I claim that the Hungarian economy is prepared to further develop, move forward, further increase its performance in terms of both employment and economic indicators. That is why we must now draw attention to the fact that there may be times when a difficult period comes to a national economy. It is necessary to prepare for this, unlike in 2008, as the socioliberal government of that time, your allies, were unprepared for that period. The government, as you said, prepares itself with the provision of reserves and further strengthening of the economy, by strengthening and strengthening the participants in the economy, if something has to be solved by accident, while economic development in Hungary does not stop. However, at this time, the current government is not responsible for dealing with a crisis, but for preparing in time to deal with a possible crisis. I think that the responsibility and responsible thinking of a government, a government policy, is demonstrated by the fact that it is thinking ahead, trying to plan ahead, and by chance seeing some difficulties in the near future or in the further future, it prepares both society and the economy. This was not the case about ten years ago. Hungary is a strong and growing state today. It did not come from itself, it also required the persistent work of the Hungarian people and the consistent economic policy of eight years. In this strong Hungary, employment sets records. To give results and prove that the government knows what it's been doing: wages have been rising for nearly six years, and not nominally, Madam Group leader, but wages are rising in real terms. The expertise of Hungarians living from work instead of aid is expected by world-leading companies. So what you have brought up here is that Hungary has become a assembly plant, I reject it. In Hungary, they are specifically looking for well-trained professionals, and professionals with a high level of knowledge are immediately placed in certain research institutes or development firms with a salary at European level. Our economic growth has been at the forefront of Europe for years. At the same time, we have constantly reduced our public debt, and we would like to push this to around 60 percent by the end of the government cycle. In the last eight years, families and the basic units of a strong society have received all the support they need to grow, to have children, to create homes, to set up a business with tax incentives that could be used to support the family and to raise children. As a tax discount, as a home-building discount, this aid will remain undisturbed and even increase in the 2019 budget. Moreover, Hungarian families are no longer vulnerable to banks and foreign currency loans, they are not at risk of exchange rate changes. This is also one of the decisions that you and your party have voted against, honourable Member. Otherwise, it has to be said that if you had been watching the news of the last week, you would have seen, experienced, heard that every area, every sector, can manage with more money than in the last year. So I must also reject your claim that you denied it. So it can be said that this budget will be a budget for safe growth. The necessary strict and disciplined fiscal policy will continue to exist to ensure that the level of public debt will continue to decline year after year, which means that more money will remain for economic development and more money will be left in the register of people and families. Of course, we take due care to plan the budget so that all the processes that started in 2012-13 can continue. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-07-16-8	On behalf of the Group of the Dialogue, Mr Sándor Burány asked for the floor: the title 'A'. Here you go.
u2018-07-16-9	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, On July 11th, there was a terrible tragedy in the country. On July 11th, a desperate four - child family father undressed himself murdered a 44 - year - old family - support mother with three children. It's a terrible tragedy in itself. Allow us to express our condolences to the family members and loved ones of the victim. At the same time, this terrible tragedy must enable us all to learn lessons. We need to face the situation, which is far less rosy than it is advertised in rough statistics. This murder, this tragedy, as in the sea, reflects the situation, the situation in Hungary, which is about a divided society, is about desperate people, and this despair, we hope, has ended up in murder for the last time, but in any case for the first time. [[13.30]] This situation requires a solution from all sides. It also requires a solution from the desperate side of people. For a moment, we cannot forget that there are still some 120,000 families in the country that have over 90 days of credit; any of them may be threatened by eviction. This is also the reason behind the desperate and otherwise unsavory murder. Think of the situation of people who have low incomes or are losing their incomes, the housing jumps because of their debt, and the social profession cannot do anything, the child protection system cannot do anything, it also takes away their child to save at least the child from this hopeless situation. We all know that the situation has led to verbal aggression many times before. The tragedy of the situation is that this verbal aggression so far has been endured by people who, at the end of a broken social net, are still trying to help those in need, even at the last minute. And right on top of them, these people take their anger and turn on those who are the last to try and help us out of office in the country. It's insufferable. In a divided society, we must increasingly acknowledge that behind good averages, there is a growing demand for top tenteen people, while very many people in the deep are living in workers' poverty. Because we can't forget the other side of the medal. For those social workers, for those family support workers who are real heroes and who try to save the living, their net earnings are less than 120 thousand forints per month. They're barely in a better position than the ones they try to help every day with sacrifice. This situation is also tragic, and this situation also requires a solution. And eventually, there will probably also be a need for protection here, because if these types of attacks, don't give them to God, are multiplying tragedies, then these people are talking about social workers, family helpers not only existentially in an emergency, but also actually, in terms of their physical and physical integrity. We need a variety of solutions. First of all, hundreds of thousands of families should not be allowed to face such a hopeless situation. Secondly, the employees of the social sphere, those who are trying to save people for hunger, should be valued, even beyond the border where there seems to be no hope. And finally, but first of all, as we suggested, on 11 July, the day of tragedy must be turned into a day of family support. We have put forward a proposal for a decision on this. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2018-07-16-10	State Secretary Bence Rétvári has the floor.
u2018-07-16-11	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, I think everyone in the country is shocked by this story. I mean, it was an attack on a man who put his life on the line to help others. And whoever he was trying to help, along with hundreds of other people who were obviously one of the people he was helping in the neighborhood, he was the one who attacked him, and he was the one who took his life. He couldn't do anything about the situation he was in, but he was the one who left him orphaned, as I recall, three children. The EMMI considered this coworker to be his own dead, and, of course, we try to give his family all the help that they can somehow, humanly or financially, recover from this tragedy. This, of course, expresses not only our compassion for them, but also our appreciation for everyone who does the same work. I think really, attacking a helper, attacking an innocent man, acting so aggressively for everyone, and I think a country is feeling for the orphans that this social worker left behind. In this, I think all good people agree. Obviously, with the statements that you have put forward as an explanation for this, Congressman, we must argue with that. There are different methodologies for measuring poverty, how social differences are measured. But there is an accepted way in which all European statistical offices, in cooperation with Eurostat, measure exactly what the proportion of people living in extreme poverty is, exactly how many people are in a really difficult situation, just like this family. And here there was a very strong positive trend in Hungary between 2010 and 12. After all, the number of people living in extreme poverty who were affected by income poverty, severe material deprivation and low labour intensity families based on different methodologies, these are three professional concepts used by European statistics, so they were 500 thousand in the area of 2010-12, now less than 100 thousand in total, 125 thousand in total. So the number of people who are in great hopelessness who can't think about tomorrow is down by 375 thousand, they always try to live on that day. This was not the case on its own, since it is possible to argue with a variety of calculations, especially in the field of statistics, but they clearly show trends, and they do so on the basis of the Brussels methodology, so you are less able to argue with it. This was not done on its own, but this includes the 750 thousand, 730 thousand new jobs that helped many families with their daily deprivation, the inability to plan as a month at least, that they can make a living not out of aid, but from work. Many have been helped by the possibility of getting out of foreign exchange loans, either by the end of the payment, by the exchange barrier, by the forinting, by the apartment park in Ocsa or by other means. We have tried to help people in all kinds of situations, and I think that in the last few weeks, in particular, we have seen how much help the exchange rate fixing has been for former foreign exchange-credit families, since now only 1-2 percent of the loans are foreign currency-based loans. These families have been helped several times by reducing their costs. After all, they had a larger share of the cost of housing, and many hundreds of thousands less people at national level have problems in raising housing costs, rent, rent, and heating. And we also know that the amount here is a thousand billion-dollar sum that now does not land in the profits of multinational companies, but is so much cheaper for people to maintain their own homes. And it was also important for people in this situation to quadruple the total number of social and child welfare services, to reach many more people with this kind of help, families with children. It was also important to know that the wages of the people working here are very low, which is why we introduced a sectoral wage supplement in 2014 and a year and a half later a sectoral salary supplement. Many people's wages have also been paid by raising the minimum wage for skilled workers. They are now earning much more; we know that there is something more to be done, but overall, they earn 65 percent more with extra wages, additional wages and other measures. It is also important that the new criminal code adopted in order to protect people with this kind of public service mission will also act as rigorously as possible. One of Europe's strictest, if not the strictest, European criminal code adopted by the Hungarian Parliament. In this case, too, there is increased protection for those who are being attacked. So I argue with the claim that society would have split in two. Fortunately, more and more people in Hungary have the chance to rise. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-07-16-12	As a representative of DK, Gergely Arató applied for a speech before the agenda, following Erdogan: the rule of law and the termination of the leave.
u2018-07-16-13	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Hungary welcomes the fact that Turkey has succeeded in implementing a constitutional reform that can make Turkey more stable than ever before, Prime Minister Viktor Orbán said at the NATO summit that President Erdoğan has put his own eternal power in the Constitution; as the democratic oppositions, it was written by the Hungarian Times: Erdoğan has become a sultan. Illiberal thinking is just like that, confusing the stability of the dictator's power with the stability of the country. What is this new arrangement in Turkey? Let me tell you a few things. [[13.40]] There are 80,000 people in prison for political reasons, and a large part of them without substantive legal proceedings. 150 journalists were arrested, several were sentenced to life in prison for writing about government corruption cases and for allegedly sending subconsciously anti-government messages. I suppose it is also very tempting for you in the Turkish example that not only civil society organisations but also opposition leaders have been arrested. I'm sure you don't want to hear such critical speeches here. And of course, there is also a serious parallel that people who do not like the government are accused of being Gülen's agents, who also became the main villain of Erdoğan's mentor, as George Soros became the source of all evil from your mentor. And, of course, I can also imagine that President Erdoğan has appointed his own son-in-law as head of the Treasury in the Turkish example. It would certainly appeal to some here, too, if István Tiborcz lost his public money in the hands of our paid taxes. And I would no longer like to mention the fact that Erdoğan transformed the minimal majority of him in a very unfair referendum based on fraud and then in an election into unlimited power, just like you. No doubt Viktor Orbán is the best Hungarian student of Erdoğan not only in words but also in actions. It is worth seeing what laws you wish to vote on this week alone this week. You are afraid of everything that is the basis of democracy, freedom of speech, freedom of assembly, fair and free elections. Therefore, they amend the assembly law, introduce a rule, a regulation that, if four or five Hungarians bow together, and a young, ancient tear comes out of their pain, then this is a gathering, subject to authorisation, and can be punished with serious police fines. A assembly law will be introduced to ban any assembly on grounds of harm to the order of transport or the protection of privacy. Mátyás Rákosi smiles in his grave, especially when you're communists. You also want to change the electoral law in such a way as to make the chances of opposition parties more difficult. As if it were not enough that from public media to local governments to the media purchased from stolen money, everything has been used so far to ensure that the germ of equal conditions is not preserved in terms of elections. They are now essentially trying to ban by law any means that the opposition has been able to live with in the election campaign by a unilaterally tabled and adopted law. The special beauty of this proposal is that, from now on, even beyond the borders, the Hungarians do not have to campaign any more than before, as they allow the votes received in any envelope to be valid, so your minions across the border can fake the votes on behalf of Hungarians beyond the border without the slightest risk of being caught. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: It's outrageous! Zsolt Gréczy: It's the truth! Miklós Soltész: Shame on you!]] The situation is similar in the protection of privacy. You are happy to talk about the protection of privacy, but by that you do not mean the privacy of citizens, but your privacy, your private life, the privacy you want to protect from protesters, and you want to protect them from the press. Because they want to hide the way in which corruption is interwoven in your public and private lives. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear House, Turkey has had the opportunity to join the EU to reduce the rule of law and democracy. We can be sure that Hungary would not be accepted today by the European Union if it applied now. The lucky thing is, of course, that it is harder to get out of there than it was to get in, but in the long run, further dismantling of democracy and the rule of law and restrictions on freedoms will cost Hungary its accession to Europe. Thank you very much, Mr President, for listening. [[Applause from DK's ranks.]]
u2018-07-16-14	Mr. Secretary of State Pál Völner has the floor.
u2018-07-16-15	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, We've heard a lot of things from our fellow Member. On the ground that Turkey is still a member state of NATO, it has also negotiated accession to the Union, which the Germans have not supported, and that is why it is not coming up so strongly now. You forget, Congressman, that there has been a recent military coup or a coup attempt, which makes them a little different from ours. Mr President, you forget that the fact that millions of migrants cannot pass through Hungary in a way similar to 2015 is largely due to the Turkish government. He mentioned, however, that in a referendum, there was an extension of the new presidential powers, which should in practice be respected by those who respect the votes. So with regard to Turkey, you may have mentioned Gülen's name, you obviously like this influence from the background, which they raise, and they should be allowed to flourish in all countries. We in Hungary do not sympathise with these, of course, to have external influence, without political control, without electoral control. So it can be said that everything in Turkey is not perfect, it can be accepted [[Lajos Korózs: Nothing!]] But I don't think you're the most initiated person to discuss the circumstances there. Especially, in comparison with the period when, during the Gyurcsány government, they ordered a cavalry attack on a crowd commemorating Hungary, people who were virtually peaceful memorialists were shot with rubber bullets. Taking advantage of the shortcomings of the assembly law at that time, we also talked about the assembly law, so to speak, a more radical crowd of protestors were pushed on a commemorative crowd on 23 October, and on the pretext of this, who lived and moved, was beaten. In practice, people have been taken away, detained by police, and even talked a lot about courts in the first instance, a lot of court decisions have been created to legitimise this. We remember very well that a congressman was also beaten up in this police officer who was hospitalized. At that time, one of the faction leaders in the then government coalition called the congressman Martyius, the most intolerable form of cynicism, and you were comrades in arms. As regards freedom of speech, the right of assembly, you know very well, Mr President, here in the debates that have been held several times, the obligation of the Constitutional Court for Parliament to legislate on this subject can be calculated from three years ago or from 2008 onwards, after the inapplicability of the framework that was born in 1989, even in the time of the party state. You may be sympathetic to this, and we have been able to establish a regulatory framework that will allow you to avoid using tools that you used in the future, so if you ever have another government, you will not have any dubious interpretations at your disposal. The other, too, has been mentioned here on legitimacy: I would like to remind you that the Democratic Coalition has received 5.4 percent according to our statistics. [[Zsolt Gréczy: According to your statistics, yes. Gergely Arató: The statistics are modest.]] in the elections, and in the light of all the facts found in the country, the Fidesz government coalition is 50 percent. He mentioned that they wanted to limit opposition opinions, opposition participation in the elections. Basically, full regulation can be found to be the end of fake parties. [[Zsolt Gréczy: You created them.]] You may be in that direction, too, and this is very offensive to you, but unfortunately, we had to do so, because it was an expectation. It cannot be helped that, in the absence of two-thirds of the previous term, we have not been able to prevent these abuses in the absence of opposition cooperation. And about the envelopes that you mentioned here, Mr President, that according to the current rules, the regulations before adoption did not specify in which envelope the votes should be returned. I am actually just saying again that the broad interpretation of the law of the court required that it be clearly stated in the law, how it should be understood. As far as the term "cross-border henchmen" is concerned, I must repudiate this with deep disdain, and you are in the same position as you were on December 5, 2004. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2018-07-16-16	Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát, on behalf of Jobbik, also applied for a speech before the agenda: when will Hungary resolve the situation of the victims? It's an address. Congressman's got the floor.
u2018-07-16-17	Mr President, Dear House, I cannot condemn the government side when it shows deep contempt for certain Balliberian opinions, but there is a common historical crime committed or left to be committed by Balliberals and by the current government in essence: the unorganized situation of foreign exchange credit victims. [[13.50]] Since 2001, when the spirit was released from the bottle, and unilateral treaty amendments were essentially made possible by a process of different colors, across governments, and while the forces called Balliberal allowed this whole amazing national draft strategy to expand and increase, from 2010 they basically only gave aspirin to the dying, the situation was cosmeticized, but not a substantial intervention, a solution. We are at the moment saying that there are well over 100,000 people with at least 90 days of overdue debt, and we can also see that the eviction moratorium could not be extended by Jobbik to this government, so evictions are ongoing. At the same time, our Croatian neighbours have not only demonstrated that they have a strong defence on the World Championship, but also that they have a strong defence against money-hungry commercial banks and financial hyenas, at least compared to the Government of Hungary. It can be seen that the decision of the Supreme Commercial Court, which basically stated the nullity of the so-called foreign currency-credit schemes, makes the position of 120,000 credit-damaged people there possible, in scale, each calculated on an average, with a refund of HUF 4 million. It gives the piquantity of the situation, that among the banks involved in foreign exchange lending there we will also find the OTP, which is likely to contribute to the settlement of the situation of Croatian credit victims now, while not taking a substantial part in the settlement of the life situation of our own countrymen, the Hungarian victims. And I find it quite amazing that some of the Fidesz-KDNP State Secretarys and Ministers literally lied in the Hungarian Parliament when it came to why they had to forint these so-called loans at a market rate of 256 forints, if they did not expand the legislative framework so wide that, say, a decision similar to that of Croatia could happen in Hungary. Fidesz ministers and ministers of state referred to the relevant decisions of the Constitutional Court and the Curia when they tried to justify why they wanted to make the loans received at HUF 160, so I will say it again, not us, the Fidesz MEPs, HUF 256. It is only the case that no such orientation is included in the relevant decisions and decisions of the Constitutional Court or the Curia, so it cannot be read in any way that these so-called loans should have been converted at the market rate. If you had any reference to this, I believe that you would read this into our eyes, but this has not happened in the Hungarian Parliament in the last two years. The government side therefore refers to independent bodies as being unable to support its reference by any means whatsoever. I would also like to say that the commercial banks in Hungary are not the only ones responsible for producing this amazing commercial overgrowth, and for example, they had the victims sign statements that made these contracts almost unattractive. We have not heard from Croatia, since in other countries the legislator and Parliament intervened in time, modified the legislative framework, did not cosmetics the problem, because if we look at what happened here, Fidesz-KDNP has provided some lucky people with the opportunity to be released by way of final repayment; I assume that several Members of Parliament have too. I would like to say that the interest in the construction of the private bankruptcy, so that essentially a thousand signed contracts, shows how unviable it is. And with the National Asset Management, they took the property of those involved so that they could rent back their own property. So we could talk about a wide-ranging solution only if, listening to Jobbik, they ordered an extension of the eviction moratorium until the problem is solved, and they were HUFed at the price of the day of admission. If they were to do so now, it might not be necessary to make a decision similar to that of Croatia. But what we must tell you is that this is a financial crime in history, in which you and the socialists are complicit, cannot be washed off if this is the case, and I would very much like it if we weren't waiting for the courts. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] but your conscience would speak, and I must say, as long as you are cosmeticizing this problem, this shame burns upon you. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2018-07-16-18	Once again, Parliamentary Secretary Pál Völner will respond. Here you go.
u2018-07-16-19	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr. Congressman went through what happened in Hungary compared to the Croatian example. This debate has not obviously just begun between us, but we have repeatedly explained the legislative process by which we managed to relieve Hungarian debtors by more than HUF 1000 billion, with more than HUF 1000 billion. The only reason I recommend it to you, Congressman, is because in the case of the Croatian case we are talking about 400-some billion forints, the population of the two countries, in comparison with others, so we may have come to the same place, and we don't have to go to the court individually, go through litigation, spend money on lawyers, spend money on experts. The other important difference, which may have been overlooked by the Member, was that in Hungary the mortgage loan was subject to contracts in notaries, where notaries read the contract in all cases, and in all cases they drew attention to exchange rate risks. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: Lies! That didn't happen.]] This may be a rebuttable proof, but there has never been a case before the Hungarian courts where it could have been proved that the notary had deceived the customers that had appeared before. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: The lawsuits have been filed! There were tens of thousands of these lawsuits!]] in the interest of the bank in order to involve the poor debtor in finally taking on a foreign exchange loan. So, as long as this doesn't have any practice, it's likely that any entrepreneurial foreign exchange taxer who goes to court is doomed to sue. Compared to this, we have achieved a multi-annual process by means of the legal unit decision, as well as the accounting law, the introduction of the exchange rate barrier and other discounts, that we have managed to relieve debtors by over a thousand billion forints. For example, in 2014, the Accounting Act affected 872,000 contracts, on average reduced its capital burden to debtors by 16-17 percent, reduced the repayments by 20-25 percent, and ultimately, the forintation, which remained at the end, also affected some 507,000 contracts worth HUF 2700 billion. Mr President, you mentioned that this problem started in 2001. The facts must not be distorted. In 2001, the National Bank did have a decision allowing foreign exchange loans to be taken, but no one had used it for years, because there was a HUF-based housing loan on the Hungarian market, which was then abolished by the Social Liberal Government Coalition. And then hell really broke loose, which, in the neighbourhood of 2010, increased the burden of the population on debt services to some HUF 6-7 thousand, which meant that they were in a vulnerable situation when exchange rates broke loose. But to blur together the responsibility that it is possible to take on a foreign currency loan, or something else is to say that we are eliminating a HUF favorable construction, so it is a very powerful slide. And then, in 2010, the current coalition of government had the situation of how, in addition to the foreign exchange exchange rates that were being released, it could practically get the population out of this foreign exchange loan trap. As I said, I could list once again all the accountability and other criteria under which the banks have, after all, played a significant role without the financial system collapsing, in the fact that the situation and the situation of the debtors have been stabilised. Of course, I must add that the government could not count on such great opposition support, but I could also mention, for example, the moratorium on eviction. Only one example: in 2013 you were sitting here in Parliament, only 9 members of the 43-member group of Jobbik at the time, while 6 Members of the 48 MSZP fraction voted for the extension of the moratorium. It was not important for the others, then you did not consider this to be one of the main things in this regard to help vulnerable debtors, or even those who could not repay them. Compared to this, the asset manager takes over ownership with the burden, replaces the bank, and then someone can live in that building, that apartment, as before, is a much more humane solution, no matter how much he disputes it, Congressman. It must also be assessed for its significance, I mentioned earlier the introduction of the exchange barrier, the help of foreign exchange creditors; it is not here in Parliament, which is probably why Gábor Vona and the Jobbik faction did not vote for this either. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-07-16-20	Mr István Simicskó, Member of the KDNP, asked for an opportunity to speak before the agenda entitled "The Security of Our Future." I give you the floor, please. [[14.00]]
u2018-07-16-21	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Future researchers say that over the next thirty years, our human world will change more than in the last 300 years. Pope Francis directly states that human civilization has entered a period of agelong change. There are incredible rapid changes in technical and technological terms, and obviously these changes, the speed of which also significantly increases the vulnerability of different societies, nations and states. In Oswald Spengler's West Alkonya, he says that a civilization is doomed from the moment it was born, and this also applies to European civilization, as well as to ancient Egyptian or antique Greek-Romanian civilizations. Don't be right, because we care about our European values, our Christian values, our Christian civilization! Carroll Quigley, former professor of Harvard University, explorer of the evolution of civilizations, breaks down the evolution of various civilizations to seven stages of development. In the first step, it describes mixing, then labour, then expansion, when it describes a process involving population growth and a kind of geographical extent, which often happens explosively and planably. After that, and in addition to that, there will be various conflicts, conflicts, and then the whole Imperial existence to which Quigley puts it, is that the golden age is in fact a sparkle of overripeness, and soon it will be followed by the downfall, then the decline, and finally, the invasion, i.e. the conquest and the disappearance of old civilization by self-destruction. Although Quigley may exist for an infinite period of time, it is necessary to do so, to recognise the internal problems of civilization, to recognise the external dangers, and to do so; if that civilization is able to do so, it will remain, if not, it will disappear, and instead someone else will take control. This, therefore, results for all of us that safety is a baseline. We all know the theory of the Maslow Pyramid: above the physiological needs, there is the next place for protection, security. Everyone of all ages has a duty to do so that the state, the particular civilization, can defend itself. Among the guaranteed elements of a nation's survival, of course, there is demography, where there is a strong economy. I say that at least four things are necessary: the strengthening of the economy, the building of schools, the building of churches and a force of strength capable of protecting the country, the nation from external troubles; of course, the area belongs to statehood, and it must also be equipped to protect it. The Zrínyi military development programme started in 2026 and the government has clear and clear goals the Christian Democratic People's Party supports all of this to become a powerful Hungarian defence. We are pleased to see that the budget is also increasing significantly, and the Hungarian Defence Forces are strengthening with real defence capabilities that will always guarantee the safety of Hungarian families. However, we also know that an organization, whether in the army or in any other institution, has always given its true strength to its spirituality and faith, so it is important that if we talk about the safety of the future, we strive to give our children a sense of patriotism, that they should always be there at all times, so that we can give the Hungarian flag with a calm heart, that they too strive to protect this country, which is our homeland, which is no substitute for anything, always protect it. That's why we have to give them spirituality, values, faith; that's what we're trying to do, and the KDNP is very much in favour of it. Goethe's question of what we can best give our children is that it is nothing but roots and wings. Yes, in roots it refers to traditions, values, culture, this is what we have to give to our children, a proper set of values, and to be able to achieve great goals and succeed in life through self-realization, I add: for the benefit of the community, we need wings. I believe that patriotic education, healthy nation consciousness, must serve this purpose. In this, we will continue to support the government, and we will be there at every kilometer, as we have always said, in support of this endeavour. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-07-16-22	Szilárd Németh has the floor, please.
u2018-07-16-23	Thank you very much. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Indeed, putting security at the centre is one of the most important tasks of the government and Parliament, and the Hungarian Defence Office is ready to ensure this task, but has always been ready. We used to say that the security of the Hungarian people and the security of the people of Hungary, our Christian civilisation, our Christian culture, Hungary's sovereignty, and the security of the people of Europe, is well guarded by the Hungarian Defence Office. The fact that Hungary is one of the safest countries in Europe today is due to the Hungarian Hungary, our Hungarian soldiers, the Hungarian military doctrine and the policy that we have witnessed in the last eight years, and I would like to thank you, as was the former Minister of Defence, because you spoke about the future, the challenges of the future, but if we look back, in the last eight years there have been challenges before the Hungarian Defence Office in order to mention only three, to which you were excellently suited: in 2010, during the Red Sludge Disaster, who could be expected if not for Hungarian soldiers, if not for Hungarian soldiers? Or, at the time of the Great Danube Flood in 2013, the whole country could experience what our soldiers had done in Europe, exemplary and unprecedented, because during the great flood in Hungary, during the flood of the century, there was no harm in human life, and this was completely unique in Europe. But I could mention the invasion of Europe in 2015, the invasion that also reached Hungary, the migrant crisis, the 400,000 people who practically ran across the country as a result of the migrant crisis and the call of migrants. During the 2015 national consultation, we had to defend our country on the basis of the opinion expressed by the Hungarian people, and our Hungarian soldiers took the lead in defending the border. Recall that in three months we have managed to build 400 kilometers of fences, a fence that is one of the most important legs of the threefold condition of legal, technical and living protection that we have been able to stop the migratory pressure on the South Balkans, the South Western Balkans, and our soldiers have played an important role in this too. But then in the patrol itself, because here the majority of Parliament's Fidesz-KDNP decided that the soldiers should also do their part. Let me just mention a few numbers to you: 1300 soldiers served in 11 settlements, a border guard service, at the same time 6 000 people from the Hungarian Defence Office dealt with this issue at the same time, and over the past 18 thousand people and 18 thousand Hungarian soldiers participated in these tasks. Zrínyi 2026 is for the future, Zrínyi 2026 is for the future not only in the development of forces, not only in realizing that the world has changed around us, but also in the development and use of the world; but also in the development of the Zrínyi 2026, which is the defence leg of the soldier, which, as the Minister, Congressman mentioned, puts the soldier at the center, and in the training of soldiers, in the training of soldiers, in which we have enough soldiers, it calls for society, with education, education, education at the center of patriotic education, and training in defence education. If you'll allow me, I'd like to quote a part of that. The growing generation must be able to make progress in order to properly prepare for today's challenges and future challenges that are not yet visible. We are facing new problems through terrorist acts, the migration crisis. We need to give answers on how to imagine Hungary's security guarantees [[The president's ringing the bell.]] in today's changing international environment. We're counting on you to help us with that. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[14.10]]
u2018-07-16-24	On behalf of the Fidesz Group, Mr Csaba Hende has applied for a speech: the protection of Hungary. Here you go, Congressman.
u2018-07-16-25	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Although more and more people in Europe today have the courage to express their views that migration must be curbed and Europe must be protected, the fact is that neither migration nor migrant-friendly Brussels policy is at risk. Masses of migrants are still moving towards Europe on both the Mediterranean and the Balkan route, and those who have been here for a year or two or even three years have not settled their fate. Where migrants show up or where migrants are deployed, social and cultural conflicts are escalating, and the number of crimes is increasing. In Germany, for example, violent crimes and murders against young girls are common. Anti-Semitism has become commonplace in immigrant countries. European counter-terrorism agencies are constantly working to prevent further acts of terrorism. Dear Parliament, In a short time, security has become the greatest asset for Europeans, but it is feared that this will be given to fewer people if we do not stop the migrant-friendly policies of Brussels and the Soros network. Brussels and the Soros network are still working on flooding Europe with migrants from their own political and financial speculation interests. Soros organisations have been exposed several times over the past period; they actively support migration and use unfair, even illegal, means to achieve their objectives. His people are sitting everywhere, in the Brussels Commission, in the European Parliament, in the European Council, in the UN [[Intervention from the benches of opposition parties: The Fidesz!]] and develop proposals to help legalise migration. The UN's global migration package is threatening a global Soros plan. Hungary's security is therefore still at risk. We must therefore work at national, European and NATO levels to preserve this security and strengthen our defence capabilities. Action must be taken as rigorously as possible against immigration support organisations. This is supported by the law on transparency of organisations funded from abroad, which is already in force, and will also be supported by the immigration special tax. If the 2019 budget is accepted by Parliament, we can spend more money on public security, police, counter-terrorism and defence. Dear Parliament, As committed members of NATO, we will increase resources for the development of forces. The defence budget has been rising dynamically since 2015 and reaches 2 percent of gross domestic product by 2024. In the coming years we will increase the Hungarian Defence budget more than double. In 2019 we will spend HUF 512.8 billion on this purpose, which is HUF 85.5 billion more than this year's amount. Our soldiers will be strengthened in numbers and in their means. We will also restore the Hungarian defence industry. As a committed, reliable ally and member of NATO, we intend to continue to participate in all missions, anti-terror missions, which serve the safety of Europe and the Hungarian people. We also support the strengthening of Europe's defence capabilities and our willingness to assist in all measures to protect Europe's external borders. However, we do not wish or will not participate in the distribution of migrants. I call on the Honourable Parliament to support the 2019 budget and the introduction of the immigration special tax, which will further strengthen Hungary's security. The opposition parties will again find out whether or not they can be expected to defend our country again. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2018-07-16-26	I give the floor to State Secretary Csaba Dömötör.
u2018-07-16-27	Thank you for the floor. Indeed, the House is voting on the budget this week, and Members who have taken part in the debate know very well that security in this budget is given greater emphasis than ever before. This is because, although Hungary is one of the safest countries in the world, this cannot be taken for granted, we must also do so to keep it that way. That is why next year 350 billion forints will be available to strengthen public security; more resources will be allocated to the police and more will be allocated to border protection. Defence will get over 85 billion more than this year, and this extra expense, this difference is not a coincidence. Last week there was a NATO summit in Brussels, and one of the most important issues at such summits is how much security is spent on individual NATO countries. We support Europe's overall spending on its own security and support the creation of a common European force as soon as possible. It is in this objective that we will spend more on defence purposes, as our country has committed itself to increasing defence spending to 2 percent by 2024. This also means that defence spending will double in Hungary in a few years. Dear House, If security is really important, then indeed, we cannot go without saying a word about the migration crisis, because it is the greatest risk to our security today. Before the summer recess begins, it should be noted where we stand on this issue. Firstly, and this is very important, the migratory pressure has not been lifted, but the migration routes have changed. In Greece, the news is that as many immigrants arrive there as in 2015 and supplies seem endless. This also means that if we were not protected by the southern border closure, the same would happen in Hungary as in 2015. Secondly, immigration-supporting forces, whether political activists or EU decision-makers, continue to hold on and continue to move large resources to keep Europe's gates open, and it does not matter from the point of view of the end. Thirdly, although there are sometimes encouraging elements at the level of words, to date there has been no change in the EU's migration policy, for example, in the new seven-year draft budget we are still seeing very risky elements, because they would spend more on migration while the EU register is smaller, and we do not see any sign that this would go first and foremost to border protection. That is why we support the objectives of the Austrian EU Presidency to give much more emphasis to border protection, but that is not a good term, because everything must be subject to border protection. Because if we don't protect the borders, we can't protect anything, we can't protect anything. Dear House, The migration crisis has been going on for three years, and there is no sign that anything will stop it. Our position, the government's position has not changed over the three years: illegal immigration must be combated; borders must be protected and those who have arrived illegally in Europe must be returned to their country. Thus, although the Parliament will soon begin its adjournment, the government will continue to represent the interests of the country on these principles; we hold ourselves to Hungary's safety first. We believe that the majority of Hungarians support this policy. This is demonstrated not only by the outcome of the April election, but also by the end of the week interim elections. In Miskolc, Sopron, Veszprém, there were Fidesz victories over 60, 69 and 80 percent. In Józsefváros there was also a two - third Fidesz victory. This is a number of honouring reinforcements to the governing parties, and a number of yellow cards distributed to opposition parties who completely ignore security aspects. We also wish the elected Members good work and good luck from here. Thank you for listening. [[Applause from the benches of the governing parties.]] [[14.20]]
u2018-07-16-28	Ladies and gentlemen, We have reached the end of the speeches before the agenda. I would like to ask Mr Dezső Liberty to present the speakers who are not on the agenda.
u2018-07-16-29	Dear Parliament, Erik Philip, Jobbik; Péter Ungár, LMP; Zsolt Becsó, Fidesz; János Fónagy, Fidesz; Gergely Farkas, Jobbik; Károly Becsó, Fidesz. Attila Mesterházy, MSZP; Márta Demeter, LMP; Tamás Mellár, Dialogue; Imre László, DK; János Volner, Jobbik; Péter Harrach, KDNP; Zoltán Bóna, Fidesz. On Tuesday Andrea Varga-Damm, Jobbik; Péter Ungár, LMP; Péter Ovádi, Fidesz; Dániel Z. Karpát, Jobbik; István Szávay, Jobbik. On Friday Péter Ungár, LMP; Serbian national minority advocate Alexov Lyubomir; Roma minority advocate Félix Farkas; Péter Ágh, Fidesz; Anita Potocskané Kőrösi, Jobbik; György Szilágyi, Jobbik; Dániel Z. Carpathian, Jobbik; Balázs Ander, Jobbik; Mihály Varga, Fidesz.
u2018-07-16-30	Dear Parliament, I declare that on 28 June 2017 the National Election Committee received the following initiative on the declaration of the Székely ethnic group as an indigenous ethnic group: the Hungarian Szeklers on the rights of nationalities CLXXIX of 2011. Law 148 § 3 of the Act of Nationality is authorised to make sure that they comply with the law of nationality. The initiative was taken by the National Election Committee on 25 July 2017 in 94/2017. By decision No 7 of 7 November 2017, the Curia confirmed this decision. 996/2018 on the results of the signature verification following the deadline for signature collection Decision NVB increased its legal force on 10 July 2018. The initiative is H/839. You can get to know him on the website. The initiative will be decided at a later meeting of the Parliament. Dear House, The agenda for our meeting starting today is coming up. We shall decide on the agenda, the duration of the meeting, the speaking time limits on the basis of a proposal put forward by the President. Dear Parliament, The author of Dr. Judit Bertalan Czunyiné initiated, by submitting the necessary number of supporting signatures, that Parliament would discuss in an exceptional procedure the amendment of Act C of 2012 on the Criminal Code, T/856. Submitted by the European Parliament and the Council pursuant to Article 1 (2) of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011. The rapporteur initiated the addition of the draft bill to the agenda of the extraordinary meeting of Parliament, the possibility of submitting amendments until the third day following the decision on the exceptional procedure on this sitting, the joint debate on tomorrow's meeting, the decision on the summary amendment proposal and the final vote on Friday's meeting. Rule 62 of the House Rules Pursuant to Article 1 (1) of the Act, the Parliament shall decide on the hearing in exceptional proceedings without debate. I would like to draw your attention to the need for a vote in favour of more than half of the Members, i.e. one hundred Members, to order an exceptional procedure. Now it's time for decision-making. I'm asking you, do you accept T/856? Submitted in exceptional proceedings pursuant to the national motion. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The Parliament accepted the hearing of the proposal in exceptional proceedings by 114 votes in favour, 17 against and 20 abstentions. In accordance with our agreed decision, amendments can be submitted at 5:24 p.m. today. Dear Parliament, The Government initiated an exceptional procedure for the National Assembly to discuss the state's tasks related to the development of Budapest and agglomeration and the implementation of certain improvements and the modification of certain laws in the context of Commission Decision SA.50768 on Hungary's film support programme. Submitted by the European Parliament and the Council pursuant to Article 1 (2) of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011. The Government has initiated the addition of the draft bill to the agenda of the extraordinary meeting of Parliament, the possibility of submitting amendments on this day until the third day after the decision on the exceptional procedure has been taken, the joint debate on tomorrow's meeting, the decision on the summary amendment proposal and the final vote on Friday's meeting. The House will decide according to the rules set out above. I ask the honourable Members to accept T/857. Submitted in exceptional proceedings pursuant to the national motion. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The Parliament accepted the hearing of the proposal in exceptional proceedings by 115 votes in favour, 37 against and without abstentions. The amendment proposals can be submitted at 5:26 p.m. today. Dear Parliament, We are now deciding on a proposal to amend the agenda. The Group of the Fidesz Group proposed that the sitting of the National Assembly on 20 July 2018 be held at 2 p.m. instead of 11 a.m. Anyone who agrees with that, please indicate by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] I find that the visible majority of this House has accepted the proposal. We are now deciding on a proposal on the agenda put forward by the President. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the recommendation on the agenda with the amendment adopted above. Please indicate by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] Thank you. I declare that the visible majority of Parliament has adopted the agenda. A decision on a personal proposal will not take place today. Dear Parliament, The Commission's reports on Hungary's central budget for 2019 and the final proposal for an amendment follow up. The submission was made in T/503. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I would like to inform the Parliament that the presentation will be discussed as an EU and national agenda item. The detailed discussion of the draft budget law was conducted by the sectoral committees. Report by the Committee on Budgets on the detailed debate T/503/839. The reports of the committees involved in the debate are available on the IT network on numbers T/503/827, 828, 829, 830, 831, 832, 833, 835, 836, 837, 840, 841, and 842. Dear Parliament, Summary proposal of the Committee on Budgets acting as Legislative Committee during the hearing of the bill T/503/844. The summary report on the Commission's proposals for amendments to the in-depth debate was T/503/845. Available on the website. The rapporteur of the Committee on Budgets shall be the first to take the floor in the debate. I would like to remind you that, according to the provisions of the House Rules, the rapporteur of the committee, with a summary of the opinions of the negotiating committees, and the description of the minority opinion, in summary of the minority opinions expressed in writing, can speak within a total of 60 minutes, with 30 minutes for the presentation of the minority opinion. I give the floor to Lajos Szűcs, rapporteur for the Committee on Budgets.
u2018-07-16-31	Your Honour, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, We have before us a draft law on the 2019 central budget, the general discussion of which took place between 27 and 29 June in a 30-hour timeframe. As usual, the Budget Act is discussed by all the Permanent Committees of Parliament and the Committee of Hungarian Nationalities, in addition to the Committee on Budgets, and conducts a detailed debate. This has happened in the last few days, and as rapporteur for the designated committee, I will present his views as well. Each of the negotiating committees concluded that the bill complied with the resolution house rule 44. § (1) of the Act meets the requirements of the Fundamental Law, so the bill complies with the substantive and formal requirements resulting from the Fundamental Law and is in line with the legal system's unity and complies with the obligations arising from international law and European Union law. [[14.30]] I would like to describe the opinions of the negotiating committees by saying that all these opinions have been formulated and spoken at the meetings of these committees. First, I'll give you the opinion of the Committee on Budgets. The government's 2019 budget is a budget for safe growth. Sustainable growth is at the heart of next year's budget, bearing in mind strict and disciplined farming. The government expects a 4.1 per cent economic growth in 2019, a 1.8 per cent deficit in GDP and 2.7 per cent inflation, with a further reduction in government debt. As in recent years, a zero balance on the functioning of the State is achieved, only in the case of investments and improvements. Since 2010, Hungary has regained its economic self-determination, stabilised its financial position, kept the government deficit permanently low, put government debt on a declining path and achieved lasting economic growth. The Committee welcomes the further decline in the debt-to-GDP ratio in 2019 and the gradual decline in the foreign exchange debt ratio. Today, a quarter of the debt is already financed by the population, which is one of the highest rates in the European Union. The retail sovereign debt market increases the security of financing. The prospects of the Hungarian economy are basically good, but there are signs of crisis in international trade and in the euro area, and therefore in 2019 the amount of security reserve elements tied to achieving the deficit target will increase by one and a half times. The growth-enhancing investment programmes will continue, with a total of HUF 4 000 billion in development coming up next year. The GDP-to-GDP ratio of investments financed from purely domestic sources is already 4.5 per cent in 2019. We can say that growth is not just for the competition sector, because the budget will also cover government officials and civil servants' wage arrangements, which will be decided by the government in the autumn. The social contribution tax may be further reduced from 19.5 percent to 17.5 percent in line with the six-year wage agreement from next year, leaving more than HUF 100 billion in business. The employment of retired workers is exempt from any public burden other than personal income tax. The rate of family tax relief increases to HUF 40,000 for children. Another step is being taken to reduce VAT selectively, as the VAT on milk is reduced to 5 percent. I'm reading the opinion of the Foreign Affairs Committee. The steady increase in the budget of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade will continue every year next year. Among the elements of this increase, the amount available for economic development in areas inhabited by Hungarians across the border is increased more than three times this year. The Ministry's export and investment promotion activities are unparalleledly successful, which has a major role to play in Hungary being one of the most dynamically growing economies across Europe, which decides new historical records every year. Opinion of the Committee on Sustainable Development. This spring again, the government prepared a draft budget for next year for predictability and planning. The 2019 budget is worthy of the economic policy objectives of the next government cycle. The budget proposal pays particular attention to the protection of Hungary, the support of Hungarian families, the further expansion of employment, the strengthening of the competitiveness of businesses. Dynamic wage increases and tax reductions continue and household income situation improves further. The opinion of the State Audit Office confirms that the budget proposal is sound, supports the stability of the budget in the short and medium term and contributes to stable and continuous economic growth. Opinion of the Economic Committee. The bill also aims to preserve Hungary's financial and economic stability in 2019, guarantee Hungary's security, border protection and fight against illegal migration. The national government is clearly committed to the protection of national sovereignty, the preservation of Christian culture, the work-based society, the tax reduction policy, and the support of Hungarian families and children. Based on data from the past period, Hungary is one of the most dynamically growing economies in Europe. In order to maintain and further stimulate economic growth, the implementation of a government grant of some HUF 4 000 billion is also part of the budget. Since 2010, the Hungarian government has been pursuing a tax reduction policy to support families and job creation. As a result, wages will increase, employment will increase and the economy will grow dynamically. The government's tax reduction policy will continue in 2019. There is no greater evidence of this than a further reduction in the tax burden on labour and the tax burden on businesses and families next year, and the good news is that next year, the family tax relief of two children will double compared to 2015, leaving nearly 350 thousand families with more money. This increase provides families with an additional income of up to HUF 240 thousand per year compared to 2015. Overall, it can therefore be concluded that next year's budget meets the legal requirements and serves the growth of the national economy well. Opinion of the National Security Committee. The majority of the committee is of the opinion that there is no prosperity without security. The government paid particular attention to awareness-raising signals in Europe, which may even trigger an economic crisis, when drawing up the bill. Due to these European economic factors which pose a safety risk, the overall reserve framework is increased by 50 percent. Exactly because of these threats and challenges, nearly HUF 350 billion will be allocated to public security and the operation and development of the police next year. At the same time, the salary of law enforcement workers will increase by another 5 percent from January, which, together with previous increases, will be an overall increase of 50 percent. For counter-terrorism tasks that ensure the protection and security of our country, 25 billion HUF will be allocated. The 2019 budget of the civil national security services and the Military National Security Service provides a framework for the safe operation of the law. In addition, there is an additional HUF 15.7 billion in support of police border and depth detection, HUF 9.4 billion in support of the operation of the Immigration and Asylum Office, and HUF 77.5 billion in support of the operation and development of disaster management. Overall, we can conclude that Hungary's draft budget for 2019 will not only contribute to supporting families and developing in many areas, but will also be able to protect the country's borders in the fight against illegal migration. It can be concluded that the appropriations of the budget proposal for civilian and military services ensure the full fulfilment of the duties of the secret services laid down by law. Opinion of the Defence and Police Committee. During the detailed discussion held by the Defence and Police Committee, the government's planned budget for the next year helped to further strengthen the economy, while maintaining the security of our country. [[14.40]] In addition to economic planning, the government placed a particular emphasis on protecting Hungary and guaranteeing its security in the next year's budget. It is quite clear that security will be one of the most important challenges in the coming years because of immigration across Europe and the associated threat of terrorism, as well as the associated public security requirements. Exactly because of these threats and challenges, nearly HUF 350 billion has been allocated to public security and to the operation and development of the police. At the same time, the salary of law enforcement workers will increase by another 5 percent from January, which, together with previous increases, will be increased by 50 percent. Counter-terrorism tasks, which will ensure the protection and security of our country, will receive HUF 25 billion. Hungary's Government intends to spend HUF 512 billion on the Hungarian Defence Office in 2019, which is HUF 85.5 billion more than this year's amount. The goal was to double our defense spending over the next few years. Hungary needs a strong army, which the government can clearly contribute to next year's budget. Zrínyi's 2026 military and military development program will lead to unprecedented skill development for our country's defence. As a result of the development programme, the military will reinvigorate the full-scaled capabilities before 2010, thereby increasing the military's impact. The aim is to restart the Hungarian defence and defence industry, during which we will be able to develop our export-capable military capabilities for armed bodies with the involvement of Hungarian companies. Opinion of the People's Welfare Committee. In the context of the main objective of the budget, the support of families, the creation of full employment and the security of the country include the following elements: next year, the family tax relief of two children will continue to increase to HUF 40,000 per month; family support expenditure will be over HUF 2 000 billion for the first time since the change in the system, under which 242 billion will be available for the purposes of the family home creation discount. With regard to the health budget, it is important to stress that health expenditure has increased by more than HUF 500 billion compared to 2010, with HUF 101 billion from this year's 2019 budget. The hospitals serve HUF 52 billion and HUF 4 billion to provide additional support for the specialized services. In connection with health developments in Budapest, HUF 42 billion is available for asset purchases. The budget also includes HUF 10 billion for the development of family-friendly obstetrics, which can contribute to the promotion of childbearing. It is important to continue to increase the employment rate of people with disabilities, on which the involvement of market participants plays a very important role. Overall, it can be concluded that the social sector, health and family policy will have additional resources for next year's budget. The Cultural Committee notes that the draft complies with the house rules. The Committee of Nationalities of Hungary also notes that the bill complies with the House Rule 44. The requirements of paragraph 1 of paragraph 1 of this Article shall apply. The Judicial Committee has also reached a similar conclusion: it has concluded that this House Rule Compliance with the bill will be achieved. I'm reading the opinion of the Agriculture Committee. In recent years, the agricultural budget has shown adequate stability and will continue in 2019. It is largely the result of this continuous stability that agriculture is the backbone of the country's economic performance. National agricultural subsidies were planned in the 2019 budget for HUF 78 billion. In addition to national agricultural aids, the various animal and animal welfare aids, the farm development programme, the programme for the eradication of undivided common land and the budgetary background to the actions of the pig strategy launched in 2012. In the case of EU-subsidised grants, the budget is the same as in 2018, i.e. the same as next year's budget. Accordingly, the breeding programme will continue to receive more than HUF 100 million in support of the milk. The framework of the programme will increase by HUF 100 million and the school fruit programme will increase by more than HUF 500 million compared to the 2017 grants. The stability of the sector is also supported by another important instrument, the national agricultural compensation scheme. The resources available in 2019, the sum of which is 4.3 plus 4.3, i.e. a total of HUF 8.6 billion, will continue to make it possible to fully pay compensation claims. In addition, the operating costs of the national ice prevention system, which operates from 1 May 2018, will be financed by this fund, with a maximum budget of HUF 1.5 billion. Apart from subsidies, it is important that the budgetary background of agricultural targets, as in previous years, will be able to provide a background to the different research, defence and representation tasks, and the amount that can be allocated to agricultural targets will rise by HUF 5.8 billion. In particular, new appropriations have been created to support professional tasks in the Tokaj wine region, such as HUF 688 million and a budget of nearly HUF 2 billion for the closed garden programme. We can conclude that from the budgetary side, all the resources needed for further good functioning are available, the draft budget for 2019 provides significant additional resources for Hungarian agriculture and is expected to continue to provide stability in relation to previous years, but especially in relation to the budgets before 2010. Opinion of the Committee on National Inclusion. Hungary's central budget is the best measure of how the support of foreign Hungarians has been achieved in the last eight years. Hungary has been guaranteeing the permanent functioning and development of Hungarian institutions and organisations abroad in its budget for years now, the continuity and continuous expansion of programmes to strengthen Hungarian communities abroad. Thanks to predictable support from Hungary and the motherland, the operation and programmes of about 5 thousand institutions outside of Hungary have become sustainable in recent years. With the resources provided by the Bethlen Gábor Fund, we have not only maintained, but have significantly renewed and expanded the institutional system necessary for the survival of Hungarian communities abroad. Thanks to the resources provided in the budget, we can guarantee the continuity and continuous expansion of several programmes that take significant steps to increase Hungarian communities abroad. [[14.50]] In the framework of the thematic years of the State Secretariat for National Policy, special support has been given to a group of Hungarian communities from abroad since 2012. The number of scholarships posted in the Kőrösi Csoma Sándor programme and the Petőfi Sándor programme is also constantly increasing. In 2018, 215 scholarships will be sent to Hungarians living in diaspora and sporadics. In the draft budget for 2019, with an increase of some 1.4 billion in the resources of the Bethlen Gábor Fund, we continue to see the stability of national policy. At government level, we spent more than HUF 100 billion on national policy in 2017, this year there is a prospect of support of a similar magnitude, and the appropriations of the 2019 draft can bring further increase to this amount. In addition to funding for the programs of the State Secretariat for National Policy and the Bethlen Gábor Fund, we have made significant progress in the creation of a single educational and cultural space in the Carpathian Basin with the educational, cultural and cultural support of the Ministry of Human Resources. We guarantee the continuation of this work and guarantee that the 2019 appropriations and the fact that ecclesiastical affairs and national policy have been jointly managed in the new governance structure. We are very pleased to see that the funds for the Unlimited! programme will continue to grow, so that the initiative can continue from more than HUF 5.6 billion in 2019. The draft also represents a step in the single initiative of the economic area in the Carpathian Basin, as it provides an enormous amount, some HUF 50 billion, compared to previous years, for the continuation of the implementation of the economic development plans in the Carpathian Basin in previous years. Significant progress is also being made in opening up to foreign Hungarians in agricultural areas. With the launch of the villager programme in the Carpathian Basin, the funds for national policy in this sector will grow by more than HUF 400 million in 2019. Overall, we can see an encouraging draft from a national political point of view, the implementation and implementation of which will simultaneously result in the preservation of foreign Hungarians and the strengthening of the cooperation of the mother country and foreign Hungarians in as many fields as possible. I'm reading the opinion of the Enterprise Development Committee. Since 2010, Hungary has regained its economic self-determination, stabilised its financial position, managed a responsible budget management, kept the government deficit permanently low, put the government debt on a declining path and achieved sustained economic growth. Since 2010, unemployment has fallen from nearly 12 percent to 3.8 percent, and employment is making record records, while wages have been growing at an unprecedented rate for many years. Following this path, Hungary's budget proposal for 2019 was prepared and full employment remains a priority. To this end, labour taxes will continue to decrease. I am reading the opinion of the Committee on European Affairs. The bill also meets the so-called Maastricht criteria through disciplined fiscal policy. Furthermore, the government debt-to-GDP ratio continues to decrease, in line with the institution of the debt-to-GDP ratio as defined in the Fundamental Law. The total amount of EU funds will be around HUF 1905 billion for Hungary next year, both through investment and structural funds and direct agricultural subsidies. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, On the basis of the summarised opinions expressed, I would ask this House to support the bill. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-07-16-32	Thank you. Dear Parliament, Minority opinions will now be presented, which will be presented by four Members in a total timeframe of 30 minutes. First I give the floor to Andrea Varga-Damm.
u2018-07-16-33	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, As a better-ranking member of the Committee on Budgets, I present the minority opinion that we have drafted ourselves. Even during the general debate, I indicated that we are looking at this as a risk-taking budget. The 4% increase, 2.7 percent inflation and 311 HUF exchange rate alone are three factors that are not based on reality, and are likely to affect budget viability, so we can conclude from these three figures that this is not a sound budget. There was a great rush from the governing parties and the government to submit. In addition, it was apparent that there were very many trivial errors and then changes that were likely the result of a strong lobbying activity after the submission. We would be the happiest if the government debt were to be reduced to 70.3% of GDP, but if we consider that the government debt was increased by HUF 684 billion in the first three months of the year, thus rising from 73.6 percent to 74.2 percent, this perspectively forecasts that it is impossible to keep the levels dreamed of in the budget. We object to the fact that the opinion of the State Audit Office was presented only one day before the plenary session on 26 June 2018 and we also object to the fact that the appropriations are compared only to those of 2018 and not to the fact numbers of 2017. To this day, we still do not know how this budget will fit into the closure of the years that have already taken place. It was difficult for the legislator to do so because the Minister of Finance presented the chapter volumes to Parliament on 23 June 2018 with a ten-day phase delay, thus preventing opposition representatives from having enough time to explore and submit amendments. The proposal did not show at all how much GDP growth this year would have been, even though this would have been an extremely important piece of information in view of the euro exchange rate and the nominal rate of government debt and the extent of the expansion. The Jobbik faction welcomes the fact that the amount of resources devoted to the survival of Hungarians beyond the borders does not change, does not decrease, but it is unacceptable that these resources appear scattered in the draft, contains virtually no justification for their use, and we are very concerned that most of the resources are not intended to improve and maintain the real situation of Hungarians, but may be used to increase the welfare of foreign governors. It is to be welcomed that investments are being made, but we must conclude that these investments are not for the expansion of welfare systems, but for the interests of a narrow economic elite. The representative of the Ministry of Finance has repeatedly said that the reserves will be increased in order to avoid a possible crisis or, if any of the three important factors do not evolve accordingly, these additional resources will be used to finance the budget. However, we would like to note that the general reserve increased from 110 billion to 165 billion, the remaining 60 billion National Defence Fund and the various provisions, which are growing from 90 billion to 135 billion, are to be welcomed, but most of these amounts, based on the experience of the last seven years, have virtually become the government's paying place at the end of the year. It is difficult to create a sound budget with less than a month's speed. Practically speaking, the words of the Members of Parliament and the opposition are barely reaching the government, and very few of our amendments have been accepted. Sometimes I feel as if we were in the 1970s when the MSZMP KB decided on the country's budget, and the Parliament formally decided, and the Ministry of Finance explained that the KB Secretary announced the party's support to Parliament. The 4-percent increase is in no way supported by data from the last seven years. From 2010 to 2011, it was 1.7 percent, from 2012 to 2013 it was 2.7 percent, from 2013 to 2014 it was 2.1 percent and then from 2015 to 2016 it was 0.9 percent increase or decrease in GDP. These data do not support the government's optimism. [[15.00]] The government has promised to cut red tape year after year, compared with this resource requirement in the current draft, it virtually shows that there will be no reduction in public bureaucracy at all, but that the government will spend extremely little on operating systems that could serve to create a welfare state. I would like to point out that while in Hungary 17.8% of the bureaucracy is budget resources, this is 13.2 percent on the OECD average, so the state is significantly overspending and, as a result, is not a very visible result. We would like to indicate that the rate of social benefit system allocated from the Hungarian budget is 29,9 percent, very small compared to the OECD average, as it is 32,6% and neighbouring Austria 42 percent. This means that the government does not want to involve significant resources reaching the OECD average in health care, education and improving the quality of the social care system. [[István Jakab, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] The rise in resources introduced in the welfare system will be entirely driven by inflation, so we cannot talk about real wages or real resources. The budget in this form is unacceptable, during the debate representatives of the government and representatives of the governing parties made self-confidence declarations that we would like to take account of later, at the time of implementation and at the time of closing. Finally, I would like to reply to the present Secretary of State when he spoke about how Jobbik would have used the resources of the budget with its proposals, and I would like to say that it was not true. There is an extra resource of 640 billion for investments, without concrete proposals and recommendations, which would certainly only be used for prestige investments, fake investments and not for social and welfare measures affecting society to preserve the common good, prosperity and fundamental values of democracy. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2018-07-16-34	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Welcome, fellow Members. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congresswoman Venus Anett.
u2018-07-16-35	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would like to present the opinions expressed jointly with the Hungarian Liberal Party in the next few minutes. Ladies and gentlemen, The current budget is not a budget for sustainable development. The European Union has asked our country to adjust to 1 percent of GDP in order to achieve a lasting improvement in the structural balance of public finances, but you have used this request from the government once again to confront Budapest and Brussels. This is particularly strange in view of the fact that our country is a net beneficiary of the Union. You could really follow the advice from the Union, formulated with an intention to develop, if money is to be welcomed. Sustainable development will not be achieved in terms of the pension fund. Not only does the current system encourage self-care, but it tells taxpayers that it is not worth taking care of ourselves and that the state can take away our savings at any time. It is possible to buy votes from pensioners for a period of 10 thousand forints with an Erzsébet voucher or a refund of their gas bill after the election, but this is the budget of irresponsibleness and populism, not sustainable development. It is not only fiscal, but it is also not sustainable in cultural and social terms. The Democratic opposition has long called on the government to listen to the profession in the field of education and to keep at least the 6 per cent of GDP required by the minimum education when it comes to our schools and our future. Another problem is that the spending of the existing envelope is not effective because of the violent centralisation of the education system. Ladies and gentlemen, In terms of school system, you are on the wrong track both in terms of funding and structurally. They are preparing for a safe fall in the country, and I ask you to take a look at the international field in the face of the proud promotion of your success, even at regional level. The education system, which, according to the draft 2019 budget, remains in ruins, anticipates a 100-year lag. It is also a big problem that, according to their own social image, they distinguish the financing of a world-wide neutral and church school. It can't be that students in public schools don't deserve half as much money as they do in church schools. This is completely absurd! [[Sándor Szabó replaces the gullible Dezső in the notary seat.]] Ladies and gentlemen, You created the Ministry of Innovation and Technology, but you do not see that the fourth industrial revolution is not about machines or robots, but about society. If this country will lack the educated heads of people, and our school system now predicts that we are facing such a future, then we will not be able to develop properly with our fellow Western Europeans. This also shows that budget planning cannot and should not be undertaken in such a way that it is considered proven that the 2019 budget is in order solely on the basis of social transfers and family support schemes. They should have a medium- and long-term strategy for economic strategy, education and other institutional systems on how to proceed, on how to catch up with those countries that currently live on a better half of the European Union. That would be our task here in this region, and many of our regional partners have taken this task very seriously. Unfortunately, this is not what we have witnessed in Hungary in the last eight years, but rather the opposite, just that we are going to stay behind permanently in the international field. In this regard, you have nothing to say to European Union citizens. This budget is unacceptable only because of some of the points I mentioned in this short time; although it does bleed from a thousand wounds, it is enough to think of the HUF 311 exchange rate of the euro you call technical, which was not true even when we started the budget debate, not in the days when Hungarian society was faced with a hair-scarring rate of HUF 330. Thank you so much for listening.
u2018-07-16-36	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Antal Csárdi. Here you go.
u2018-07-16-37	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, The 2019 budget is a budget of unchangeability and unsustainableness. We say this and this minority opinion is formulated because this budget does not respond to the break-up of the growing sections of society. This budget does not solve the wage crisis, this budget does not solve the problems of tens of thousands of families with foreign currency credit, it does not sufficiently improve the health situation, and it treats education at a very partial level. I think that a budget cannot afford the luxury of not even being financed following inflation. I think that a real fall in value in a budget at the level of education means living up to our future. Next year's budget is mostly and this is the biggest crime that Hungary has not been prepared by the 21st century. To the challenges of the century, this budget will further increase centralisation, the vulnerability of local governments, and will make it impossible for anyone outside the ministries to interfere in the decision-making of our common affairs. The biggest loser of this centralization is the Hungarian Academy of Sciences. It has come to the point that, in this budget, they consider it acceptable for the Hungarian Academy of Sciences to be nationalised, that the independent research work is practically defined in a ministry. I think this tells us everything about Hungary's 2019 budget. This budget is totally unacceptable, irreparable, and therefore it is not a small set of corrections that are needed, but a complete redesign. Here I can mention one or two items that have already been said: I think that the figure is 311 HUF at the euro exchange rate, with 2.7 percent inflation, so that everyone in this House and in the Hungarian economy knows that these are false numbers, lies, more than a mistake. I think that in the context of the budget, there is no way to circumvent the issue of tax laws. For a very long time, the LMP has expressed the view that a progressive, multi-key taxation is needed. [[15.10]] For a long time, we have also taken the view that, through the extremely high VAT rate of 27 percent, the Hungarian state should stop making profits through the VAT on basic foods with Hungarian society. 27 percent VAT, I think, is so unfair on basic foods, it costs so much to buy the products needed for everyday life, which is a beautiful example of social injustice. I think that as long as the state wants to make more money on a kilo of bread than the baker or the trader, a budget can't be fair. So I think this budget is unacceptable. This budget is only for winners who have already been winners of Fidesz's economic policy, but unfortunately, this budget will lead to Hungary's long-term break-off. I think when we talk about the budget, we need to talk about Paks. Because I think it's an extremely high priority that Paks II. completely contradicts the communication panel Fidesz-KDNP stated that Hungary's safety is the first. If Hungary's safety were the first, it would not want to build a risky nuclear power plant with the Russian partner, the risky Russian partner, but would build the country for our grandchildren based on renewable resources. Because as long as this is the way the budget can be read now, we are practically not building the future of our grandchildren, but living the future of our grandchildren. Such a budget is in no way acceptable. A secure budget cannot count on an exchange rate of 311 forints, it cannot seriously plan inflation below, and I think that this budget, on the other hand, does, ergo, not a secure budget. Honourable Members, I think I can only ask you and my fellow opposition Members to consider when we vote on Hungary's 2019 budget and think of those social groups who are serious losers of this budget, so they are serious losers of small-timers, serious losers of health care workers, serious losers of students and serious losers of young generations. Thank you very much.
u2018-07-16-38	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman László Varju. Here you go, Congressman.
u2018-07-16-39	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Here, we have sought to gather and formulate a minority opinion on the budget in the most important areas. It is important to talk about the scope of farming, it is important to talk about the risks of the budget adopted early in the summer, the consequences of the missed budget framework, mention the consequences of budget planning below the 3% deficit beyond its benefits. We need to talk about the problems of the tax system. We are also talking about the macroeconomic path, either the expenditure side, or the general government deficit, the level of public debt. By the way, about 810 amendments which have been ignored are certainly a reason for this because you have thrown so much into the trash. These are, of course, worthy on the basis of the debates, and must be drawn to the attention. Let's start with what the farming margin looks like. The Prime Minister and others, responsible leaders, started with a crisis budget and said that this would be the budget that needs to stand on such feet, to endure everything. To this end, in order to deal with this in this way, they basically did so by withdrawing the budget from Parliament's powers and creating a situation in which the government could essentially spend money in its own powers, regulations, and, in this sense, disregarding Parliament's control role. This category includes, by the way, the risk of the budget adopted in the early summer, which let's face it, that the data of 2017 are not yet known, although the Ministry stressed that it knows it, that the data of 2017 is not known, that we do not know what is happening, otherwise there is no closure, and we will decide here from 2019, because, as you have heard, most of us will not support this. However, it is already clear that they did not want to keep 2017 what you planned, they will not follow 2018 and they will not want to comply with it by 2019. It is safe to say that Bianko gives the government the authority to decide, to accept the budget, to shape it in its own right, to save or to spend. It is important to talk about the budget framework that has been ignored, which, in a very simple way, means that we are not only monitoring the deficit in a given year, but also thinking about this responsible management in advance. Since the previous global economic crisis, however, the solution adopted by you in the European Union should be respected at this time. You have just said that you do not want to comply with this, because you do not actually have any consequences, no sanctions, while you are talking about the possibility of the economic crisis, when it is precisely necessary to save money and to act accordingly. This would also serve the interests of Hungary and the families in the event of the economic crisis, so that they can survive one of these in the shortest time and with the least damage if this happens. I would add, if you are so proud of the Protestant spiritual approach, then why have you not brought such a budget to us now. By the way, your conscience will not reassure you that in this decision-making process, the Hungarian National Bank will come up with an alternative government programme of 180 points, or the Hungarian National Bank itself has also prepared a budget report on what it does not agree with the government and what it rejects. This, I think, must have consequences, if it is possible to talk about a government programme that is in force on your part. It is also worth talking about the downsides of the success of the budget, because education and health are one of the downsides. What has happened here, my fellow Member has also mentioned, and I think that many of us are expressing it, and it is important to draw attention to this, that by not guaranteeing real value in the field of education, and essentially by taking their increase away from inflation, this clearly shows how you feel about it. How will our children be smarter, more prepared, more capable? In your schools, the odds are running out, and that's why I think you're mismanaging. In the families you've been talking about, you're saving up for the kids, and you're not. They are living up to our future, they are living up to their future, and there is a very good example of what they have done with vocational training. He's like a child of divorced parents, he's thrown around, there's no solution, and right now he's going to be responsible for the Ministry of Innovation, and he's going to try to do something about it. You may feel that this child has been beaten all the time, so that's what they're doing. I think that if you don't agree with this, you don't want that, you don't want to accept this budget. [[15.20]] There must be a few words about the problems of the tax system, because they appear on the revenue side of the budget, and the essence of this is that you are drawing more money from people, simplifying it; it applies to companies, businesses, and you are taking it away. After that, they were forced to admit it, because in the absence of time, I am only going to mention this one by withholding the benefits of the cafeteria system, and you obviously know, you can now acknowledge it aloud: yes, the real wage will decrease, the benefits that you provided earlier will not be there for the workers, and this will be a specific disadvantage. In this section of the budget, it must be mentioned that this is also a choice of value, what you consider important. In this regard, I would certainly like to mention a positive example to you, which is actually one third of a positive example, and this is the matter of home care. For your part, many times in recent years, MEPs, leaders, ministry officials have promised to resolve this. They didn't do it in this budget. In the course of the debate on the budget, civil society organisations protested, and on this very public issue, I think that the pro-government representatives made a statement at the Committee on Budgets that they wanted to resolve this. Therefore, I think and hope that this statement has not only been made, but that it is really something that they want to deal with, because I quote to you literally:, We know that the EMMI is negotiating with these professional organisations during the summer period, and that this issue can be settled in autumn law, so that an increase can be made from 2019. I would ask the President to take part in this discussion, and I would like to offer the support of the pro-government factions in this matter. . said the vice president of the committee on behalf of Fidesz. So you have the responsibility. Unfortunately, we haven't seen any positive signs in the first meeting in the last week, but I trust that they will think responsibly, and that they will do so in accordance with their promise that there will be a significant increase in both the recognition of employment and the increase in remuneration. On this basis, it is safe to say, and this is confirmed by the report of the Hungarian National Bank that in the 2018-19 budget you have significantly overscheduled the revenues. There will be a smaller rise in wages, and this, by the way, supports the former. The debt reduction will be lower than expected, leaving more debt to our children, by the way. The government deliberately underestimates the level of inflation, but let's add that they do not even add to formalities, because in the 2018 budget a debt-to-GDP ratio of 69,5 per cent was approved, while in the 2019 proposal it is proposed to be over 70. You keep saying it's falling. From 69 to 70, what does that mean? None, of course. To sum up, I must say to you that this budget does not provide a way to prevent the circumstances that the Prime Minister has identified as a crisis, and even the senseless spending continues, because in a crisis, we do not need to build stadiums and museums, but we need to save them, and when the difficult time comes, we need to keep an umbrella not only over President Putin's head, but also the rest of us, families, deserve to take care of them. This budget is a forward-looking set of paper because it does not prioritise education and health care, it destroys vocational training by throwing it back and forth. And why do you wonder if all the young people will now say that they want to get as far away from this country as possible? If I can give you some advice, I'm gonna do it by pulling out the Paks Nuclear Power Plant case and transferring it to education. Finally, the drifting budget, which is going to deteriorate, can still be stopped by the Fiscal Council. On the basis of the opinion of President Árpád Kovács, György Matolcsy, President of the National Bank of Hungary, this week the President of the SAO and the President of the SAO can decide on Wednesday to stop them from sending this back to you and, otherwise, to bring a new budget by September. The Democratic Coalition cannot support your budget proposal. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of DK and MSZP.]]
u2018-07-16-40	Thank you. Dear Parliament, Taking advantage of the time frame, we are now continuing our work. I will ask Mr Péter Benő Banai, as rapporteur, whether he wishes to speak at this stage of the debate or later. [[For signal:]] Mr State Secretary points out that he intends to speak at a later stage in the debate. Dear Parliament, A five-minute time frame will now be held for the representative invited by the nationality committee. I give the floor to Mr Ritter Imre, a representative of nationality, who wishes to give the first sentences in his mother tongue and then translate them into Hungarian. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2018-07-16-41	Thank you. Sehr geehrter Herr Vorsitzender! Sehr geehrtes Parliament! Erlauben Sie mir bitte, dass ich im Namen und im Auftrag des Ausschusses der in Ungarn lebenden Nationalitäten unseren Standpunkt bezüglich des Gesetzesvorschläges Nr. T/503 über den ungarischen Haushalt für Jahr 2019 im Zusammenhang mit den Nationalitäten-bedarf übergreifende Teilen erörtere. Mr President, Dear House, Allow me to express our position on behalf of the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary on the Central Budget of Hungary for 2019 T/503. Bill No.2 on the parts of the legislation concerning ethnic needs. The Committee of Nationalities in Hungary is the House Rule 44-45. It held a detailed discussion of the bill on the basis of Article 5 of the Act. Our committee for the bill is the resolution house rule 32. Having examined the provisions of the notification referred to in paragraph 2 of Article 44 of the Rules of Procedure, it concluded that they were in conformity with the rules of the House of Decisions. The requirements of paragraph 1 of paragraph 1 of this Article shall apply. Our Commission has not taken a position on the amendments tabled to the bill, but has expressed an intention to make further amendments. The Committee of Hungarian Nationalities is the 45th Resolution House Rule. On 4 July 2018, he closed the detailed discussion of the bill. The 13 Hungarian nationalities submitted a total of HUF 4 billion 620 million amendment in five focus areas compared to the 2019 central proposal. The first is that nearly half of the funding needs, namely 44 percent, HUF 2 billion and HUF 20 million are used to provide the investment, renovation and tendering part of the building and construction stock of the national governments and the institutions they maintain. The second is a 20 percent increase in operating grants of HUF 325 million for national minority governments and media, and a 10 percent increase in operating grants of HUF 122 million for their institutions maintained by national governments. I note here that in 2018, there was no increase in support either in national minority self-governments or in the institutions they maintained. A very significant part of the third area, one third of the total needs, is the second step of the national minority educator programme launched in 2018, according to which the nationality bonus for national teachers is raised from 15 to 30 per cent, and we provide a specific framework for increasing the number and improvement of the quality of national education. This requires a total of HUF 1 billion and HUF 530 million. Fourthly, 9 percent of the increase, HUF 405 million is intended for ethnic associations, organisations and schools, to further increase the ethnic tender framework. [[15.30]] Last but not least, the operating support of local minority self-governments will increase by 10 percent, which will amount to HUF 188 million. And for those who benefit from this, those are children of nationality, more than 27 thousand pre-school children who receive national minority education, and nearly 85 thousand young people who receive primary and secondary education. In total, we are talking about the future of more than 112 thousand children and young people who have received national education, ensuring their national rights. On their behalf and on behalf of the Hungarian nationalities, I would also like to thank the Government of Hungary, all the political groups and independent colleagues of the Hungarian Parliament, for their support for the initiative of the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary during the preparation of the central budget for 2019 and for their unanimous vote at the meeting of the Committee on Budgets. On this basis, the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary agrees with and supports the draft central fiscal law for 2019 and we ask the House to approve the amendment and the bill. Thank you for listening. Danke für Ihre Aufmerksamkeit!
u2018-07-16-42	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, It is now up to Members to take part in the time-frame on which they are to be put on the agenda. There is no possibility of a two-minute speech during the debate. I give the floor to Mr Dániel Z. Carpathian, Jobbik Group.
u2018-07-16-43	Mr President, Dear House, An ungrateful genre is the detailed debate of the budget, as the 30-minute opposition minority opinion clearly did not excite the members and representatives of the pro-government majority, and there was no substantive debate. By the way, I also believe that the Secretary of State, who is rightly involved, will want to react at the end of the debate, when we can no longer live with rejoinders or a kind of ripos. I understand, Mr Secretary of State, that you are exposed to this ungrateful task, because for the many time you are hearing the opposition comments and arguments that exactly the pro-government ministers or State Secretarys have not contradicted, gave or appreciated, but this debate is, after all, to preserve, for the sake of history, at least, that there were Hungarian people who felt that certain things in this country were not going well in these years. And, of course, we could be stuck in a number of sub-areas, I will myself, but I must say that in terms of education, the 15 billion dollar gap that seems to be awarded as an increase in aid now does not even reach the level of inflation, so they do not even increase the resources to be grouped here by the rate of inflation, and in terms of health, we also miss all kinds of structural changes. At the same time, we see that the biggest losers of this draft budget are clearly young people, clearly the Hungarian future, and if we dig deeper into the draft budget, we can certainly see that this government misses the treatment most in terms of housing crisis and housing poverty in Hungary. I mean, Mr. Secretary, let's just look at the fact that your product of success, which is sold as a housing miracle, is a CSOK which I support, although I would support even more, in fact, with a much more extended set of conditions, which, in fact, can lead to a price increase of up to a million per property, since the removal of the preferential housing tax, which this government has correctly introduced but now intends to lead out in a wrong way, will result in a drop in this market that could lead to two clearly negative directions: either to an increase in property prices, or to a simple reduction in the quality of the raw material from the properties to be built, and the number of newly issued building permits will show the release of the reduced housing tax next year. It would therefore be clear that not only newly built apartments should be kept in this draft budget, including this reduced VAT rate, but it should be extended even to renovations, not from the devil at all. If they are serious about combating the housing crisis and poverty in Hungary, this would be a necessary step. You could say that the CSOK will take care of the housing problem, but we can see that this government is also bleeding out on the rental front, because in this budget concept, the traces of the rental program simply cannot be found. I am very pleased that the State Secretary sitting here did not come up with the argument that his colleagues had previously considered the National Asset Manager to be Hungary's largest rental program, since there was a government secretary who did not pass through the system of taking property from Hungarian people, renting back the property, adding that a window period was built into the system, where after a five-year term, the persons concerned could not buy their apartment back. These five years are about to expire, Mr Secretary of State, and while you can show some statistical growth in real wages, and I am pleased with that, I stress that I am glad that I am not against you, but I must say that in a five-year period, I would expect you to provide a statement of how many of the National Asset Manager's clients have been able to buy back your own property, Mr. Secretary of State. They don't have that statement, or if they do, they don't take pride in it, because the number of people who could get out of this mess is incredibly low. And why I'm talking about statistical magic, I'll share it with you. The reason for this is what is planned with the cafeteria system. It's an amazing, brutal intervention in market economy processes, I can't support any form of justification, especially, and I'll tell you who I think is behind it, and I really hope they can disprove me. So far, there has been a very positive set of figures for real wage increases, but, on the basis of current economic impacts, this is not expected to continue in the future. What does the government do? It narrows down the possibilities of cafeteria, actually forcing employers to sit down with the workers and incorporate into the basic wage what has been part of the cafeteria. What's the result statistically? The measurable increase in basic wages, because, Mr. Secretary, your statistics so far did not include cafeteria elements, at least in most of them they did not, so now they can use this simple technical trick to show that basic wage increases can be detected, while the employee has not been better off with a single penny. [[György Szilágyi: That's right!]] So I think it is amazing that the alleged increase in wages in Hungary in the coming years will be about this, which will be behind it, as the EU funds are no longer expected to be spinning, the internal economy seemed to start up, but then somehow we have not been able to understand with each other that a Hungarian rental program could spin the domestic economy by generating an amazing multiplier effect with domestic contractors, domestic suppliers and domestic raw materials, but we could not get to the point where we could make you understand that budgetary resources are also available in this draft, and these resources should be allocated here. What did we get as an answer? IT'S always been the answer to that. Another amazing claim is that you believe that the Hungarian people want to get their own property rather than live in a rental apartment. [[Peter Benő Banai nods.]] That's right, who is the man, or who is the normal man on earth who wouldn't seek his own property, let's say, against a lease? Only, Mr. State Secretary, there is 90 percent of Hungary, 90 percent of typical Hungarian living situations, where it is not possible for those affected to acquire new building or own property, but it would certainly be possible to start their lives in an affordable rental in Budapest or in a large city. What are you meeting with, which is also not answered by the draft budget? 130 and 150 thousand HUF rent, plus rent. Again, they don't have an answer for that, not even Airbnb regulation. As regards Uber, they have already shown their attitude towards sharing economy and a new type of XXI. How they can and cannot manage the economic achievements of the century. I very much hope that, at least in terms of Airbnb, they will finally move, sit at a table with the parties, a political club, instead of a means of banning them, to try to spoon these existing economic processes in a way that can be undertaken by the national economy. This may also be a flat-rate tax levied per room, after which the authority vegetration does not threaten the affected. The worst thing they do is they don't interfere in any way, and that's what's going on right now. [[15.40]] In Budapest, only in the capital city, the number of hotel accommodations is slowly reaching the number of hotel accommodations that are offered in quotes via Airbnb and various social sharing sites. So this is a very serious, very measurable economic sector. I am amazed at the fact that a government with such authority does not answer this question in its draft budget; it does not have modern answers. We have mentioned the question of 27 percent VAT many times. You're probably as tired of this as I am, because we've boxed on this issue so many times, I can't even count it. But there are also different lanes for 27 percent VAT. On the one hand, the price of child - rearing articles still holds this amazing, brutally high duration, this is untenable. In a country that dreams of a demographic turnaround and the Jobbik faction has been struggling to create this since 2010, it is unsustainable for the VAT period of child rearing articles 27 percent. If you look at this draft budget, my colleague Enikő Hegedűs is sitting in front of me, who has shown me where the 600-700 billion forints can be easily moved in this paper package, because they are either completely obscured or separated for completely pointless purposes, and I am not only thinking about government pyramid constructions here, but also simply about the reserves and foundations of ministries whose roles and functions cannot be seen from here. I could, of course, also bring up the National Security Fund and the provision of extraordinary government measures. We also see the government asking for a blank cheque that will be decided in government decisions, even though there would be no physical obstacle to calling Parliament together and deciding on these tens and hundreds of billions in the process. Secretary of State, I do not know how many events have occurred in the past, say, eight years, so since 2010, since Jobbik's faction has been here, which would have required this reserve at such a depth and at such an amount if there had been any force majeure or natural disaster. Fortunately for us, a fraction of this amount has always been sufficient. I think that we need a backup in the future, and this is clearly necessary, and that even at this level or half of it could be debated. This could therefore be the basis for a legitimate professional debate. One thing I cannot accept is that the government decides in decisions to spend this huge amount without leaving Parliament any control over this issue. I must also tell you that if we look forward to a demographic turnaround, there will be only a small number of family tax incentives that I otherwise support, especially with little support for the birth and upbringing of the first and second children, compared to, say, the level of support for families with three children. But obviously, let's not envy anyone. It would be positive if, in parallel, housing poverty and housing crises were overcome, 27 percent VAT and taxes on the poor. After all, it was not Jobbik's faction that promised to reduce the VAT rate increased from 20% to 25 percent, but then raised it to 27 percent at world record level. That promise wasn't for Jobbik. That's a promise I can only count on in the current government. I have to say that if you are looking for any population turnaround, it is not enough simply to increase the fertility rate, which I am rooting for, so while the base of women of childbearing age is constantly falling, Mr. Secretary of State has certainly seen that last year's number of live births has fallen again compared to the previous period. This is a national strategism that needs to be done; especially if we were to weigh in on emigration data, we would have a pretty amazing result. In this spirit, I find the draft budget unacceptable, and we look forward to clear answers to the proposals that serve not party interests, but national, strategic interests. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from the benches of Jobbik and LMP.]]
u2018-07-16-44	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Ms Zita Gurmai, MSZP Group.
u2018-07-16-45	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary. Fellow Members! Katalin Novak recently said that the government sees Hungarian families as national treasures. At least now we know why they're being robbed. Because while they talk about the need for more children, the numbers show that Fidesz spends less on supporting families. Family allowances, children, children and maternity allowances have been unchanged for 11 years next year. The overall framework that can be used for this will be reduced. The family allowance is almost HUF 5 billion less, almost HUF 800 million less, and the planned amount was cut by more than half a billion HUF. I mean, you're saying that more children should be born, but less money will be given. Baby bond reference amounts remain unchanged. What kind of two-faced and hypocritical attitude is that? However, family allowance is the only benefit that comes only after the number of children and is not dependent, for example, on income conditions. If Fidesz really wanted more children to be born, I'd raise the family allowance, raise the amount of child, child and child bonds. 'Cause it's a little short that you guys always refer to family tax incentives. A lot of families just don't make enough money to take advantage of family tax breaks. There are many families who have been destroyed by you, the Fidesz government. You, with György Matolcsy in the lead, were looking for grease on the destruction of foreign exchange lenders. You stole tens of thousands of savings from families in the Quaestor scandal. You want to kick tens of thousands of people out of the public sector right now. And you're cynically saying that you should take advantage of the family tax credit? You robbed the Hungarian families, and now you're letting them down again. You guys are just talking about the need for more children, but you're not spending any money on it, you're stealing the money. Shame on you! The Hungarian Socialist Party proposes that the family allowance increase by 50 percent. This is the true responsible attitude, this is the real solution, this is the national fate issue! Please support our proposal if you really care about families. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2018-07-16-46	Dear Parliament, I would like to ask my fellow Members, who would like to comment on the time frame. [[This is Bence of Turdai.]] I give the floor to Congressman Bence Tordai, Dialogue Group.
u2018-07-16-47	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. We should now debate what has changed in the draft budget compared to the original version submitted. The sad thing is that there is very little to do here, even though there would have been something to work on here for the ladies and gentlemen and the Ministry of Government. Because the original draft did not provide any answers to the fundamental questions facing Hungary today. He did not deal with the split society, he did not deal with the support of building the future, he did not deal with acute crises such as the housing crisis, the situation of foreign exchange creditors or, for example, the employment crisis. It is indicated that there are people who cannot find a job at all and that in other areas there is a shortage of labour so much that economic development is being reduced. Eight hundred and ten opposition amendments were tabled, of which zero were heard. And in Fidesz or KDNP, it seems that Parliament is not used to discuss issues, but is somehow distributed in back rooms, which would initially be public money, but these public funds seem to lose their public finances quite often here. Yet there were some changes that we typically learned from the press, and they tried to slip these stories under the radar. For example, we learned during the process that there is a change, an area for which more money is available. For example, the former Minister of the so-called Prime Minister, the leader of the Fidesz Party Foundation, was able to fight out so that his foundation could manage two and a half times. So Fidesz's party foundation gets 1500 million instead of 600 million in 2019. It is certain that a bright success, the safe growth of the Fidesz party foundation has already reached. There is hope for further safe growth here. On the one hand, it has been included in the salad law establishing the budget so far, that the salaries of ministers can rise up to HUF 5 million. But what is not conditional, but certainly rising, and not old, but a new element in this system, is that the Speaker, the so-called Speaker, will, if you prefer, pay nearly HUF 3 million. In fact, what you didn't notice here in the big heat is practically no one, that the so-called prime minister is sure of what will be worth 700 thousand forints a month more every month. [[15.50]] So Fidesz managed to bring this in as a change, this was initiated by the Fidesz-KDNP representatives, and while 30,000 people are demanding that the tens of thousands of families who make a living on a care fee, because they have to do 24-hour service with one of their sick children or their elderly parents, that they continue to bring home net HUF 52 812, that does not bother the honourable fellow Members. What bothers him is that the Fidesz government members haven't had enough. It does not bother them that there are more than 120,000 families here who are practically threatened with eviction, and they did not take seriously for a moment the opposition amendments that could have prevented the housing crisis, the homelessness, and that would avoid tragedies like those that happened last Wednesday in Inarcs. So nothing that matters to society, and everything that goes into their own pockets: it controls the attitude of the Fidesz-KDNP towards the draft budget and the amendments submitted to it. So everything that people need is still not rising. 3-4 percent of next year's value will be lost by public servant's salary, nursing fee, family allowance, child benefit, regular child protection allowance, substitute parental fee, support for child protection fund, support for social civil society organisations, sign language or support for homeless people, as well as the housing homes of autistic homes, mentally impaired people and people with multiple disabilities, or even community benefits, street social work, crisis centres and the Commissioner's start-ups, or even children's meals, in terms of their real value. If this is the budget for certain growth for you, congratulations. They are lucky that relatively few people are watching this debate. If I were to listen, then I would understand why, with extreme urgency, a law which would obviously punish politicians, in the first place, for insulting those in power, with two years in prison, because that is what they fear, and rightly so, let's add. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the ranks of DK, LMP, MSZP and Dialogue.]]
u2018-07-16-48	Thank you. Honourable Congressman, The House has an elected President, Hungary has a Prime Minister, and I did not speak to you as a so-called Member, Member. We expect more respect. Thank you. [[By raising Bence of Turdai's hand, he salutes.]] Dear Parliament, Mr Péter Ungár, Member of the LMP Group, has applied for a speech. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2018-07-16-49	Thank you for the opportunity. I would just like to briefly reflect on what Mr Varju has already said here on the budget, and this is a matter of home care. We know that the fact that the home care fee is finally recognised as an employment relationship would not be a significant source of funding from the budget. It would amount to about HUF 8-9 billion, which is a small amount of the budget. Nevertheless, they refused to settle this until today, even though they took the, let's move on! The Association and the CSEVE Group for a meeting. On the basis of these two groups' statements, a two-hour presentation on what the government had done for the people who cared for their sick relatives at home was humiliatingly heard or wanted to be heard; when they did not wish to hear it, they told this group, this civilian group, to come up next with a codified, proper proposal as to exactly what they wanted. I wouldn't have expected such cynicism from the Ministry of Human Resources, and surprisingly, Mr. Secretary of State Rétvári. We all know exactly what a codified amendment has been tabled by several opposition groups, including Jobbik, LMP and the Democratic Coalition. The point is that this humiliating HUF 47,000 should at least be raised to the minimum minimum wage level so that, if more patients are cared for at home, this should be multiplied. Everyone is so aware of this, what a concrete amendment they wanted, that in 2004 Fidesz had a similar amendment, which it submitted. So if they so badly wanted a codified amendment about what they wanted in the budget that they would have expected from civilians, then one of their fellow Members who had been in this profession for some time would have been asked and the 2004 would have been brought forward, and then it would have been possible to talk specifically about what they wanted. But instead, you are just stalling and refusing to settle an item of 8-9 billion, which would be addressed to Hungarian people who are the most vulnerable part of the year of the family and who are doing real work, against many who have not respected the meeting today. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the ranks of DK, LMP, MSZP and Dialogue.]]
u2018-07-16-50	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Antal Csárdi, LMP Group. To the extent possible, you have the floor.
u2018-07-16-51	Mr President, Dear House, Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen of the Government, You lied to people's eyes. When they said that Hungary's 2019 budget was a security budget, they lied to the people's eyes. At the NATO summit this weekend, Viktor Orbán said that Russia is a risk to NATO members from the east, Russia is a risk to the European Union, and I believe that we are a full member of both the European Union and NATO. And in this budget, you and this risky character want to build a Paks II. The 2019 budget includes an amount of approximately HUF 100 billion in order to achieve this. You can't have a safe budget, a safe policy with such a risky partner! You owe it to the Hungarian society, the Hungarian people, the Hungarian electorate not to engage in community with a group, nation and government that is now designated as risky by the Prime Minister. I think that they have this responsibility in any way, even if this position is expected to be refined, because we know precisely that Vladimir Putin has called Prime Minister Viktor Orbán to discuss the final in Moscow. But speaking of security, I think we need to talk about the situation of the military in 2019 and its financing. With regard to the budget of the military for 2019, the portfolio barely fulfils the 0.1 per cent increase in GDP required, but we know that it is not enough. In its alternative budget proposal, the LMP proposes to double this, so that by 2022 the level of protection could be achieved, the defence budget reaching 2% of GDP, which is not only NATO expectation, but also Hungary's fundamental interest. In addition, for the military to be modern, the XXI. It must become a force capable of reflecting on the challenges of the century, a thoughtful development concept is needed, not a communication catch such as the Zrinyi 2026 development plan. Our budget proposal would ensure the introduction of a new type of socially fair, early retirement pension scheme within the stock. For the stock, it is important for the salary base to rise uniformly to HUF 60,000, because we know very well that the drastic shortage of doctors and perspectives in the troops will continue. These should be changed and this should be financed in the budget. But since I have half a minute left, let me have a very simple thought. You say that this wage crisis, the opposition's argument here is virtually complete, does not exist. Well, I would like to say here, my fellow Members, that the basic salary for civil servants was raised to HUF 38 650 in 2005, with only HUF 2 000. My question is, how can they call a budget safe that hasn't followed inflation in 13 years? Thank you very much for the floor. [[Applause from the ranks of DK, LMP, MSZP and Dialogue.]]
u2018-07-16-52	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I ask my fellow Members, on the part of the factions, someone else wants to take the opportunity to speak. [[There's no candidate.]] I do not see an application; the debate is closed. I give the floor to Mr Péter Benő Banai, State Secretary, who wishes to respond to what has been said in the debate. I would like to inform the Secretary of State that you have a timeframe of 10 minutes. Here you go, Secretary of State. [[16.00]]
u2018-07-16-53	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, At this stage of the debate, we heard practically the same comments and opinions as the various groups explained in the general debate and in the detailed debate. That is why I am forced to argue with some statements and to express my regret when I say that many statements from opposition benches have been made that are not supported by facts. One of the findings in the next year's draft budget law was that early planning would make the budget unsubstantiated, and that macroeconomic figures could develop differently, so this budget is unpredictable. In fact, I would like to say that next year's draft budget law is the fourth bill submitted by the government for the spring session of the Parliament, which is expected to be adopted well before the start of the calendar year. I think that this early budget has stood the test of time in recent years, that we can also remember the figures for 2016 or 17 and that I think that it is an advantage for all economic operators that, in parallel with the adoption of the budget, they will also be familiar with the expected tax rules. In fact, it is not true that we do not know the facts of 2017. We know that instead of the planned deficit target of 2.4 per cent of GDP, the deficit became 2 per cent, we know that the growth of the Hungarian economy was well above the EU average, 4 per cent, and we know that the government debt ratio in any comparison! Let's see, it's reduced. In the same way, the expected processes for 2018 are well known, so allow me to argue with Congresswoman Andrea Varga-Damm with regard to, for example, the situation of growth or the budget, and to say that, following the growth turn in 2013, the Hungarian economy has achieved an average growth of 3.6 percent over the last four years, in the previous four years. Congresswoman said we don't know this year's growth rate. The reasons for the bill submitted include the so-called chapter volumes related to the bill as well as the government's legislative deadline to the Parliament. In this year's growth, let me say that the OECD, for example, calculates an increase of 4.4 per cent, the government will find 4.3 per cent, but we will find a number of analytical institutes who consider this year's growth to be realistic over 4 per cent. This is the base on which we have built the budget and in which we calculate a 4.1 percent increase. I agree with the various speakers that every macroeconomic number cannot be accurately stated. If someone from the opposition benches knows what level the euro is going to reach in two weeks, a month from now or next year, it is either a genius or a magician, and I suggest that you make futures on the stock exchange. I think that in a market economy, when the exchange rate is floating freely, we can only use technical assumptions, and I would recall that at the beginning of the general debate, the forint was weaker than it is now, and I would also recall that no one from the Hungarian economy has been able to say any fundamentals from the last few weeks that would make this exchange rate change country specific. We need to see the policy of the world's large central banks, see the exchange rate changes in the region, and also see how these changes can affect the situation of the Hungarian economy. Due to these factors, which cannot yet be accurately quantified, we have calculated the reserves raised next year's budget. We are also preparing for the impact of waves from the many mentioned world economies, whether they are financial markets or real economies, on the budget. Therefore, I continue to think that the government did well when it raised the level of reserves, and if the gambling on the Jobbik side again, let me tell you that Jobbik has tabled an amendment of HUF 789,7 billion in the amount of the increased extraordinary government measures of HUF 165 billion. Member Bence Tordai also spoke about sustainability and responsibility from the dialogue. In fact, the representatives of the Dialogue submitted an amendment of HUF 446.5 billion to the central reserve of HUF 165 billion. These proposals, therefore, did not just eliminate the level of the central reserve, but made a much larger number of proposals, which I do not consider to be a responsible budget proposal. It is possible to talk about the areas where additional resources would be allocated, but these proposals have just pointed irresponsiblely, even in a technically and mathematically incomprehensible way, to cover the surpluses. In addition to covering these reserves, we expect that this increase of more than 4 per cent will still give rise to additional expenditure in most areas. Family support: there are, indeed, family support items that do not increase from 2018 to 19 but, please, let us look at what is growing and see what can be achieved by family support in the form of tax relief or direct support. The HUF 2000 billion may be exceeded if the Parliament adopts the proposed budget law. It is also recalled that the tax allowance for families with two children is increased to HUF 40,000 per month, which means a discount of HUF 480,000 for the families concerned. As a result of this increase, further changes are expected in the tax area. VAT and VAT on all milk can be reduced to 5 per cent, public transfers are exempt from the financial transaction fee up to HUF 20,000, the rate of social contribution tax may again be reduced by 2 percentage points depending on the evolution of real earnings, and I consider it essential that the proposal to only pay personal income tax from 2019 on employment and other taxes not to the employer or the employee to assist in the employment of older workers. Inflation has been discussed many times. The bill before you contains the fact that pensions preserve their real value, even if inflation were to be higher, and we will expect to pay the pension premium next year, as we consider economic growth to be more than 3.5 percent realistic. The salaries of soldiers, law enforcement workers and health workers are also increased, and wage increases can also be made in the case of government officials and municipal civil servants. Education and health are often addressed in sectoral surpluses. Thanks to the amendments discussed by the Honourable Parliament, the education sector can manage more than HUF 18 billion in 2019 than in 2018. Compared to 2010, the increase was HUF 606.1 billion. They will not be able to show statistics showing expenditure in the education sector at a decreasing level in real terms. I stress that it is possible to look at the facts since 2010 and compare next year's expenditure in the education sector with them. In the healthcare area, the surplus is HUF 101 billion, in addition to the already mentioned wage increases, the sector has additional resources in a number of other areas. The surplus is HUF 505.2 billion compared to 2010. So when you're talking about making sectors impossible, I'm asking you to look at the facts and look at what these numbers look like in an international comparison. While aid per capita in the health field decreased before 2010 on the basis of OECD statistics, it increased after 2010 and after 2009 on the basis of OECD statistics. Defence, security: We can talk about a surplus of HUF 156 billion in both the defence and home affairs sectors. We are talking about surpluses that guarantee that the security we have achieved in recent years will also characterize the Hungarian budget in 2019. I believe that this budget will allow us to implement tax reductions, provide additional expenditure, and, in addition to the reserves, achieve a substantial deficit reduction. We are calculating a 1.8 percent deficit, and this makes a significant contribution to further reducing public debt. I therefore believe that the bill, which was put in place during the debate, serves the development of the Hungarian economy as a whole, serving at the same time to ensure that the state's financial indicators are well developed, and at the same time it can mean a substantial step forward for the Hungarian families, whether in tax areas or in expenditure areas, to look at the expected changes. On this basis, I would like to thank the Parliament for its work, for its responsible attitude in the debate on the proposals for amendment, and I would very much like to propose that the budget be adopted. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-07-16-54	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, The decision on the draft amendments will be taken in the course of today's decisions. Dear Parliament, Now it's 4:10 p.m., and I'm ordering a five-minute break because we're back on schedule from 4:15 p.m. With all due respect to my fellow Members, do not leave the Chamber too much, these five minutes will pass quickly. We'll start work at exactly 4:15 p.m. Thank you very much. [[16.10]] (Recess: 16.10 16.15) President: István Jakab Note: Dr. Lajos Szűcs and Sándor Szabó)
u2018-07-16-55	Dear Parliament, [[It's ringing.]] My fellow Members, please take your seats. We will continue our work with decisions. My fellow Members, please check that your card has been placed in the voting machine. If you take your place, we will begin our work. Dear Parliament, Following is T/503 on Hungary's central budget for 2019. Decision on a proposal for a summary amendment to bill No 1. Draft amending proposal of the Committee on Budgets T/503/844. T/503/845. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Dear Parliament, Now it's time for the decisions. I would remind you that in our previous meeting, we decided, by way of derogation from house rules, that the leader of any political group should not be more than ten, the House Rule 48 of the Resolution. It may submit a request pursuant to paragraphs 2 and 4 of this Article. The leaders of the opposition groups made use of the possibility of requesting a reservation of the amendments. We decide on these by group of representatives according to the order given by the faction leaders. The amendments requested for reservation can be accepted side by side. First, we decide to maintain the amendments proposed by the MSZP Group. Amendment No 476 tabled by Ildikó Bangóné Borbély. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 50 votes in favour, 118 against and without abstention. Amendment 704 proposed by Bertalan Tóth and his fellow Members. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 49 votes in favour, 120 against and without abstention. Amendment 705 proposed by Bertalan Tóth and his fellow Members. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 49 votes in favour, 120 against and without abstention. Amendment 707 proposed by Bertalan Tóth and his fellow Members. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 49 votes in favour, 121 against and without abstention. Amendment 708 proposed by Bertalan Tóth and his fellow Members. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 47 votes in favour, 121 against and without abstention. [[16.20]] Amendment 710 proposed by Bertalan Tóth and his fellow Members. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 49 votes in favour, 122 against and without abstention. Amendment 346 is proposed by Ildikó Bangóné Borbély. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 49 votes in favour, 122 against and without abstention. Amendment No 370 tabled by Csaba Tóth. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 48 votes in favour, 120 against and 1 abstention. Amendment No 398 tabled by Lajos Korózs and his fellow Members. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 49 votes in favour, 120 against and without abstention. Amendment 459 proposed by Bertalan Tóth and his fellow Members. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 49 votes in favour, 122 against and without abstention. We are now deciding to maintain the amendments tabled by the DK Group. Amendment 372 tabled by Bertalan Tóth. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 49 votes in favour, 121 against and without abstention. Amendment No 391 tabled by László Varga. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 49 votes in favour, 122 against and without abstention. Amendment No 392 tabled by László Varga. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 50 votes in favour, 122 against and without abstention. Amendment 395 is proposed by László Varga. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 49 votes in favour, 121 against and without abstention. Amendment 453 tabled by Ms Kunhalmi. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 50 votes in favour, 122 against and without abstention. Amendment 454 was tabled by Ms Kunhalmi. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 51 votes in favour, 121 against and without abstention. Amendment 456 was tabled by Ms Kunhalmi. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 50 votes in favour, 122 against and without abstention. Amendment 457 was tabled by Ms Kunhalmi. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 49 votes in favour, 121 against and without abstention. Amendment 458 tabled by Ms Kunhalmi. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 50 votes in favour, 121 against and without abstention. Amendment 551 is proposed by Ildikó Bangóné Borbély. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 50 votes in favour, 121 against and without abstention. We are now deciding to maintain the amendments tabled by the Dialogue Group. Amendment 140 is proposed by Tamás Harangozó. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 50 votes in favour, 119 against and without abstention. Amendment 368 tabled by Csaba Tóth. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 49 votes in favour, 119 against and 1 abstention. Amendment No 388 tabled by Csaba Tóth. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 49 votes in favour, 121 against and 1 abstention. Amendment 422 tabled by Sándor Burány. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 50 votes in favour, 121 against and without abstention. Amendment 455, tabled by Tamás Melár. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 50 votes in favour, 120 against and no abstentions. Amendment 470 is proposed by Szabó Timea. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 51 votes in favour, 120 against and no abstentions. Amendment 497 proposed by Bence Tordai and Olivio Kocsis-Cake. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 6 votes in favour, 152 against and 11 abstentions. Amendment 525 is proposed by Timea Szabó and his fellow Members. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 26 votes in favour, 121 against and 24 abstentions. Amendment 527 is proposed by Timea Szabó and his fellow Members. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 50 votes in favour, 121 against and without abstention. Amendment 532 proposed by Timea Szabó and his fellow Members. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 24 votes in favour, 122 against and 24 abstentions. [[16.30]] We are now deciding to maintain the amendments tabled by the LMP Group. Amendment 501 proposed by Antal Csárdi and his fellow Members. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 50 votes in favour, 122 against and without abstention. Amendment 522 proposed by Antal Csárdi and his fellow Members. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 50 votes in favour, 122 against and without abstention. Amendment 528 proposed by Antal Csárdi and his fellow Members. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 50 votes in favour, 122 against and without abstention. Amendment 552 proposed by Antal Csárdi and his fellow Members. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 49 votes in favour, 122 against and without abstention. Amendment 556 was proposed by Antal Csárdi and his fellow Members. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 50 votes in favour, 122 against and without abstention. Amendment 598 tabled by Antal Csárdi and his fellow Members. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 50 votes in favour, 122 against and without abstention. Amendment 544, proposed by Antal Csárdi and his fellow Members. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 49 votes in favour, 122 against and without abstention. Amendment 607 is proposed by Antal Csárdi and his fellow Members. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 49 votes in favour, 123 against and without abstention. Amendment 629 proposed by Antal Csárdi and his fellow Members. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 49 votes in favour, 122 against and without abstention. Amendment 825 is proposed by Antal Csárdi and his fellow Members. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 49 votes in favour, 122 against and without abstention. We are now deciding to maintain the amendments tabled by the Jobbik Group. Amendment No 104 proposed by Tamás Sneider and János Stummer. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 52 votes in favour, 120 against and no abstentions. Amendment 113 is proposed by Mrs Loránt Hegedűs and his fellow Members. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 51 votes in favour, 121 against and without abstention. Amendment 169 is proposed by Mrs Loránt Hegedűs and Mr Ander. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 50 votes in favour, 122 against and without abstention. Amendment 203 is proposed by István Szávay. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 33 votes in favour, 128 against and 8 abstentions. Amendment 325 is proposed by Dániel Z. Kárpát. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 51 votes in favour, 121 against and without abstention. Amendment 335 is proposed by György Lukács. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 49 votes in favour, 122 against and without abstention. Amendment 345 was proposed by Mrs Loránt Hegedűs. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 49 votes in favour, 122 against and without abstention. Amendment 347 tabled by Gergely Farkas and Brenner Koloman. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 50 votes in favour, 120 against and no abstentions. Amendment 438 tabled by Tamás Sneider and his fellow Members. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 50 votes in favour, 122 against and without abstention. Amendment 807 was proposed by Adam Mirkóczki and his fellow Members. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 51 votes in favour, 120 against and no abstentions. As the Parliament has not maintained an amendment, we are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the Committee on Budgets T/503/844. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 123 votes to 49, with no abstentions. Dear Parliament, Under the provisions of the Stability Act and the House Rules, the Speaker of Parliament is T/503/854. It shall send the proposal for a single budget law to the President of the Budgetary Council. The Council shall inform the Speaker of Parliament within three days of the 25th Stability Act. § 3 of the Opinion. In line with our adopted agenda, the final vote will take place on our Friday meeting. Dear Parliament, Now, at 4:39 p.m., we move on to interpellation negotiations. [[16.40]] Dear Parliament, Gábor Staudt, representative of Jobbik, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of the Interior:. What does the Hungarian Government do to ensure that the protection of the EU's southern borders is not solely on the hands of domestic taxpayers? It's an address. By responding to the interpellation, the Prime Minister appointed the Prime Minister's Chief of Staff, Antal Rogán, who is responsible and competent according to the subject. State Secretary Csaba Dömötör responds to the interpellation at the request of the Minister. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2018-07-16-56	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Secretary of State... I think it's strange because I've submitted the interpellation to the Minister of the Interior, but I'm confident that Csaba Dömötör will also give me meaningful answers. [[Miklós Soltész: You'll get it, don't be afraid.]] I think that the issue is also very important, not only for us, but also for Hungarian taxpayers. Yeah. In the conclusions of the European Council of 28 June 2018, we read that it intends to place greater emphasis on the effective protection of the EU's external borders with EU financial support and reminded the Member States of their obligations and strengthened these tasks. This is very nice and good, but we expect something concrete to come out of this in the future, because Jobbik has always stood up for the protection of the borders of the European Union and Hungary, especially for the protection of the southern borders, the borders of the Schengen area. Although we have always supported the strictest border protection, the building of fences, and at the time when the independent border guard was terminated, we spoke against this, and we have spoken about the need for an independent border guard since then, and Jobbik, as soon as it is possible, will also try to bring back the independent border guard. However, in addition to physical protection, we cannot forget that you will finance hundreds of billions of HUF of investments that have to be made at the moment with the Hungarian taxpayers' money in terms of border protection and fence building. We can also say that at the moment the protection and security of the richer Western European Union citizens should also be financed by Hungarian taxpayers. We do not know the exact amount yet, but, as I said, hundreds of billions of HUF is the amount that Hungary has already spent on border protection, and we have heard promises from the government that the ironing of these amounts in the European Union will happen, or at least some of them, but there is no news of exactly what the Hungarian Government has done to make this happen and to pay these amounts. I must say that this concerns not only Hungary, because there are not only borders in Hungary that should extend to the protection of the maritime borders in addition to the external borders of the Union, as well as the land borders. That is why I am asking Mr Secretary of State when it is expected that the European Union will reimburse Hungary for the costs of border protection, and I also look forward to what the Hungarian Government has done and what it intends to do in the future, so that this money can reach the Hungarian budget as soon as possible. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2018-07-16-57	Thank you. State Secretary Csaba Dömötör responds to the interpellation. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2018-07-16-58	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, I got a little hit in the ear with two sentences. On the one hand, he said that Jobbik has always stood up for the protection of borders and said that they have fully supported the protection of borders. [[Márton Gyöngyösi: So much for a meaningful answer!]] I would like to quote your former party president, who said in the camera of a television, the fence was a huge failure, the failure of the government's immigration policy. The fence has not yet been built, but it has become apparent that it is unfit to defend Hungary. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. [[Adam Mirkóczki: Now say the following sentence.]] That was the Jobbik's position. It's hard to clean up what you think about this issue. One thing is certain, a leader who has left Jobbik since then said that the issue of the border closure was even raised at their Presidency meeting, where, by the way, you rejected it, the proposal. If that were not enough, Jobbik also drilled the anti-quota referendum and then did not vote for the amendment of the Fundamental Law after that referendum. However, unlike Jobbik, the government has consistently advocated the protection of borders, which is why it decided to build the southern border lock. This cost more than 200 billion taxpayers forints, and this border lock has fulfilled the expectations and works effectively. If the border were not closed, 4-5 thousand immigrants could enter Hungary every day and move on to Western Europe. It is because of this basic position that 8,000 armed law enforcement workers are defending the Hungarian borders, and they are also taking part in the protection of borders south of us, and we are also helping other countries. Our basic position is that Hungary protects not only itself but also the EU as a whole, the European borders when it builds a border lock and protects borders, which is why we believe that the European Union should also contribute to the financing of this. You said that there was no news of what the government was doing in this matter, so I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, as was publicly revealed, the Prime Minister sent a letter to the President of the European Commission in August 2017 and asked Brussels to contribute to border protection costs. A few months later, the Commission representative indicated their willingness to hold consultations, which are ongoing. The Ministry of Interior has drawn up a tender, so these negotiations are progressing well. In addition, at the last EU summit, the government indicated this intention. Our aim remains to ensure that Brussels contributes as much as possible to border protection expenditure, and otherwise this is not a special consideration, this is not a special request, because other Member States have already financed border protection or even border protection investments. And, by the way, we cannot go without saying that there are quotes such as those mentioned by you, unfortunately, the EU budget does not reflect border protection aspects, for example, they are typically talking about border management, not border protection, otherwise spending much more on migration-related purposes. So in this debate, we still have to stand up for the interests of the country. You asked when it would be expected that the Union would pay. In this regard, you should interpel the officials and decision-makers of the European Union. One thing is certain, the government will do everything in its power to ensure that the European Union pays as much as possible, regardless of what Jobbik's current position is. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-07-16-59	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. I ask Congressman to accept the Secretary of State's answer. You have the floor.
u2018-07-16-60	Secretary of State, I can't accept it. You have the opportunity to speak in the European Council, and I cannot interpel, I think, that is what you know legally about these forums. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Béla Kovács, please.]] You obviously know he's lying, because Gábor Vona said he was unfit for the FADA, especially with the border guard not there. [[Shows by hand:]] So they lifted the wire, and people went under it. It was in the media. And even though your home radical party, formally founded by László Toroczkai, has reportedly been pressuring your cabinet office and not sitting up to the lies of the party that makes up press appearances, which you probably write, so you know it's a lie. As well as the fact that we did not vote for the amendment of the basic law at first because the settlement bonds had not yet been issued; when they did so this year, we immediately voted in favour of the amendment of the basic law. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Explain!]] So in this way, unfortunately, I cannot accept this meaningless answer. Thank you. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2018-07-16-61	Dear Parliament, The congressman didn't accept the Secretary of State's answer. I'm asking you to accept that. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 115 votes in favour, 40 against and without abstentions. Dear Parliament, Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, a representative of the MSZP, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Human Resources:. Toxic food, carcinogenic drugs? Why doesn't the government guarantee the security of the Hungarian people? It's an address. Congresswoman Ildikó Bangóné Borbély has the floor. [[16.50]]
u2018-07-16-62	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Dear fellow Members, I would like to return to my speech before the agenda, because then the Secretary of State gave me an answer that already in March the authorities and the Hungarian government knew that food contaminated with Listeria bacteria had entered the shops in Hungary. I would like to ask the Secretary of State what took me until June and July, and the public was not informed of this until June and July. He told himself that they knew about this for months, of course, but there was a parliamentary election, and they didn't want a scandal that they couldn't protect the Hungarian population from contaminated food in the interest of public safety and security. The other very important topic and the main topic. In Hungary today 3 million adults suffer from high blood pressure, according to the data of KSH, in 2016, people died from two thirds of cardiovascular and cancer. In recent years, there has been a significant increase in mortality in Hungary. Meanwhile, in June we read the first news that in Hungary, the pharmaceutical market had 27 types of antihypertensive drugs that contain a very high risk substance that is carcinogenic. This carcinogen is valsartan. About 200,000 patients are known to take this medicine daily, and the authorities first silenced it, and later a briefing was published, but the Pharmacy Association and the apothecary did not respond for a very long time because they could not decide whether they would stand the price of withdrawn medicines. Mr. Secretary. How can it happen in Hungary today that patients are not informed about the medicines they are taking, what toxic medicines they are taking? Or would you like to ask, Mr. Secretary, whether they die of high blood pressure or cancer? It doesn't matter because it ends the same way? Secretary of State, I would like to ask you at what screening stations these patients, who have been taking these toxic medicines for months or years, have received a full-scale free examination of whether or not they have cancer. Who pays for the costs that the patients, the pharmacists, and, above all, the Hungarian families who are affected by this? Did the state and the Ministry start an indemnification against the company, or did the state file a complaint against this company itself? Mr. Secretary. This weekend we read the shocking news that 50 percent of the medicines on the market in Hungary come from the Indian and Chinese markets. Is there any other medicine you know might contain such a toxic substance? Mr. Secretary. Give me a reassuring answer [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] That there are no more people in danger in Hungary today is enough for these 200,000 people! I look forward to your reply, Mr. Secretary.
u2018-07-16-63	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2018-07-16-64	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, Allow me to start with a chronology first, because on 29 June it was the Hungarian pharmaceutical authority, the National Institute of Pharmacy and Food Health, which noted that there was an active substance in certain antihypertensive medicines that could be dangerous for Hungarian patients, and obviously for all procedures, so the most important objective is the safety of patients. It was therefore the first of the European Union countries to be suspended in Hungary on 29 June, as was the case in a few other countries that had noticed this problem themselves, and thus in Ireland, Spain, England and France, the marketing of medicinal products with such active substances from a similar location was also suspended. In this case, the pharmaceutical authority has to examine more: on the one hand, how the medicinal product to which this defective active substance has been used has a health risk, and if it is withdrawn from circulation, its marketing could be a supply problem, as you said, for many people these antihypertensive medicines are a daily need. Following the suspension of this marketing in Hungary on 29 June, the European Union, the so-called European Medicines Agency, provided for its withdrawal several days later, four days after the action of the Hungarian authority, so later than the Hungarian signal had already been made. As a result, such measures not only took place in Hungary, not only in the four countries I have already listed, but also in Austria, Belgium, Cyprus, the Czech Republic, Denmark, Estonia, Finland, France, Greece, the Netherlands, Croatia, Poland, Lithuania, Germany, Norway, Italy, Portugal, Spain, Sweden, Slovakia and Slovenia. We can say and thank you, I think, for the colleagues of the Hungarian pharmaceutical supervision, that, within the European Union, patients were first protected in Hungary from any kind of problem, no matter what the negative consequences of such an active substance flooding the entire European Union. We can be proud of the Hungarian pharmaceutical authority, we can be proud of the Hungarian supervision, that it was one of the first to notice this. The professional college issued a resolution which you may know, as it was published weeks ago, in which it was said that there is a higher medical risk of sudden discontinuation, which is why it has been called up here and in other countries that, despite the presence of contaminants, there is a much greater risk if there is no substitute medicine. In addition, the apothecary also reminds patients of this when they turn to them, so this is how the pharmacy-level product recall is carried out. By the way, I can add to chronology that on 5 July the European Commission decided on a full review. From the very first moment, all patients are kept informed. From the very first moment, every pharmacy has been kept informed. Pharmacies, as reported in the news, will take these medicines back in a week or July 30, during August, refund the price of the patients, return these medicines in unopened unused boxes, and the pharmacists will be aware, as I said, of the replacement product or the use of another medicine. So, honourable Member, I think that, although there are obviously a wide variety of active substances in the pharmaceutical trade on a global market, and as you can see, dozens of these active substances have come to countries, Hungarian patients can feel safe because Hungary, together with four other countries, was the fastest able to respond to this threat. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-07-16-65	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. I ask the congresswoman, she accepts the Secretary of State's answer. You have the floor.
u2018-07-16-66	Thank you, Mr. President. I don't accept the answer. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Why?]] You know, Secretary of State, in this case, you're just as squealing and laying low as you were at the time of the Chernobyl nuclear disaster. [[Defiance, an uproar in the ranks of the ruling parties. Intruders from the ranks of the ruling parties.]] we're talking about something so serious. Let me read you one thing. Allow me, Mr. Secretary. The Spanish, when they checked the company, found out the following. [[Noise, murmur.]] The product is contaminated with nitrosamine, an organic compound formed as a by-product in industrial processes. It's a highly toxic carcinogen. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] So much so that it is used in laboratory rat studies for cancer. Mr. Secretary, at least don't be proud of yourselves. How many years have Hungarian people been poisoned? And, you know, you said that two unopened boxes could be returned to people. [[The president's ringing again.]] Why does it have to be unopened and what does it have to do with that drug being opened or not? What can you do to help him take two boxes back, while he might have been poisoned by 200,000 people for years?
u2018-07-16-67	[[It's ringing.]] I'm waiting for your answer, Congresswoman.
u2018-07-16-68	Mr. Secretary, at least be a little more modest. I can't accept it.
u2018-07-16-69	Dear Parliament, The congresswoman did not accept the Secretary of State's reply. I'm asking you to accept that. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 114 votes in favour, 36 against. [[Miklós Soltész says something to Ildikó Bangóné Borbély as he enters the benches of the MSZP. An uproar in the ranks of the opposition. Miklós Soltész will return to his seat as Secretary of State. Dr. Agnes Vadai: You'd better go back. The president's ringing the bell. Crying out. Miklós Soltész: Fairer... Dr. Ágnes Vadai: Modest! They're feeding my mother the same medicine!]] Dear Parliament, We'll get back to work. Please give our fellow Member the opportunity to speak. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: Will you come and beat me next time? Dr. Agnes Vadai: Great Christian Democrat!]] Dear Parliament, Gergely Arató, a representative of DK, has submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Human Resources: It's an address. It is for Congressman Gergely Arató to take the floor.
u2018-07-16-70	Mr President, I have to start by saying that I find it deeply outrageous that Mr. Secretary of State is coming to the interpelling Member and yelling in his face. This is not acceptable in this Parliament either! I did it because Mr. President failed to warn me. [[Uproar, interruptions.]] Dear Secretary of State, My question concerns the fact that you said here in this House during a previous debate that the system of public textbook provision is not challenged by parents, students or teachers. [[17.00]] The Secretary of State may have missed it. [[It's an intervention from Jobbik's ranks.]] that the most important among the demands of teachers and educators and student organisations is the possibility of free textbooking [[Interjection from the ranks of the governing parties: Election!]] Restore. Now the Parental Sound Association also asked the parents, according to the survey, 85 percent of the parents believe that the exclusivity of state textbooks and their often poor quality further undermines the quality of education. Many speak directly of a critical situation in the quality of textbooks, with three quarters of them saying that it discourages teachers from choosing their textbooks and teaching methods. Often, textbooks ordered by the school are not used, who knows how many million HUF worth of textbooks are written in schools without being used because they are useless. According to the feedback, it is also clear that 88 percent of parents would support the restoration of free textbook selection. [[It's constant noise.]] We also need to know that the system advertised as a free textbook is actually an opportunity to use a library book. According to 70 percent of parents, this limits children to learning, since they cannot highlight the essence of the textbooks, take notes, and return the books at the end of the academic year even if they want to use them for further preparation, even for graduation. I must add that, despite this, the state of the loanbooks is usually such that it makes it difficult for children to learn. On this basis, I would like to ask the Secretary of State what is preventing the re-election of the free textbooks from being forced into the loanbook system, if this is otherwise not good for the students or for the schools. Why can't they produce textbooks of quality that can be used in public textbook provision? The current textbook system is rejected by teachers, students and parents. Then why are you pushing this? Who's that for? What is the character of public education to whom this is beneficial? And finally, do you know the word we were wrong? [[Dr. Pál Völner: You were wrong! Interjection: You're wrong! Applause in the opposition benches.]]
u2018-07-16-71	Thank you. Dear Parliament, State Secretary Bence Rétvári responds to the interpellation. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary. [[György Szilágyi: Apologize for the Secretary of State.]]
u2018-07-16-72	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, At the moment, in 2018, teachers can choose from 3350 textbooks when you are former State Secretary, 3475 textbooks were selected [[Deterioration in the pro-government benches. Dr. Ágnes Vadai: That's definitely more! Intercoms from the opposition benches.]] So you think this 3.7 percent decrease is a withdrawal of full textbook freedom. [[Intercoms from the opposition benches.]] I came to you with an earlier statement, and you guys struggled to read the articles of Népszabadság later, so I set up the Népszabadság. What did you say earlier? When you made a change to the textbook selection, according to the professionals there, the number of optional textbooks was reduced by 30 percent! , then you argued in favour of this proposal, said that the purpose of the amendment is to enable students to learn from high quality textbooks. So, the socio-liberal narrowing, the quality of narrowing [[Intercoms from the ruling parties.]] What the national government is doing is undemocratic; it is true that you have allegedly reduced the choice by 30 percent, and then, according to the profession, schools, students and their parents were the losers of this change. [[It's constant noise.]] But at the same press conference or on occasion, you spoke about the subject that you have now brought as a second subject, namely the system of loanbooks. What you have just said is that it is not in the best interest of the students, I quote: in the case of the provision of textbooks with free textbooks, we have been solving this situation with loanbooks since January, and you took pride in this situation in 2007, as a result, honourable Member. [[There's a grumble in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] So when you take such measures, it's professional [[Intercoms from the opposition.]] Not if you don't. But it is also clear why you always bring this issue up from time to time: because this means very serious money for you. If you look at the results of textbook production, textbook manufacturing companies that had sold textbooks to families before, how much profit they could make from this, the profit they had been able to produce for years is over HUF 10 billion, and it was obviously painful for the first time when the Fidesz-KDNP government reduced the cost of textbooks by 40 percent, as profits decreased. We can remember the major progress you have made on textbooks, which was the sale of the National Book Publisher, and that, no, it was one of the drivers of the privatisation of textbook publishing, the person who had previously been the head of Ferenc Gyurcsány's Perfekt company. [[Moors and interrogations from the ruling parties.]] who previously trained in Gyurcsány's company immediately appeared in the National Book Publisher as the wind of privatisation [[Intercoms, continuous noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] You've waved the National Book Publisher, honourable Member. And even though it's been a few years, when it comes to publishing textbooks, you're still scolding and scolding the textbooks developed by the public textbook publisher. [[Intercoms from the opposition.]] [[Intercoms from the opposition.]] And they want us to restore the old good privatized and ten billion-dollar profit-making system. (Intercoms from the opposition. ) We do not want that, Mr honourable Member, because we want to look at the benefit of students rather than the profit in publishing textbooks. We have developed a development system similar to that in Finland, which has developed textbooks with the participation of teachers and students that more than one million students now receive for free. And it is amusing, honourable Member, that you are bringing forward a research to criticize this, according to which 85 percent of parents would like to pay for textbooks. [[Defiance in the ranks of the ruling parties. Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: That's your opinion, yes!]] Is it really possible to take you seriously if you say that 85 percent of parents would like to put 10-20,000 forints in the pockets of all Gyurcsány acquaintances at the beginning of the school year from the tuition fees? I don't think that's believable, honourable Member. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] So the free public textbook system remains. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-07-16-73	Thank you for the Secretary of State's reply. I'll ask the congressman to accept the Secretary of State's answer. You have the floor.
u2018-07-16-74	Dear Secretary of State, This answer cannot be accepted, of course, because you are once again very far from the ground of reality. [[There's a grumble in the ranks of the ruling parties. Dr. Bence Rétvári: Népszabadság!]] Of course, parents don't want to pay for textbooks, they want to pay for good quality textbooks for their children. [[Intercoms from the ranks of the governing parties, including: We too!]] It's something you can learn from. The changes you quoted were designed to make the textbooks that children receive good, but you nationalized the textbook system by trying to produce the textbooks with the state, which doesn't work. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: It worked for decades!]] You're referring to the numbers, but you're forgetting that from the three thousand-something hundred textbooks that parents, I'm sorry, the schools, almost a thousand of them have expired their licenses, and you're not even willing to discuss their extension, you're not telling the truth about that either. Dear Secretary of State, There were times when the state thought that it was better at everything and that it could produce everything better, only this system failed. [[Intercoms from the pro-government benches.]] I suggest that you take note of this in the textbooks and give it to Paul Királyhegyi at Stalin [[The president's ringing the bell.]] The system did not work. Stop. Stop it! Stop. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. [[Deterioration in opposition benches.]] Thank you very much. [[Intercoms from government parties, a round of applause from the opposition.]]
u2018-07-16-75	Thank you. Dear Parliament, The congressman didn't accept the Secretary of State's answer. I'm asking you to accept that. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 115 votes in favour, 40 votes against and no abstentions. Dear Parliament, Lóránt László Keresztes, representative of the LMP, has submitted an interpellation to the Minister for Innovation and Technology: It's an address. Congressman László Keresztes has the floor.
u2018-07-16-76	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, I would like to talk about a simple policy issue, a policy problem, which I think is visible and understandable to all of us, and I hope that it will not be the past eight years or the omissions of the past 16 years. In particular, I would like to talk about the transport problems of the Balaton region. This is a very, very long time unsolved issue, despite the recent developments. This issue could not be dealt with either by this government, could not provide meaningful, adequate answers, or by the governments of the past, perhaps there is no debate in this. We know that the Balaton region mainly operates as a metropolitan agglomeration here in the tourist season, and in this connection we can say that unfortunately we do not have the transport conditions that can meet this challenge. So we see huge problems and huge bottlenecks both in terms of access to the region and in terms of intra-regional transport within the region. There have been developments in recent years, especially the development of the southern coastal railway, which has indeed happened. [[17.10]] At the same time, this huge investment did not bring any hope, since it did not significantly decrease in driving time or restore legitimate expectations in terms of comfort. Thus, the journey time from Budapest was reduced by 5-10 minutes, but in terms of comfort we can say that there are no adequate numbers of air-conditioned railway wagons and there are no sufficient numbers of rolling stock for the carriage of bicycles. We can say, and this is a very, very serious problem, that the rail development of the north coast is clearly delayed, and unfortunately there is no accurate information on when this will become a reality, but we already know that this planned HUF 23 billion development will take place with significantly smaller technical and technical content. So we can already see that this already long, long, late, slippery investment will also take place with technical content that will not be able to meet the needs of the region. In this very strong context, therefore, in the context of the lack of rail transport, it can be concluded that the road network is not only extremely poor in quality, but there is enormous congestion in the roads and road networks of the region of Lake Balaton. So my specific questions in this regard are as follows. When will there be regular, good quality rail transport on the north coast? When will there be enough air-conditioned railway wagon and bicycle wagon? When will the first-class roads be renovated fairly in the area of Lake Balaton? When will the bike route be renovated or when will they start to build related bicycle roads, which can be used not only in the area of Lake Balaton, around Lake Balaton? I very much hope that the competent government politician will provide us with appropriate professional responses and not party policy responses. Thank you.
u2018-07-16-77	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, State Secretary Péter Cseresnyés responds to the interpellation. You have the floor.
u2018-07-16-78	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, I would like to make it clear, in particular, that you have not just said the series of questions and the points or the circumstances that you have written. I would like to quote a few sentences from your interpellation just to be able to respond, to know what you were trying to suggest, and then to put it as a specific question in this regard. For example, hundreds of passengers do not want to be cooked during the 2-3 hour train journey, but only one or two air-conditioned wagons are put on a train; one billion forints were only designed for the development of the bicycle road network; the electrification of the north coast line has long been waiting for itself, and now only 23 billion forints have been planned and similar data have been formulated. You can say, perhaps, in connection with the interpellation, not only with what has been said, but also with the description that everyone can read about the Internet, as if you hadn't been informed about what happened in the area of Lake Balaton in recent years. Just because you do not seem fully informed in this area, let me explain to you some data and some areas on what has happened in the past eight years in the area of Lake Balaton, in connection with the development of Lake Balaton. In the last 8 years, rail infrastructure has been renewed for more than 200 kilometres, net HUF 224 billion from domestic and EU sources, and HUF 365 billion from the government to the development of the Balaton region by 2020. The largest item of this investment value, the net HUF 73 billion, covers the expenditure of the upgraded line between Szántód-Kőröshegy-Balatonszentgyörgy and Kaposvár-Fonyód already delivered in June this year. However, allow me to update your information on rail transport. If there is only a message and a positive message for passengers travelling by train on the north coast, this means that every second basic train runs entirely on air-conditioned, modern trains. The results of the southern shore's railway network reconstruction programme are to be described in a slight way, and a few minutes of travelling time-shortening is the right of everyone, and you have done so in your written interpellation. With this slide, however, it is disrespectful not only to many people's hard work for several years, but also ignores the facts, because thanks to the developments, Budapest and Keszthely had 1 hour 20 minutes between Budapest and Siófok; express trains reach the capital of the southern coast in 73 minutes, which means a competitive journey time against road travel. With regard to the bike road, the bike road, I would like to state that, contrary to your statement, the government will not spend 1 billion forints, but a multiple of them on the bike route to Balaton, and we will make a total of 9 billion forints development from 2019, creating evenly 3 metres wide roads with new asphalt surfaces. The bicycle exploration of the area will not be delayed, based on the existing cycle-use phases, and will connect Lake Balaton with Szentgotthárd until 2019, Veszprém until 2020 and Budapest by 2021, and Croatia. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] the Croatian border and Lake Balaton have been connected in recent years. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-07-16-79	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. I ask Congressman to accept the Secretary of State's answer. You have the floor.
u2018-07-16-80	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Thank you, Mr Secretary, for your efforts, but I must say that I have asked three specific questions, none of which have been answered. However, the Secretary of State has demonstrated that in recent years he has certainly not been on the railroad in the Balaton area. By the way, now is the season, it is worth going there, using this service and asking travelers while using this service, how do they live it when every second railway wagon is air-conditioned and what about the rest? How do they experience when the schedule is inadequate? How do they experience the need to be constantly crowded? He has said numbers, Mr Secretary of State, many, many billions, but he has not answered why the problems still exist. Otherwise, many other problems could be mentioned in connection with the transport of the region of Lake Balaton. You may be able to criticize my expertise or talk about my incompetence, but I discussed these issues with professional organisations before I submitted this interpellation. Given that you have not been able to answer the questions in particular and that you have not been able to set out any positive visions, I cannot accept the answer. Thank you.
u2018-07-16-81	Dear Parliament, The congressman didn't accept the Secretary of State's answer. I'm asking you to accept that. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 116 votes in favour, 30 votes against and no abstentions. Dear Parliament, Bence Tordai, a representative of Dialogue, submitted an interpellation to the Minister for Innovation and Technology: It's an address. Congressman Bence of Turdai has the floor.
u2018-07-16-82	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Mr. Secretary. When Vladimir Putin summoned party president Orbán in January 2014 [[Delight and murmur from the pro-government benches. Dr. Pál Völner:]] then not only did he have him sign the Paks enlargement agreement in secret, but they agreed on a much larger pact. [[Dr. Pál Völner: Are you spying? László Szászfalvi: Knowledge of Secrets!]] It was obvious that we would get a package that would connect Hungary to the uncompetitive Russian technology and the Putin regime for decades separately. Jávor Benedek, MEP for Dialogue, indicated at that time that this pact was part of all kinds of military procurement [[Miklós Soltész: Only from clean sources!]] and the purchase of Russian subway cars. This prognosis has been achieved point by point since then. Among other things, for HUF 20 billion, the Hungarian Defence Office is renovating Mi-24 and Mi-17 helicopters with Russia, which should be withdrawn in a few years due to total obsolescence. The helicopter project is not in the interests of Hungary as well as the so-called renovation of the metro cars of the 3rd metro line. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: So-called! So-called! So-called Congressman.]] The purchase of separate wagons built on the wagon frame was a mistake already in the 1970s, as the construction was made in the 1950s of the last century. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: The so-called '50s!]] It represents its technical and safety standards, high maintenance requirements, extremely high energy consumption and difficult to save in the event of an accident. Since then, the Russians have tried to reattach the type to Budapest, but at that time the Hungarian state's ability to defend itself still worked. Due to the outdated solutions and weak indicators of the Russian wagons, the vehicle would immediately bleed out in all fair competitions, so the Orbán government serving Russian interests used an unfair trick to place the metromatuses that fit the museum on the Hungarian taxpayers. The purchase was disguised as a renovation and the Estonian offer was excluded from the competition by HUF 9000 million cheaper and technically more advanced. But even though it was called renovation, in fact the same newly manufactured, but already outdated subway cars arrived in Budapest, which had not been needed by the capital before. This is demonstrated by the recent photographing of a subway car in Moscow, which has been in Budapest for months based on its track number. [[With his fingers, he's quoting:]] Renovated. [[17.20]] This is a serious fraud in several respects, as they falsified the identification data of a Community transport vehicle, disguised the purchase as renovation, damaged the passengers of the subway and the Hungarian state. It seems that the BKV no longer defends the honour of the mundane, as they refused to say to a clear journalist's question that we received renovated subway cars. So please, Minister of State, please take the responsibility of criminal law to the public of Parliament and of the country to state clearly that there are indeed renovated metro cars used in our past in Budapest. And if you do not dare to make such a statement, you must immediately begin investigating fraud involving tens of billions of dollars in damage to the country and the accountability of those responsible. Thank you.
u2018-07-16-83	Dear Parliament, State Secretary Péter Cseresnyés responds to the interpellation. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2018-07-16-84	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, At the beginning of the session, you asked an immediate question to the innovation wallet with the title, "Is the government really that unimaginable?" I think it's a question that could be asked in general. that you are as uninformed as you are here in this interpellation. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that all members of the government, all representatives of the governing parties, and indeed all people are already responsible for their actions and words. In this, however, it seems that you are not always responsible for every word you say; it may not be a fundamental aspect for you, in keeping with your speeches so far, it may be possible to establish it. [[Constant intervention from the opposition benches.]] On the basis of your statements so far, it may be said that you do not think responsibly when you ask a question. And how wrong you were and how wrong you were, I would like to respond first, and then, of course, I will answer your question. I think you asked your question in the wrong place, because it is well known that you do not seem to know it, the government decided in its decision of August 2014 to support at the guarantee level the renovation of trains on the M3 line in order to ensure the safety of public transport in the capital, and the financing of the development was provided by the capital to its own resources with a loan guarantee of HUF 60 billion from the Hungarian State. It follows that the procurement procedure for the renewal of fittings does not fall within the remit of the Ministry of Innovation and Technology. As a successor to the Ministry of National Development, the portfolio is concerned with two issues relating to the reconstruction of metro trains, the issue of type authorisation and the issue of authorisations for placing in service. I can account for that to the congressman. During the authorisation procedures, it was found that the renovated vehicles comply with the requirements of the Metro Vehicle Code issued as part of the national railway code. On the basis of the procedure laid down in the Regulation on placing in service, all 37 fittings and a total of 222 vehicles have been successfully completed, each vehicle has a valid authorisation for placing in service. I suggest to Congressman that if he seeks to understand the state of public transport in the capital, he should first knock on the door of his allies of elections, in case they can answer the question of why the former socialist-liberal government and the similar-haired city administration that governs the capital for twenty years have derailed Budapest's transport and public transport. [[Interventions from opposition parties, including Dr. Ágnes Vadai: Nana! There should be names.]] Today, the government faces the consequences of these decades of omissions. They let the subway trains of the M3 tire to the extreme. They watched without hesitation as the entire network infrastructure of the subway became overborne and replaced. And when they tried to do something, the investment of the M4 metro line gave Hungary the biggest corruption scandal not only to the capital, but to all our countrymen. [[Uproar, outbursts.]] Honourable Congressman, The leadership of the Hungarian government and the capital is indeed in an emergency situation. However, this coercion is not your conspiracy, it is the mass of the traffic problems accumulated by your allies, which call for a solution at the same time. The entry into service of M3 subway trains is evidence that the government is ready and capable of resolving them, to restore public transport in the capital, not as you and your allies have done over the last few years, when the decision was in his hands, so it was deemed in your hands. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-07-16-85	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. I'll ask Congressman, he'll take an answer. You have the floor.
u2018-07-16-86	Yeah, sure, I'd miss that. [[Uproar, interrogations from the pro-government benches, including György Balla: Sit down, Number One!]] Of course, I do not accept the answer, because the Secretary of State did not take responsibility...
u2018-07-16-87	Congressman, let's stay in shape.
u2018-07-16-88	Yes, sir. I do not accept the answer, since, unfortunately, Mr Secretary of State did not take responsibility for this obviously political decision, but at least he feels how embarrassing this acquisition is, because he pushed me away and tried to push this matter to the capital. It is clear that Viktor Orbán and Vladimir Putin have dealt with this case. [[An uproar in the pro-government benches.]] That's why Comrade Putin dragged Comrade Orbán to Moscow. [[Uproar, interrogation from the pro-government benches.]] to get him to sign this and other contracts that violate Hungary's interests. From now on, if you do not take responsibility, you will be accounted for by the people sooner or later when you are informed of the details of this case. I'm sure you're doing everything you can to keep this from happening, but in the long run, I don't think it's possible to play to the ignorance of voters, and you'll see that. That's gonna hurt.
u2018-07-16-89	Before the vote takes place, I must remind Mr President once again of his ratings. [[Noise, interjections.]] I think that respect should also be given to those in this House who are not here, and all officials should be respected in all directions. [[Cries, including Dr. Ágnes Vadai: A secretary of state has come here to scream! Is that why there was no warning? Szabolcs Szabó: State Secretary Soltesz should be said! That's Christian Democratic behavior. Intervention from DK's ranks: Let us warn the President to warn the Secretary of State.]] I ask you to keep this, and once again I do not wish to warn you, this was the second one today. [[Noise. It's ringing.]] Dear Parliament, Congressman didn't accept the Secretary of State's answer. I'm asking you if you'll accept it. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 114 votes in favour, 27 against and 1 abstention. Dear Parliament, Péter Ágh, a representative of Fidesz, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of the Interior:. How are the police preparing for the life of Stop Soros? It's an address. Congressman Péter Agh has the floor.
u2018-07-16-90	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Years have passed since illegal migration hit the southern border area of our country and Europe. The initial incomprehensible and inexplicable cause and effect factors became clear to everyone over time. The formula is simple, since György Soros and his migrant support organisations, in cooperation with the smuggling networks, have organized and still travel to Europe vulnerable people who lack everything. György Soros and his mass migration organisations literally organize illegal immigration, taking over hundreds, thousands of migrants from illegal smugglers with their ships. They then provide maps, dictionaries, smartphone applications and information to get to the destination country without obstacles. At the end of the process, a gallant gentleman, namely György Soros, will appear in Brussels, who will propose that European countries support the establishment and integration of irregular migrants through the credit it has paid. Dear Secretary of State, The government recognized the threat in time, so it decided to close the southern border immediately. He could not do otherwise, for it is the duty of the state to ensure the survival of the nation and to establish a solid foundation for future generations. The Hungarian people do not want their future to be decided by others, nor do they want the funds to be spent on families, people in need, education or health care to be used to support illegal migrants in the future, up to a minimum of HUF 9 million per person per year. For this reason, the government's efforts to curb the harmful functioning of migration support organisations active in Hungary as part of the Soros network are of particular public interest. [[17 .30]] Hungarian people have the right to know the names, activities, the amount and source of their subsidies accepted from abroad, as well as to contribute to the financing of the border protection system for the safety of Hungarian people. Dear Secretary of State, The adoption of the Stop Soros bill and its rule system provide adequate guarantees for Hungarian families that we will not become an immigrant country. I would therefore like to ask with respect that the police have already begun preparing for the entry into force of Stop Soros, and, if so, what practical measures have been taken. Thank you for your attention. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2018-07-16-91	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, State Secretary Károly Kontra will respond to the interpellation. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2018-07-16-92	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Today, security is the most important community value, and the security of the Hungarian people is the first for the Hungarian government. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: Stand up, who represents Russian interests!]] The Stop Soros Act came into force on 1 July, which gives the police another strong tool to protect Hungary and the Hungarian people from illegal migration. From now on, the organisation of illegal migration is a crime and everyone who encourages migrants to circumvent Hungarian laws can be punished. All relevant police bodies have been informed of the entry into force of the law and have been determined by the managers to take action to prepare the personnel concerned for their duties under the legislative package. A strong legislative mandate is necessary because Europe's mass immigration, the Soros network and the pro-immigration policy in Brussels continue to flood the continent with migrants, which justifies tightening up so that there is no critical situation on the Balkan route where the masses of migrants want to move forward with the help of various organisations and smugglers. Stop Soros has also supplemented the police law by the fact that the police are involved in the prevention of illegal immigration, and there is also a border insurance detention facility. From now on, it is not possible to accept the asylum application of a person who comes to Hungary through a country where he is not subject to persecution or has travelled through a country where he would have been protected or insured if he needed this protection. Honourable Congressman, Dear Parliament, The law enforcement bodies of the police have therefore been prepared to carry out the tasks arising from legislative changes, in particular to prosecute the State for the enforcement of criminal claims in the event of detection or knowledge of the implementation of the new legal situation. An amendment to the Ministry of Interior Regulation on the Police Service Regulations, which laid down the rules for the implementation of the border insurance restraining measure, has been made. The government is committed to border protection, strengthening police and increasing public security. The government will continue to work to ensure that adequate conditions are available not only for day-to-day work but also for increasing the status of the profession. The introduction of the law enforcement career model, the 50 percent salary increase, the complete renewal of the IT system contributed to improving police efficiency [[Dr. Agnes Vadai: Oh!]] , the development of weapons, the acquisition of helicopters and the renewal of motor vehicles. Honourable Congressman, Dear Parliament, The Parliament will vote on the 2019 budget on Friday. More security in this budget than in 2018. I ask you and your fellow Members to support the adoption of the draft budget law for 2019, as this will support the security of Hungary and the Hungarian people. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2018-07-16-93	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. I ask Congressman to accept the Secretary of State's answer. You have the floor.
u2018-07-16-94	Ladies and gentlemen, We have heard the Secretary of State's reply, and on that basis I accept the answer. At the same time, I think that, on behalf of all my fellow Members, we can thank the police for the work that has been and is being explained in recent years in order to ensure the security of Hungary. Let's not forget that Hungary is one of the safest countries in the world, so the Hungarian police were very serious about it. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: Because soldiers don't? They're on the border. They should be thanking us.]] But, I think it's always necessary to increase security, to give you the right help to do so. This is why we need to support Hungary's budget for the next year, as it really is very helpful to the police. I trust that this will enable Hungary to remain one of the safest countries in the world in the future. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2018-07-16-95	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The congressman accepted the Secretary of State's reply. Dear Parliament, Ádám Steinmetz, a representative of Jobbik, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Human Resources:, When can children be born again in Marcali? It's an address. Mr. Ádám Steinmetz has the floor.
u2018-07-16-96	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, In March, when people in the Marcali area were asked what they thought was the most painful problem in the region, nine out of ten people named the Calvary of the Marcal hospital. This hospital provided supplies to 60,000 people earlier and tens of thousands more in the summer months, resting in the southwest of Lake Balaton. But first, the children's ward was terminated, later the child's care, and then after the institution was integrated into the hospital in Kaposvár, the obstetric gynecologist's ward; in a hospital where there was a child's birth almost every day. Our country is a country with serious demographic problems, where, unfortunately, despite the government's intention to improve, the number of births continues to decline. In view of this, it is completely incomprehensible why the lives of children in the Marcali area are being discouraged by the fact that they often have to travel 60 kilometers because of the birth of their baby. Dear Secretary of State, And in the ward where children's lives began earlier, terminal patients are now living their final days. This morbid reality in the year of families. The further consequence of the integration of the Marcal hospital is the reduced number of beds, the deteriorated assets, the increasing professional migration, the longer waiting lists and the increasing number of patients need to travel to Kaposvár for health care, while other rural hospitals can, in a joyful way, have significant improvements behind them. Two years ago, thousands of people joined together to save the hospital in Marcal, and since then they have been demanding the restoration of the terminated classes, the improvement of the quality of care, sufficient specialists and staff, as well as professional, management, economic and organisational autonomy. With regard to these people, I would like to ask the Secretary of State with respect: why are you interested in the systematic downsizing of the Marcal hospital against the safety of people, when will the hospital regain its independence, when can children be born again in Marcali? I look forward to your substantive answer. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2018-07-16-97	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, State Secretary Bence Rétvári responds to the interpellation. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2018-07-16-98	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, It is in everyone's best interest, and let us not discuss this with anyone, so that all children are born as safely as possible in Hungary. There are certain professional conditions for both the unborn baby and the mother to be in health. The obstetric gynecology department of the professional college prescribes the conditions when it is safe to have a baby and when it is safe to have an obstetrician. They said that it was absolutely necessary to have at least 500 births a year in order to be safe somewhere in obstetric gynecology, because this is how doctors and nurses who work there acquire the necessary routine, the necessary experience to be able to perform professionally if there is a complication and to be safe for both the mother and the child. So when we look at where and how obstetrics, obstetrics and gynecology can be built or maintained, we have to take into account the aspect of children and mothers, and it is clearly this guidance of the professional college that should guide us all. It is in Hungary, where new obstetric gynecology is built, here the number of cases, the decrease in the number of births is what causes this problem. Here it was in 2011, say 364 births, in 2012, 166 births, there was a year 294, but each year it was far below the minimum number of 500 that would guarantee the safety of mothers and babies. At the same time, there were improvements at the hospital in Marcal, precisely because we want all hospitals to be able to operate at the highest possible professional level. The training and further training of the workers in the Marcal hospital was made from 79 million forints, and nearly a hundred doctors and nurses who worked there could be further trained from it. [[17.40]] We spent HUF 1.5 billion on the integrated infrastructure development of the Marcal hospital, nearly HUF 1 billion on HUF 491 million. From this, the reconstruction of the surgical block was completed at the final stage, and a supply improvement was achieved in line with the levels of progression. In this one and a half billion forints were construction, renovation, purchase of medical machines and instruments, purchase of the tools necessary for healing, but they also acquired the tools necessary for the everyday life of the healers, and they also acquired IT tools. But there is more, as the marcal hospital also received nearly HUF 12 million for the development of the psychiatric and addictological care network. It has arrived for HUF 61 million in order to improve the infrastructure development and conditions of the diagnostic and medical laboratory network. And it continues to operate in-patient care in general medical care, intensive care, chronic medical ward, surgical ward, emergency care. Where, therefore, there was an opportunity for improvements to be made, there were billion-dollar developments in the hospital in Marcal, but where patient safety was said that for patients, let's say in the maternity ward, of course, we are not talking about patients, but this is not the safest way for parents and children, but if they deliver their children in Kaposvár, there is the child's greatest security, which is why a different decision was made in that case. So, honourable Member, this is the answer I can give you, that what could have been, where there was an opportunity for improvement, was supported by the government in the Marcal hospital with billions of dollars. And if you want to know where the doctors you might miss from one hospital or another are, ask your fellow Member, he has taken doctors and nurses out of Hungary, you have at least brought gold medals to Hungary for which you should be honoured, but there are some better men who have taken doctors out of the country instead. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: This is embarrassing! This is embarrassing.]] You should consult him on this. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2018-07-16-99	Thank you very much. I ask Congressman to accept the Secretary of State's answer. You have the floor.
u2018-07-16-100	The matter of the Marcal hospital is not a campaign issue for me, but a task to be solved, perhaps the most serious. Integration has failed, the key issue has become certain, autonomy. The debt is gone, but with it there are a number of forms of supply and our sense of security. Well, I agree perfectly with Attila Móring, the pro-government representative of the region, because these are his words. Mr. Secretary, thank you for your preparation, but today I have not received an answer to your question, and we can see that the attic is full of promises and mischief. Before the 2014 elections, for example, you promised an emergency center with CT equipment and even a helicopter landing. Well, none of it happened. In this year's campaign, they appreciated the need to restart the children's class in some form. If I understand correctly, the hospital will not be able to regain its independence and will not be able to have children in Marcali, so I cannot accept your answer. [[Applause from the ranks of DK, LMP, MSZP and Dialogue.]]
u2018-07-16-101	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Congressman didn't accept the Secretary of State's answer. I'm asking you to accept that. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 105 votes in favour, 32 against and 1 abstention. Dear Parliament, Please, my fellow Members, stay longer, we will continue. The final interpellation will be held at our current meeting today. Dear Parliament, Attila Móring József, representative of KDNP, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of the Interior:, What has been achieved during the Hungarian Presidency of the V4 on migration issues? It's an address. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] My fellow Members, it may be difficult, but I am asking you to try. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: We tried, but we can't!]] Mr Attila Móring has the floor. And those who leave the meeting room, please do so quietly. You have the floor, Congressman. [[Several Members are leaving the Chamber.]]
u2018-07-16-102	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, Hungary handed over the presidency of the V4 group after an active year, which took place in a challenging period, while several important topics were identified by the leaders of the four Central European countries. The most important issues were: EU coordination, i.e. V4, should effectively represent the interests of the region in Brussels forums, in EU decision-making. Strengthening regional relations in this respect is the development of transport infrastructure linking V4 capitals. The Digital Visegrád programme, which aims to improve the competitiveness of some regions with the involvement of young, creative entrepreneurs. It was important in the period of the Hungarian V4 Presidency to show the value community of Visegrád globally. During a year of the Hungarian Presidency of the four Visegrád, 200 political consultations and 250 events were held worldwide with the involvement of embassies. In conclusion, on the most important issue, the V4 have been right: the future of the Union must be ensured against uncontrolled migrant inflows. In the context of migration, the aim remains to ensure that the whole of Europe has a united vision of the protection of countries and the interoperability of internal borders. In the context of border protection, we have already provided assistance to other countries outside the Visegrád countries. It is now possible for Albania and Bosnia and Herzegovina to do so. Dear Secretary of State, On behalf of the KDNP faction, it is a special pleasure for us that Hungary has been able to give a strong, dynamic cooperation to the incoming Slovak Presidency from 1 July. In this connection, I would like to ask the Secretary of State: what has been the result of the V4 Hungarian Presidency on migration issues? I'm looking forward to your reply. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2018-07-16-103	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, State Secretary Károly Kontra will respond to the interpellation. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2018-07-16-104	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Hungary took over the Visegrád Group's presidency on 1 July 2017, and in the nearly one year since then we have been able to continue our traditionally excellent cooperation, and we have further strengthened this with a key objective for all of us to stop the influx of illegal migrants, both through regional cooperation and through EU efforts outside the EU, and, together with the protection of external borders, to prevent crisis situations. Migration and border protection issues have identified a number of meetings programmes. On many occasions, we have succeeded in establishing a strong common position in Visegrad, which we have been able to represent effectively and jointly at the European Union's forums. During the Hungarian Presidency year, we held a number of high-level meetings, along with discussions at the Ministry of Interior, the leaders of the border police, migration and civil protection organisations of the Visegrád countries met. It is proud that not only the representatives of the Visegrád Four participated in these, but also the recognition of our work, but also Bulgaria, Romania and Japan have contributed to our work. We also closed an extremely active year at expert level, at the V4+ Israel Prime Minister's Summit in July 2017, there was support for stepping up anti-terror cooperation, and accordingly an anti-terrorist task force was set up with the management of the Counter-Terrorism Centre. In addition, an expert meeting took place in the water area with the Visegrad countries and Bulgaria and Romania. The development of the road connections of the capitals of the V4 countries is an important objective for the Hungarian party, the construction of existing motorways up to national borders is our primary road development goal. In connection with the Digital Visegrad, we supported the greater involvement of the V4 in international digitalisation cooperation, as well as the exchange of knowledge in the region, in particular with regard to industrial digitalisation and the production of self-driving vehicles. Since the beginning of the crisis, in consultation with the members of the Visegrád Group, Hungary has consistently represented the idea of protecting the external borders and stopping migration flows. Our aim is to ensure that the whole European Union is united in thinking about migration, the protection of countries and the interoperability of internal borders. Honourable Congressman, The last one-year Hungarian Presidency has contributed to the achievement of the common goals of the Visegrád Four, the V4 countries, and I would like to thank you very much for giving me the opportunity to inform the Parliament about this. Thank you very much. I'm asking you to accept my answer. Thank you. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2018-07-16-105	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. I ask the congressman to accept the Secretary of State's answer. You have the floor. [[17.50]]
u2018-07-16-106	Thank you very much for your answer. Dear Secretary of State, Central Europe is currently one of the continent's most successful regions facing a developing future. The V4 has opened the way in Europe, and now several countries are following the policy that the Visegrad Group has set up as a pioneer, in which there is consistency between countries in all areas. This is why the Hungarian Presidency has been successful in the past year. With this, the V4 are a good example of the importance of relations between Member States, the results of cooperation and not confrontation across the European Union. I respectfully accept your answer. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-07-16-107	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Congressman has accepted the Secretary of State's reply. Dear Parliament, It's 5:50 p.m., we've reached the end of the interpellation negotiations, we're going to discuss immediate questions. Dear Parliament, Dániel Z. Kárpát, representative of Jobbik, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question:. How credible is the government's policy? It's an address. The Prime Minister asked Mr Mihály Varga, Deputy Prime Minister, to reply in response to an urgent public task. I ask the Member, whether he accepts the person who is responding, or if he asks the Prime Minister himself for an answer.
u2018-07-16-108	Mr President, Although it is an honor to appoint a responder, I would like to wait for the Prime Minister to answer. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2018-07-16-109	Thank you very much. I would like to inform the Member that the Prime Minister must answer at the hour of the next immediate questions. Dear Parliament, György Szilágyi, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask an immediate question to Minister Zsolt Semjén, Deputy Prime Minister without a wallet:. You went hunting, you shot him, the helicopter took him home, or we talk about hunting until the dialogue on this is centrally banned! It's an address. Deputy Prime Minister, Minister has appointed Mr János Potápi Secretary of State to respond to an urgent public task. I ask the Member, whether he accepts the person who is responding, or if he asks the Deputy Prime Minister himself, Minister, for an answer.
u2018-07-16-110	Zsolt Semjén has not been seen in Parliament since the bears entered the country. I'll wait for you to honor us. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2018-07-16-111	Thank you, Congressman. I would like to inform you that you will have to have an answer at the hour of the next immediate questions. Dear Parliament, Mrs. Loránt Hegedűs, representative of Jobbik, would like to ask the Minister of Finance an immediate question: "Is it more efficient and less effective? It's an address. I give you the floor, Congresswoman.
u2018-07-16-112	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State, More efficient and less. This is how the government representative summarized the planned public sector restructuring, which would have been perfectly okay if efficiency had been understood to mean more effective public interest and, by less, the mass of unintelligible and unenforceable legislation. But we know you don't think so. From time to time, on the basis of carefully distributed roles, in a pre-written scenario, public workers are shocked by the fact that a national capital bank close to the government puts the demand for mass redundancies as a quasi-requisite, to which government authorities are in a hurry to respond positively. Right now, the vice president of MGYOSZ has said that we should get rid of 100,000 people, and you, of course, have nodded on that. [[In the notary seat Dr. Lajos Szűcs will be replaced by József Attila Móring.]] Then let's see, Mr. Secretary of State, who exactly are we talking about? Today in Hungary... [[Noise.]] Sorry, Minister. I'm sorry, I thought your Secretary of State was sitting in his seat. So, then, Mr. Secretary. Who are we talking about? Today there are 455 thousand public employees in Hungary who are teachers, doctors, paramedics, nurses, librarians, cultural professionals, nannyes, patronesses, social workers, and so on. Do you think there are many of them? Tell me, for example, how many nurses or paramedics you want to dismiss. But we also know that there are not a hundred thousand public, state and government officials in total, and they often do their job in plural, burdened and underpaid because of the lack of staff. The number of positions of State Secretary of State, Deputy State Secretary and Government Commissioner in the central government is also increasing exponentially as the number of pathogens on the ground. Dear Minister, Let them confess here to the world: how many of the public servants held by the government in a merchandising line will be fired? Thank you. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2018-07-16-113	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Minister of Finance Mihály Varga, Deputy Prime Minister. Here you go, Minister.
u2018-07-16-114	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and First of all, what you're referring to was a statement from the employer's side. The government has not yet made any statements in this case. By the way, I think it is right that, after a parliamentary term, a government cycle, the government decides to review the number of people in public employment. Such a routine review is also carried out after the establishment of all new governments, with regard to the number of central administrations and ministries. So there's nothing new about this. There is only one decision so far; if you object to it, I am surprised. The only decision was that the government ordered a headcount stop in the government administration. We say that the state apparatus must be more effective, that the state apparatus must meet the quality requirements that I believe to be today's 21st century. In the first century, they are completely self-evident. I don't think there's anything new in this. You can only be happy if the number of people in the state apparatus does not increase above all borders. By the way, Congresswoman, in every international survey, all neighbouring countries have the size of the Hungarian state apparatus in this regard, compared to the number of the country, i.e. the population and the development of the economy. So if there are some ways to reduce it, it could also be reduced here. But first, we need to assess where such a reduction or reduction is really needed. Obviously, the health situation is completely different, the situation of education is different, the situation of the state professional is different again. This job will now be done by the government. The size of bureaucracy is, by the way, as I suggested, indeed high in the country compared with the Central European countries. That is all, Congresswoman. All other inventions, speculation. Please wait for this government survey to take place. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-07-16-115	Thank you, Minister. Dear Parliament, I will give the floor to the congresswoman in return. You have the floor.
u2018-07-16-116	Mr. Secretary. The government wouldn't have said anything? ! Well, you yourself have spoken on this issue, and you have agreed to these dismissals! And that there wasn't one choice? ! Well, just today, a few hours ago, at least five decisions were taken by this House, in which the government rejected the increase in the civil servant's salary fund, in which the government rejected the adjustment of the civil servant's pay table, in which the government rejected the introduction of a high-level minimum wage. This would have all been to improve the situation of public sector workers, all rejected by the government. And once again, what do we call bureaucracy? Bad laws. Please hold the bureaucrats not responsible for this, but themselves responsible for the fact that if they make bad laws, they are difficult to comply with, and the legislation becomes opaque, incomprehensible and unenforceable. Thank you for listening. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2018-07-16-117	Thank you. Dear Parliament, You have a rebuttal answer for the Minister. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor.
u2018-07-16-118	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I am very sorry, Congresswoman, that you are in favour of further increasing the size of bureaucracy. I think it is not right to increase the size, but to try to use taxpayers' money as cheaply as possible. This does not mean that we have no quality expectations. Public services must meet a certain level of quality, but it doesn't matter that they supplied it to 5 people, 10 people or 50 people. That's all it is. With regard to rejected opposition proposals, I am sorry, Madam Congresswoman, but the rejection of irresponsible, unfounded opposition proposals may not be one of the greatest crimes. I think that there is an opportunity for you to make responsible and well-founded proposals that most of the House can accept. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-07-16-119	I thank you, Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Mr. Lajos Korózs, representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question:. The Croatians are also the cubs of our dog? It's an address. Mr. Prime Minister has appointed Deputy Prime Minister Mihály Varga to respond to an urgent public task. I would like to ask the Member to accept the person who is responding, or to ask the Prime Minister for his answer personally.
u2018-07-16-120	I accept anyone other than Miklós Soltés, of course the Minister. [[Sándor Font: This is discrimination. Defiance.]]
u2018-07-16-121	Gentlemen, it may be exhausting because we're on our way to the end of the session, but I'm still asking you to keep order. Congressman's got the floor. Congressman, you have the floor. [[18.00]]
u2018-07-16-122	Thank you very much. Dear House, Mr. Secretary. Croatia can record two successes at the end of the week. One of them came to the World Football Championship Finals, and the other, as read at the end of the week, Večernji's list, annulled the Swiss franck-based mortgage loan by the Croatian Supreme Commercial Court. The overpayment due to foreign exchange rate losses and interest rate increases is also due to borrowers we read in the report. About HUF 4 million worth of kuna were returned to the injured on average. [[Sándor Lezsák, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] I ask Minister why this problem has not been solved in Hungary for many years now. At the time, I know that it was repeatedly argued that if they had been met on the basis of the expectations demanded by the opposition, the European Union would most likely reject them. I would like to draw the attention of this House to the fact that Croatia has escaped, and the European Union has not put an obstacle to this solution. Romania has done the same thing, and the European Union has not prevented Romania here, and Slovenia has also escaped before Croatia. So all three EU countries, neighbouring countries, were able to solve this problem. Here it has been said several times today, but last week, in the context of the negotiations on amendments, at committee meetings, that there are some 120 thousand families in Hungary today that have credit debts of over 90 days, and these credit debts affect almost 1 million people. Since the eviction moratorium ended on 30 April, 635 families have been evicted. That is why I ask Minister, how is there a solution to this, and the neighbouring countries have set an example of what you will do? Thank you very much. [[Font to Alexander:]] Alexander, please.
u2018-07-16-123	Thank you very much, Congressman Korózs. I give the floor to Deputy Prime Minister Mihály Varga.
u2018-07-16-124	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Honourable Congressman, Well, first of all, we expected you to start with an apology. With the apology that, yes, we were the ones who introduced foreign exchange loans. [[Intercoms from the ranks of MSZP and Jobbik.]] We were the ones who introduced foreign exchange loans, you could have said that, and we apologize for the fact that 1 million 700 thousand foreign currency mortgage agreements were made in this country, which put these people in an impossible position. Unfortunately, this has not been said; it would have been good for this to happen, Congressman. The other thing is that if we have a good memory together we may be able to remember more, then you can also acknowledge that Hungary was the first Central European country to break the road on this issue and said that foreign exchange loans and mortgage-based foreign exchange credit contracts could not be accepted in this arrangement. Remember that, Congressman. Remember the final repayment, remember how and how we were able to make amends. Remember that after the mortgage loans, consumer loans were converted and forinted at the beginning of 2015. Well, that's what saved the people, Your Honour. When the Swiss central bank closed the exchange rate threshold and released the Swiss franc, we saved Hungarian households from a thousand billion HUF extra expenditure. Exactly by fixing the exchange rate; two: that we allowed people to forint these mortgages. So I think that Hungary has achieved very significant results in this respect. I would like to say that when we started governance in 2010, 70 percent of mortgage-based foreign exchange loans were of this type of consumer credit. And now it's under 1 percent. Today, only those who insist on doing so have this type of credit, and a large part of their income is in foreign currency. I think this is a significant achievement. We have removed this problem and I very much hope that the Member has supported these decisions. Thank you. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-07-16-125	Thank you, Deputy Prime Minister. Mr Korózs is entitled to a re-election.
u2018-07-16-126	Yeah, two of us remember more. June 2001. This is the date on which retail foreign exchange lending was introduced, as companies were able to do so earlier. I believe you were on the government, Minister. One. Two: Járai Zsigmond was called the President of the Central Bank at that time [[Zsolt Gréczy applauds.]] I remember it, and I remember that they deliberately held the forint rates high and basically led people in the direction of going into foreign exchange-based lending. The other is that they've been ruling for over eight years. Minister, Hungarian commercial banks have made a profit of HUF 694 billion in the last year! Don't tell me this isn't going to solve the problems of the people I'm talking about. I'm not talking about the people you solved it for. I'm talking about the hundreds of thousands of people you couldn't give any help to. Thank you very much.
u2018-07-16-127	Thank you, Congressman Korózs. The rejoinder shall be granted to Mr. Deputy Prime Minister.
u2018-07-16-128	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. In recent years, the central bank and the Hungarian government have made a joint effort to achieve that we have significantly limited opportunities that would allow for a foreign exchange loan contract. People don't do things like that anymore. We've cleared that up. I think that in a country it is a fundamental question that people should be indebted to in their own currency, to take credit if they need it. I am also pleased that the share of non-performing loans has decreased significantly. There is always, of course, a fellow countryman, a household who cannot repay his credit, but the number of them has fallen radically. And from the situation, the trap into which the Hungarian state went bankrupt after 2008, honourable Member, under your governance, which included Hungarian households, we were able to bring these households out of it. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-07-16-129	Thank you, Deputy Prime Minister Mihály Varga. Dear Parliament, Mr László Varju, representative of DK, wishes to ask the Minister of the Interior an immediate question: It's an address. Minister Károly Kontra has appointed Secretary of State to respond to the urgent public task. I'm asking if you'd like to accept the recipient's identity. [[On the mark of László Varju:]] Congressman Varju has the floor.
u2018-07-16-130	Thank you very much. During the summer season, the foresight people prepare for what happens during the heating season. Who doesn't know it's time to think about it? I would like to ask the Secretary of State that, in their election promise, you have vowed to grant a grant of HUF 12,000 to all households and to receive a grant of HUF 36 billion for about 3 million households. But you did this, obviously, after, as an election promise in March, in a situation where 200 people had already frozen in their own homes. So it's not after the season, it's long before you think about it. I quote their Prime Minister's candidate or prime minister at the time: each family can credit 12,000 HUF on its gas account, who does not gas, and we provide them with a reduction in their overhead. End of quote. However, those with traditional heating, such as those who heat firewood, are still waiting for this support in vain. You have forgotten this support. Most of all, they have forgotten those who are in the most disadvantaged situation, who are the poorest, and that is why we should speak out for them. In their election promises, did you ever lie, or did you ever keep that promise? Thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause in the opposition benches.]]
u2018-07-16-131	Thank you, Congressman Varju. I give the floor to Secretary of State Tibor Pogácsás.
u2018-07-16-132	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear Parliament, The Hungarian government, supported by Fidesz-KDNP, has done a great deal to reduce household costs and overhead costs. Our position is that any cost that is essential to a living should be payable to all Hungarian households. [[18.10]] Prior to the election, Prime Minister, as you quoted, he quoted an inaccurate announcement, in which Prime Minister announced that, given the weather conditions of the past period, every property connected to the supply of gas or set into district heating would receive a grant of HUF 12,000 in the invoice, and that the service provider would credit this in the invoice for these properties. For all real estates where it is not heated from landline services, and in that case Prime Minister made the announcement that the government would provide an opportunity to raise the firewood support that the Ministry of Interior could require by one billion HUF. That's how it was said, not the way you said it would. Nevertheless, honourable Member, it is on the agenda of the Hungarian Government that households where heating is not solved by gas or district heating during the heating season, how they can be turned on, how they can obtain this support, and we will announce the solution to this soon. Thank you, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-07-16-133	Thank you, Secretary of State Pogács. Congressman Varju is entitled to a rejoinder.
u2018-07-16-134	Thank you very much. I'm glad to hear you're about to make an announcement, because the debt you have left as an election promise is quite obvious, because those who traditionally heat with wood or coal use it, they didn't support them, they didn't help. Let's do the math together. There are 3 million households in Hungary, 13 percent with trees and 6 percent with coal, 570 thousand households. If we multiplied this by 12,000 forints, that would be good, but instead you gave these households 1754 forints of the billion forints you just mentioned. Therefore, this announcement, the promise you made to them, consider this a card debt that you have to pay, not just ulti, but pay and pay attention to the poor people who are in this situation. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] They're entitled to 12,000 forints. Thank you. [[Applause in DK's ranks.]]
u2018-07-16-135	Thank you, Congressman Varju. We're gonna hear a one-minute reconnaissance.
u2018-07-16-136	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, The past period, I believe, has demonstrated well that all the promises, all the commitments made by the government, have been made, and that during the election the voters have accepted, and if we look at the results, yours, and we look at the results of the Fidesz-KDNP, I think there is a clear difference, all because all the commitments that we have made, we respect what you have done, of course, have not been respected. Once again, I would like to say that one billion forints were awarded to municipalities who could apply for winter fuel support anyway, and in the coming period, the government will make it possible for all those who heat firewood to benefit from this form of support, despite the fact that this promise was not made before the election. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-07-16-137	Thank you very much, Secretary of State Pogács. Dear Parliament, Lóránt László Keresztes, a representative of the LMP, wants to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: - Why is every sixth Hungarian child born abroad? It's an address. The Prime Minister has appointed Deputy Prime Minister Mihály Varga to respond. I'm asking you to accept the identity of the responder.
u2018-07-16-138	I accept, Mr. President.
u2018-07-16-139	Thank you very much. You have the floor, Congressman László Keresztes.
u2018-07-16-140	Thank you for the opportunity, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, I would very much like to ask Prime Minister about this extremely important national issue, but I now accept the reply or reply of Deputy Prime Minister or the appointment of his person, given that I would very much like to know the Government's clear and clear position on this issue. I would like to talk about the problem that we believe is now the biggest challenge for our nation, and it is also causing the most serious tragedy, this is the forced emigration, the process in which hundreds of thousands, especially young people, have been forced to migrate from the country, and on which we can now say that, unfortunately, one in six Hungarian children is born abroad. We have already had several debates on this issue here in this new term, and, moreover, a debate on this issue has already started with Mr State Secretary, and I have found that the government has not made a clear position on this issue, so the government has not expressed its attitude to this phenomenon. We have found that they are trying to magicate with various statistics, which are trying to reduce this extremely critical situation, to base it, or to hide behind other statistics, that there are countries, from which there is even greater emigration, or, unfortunately, there has been an example of this, too, the pro-government politicians said that this is a completely natural process, given the way in which the common European labour market works. So I would like to have a very simple question from Deputy Prime Minister then: what is the government's position on forced emigration, how does the government judge this situation, this serious national tragedy, in our view, and accept that this process, which has reached a rather tragic level under your national governance, is now the greatest challenge for the nation? Thank you.
u2018-07-16-141	Thank you very much, Congressman László Keresztes. I give the floor to Deputy Prime Minister Mihály Varga.
u2018-07-16-142	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Honourable Congressman, First of all, it is very important to clarify the words, because what you call emigration, according to surveys, is considered more like guest work, because the vast majority of our fellow countrymen working abroad wish to live their lives in Hungary, so we are not talking about emigration. Another question is who we mean by a Hungarian child. If I look at the total number of Hungarians, that is 15 million people in the Carpathian Basin, it means that if I look at in such a section which Hungarian children are born outside the borders of Hungary, then I can say that every third child is born outside the border. Obviously, I also assume that the Member of the LMP was not motivated by the concern for all Hungarians, but rather by the question of the free movement of labour, which is why the Member asked this question. I do not quite understand your question from this point of view, Congressman. You are absolutely right, my colleagues rightly referred to the fact that the population migrated from the Central and Eastern European region from Hungary in proportion or went abroad to work in the least proportion. In the case of Bulgaria, it is 18 percent, Romania is 17.5 percent, Poland is 12,4 percent, and the Hungarian population lived and worked abroad in 2017, so we are deep below these rates. I do not fully understand the birth number, because Eurostat data shows that in 2016 they have data on this, according to the European Statistical Office, 3018 born alive from a mother of Hungarian nationality and normal residence in Hungary abroad, i.e. in another state, which means that all 33 children were born only abroad in this respect. Of course, we hope that they will come home and spend their lives at home, work at home. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-07-16-143	Thank you, Deputy Prime Minister. You have the opportunity to rejoin Congressman Crusade.
u2018-07-16-144	Thank you very much for this opportunity, Mr President. A little disappointing, not even a small, great disappointment to the reply of Deputy Prime Minister, he was able to begin his reply on such an issue with such a very poor party policy, and then in the rest of his response we could hear the same apologies and statistics as we have heard from his pro-government fellows. This confirms our claim that this government is lying to itself as a national, that this government is not actually pursuing a policy that is consistent with this important sign, so we can say that this government's policy is exhausting national treason. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: To state so, at 7:15 p.m.!]] I would like to add one more statistic to the Deputy Prime Minister. Unfortunately, we see that the number of Hungarian children born abroad has increased by one third, in parallel, we know that unfortunately the number of children born at home has decreased. So it can be seen from this that this is an issue that can be called a huge nation tragedy, and we find it quite shocking that the government does not even want to face this issue, and when we talk about such an issue between the walls of the Parliament, they still respond with party political cuts, it is quite amazing. Thank you.
u2018-07-16-145	Thank you, Mr. Crusade. You have a one-minute rejoinder for Deputy Prime Minister.
u2018-07-16-146	Thank you, Mr. President. Rather, I think it is a tragedy to have the opportunity to ask questions of this quality in this House. Congressman couldn't give me one number, he couldn't back up what he was asking with one piece of data. I have told you, and I would be happy to give you this, that according to Eurostat survey, but also according to the measurement of the HCSO, Eurostat is working on the measurements of the Hungarian Statistical Office, and there is nothing to support what you have done in the title of your question. [[18.20]] As I said, and I must repeat this once again, 3018 children were born outside the borders of the country in 2016. This is far from the 91,734 children who were born from parents who were otherwise resident in Hungary. So Congressman asked a completely unfounded question. I'm asking you to prepare yourself next time. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2018-07-16-147	Thank you, Deputy Prime Minister. Dear Parliament, Tamás Mellár, representative of the Dialogue, wants to ask the Minister for Innovation and Technology an immediate question:. What about the evaluation of research applications? It's an address. The Minister appointed Mr Péter Cseresnyés State Secretary, because he cannot be present for public service. I'm asking if you'd like to accept the recipient's identity. [[Dr. Tamás Mellar: Yes.]] Congressman says yes. Congressman Tamás Mellar is the one who has the floor.
u2018-07-16-148	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, One of the news of the past few days has been that the National Research, Development and Innovation Fund has awarded HUF 11 billion under the title of research support. Then the news came that this support could not be allocated until Minister Palkovic re-assessed these proposals and approved them. Therefore, despite the lengthy tendering procedure and expert examination, this is overwritten by the ministerial decision. I have four questions about this. The first question is why the Minister has interrupted the tendering system that had been established by his own government. How does this comply with the rule of law? The second question is, what is the assurance that the ministerial review will indeed be on a professional basis, will be professional, and will not be made on the basis of political considerations. And my third question is that you have the appropriate expertise from the Ministry of Innovation and Technology to make these decisions. So he has a team of experts that can be compared, let's say, with the expert guard behind the Hungarian Academy of Sciences, as they did this criticism in the past. It is a matter of scientific questions, and it is clear that decisions must be taken by a scientific community on scientific issues. Finally, my fourth question would be: is this the future? So this procedure also anticipates the similar distribution of tender funds in research institutions that have been nationalised from next year, not on a professional basis, but on a political basis? Thank you very much.
u2018-07-16-149	Thank you, Congressman Mellar. I give the floor to State Secretary Péter Cseresnyés.
u2018-07-16-150	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, I would like to answer your question briefly. Yes, there is an apparatus that assists the Minister in his work, and which can handle the evaluation of the proposals in an appropriate manner, and can allocate the sources of tender in an appropriate manner, in order to ensure that science and research serve society and the Hungarian economy in an appropriate way. One of these fundamental bodies is the National Research, Development and Innovation Office, which, in recent years, has held a significant amount of money for these developments, innovation, and has significantly increased the amount of money that could be allocated in this respect to appropriate research, appropriate development and innovation. Following a coordinated, coordinated concept of science funding, compared to 2010 when a decision was made of HUF 23 billion, after a steady increase, it already delivered HUF 83 billion to participants in scientific projects through its tender systems in 2017. We want this process to be used in a coordinated way and more effectively in negotiations, and we want every single research, every single development that requires money, to receive funds, as I have already said, to help society move forward, to the development of the economy. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2018-07-16-151	Thank you, Secretary of State Cseresnyés. Congressman Mellar is entitled to a rejoinder.
u2018-07-16-152	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The Secretary of State didn't convince me with his answer. First of all, because when I asked if there was an apparatus, he replied that there was a National Fund for Research, Development and Innovation. Of course, this fund exists, and my question was why the Ministry was not satisfied with the decision of this fund, why it took this right. It is therefore still impossible to see what the mechanisms will be that will really help to assess these proposals on a scientific basis and to award the money. And that is why it is disturbing, because in the previous period, the fund you mentioned worked very well, and Mr Pálinkás has done a very good job in this regard, and the whole scientific life has been fully satisfied with it, because it has indeed been assessed on a very serious scientific basis. Now, after his removal, I think that this cannot happen. Thank you very much.
u2018-07-16-153	Thank you, Congressman Mellar. I give the floor to the Secretary of State Cseresnyés in return.
u2018-07-16-154	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, It is not the first time that this issue has been raised between the walls of this House, not only from your mouth, but also from other Members in this area, and I have always been able to answer that, of course, there will be no disruption in the processes, but it is a very, very important aspect that the money we spend on scientific research, innovation and development can be used even more effectively than it has been in the past. The person of the President of the National Research, Development and Innovation Office will be changed. It is common practice during such transition periods and such as this, for the supervisory body to ask the institution for patience with regard to decision-making. That's the patience I'm asking of you. Negotiations are ongoing with MTA, representatives of MTA, as to how this particular agreement can be achieved. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] find and subsequently apply the most effective form of distribution. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2018-07-16-155	Thank you, Secretary of State Cseresnyés. Dear Parliament, István Vitányi, representative of Fidesz, wants to ask the President of the State Audit Office an immediate question: "Where did Jobbik's money go? It's an address. The President appointed Tihamér Warvasovszky as Vice-President in response. I'm asking if you'd like to accept the recipient's identity. [[Dr. István Vitányi: El.]] Congressman says yes. Mr István Vitányi has the floor.
u2018-07-16-156	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. We are almost no longer surprised when the House of Jobbik is once again exposed to some questionable matter. One scandal follows another, and now another episode of a better-looking tragedy is outlined, because if it is not enough for the more than 660 million sanctions they have to pay for the illicit party financing established by the State Audit Office, it seems now that the party has to face other settlement difficulties as well. It turned out that during the fundraising operation, which was established as a result of illicit couples financing, for a penalty of 660 million, they did not spend the money they received from sympathizers, i.e. nearly 100 million forints, on the payment of the sanctions resulting from the law. Márton Gyöngyösi, the leader of the party, spoke about this because he himself claimed that he had been spent on an election campaign. In June, however, the campaign report published in the Hungarian Gazette does not contain this. [[Adam Mirkóczki: Without Paper?]] According to the report, which Tamás Sneider signed, the amount of donations received for election purposes was only HUF 20 million. Based on all this, it is a question of where 80 million forints went. Maybe the campaign report doesn't add up? It is also possible, however, that we have come to another turn of the better lie spiral, and yet he did not spend the money from the sympathizers of the party on the election campaign. There's a question of what, then. They came up with an amazing explanation the other day, according to this campaign report, the donations received during the campaign period, and donations outside that period are not included in this category. However, according to the relevant legislation, the situation is different. [[18.30]] So from all this, it's almost certain that at some point someone lied, and it's a question of when. [[Intercoms from Jobbik: You and now!]] Is it possible that the money was spent on something else, or that a false campaign report was published in the Hungarian Gazette? One thing is certain: the mystery is 80 million forints, and many other unanswered questions have been raised about Jobbik's finances and campaign spending. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] and not least about its credibility. [[Ádám Mirkóczki: Look at how long the campaign period will last, and you will get the answer! The president's ringing the bell.]] In view of all this, I ask...
u2018-07-16-157	Thank you...
u2018-07-16-158	... the president, where the Jobbik put the money. [[Adam Mirkóczki intervenes. Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-07-16-159	Thank you, Congressman Vitányi. In response, I give the floor to Vice-President Tihamér Warvasovszky.
u2018-07-16-160	Thank you very much. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Dear Parliament, The State Audit Office shall verify every two years the legality of the management of the parties receiving budgetary support according to the relevant legal provisions. [[Adam Mirkóczki: Except Fidesz!]] and also checks the settlement of election campaign funds. As part of the control of the management of parties receiving budgetary support, we published it in January 2018 [[Adam Mirkóczki: Surprisingly!]] our report on the control of Jobbik, in which the State Audit Office revealed that in the first half of 2017 the party had accepted an illegal financial contribution from legal persons for nearly HUF 332 million in violation of the party law. [[It's an intervention from Jobbik's ranks. Adam Mirkóczki: How did that come out?!]] In addition, the party did not demonstrate, for the years 15-16, that it had used the funds legally available for its operation. [[Interjection from Jobbik's ranks: No, it's not true!]] because it failed to comply with its statutory reporting obligation to carry out the Court's audit. [[István Szávay: You're lying!]] In relation to the matters referred to in this question, I would like to inform the Member that the State Audit Office has started its audits in connection with the parliamentary elections in 2018 [[Ádám Mirkóczki: Go on holiday!]] The State Audit Office of Hungary will, of course, check candidates and nominating organisations, including Jobbik, in terms of financial and regularity within a year after the election, according to the campaign law. Our audit also covers the verification of the appropriateness and justification of the campaign report published in the Hungarian Gazette. During the verification of nominating organisations, the SAO will also verify the acceptance of non-cash financial contributions and compliance with the legal provisions on illegal aid for the campaign period. I would like to stress that the purity of Hungarian political life, the public funds available to the parties [[The president's ringing the bell.]] and it is essential for the use of public wealth that the management of parties is lawful, accountable and transparent. [[Adam Mirkóczki: Sit! I'll read the end of the Hungarian Times!]] Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-07-16-161	Thank you, Mr. Tihamér Warvasovszky. A one-minute rejoinder will be given to Congressman Vitányi.
u2018-07-16-162	Thank you for your answer, Mr. Vice President. [[It's an intervention from Jobbik's ranks.]] [[It's an intervention from Jobbik's ranks.]] As the Vice-President said, the transparency of the management of public funds available to parties (communication from Jobbik). ) and the elimination of corruption risks, all of which are factors that guarantee the purity of political life. The Jobbik seems to be violating these principles in a series of ways. [[Dr. István Apáti: No paper! No paper!]] and their representatives even contradict themselves with their statements. [[Ádám Mirkóczki: And tomorrow's Hungarian Times, yes!]] Better is a party that constantly shouts corruption, while they cannot account for their own farming, nor can they see out of the suspicious and dubious cases of corruption. [[István Szávay intervenes.]] The way your sympathizers are being tricked, let's just say, is a matter of political taste, although it also has visible results, let's face it, they are sinking deeper and deeper. However, the fact that they themselves don't know what money they've done in a lot of good lies is what they've spent it on. [[Adam Mirkóczki: It is good that you know!]] or it has not been spent, it certainly refers to a serious irregularity, which is in no way acceptable. Hopefully, the public, the voters and we will see these issues clearly as soon as possible. Thank you very much. [[Adam Mirkóczki: Very good! Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks, including Bravo! He's weak! Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-07-16-163	Thank you, Congressman Vitányi. You have the opportunity to respond back to Vice-President Warvasovszky.
u2018-07-16-164	Thank you very much. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, The Court's report, including its report on the control of campaign funds, and the findings contained therein, will be made public, of course available to everyone. The SAO shall carry out the audit on the basis of the same legal requirements and rules for all candidates and nominating organisations. [[Adam Mirkóczki: Except Fidesz!]] Some parties receiving budgetary support, including Jobbik, accepting illicit aid, have attacked the Court of Auditors' findings by administrative court. However, in its final decision, the Metropolitan Court confirmed the Court's constitutional position when it stated that the Court's report could not be reviewed by a court. [[Adam Mirkóczki: Yes, that's very fair!]] We consider it important that parties involved in the exercise of democratic public authority and using public funds should act in compliance with the legal requirements and that their management should also be exemplary for other organisations. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-07-16-165	Thank you, Vice President Warvasovszky. Dear Parliament, János Stummer, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: "How do you want to keep young people at home? It's an address. The Prime Minister has appointed Deputy Prime Minister Mihály Varga to respond. I ask Congressman Stummer to accept the identity of the responding.
u2018-07-16-166	I accept, thank you very much.
u2018-07-16-167	He'll take it. Mr János Stummer has the floor.
u2018-07-16-168	Thank you very much for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, If you've ever moved to a new home, you know what a pleasure it is to finally take the family's nest, open up the cardboard boxes, assemble the wardrobe, put the couch in its place, and first put a tablecloth on the family table, watch children's faces occupy their new rooms, find the corners of the new apartment that are best suited for hide-and-seeking. For a young person, there is little greater joy in life than when he moves into his first home, where he doesn't suddenly open up to her, neither to his mother, nor to his college roommate, nor to any of his tenants. It is a great joy, even if you typically have to take out a small number of bank loans and know that you are indebted to yourself for many years, but you still have to take the risk, because the family does need a home, and it is a big risk even if you count over what and how you will have enough money in time. Dear Minister, Dear fellow Members, Please note that by raising the VAT on new apartments to 27 percent, you are not only affecting the market, you are not only rearranging the construction sector, but also taking away hope from many young people in the foreseeable future to have their own homes. Please note that with this increase, not only the market but also the families are uncertain, and this is the case even if you have already made it clear that this period of 5% will not be extended. On behalf of the families concerned, please reconsider your proposal once again. I ask you to keep your VAT at 5%, not to save on these young people with this drastic increase, not to deprive them of the dream of creating your own home. I'm asking you to create a country where young people are looking for a building site, not a plane ticket or a London apartment. Minister, I look forward to your reply. Thank you very much.
u2018-07-16-169	Thank you, Congressman Stummer. I give the floor to Deputy Prime Minister Mihály Varga.
u2018-07-16-170	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear fellow Member, First of all, thank you for asking. I fully agree that access to an apartment, an independent apartment, is indeed a very important thing in a person's life, but I would argue with you that it would depend only on VAT or not be bad enough if it depended only on VAT. Fortunately, employment has increased in Hungary in recent years, and youth unemployment has decreased from 30% to 10 percent, which means that more and more young people are able to work alone, work and thus earn their own income. This is also the basis for getting a bank loan, because we do not think so, and nowhere in the world is it so that someone can buy an apartment or a family house with a few months' income. So I think that in recent years we have been able to make significant progress in order for those who can, can and want to work to be able to work, to be able to work, to have an independent income, and to be able to set up their own home. This was the case in Hungary. What we see on the housing numbers, what we see from the purchase data, is that it's constantly growing. We are also pleased that today we need to base not only on our own income and bank credit on the purchase of an apartment, but also on the family home creation discount. The congressman knows very well that the decline in the population in Hungary is a fundamental problem, this, the stopping and the reversal of this, has been linked by the Hungarian government to housing, an investment programme. Therefore, in order to enable young people to obtain housing, we have agreed that if they undertake to raise a child or raise a child, the state can provide significant support for this. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[18.40]]
u2018-07-16-171	Thank you, Deputy Prime Minister Mihály Varga. Congressman Stummer has the opportunity to respond in return.
u2018-07-16-172	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Minister, we have heard a very cool production report on what the government has put on the table and what it has not done in the last eight years, but has not answered my specific question. [[András Tállai: What is the question?]] To that question, Mr. Tallai has arrived! Please be willing to consider keeping the VAT on new apartments at 5% in the interest of families. Mr. Secretary, please answer that one little question and don't talk about anything else. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2018-07-16-173	Thank you, Congressman Stummer. The Deputy Prime Minister is also entitled to a rejoinder.
u2018-07-16-174	Thank you, Mr. President. I'm sorry, Congressman, you didn't listen to what I said. I've tried to speak in plain English, plain and simple. I would also like to say to you that the private-strong used-house purchase still has no VAT. So it may not be the best course for a young person to start buying a new apartment or start building a new apartment, but if that is the case, if that is his intention, the Hungarian government will support it. So we don't rule that out either. In this respect, therefore, young people should not be assigned to one aspect alone. You need a job, you need an attractive career. We are pleased that the number of children's commitments is also associated with this, and if they can link this together, the Hungarian state will provide very significant support for this. Here I do not wish to repeat what has been said many times between the walls of the house, so that the Hungarian government can support the acquisition of such a new apartment for up to HUF 25 million. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-07-16-175	Thank you, Deputy Prime Minister Mihály Varga. Dear Parliament, János Harghitai, a representative of the Christian Democratic People's Party, wants to ask the Minister of Innovation and Technology an immediate question: "Let's clear the air or into the Danube." What about the preparations for the Danube Bridge in Mohács? It's an address. The Minister appointed Mr Péter Cseresnyés State Secretary for his reply. [[For signal:]] You accept, you signal, Congressman, yes. Mr János Harghitai has the floor.
u2018-07-16-176	Dear Secretary of State, On the 4th of this month, I read similar writings in HVG and later on on other news portals, and on HVG it appeared this way: the construction of the Danube Bridge in Mohács was stopped again. Of course, I know that it couldn't be stopped just because it wasn't building, it was preparations, and the preparations were a promising start. The journalist suggests that the government has given up on its intention, which I hope, and of course I know it isn't. In fact, it also suggests quite clearly that his position, the journalist's view, would be that this bridge should not be built. We Mohács, the Mohács, the people in Mohács and the people in the region think this is definitely different, we thought it differently yesterday and today. The construction of this bridge is not only in the interest of the city, which is the only city situated on both sides of the Danube. [[Gergely Arató: Budapest...!]] ; it is in the interest of the country, Mohács is located along a triple border, along the Hungarian-Serbian-Croatian border, and we should be able to take advantage of all the logistical advantages of this. This began with the deployment of the border port, the government's decision to build a public transport port, it also provided resources, and this line would include the construction of the Danube Bridge. In the spring of last year, Prime Minister at a forum in Mohács, during the transfer of the great slaughterhouse in Mohács, replied to my suggestion that he would encourage the construction of the Danube Bridge in Mohács, not only with the reasons I said there, but also with the idea that he would see the need to connect the cities in the east-west. In our case, this would obviously mean improving the link between Pécs-Szeged. Now, after that, the HVG article exploded in the region, which is why I am asking the Secretary of State what is going on with the preparations for the Danube Bridge, and what steps are to be taken.
u2018-07-16-177	Thank you, Congressman Harghitai. I give the floor to State Secretary Péter Cseresnyés.
u2018-07-16-178	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, The Danube Bridge of Mo-hács is part of the Government's decision on infrastructure investments to be carried out by 2022. Based on a feasibility study by the Municipality of Mohács, the first procurement procedure for the preparation of the investment was launched in the second half of 2017. The news that this procurement procedure has been withdrawn is not untrue. However, this does not have to upset the Mohács, because the reason for the withdrawal is that the Mohács bridge has a new role and has been included in the plan to improve the road connection between Pécs-Szeged. As a result, the region will receive a high-quality transport development package with significantly increased technical content. In addition to the new bridge, the extension of the six km long section of Highway 57 between motorway M6 and main road 56 to two lanes is included in the project, as well as the 14 km long single-track main road development between the new Danube bridge and main road 51, in the latter case ensuring the possibility of two lanes. With regard to the timing of everything, I can inform the Member, the Mohács and the people around Mohács that the procurement procedure for design tasks, which have been adapted to new content, will be launched in the third quarter of 2018. The authorisation plan and the construction permit are expected to be available in the third quarter of 2020, while the export plans may be prepared in the second quarter of 2021. Please accept my answer. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-07-16-179	Thank you, Secretary of State Cseresnyés. Congressman Harghitai has the opportunity to respond in return.
u2018-07-16-180	Thank you, Secretary of State, your response is reassuring. Obviously, we have to calculate that even preparations will take years, and then only construction can take place. However, I certainly hope that if 500 years ago, passing through the Csele Creek also meant a tragic end for the then head of the country, 500 years later the country is still far ahead of a major event of national politics and memory policy. In view of the government's intention, given the deadlines for preparing the Danube Bridge, I hope that, towards the end of the government cycle, a decision can be made on the concrete implementation, and if we are able to do so, the Danube Bridge in Mohács can be implemented 500 years after the battle of Mohács, and even before that. Thank you.
u2018-07-16-181	Thank you, Congressman Harghitai. I give the floor to Secretary of State Cherry.
u2018-07-16-182	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Honourable Congressman, Ladies and gentlemen, In Hungary, over the last eight years, a consistent policy has been implemented that has set itself a serious goal of catching up the countryside, developing the countryside, and this amendment, this change, is the result, among other things, of this. We plan for the long term to connect the Transdanubia and the Great Plain to make it easier to reach Pécs and Szeged. However, while we have developed and developed transport and we are consciously developing transport infrastructure, these are not the only programmes that are at the heart of the government's goals when we talk about rural development, catching up in the countryside, because rural health needs to be included, it should also include the development of educational capacities. Together, it offers infrastructure, educational development and health development together the opportunity to catch up with the countryside and the goal that we intend to achieve in achieving this goal. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-07-16-183	Thank you, Secretary of State Cseresnyés. Dear Parliament, Gergely Arató and Ágnes Vadai, representatives of DK, want to ask the Minister of the Prime Minister's Office an immediate question. It's an address. Minister Balázs Orbán appointed Secretary of State András Orbán to reply. I ask Congressman Arato to accept the identity of the responder. [[For signal:]] Yeah. It is for Congressman Gergely Arató to take the floor.
u2018-07-16-184	Mr President, Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, The representatives of the Democratic Coalition were surprised to discover plans for the transformation of the Martyrs' field in the parliamentary budget next year. [[18.50]] When we asked what this transformation means, this means that Imre Nagy's statue will be removed from there, as the Speaker has previously suggested, we have not received a straight answer to this at any time. As Prime Minister Viktor Orbán defended Imre Nagy against Jobbik here in Parliament, this time in an exceptionally appropriate manner, however, Mr Szakály, head of the historical institute from significant sources of government, and the government's advisor, who is otherwise competent in such matters, expressed the opposite view, he spoke of the need to remove the statue of Imre Nagy, which has no place in the vicinity of the Parliament, and the martyr Prime Minister of the revolution is not worthy to be a statue of him in the country's representative square. So it seems that there are many people in the vicinity of the government who agree with the view that martyrdom does not matter, it does not matter that the symbol of 1956 is in the eyes and hearts of many Hungarian people Prime Minister Imre Nagy, but only the return to the past. So my question is that the government supports the Fidesz-Jobbik coalition, they intend to desecrate the memory of Imre Nagy. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2018-07-16-185	Thank you, Congressman Harvesto. I give the floor to Mr Orbán Balázs András, State Secretary.
u2018-07-16-186	Dear Parliament, Mr President, Thank you very much for the floor. Congressman! Turning to the Member's specific question, you have also asked in writing your question about this, which has been rejected by Parliament because it is an issue which does not fall within the remit and competence of the Government. In view of the fact that the area concerned is managed by Parliament, I will not be able to make a statement in this context. What I will be able to tell you, however, is that by directing Kossuth Square and its surroundings, the government that was re-regulating after 2010 and the Parliament's leadership paid off its old debt. It can be seen that if political decisions were taken either in connection with the transformation of the square or the renewal of the Parliament, then the government side has always experienced and the parties of government have always found that there was no support from the opposition in this respect, but, nevertheless, as the outcome shows, if the Member leaves the building, he sees very, very well a quality, according to the Hungarian historical traditions, and it can be said that there has been a consensual spatial arrangement. I therefore venture to ask the Member that, if there is any intention to make a change in this way, he should also be supported with great respect by your party, because the improvements that have been made in recent years have disproved all conflicting or negative alarms and, in fact, they have had only a positive effect. Thank you very much for the floor. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-07-16-187	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. You have the chance to rejoin the congressman.
u2018-07-16-188	There is no doubt, and we have actually seen that the government shares Jobbik's view on the need to at least symbolically restore conditions 44. [[Noise.]] However, I must say to Mr Secretary of State that it is difficult for me to accept that when you are always hiding behind the territory of Parliament and the scope of Parliament in this matter, because the Prime Minister and the Speaker are sitting together in the Fidesz Presidency. The Prime Minister can only turn to Mr. Speaker and say, "Dear Laci, that's how they speak; I'm not disrespectful to Mr. Speaker, but they speak like this among themselves, dear Laci, so don't do this, so I spoke in front of Imre Nagy's coffin, so I became one of the symbolic figures of the change of regime. So I would like to ask you that, if you respect Hungarian history even a little bit, you should take a clear position in this and take a stand in defense of the 56th Imre Nagy and his 56 heroes. Thank you very much.
u2018-07-16-189	Thank you, Congressman. You have a chance to rejoin the Secretary of State.
u2018-07-16-190	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Congressman! It's just a short amendment. I don't think we should go into memory politics on either side in a one-minute time frame. I believe that neither Imre Nagy nor the historical figures more important to the right have been treated in the last eight years as a basis for any criticism. I would once again like to say to you that it is, after all, that, on the basis of the legislation in force and the real estate register in force, this issue falls within the competence of Parliament, the Parliament, and, consequently, because of the separation of powers, the executive authority is able to enforce its influence in this respect in a limited way. So, with all due respect, I suggest that you kindly contact the President of Parliament on this matter over and over again, if you think this is important. Thank you very much for the word and opportunity.
u2018-07-16-191	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, After the immediate questions, we move on to simple questions. Gergely Farkas, representative of Jobbik, would like to ask the Minister of Human Resources: - Why are stadiums more important than student scholarships? It's an address. Congressman Gergely Farkas has the floor.
u2018-07-16-192	Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, Eleven years, so long, the government has not increased the budget for student scholarships, while the costs of students, rent, travel, meals and textbooks have steadily increased. Jobbik has repeatedly said that this situation is untenable, because it has an impact on further education, and many do not start their studies because they have no financial cover and do not want to be indebted. At present, the minimum amount of the academic scholarship should not be less than 5 percent of the student's norm, which means HUF 6,000, and in many cases a university student really receives not much more than this amount. How motivating do you think such a scholarship is, and how can you normally continue to study in such a way that, according to the most conservative estimates, an average university student's expenditure can be estimated at 50-60 thousand forints a month? Dear Secretary of State, At the same time, the joyful situation was that, in practice, the youth organisations of the governing parties share Jobbik's opinion on this issue, and last year, the Deputy State Secretary responsible for higher education said, I quote, that this is the debt of the government. And the last time, just two days ago, this Saturday, on the EFOTT, during a round table discussion, the leaders of the two pro-government youth organisations admitted that we were right about this, and they supported this step. The other issue is that they are so weightless that they are still unable to make progress with their own government. The increase in scholarship is only a matter of intention, the one-off 40% increase by HÖOK would amount to an additional expenditure of approximately HUF 12 billion, which would run well from the budget. Dear Secretary of State, My question relates specifically to study grants, so please do not talk about social or other excellence grants in your response. So I ask why they have not been able to raise higher education scholarships in more than two government cycles, while in five years the government has voted for the development of 32 stadiums with hundreds of billions of funds. [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] I look forward to your substantive answer. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2018-07-16-193	Thank you, Congressman Wolf. I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2018-07-16-194	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, You said that scholarships should be increased for social reasons, but let's not talk about social scholarships. [[Gergely Farkas: I was talking about the scholarship!]] However, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that it is really important to increase the academic opportunities of students that so far all the government measures that you have said will deter students from higher education have not deterred students from higher education; to which they have said that they will reduce the number of candidates, increase the number of candidates and increase the number of admissions will be this way, I think, also on the issues you mentioned. The government will increase social scholarships by 40 percent from September this year, which is why [[Gergely Farkas: The scholarship is a little different!]] what you said, honourable Member, in the first half of your speech, that those who come from a difficult financial situation to higher education should provide them with additional resources. If you want more for the students, vote next year's budget, you can do it on Friday. [[Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks.]] , giving a HUF 1 billion HUF 874 million in scholarship to students in social need. We will look forward to your resolution, honourable Member. If I look at the overall sources of higher education between 2010 and 2018, then we can see that we are spending 38 percent more today on higher education, students, training there, and we have introduced a lot more, as well as the acquisition of free language exams for young people, or many other scholarships that can be given to young people with the highest performance: Travel Scholarship, János Arany Talent Career, János Arany College, Secondary School Program that helps young people, Bursa Hungarica. [[19.00]] I could mention raising the amount of Student Loan1, making Student Loan2 free of interest, which all provide opportunities for young people. Obviously, this is also the opportunity for young people to take a free CROSS course and a CROSS exam that has been introduced in recent months. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] and we hope that more and more people will feel the positive effects of comprehensive college development. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-07-16-195	Thank you, Secretary of State of Rétvári. Dear Parliament, Ms Zita Gurmai, Member of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Minister of the Prime Minister's Office a question:. The Hungarian civil society organisations can make a significant contribution to the decision-making process with their knowledge and independent expertise. It's an address. Congresswoman Zita Gurmai has the floor.
u2018-07-16-196	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, History has taught us that democracy is only where people are not only allowed to interfere with important decisions every four years. The power to exclude people from decisions is not democracy. The power to pursue public self-organization is not a democracy. I'm not the only one saying that. In 2009, at the conference of international civil society organisations organised by the Council of Europe, a code of good practice for public participation in decision-making was adopted. This Code provides guidance on how public institutions, public authorities and civil society organisations can cooperate in a democracy at regional and national level. Compliance with the Code of Civil Participation is an important measure of democracy. Where this is taken into account, citizens' participation in public life is ensured. Where they ignore it, there is no democracy, because the state power itself wants to decide everything. Unfortunately, Fidesz is on this last trip. They're chasing social self-organization that could control your unscrupulous exercise of power. You only maintain the appearance of cooperation with so-called consultations for manipulative and propaganda steels. You only recognize the fake civil organizations you set up, like the C.E.F., the others are persecuted, branded, and try to criminalize them in every way. Meanwhile, you like to announce that Hungary is still a democracy. Then I ask, and I expect a concrete answer, Mr Secretary of State: what do you observe from the European Code of Civil Participation, how can Hungarian civil society organisations make a significant contribution to decision-making? What is being done to enable civil society organisations to participate in political decision-making? In what areas of action does the Hungarian State provide opportunities for civil society organisations? I look forward to your reply, Mr. Secretary.
u2018-07-16-197	Thank you, Congresswoman Zita Gurmai. I give the floor to Mr Orbán Balázs András, State Secretary.
u2018-07-16-198	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and The Hungarian government wants to actively support civil society, as far as possible, organisations that carry out real activities that are important for society. Therefore, I am able to inform you that we, too, are placing an explicit emphasis on this issue in the Prime Minister's Office of the Deputy State Secretary for Civil Affairs, which is responsible for independent civil affairs. The Member quoted a document in her speech in 2009. Since then, much has changed, as so-called NGOs or NGOs operating on the international stage have become increasingly important players in international politics. They maintain offices in many states, have an impact on the formation of local public life, and have also become active actors in internal policies in different countries, otherwise in a way that raises political legitimacy, accountability and dependence on donors. These NGOs act as quasi-political lobbying organisations. It is absolutely true, and I can confirm to you that the Hungarian right-wing, conservative government is having an argument with these lobby organisations, and the progressive agenda they promote is not supported by the government. Other than that, however, the civil society sector that goes beyond thanks you very much, very well, I can tell you this to the congresswoman. We are talking about 60,000 such civil society organisations, which have grown from 144 billion to 240 billion in the past period, i.e. since 2010. This is a 67 percent increase, and the law on social participation in the preparation of legislation, the National Economic and Social Council Act and the so-called Civil Information Centres Act guarantee that these organisations can express their views and participate in government decision-making. Thank you very much for the floor. Thank you for listening. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-07-16-199	Thank you, Mr. Balázs Orbán State Secretary. Dear Parliament, Imre László, a representative of DK, wishes to ask the Minister of Human Resources:. Why do they go against their own State Secretary? It's an address. Congressman Imre László has the floor.
u2018-07-16-200	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, The government is now preparing to put chancellors or, as Mihály Varga put it, budget inspectors on the back of hospitals. Hospitals accumulate 70-80 billion forints of debt each year, and you are now pretending that this is the result of irresponsible management of hospitals, although this is the other way around. Since you're giving less money than the real costs of healing, hospitals have to put themselves in debt to treat patients. It is not the hospitals that are irresponsible, but the government that does not provide sufficient money in the budget. So I ask the government, what's the point of sending Chancellors to hospitals in this situation instead of money? They'll decide who to take care of and who not? Will it be determined so that some people can't be cured so they don't get into debt? Dear House, I was a hospital director for 16 years, so I know exactly what I'm talking about. But if you don't believe me, at least listen to your own health secretary, who was also a hospital director. Anikó Nagy told the Hungarian Newspaper that he considered the system of hospital chancellors to be harmful, because he knows it, and I know it, but you know it's not another party soldier that needs to be in health care, it's money. But let me quote you on the package on the health financing system of the Hungarian National Bank, point 1 of the proposal: the establishment of a state financing system based on real costs. So even György Matolcsy admits that the government is currently not paying hospitals for the real costs of healing. So I'm asking. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] Why they go against the profession, the MNB's proposal, and even their own Secretary of State. Why do they want to keep sending chancellors to hospitals? I look forward to your reply. [[Applause from DK's ranks.]]
u2018-07-16-201	Thank you very much, Congressman Imre László. I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2018-07-16-202	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, I see that the DK-MSZP conflict has completely transformed your thinking, and since you have gone against your former party, from which you have been torn as a Democratic Coalition, you are already seeing such things everywhere. I assure you, honourable Member, this is nothing of the sort. We're on this side of the horseshoe, and we'll make final decisions if everyone agrees. These are all assumptions you've been talking about. And what's part of the scare is, of course, rejected. You said you needed more money in health care. Obviously, anywhere in every country in the world, you stand up in parliament or parliament there and say that you need more money in health care, then a lot of people agree with that, just see who has put more money into health care and who has put less into health care. I may have already quoted to you, according to the OECD statement, between 2003 and 2009 it was only your government, the then MSZP-SZDSZ government, that reduced the sources of health care. For all other countries plus, only for Hungary minus. Between 2010 and 2016, however, Hungary has not only gone to extras, but the seventh was the largest increase in expenditure on health care, so not only have we reversed it, we do not reduce it or increase it, but we have increased it to the seventh largest degree. If we look at you speaking here in Parliament and you say that we need to increase the resources of health care when they were on the government, in 2016 The Health Insurance Fund amounted to HUF 1691 billion, in 2010 HUF 1424, more than HUF 200 billion were deducted from the Health Insurance Fund estimate. We have now increased it to over HUF 2,000 billion, but your credibility, your party's credibility, is in doubt. He's talking about more resources, and we're looking at what they've done, and they've taken out resources everywhere in terms of GDP, in absolute terms, from the Health Insurance Fund and from the entire health fund. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] a total of HUF 600 billion was withdrawn. Thank you very much. [[19.10]]
u2018-07-16-203	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Krisztina Hohn, representative of the LMP, wishes to ask the Minister of Human Resources:. What does the government intend to do to protect those employed in the social and health sector? It's an address. Congresswoman Krisztina Hohn has the floor.
u2018-07-16-204	Thank you very much. Dear Minister, It is a well - known fact that a few days ago a 61 - year - old man attacked and fatally injured the family care provider working in Inárcs. Unfortunately, the growing desperation and the spread of various mental illnesses or other addictions have led to an increased risk for workers working in the various social and health sectors and, moreover, underpaid workers. Think of social workers, guardianship workers, homeless workers, or those working in the above - mentioned family or child welfare services. They have to do their job in frequent threats, either by endangering their lives, in their everyday lives. It is clearly necessary, like the fire and safety regulations, to work out what needs to be done in cases where there is a situation that threatens physical integrity. In England, there is a system similar to a panic button used, for example, in medical offices. The essence of this is that the worker can send a signal, which is connected to the computers in the adjacent rooms, and the help signal appears on their monitor, so that colleagues can immediately come to the assistance of the workers in distress. On account of the unfortunate tragedy that has occurred in recent days, it is absolutely important to reflect on the measures that need to be taken to ensure that such a case does not occur again. Therefore, my question is what measures the government is planning to take to increase the safety of social and health workers. Thank you very much.
u2018-07-16-205	Thank you, Congresswoman Hohn Krisztina. I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2018-07-16-206	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, This tragic incident has already been mentioned here in this House. All Hungarians were shocked that the man who helped others tried to help this 61-year-old man's life here, and he would eventually be the victim of such a terrible crime against life, such a murder. We all sympathize with them and try to help them in every way we can. The EMMI also considers the deceased to be his own dead. It is also important that, as you said, the greater the protection of these people, obviously many other forms of appreciation are also important, but it is also important that the means of law protect them personally, as far as possible. For this reason, the Code of Penalty adopted in 2012 seeks to strike as harshly as possible those who commit violence against a person with a public service mission. The new Btk. One of Europe's strictest criminal codes, 459. § (1) applies to the fact that when a person performs a public service mission as defined in the social law or in the Child Protection Act, he is also a public-service person, which was already an amendment introduced in 2010, which was even more rigorously transferred to the 2012 Criminal Code. As a result, it is now a classified case where a person commits such an act, so he can be punished not by a prison sentence of between 1 and 5 years by default, but, as a qualified case, by a sentence of between 10 and 20 years or up to life imprisonment, the current criminal code punishes those who commit a criminal offence to the detriment of a person with a public service mission. This is the same category as committing a criminal offence against an official foreign official under official procedure. This is how we tried to ensure increased criminal protection for these people. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] And that's gonna come back in the convictions of the criminal court. Thank you very much.
u2018-07-16-207	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, There are two more questions. Kocsis-Cake Olivio, a representative of the Dialogue, wants to ask the Minister of Human Resources a question. It's an address. Congressman Cake Olivio has the floor.
u2018-07-16-208	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, From the health numbers of the 2019 budget, the current legislative amendments and, most importantly, the growing private health interest of those close to Fidesz, it can be concluded that the government is increasingly directing patients towards paid health while the public health care system is starting to deteriorate. Most of the OECD countries now spend on private supply in Hungary. In fact, 30 percent of GDP spent on health goes out of their own pockets to private health, while KSH figures show that the lower third is the amount spent on public health compared to other EU countries. People use private care because there are long waiting lists in the state system, and they have to pay gratuity money to get proper care. Thus, despite paying social security contributions, the Hungarian people have to pay even private care, and the majority are paying social security to avoid having to pay elsewhere. Another problem is that since the salaries in private care are much higher, more and more professionals are also going to work there, so public health is starting to degenerate. The problem is quite serious, according to Eurostat, at present 40 percent of Hungarian patients die because healthcare cannot provide adequate care. According to the numbers of KSH, men over 50 have a much higher rate of death in tumors and circulatory diseases. These diseases could be treated and prevented, but at present the public supply system is not able to do so. And if all goes on, then the poor will heal in the public care system by putting the...healing in a summons, and the rich will go to private service providers. My questions are: is the government planning to set up a private public insurance company? What is the government planning to do to stop professionals from going to private care? [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] How can the public sector compete with these wages? And what about the state supply system? Thank you for your patience. Thank you for your answer.
u2018-07-16-209	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to the Secretary of State of Rétvári.
u2018-07-16-210	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, I ask you, honourable Member, to be so brave and speak so openly about this matter within your own party. On the one hand, in 2008, I think people would have been very happy to see someone on the left telling us not to pay for health care, we don't need a visitation fee, we don't need a hospital allowance. Or you, when you get together at some meeting of the Dialogue's leadership, find your own partymate, Zoltán Komáromi. I'm sure you can find your expert in a room, talk about health care, so that you stand here in Parliament to avoid paying for health care. Your main expert, Zoltán Komáromi, has launched a petition to make health care pay, pay visits to people, pay hospital allowances to people. In fact, your party also signed a full package of proposals involving many opposition parties before the elections, which also confirmed the role of private health. Make up your mind, honourable Members, what you would like to do in the Dialogue. Half of them say people pay more, half say people pay too much. Obviously, you don't really have any idea about health care, sometimes you say that, sometimes you say that. And when these people were on the government, who were now in the Dialogue or the Dialogue alliance in the elections, they closed four hospitals, laid off 16,000 health workers, put down 6,000 beds, and pulled 600 billion forints out of health care, I don't think it's for the purpose of making it easier for people to get access to health care. Compared to this, we have renovated 77 hospitals in whole or in part, 54 clinics have also been renovated, 104 rescue stations have been renovated and 31 new rescue stations have been built. A completely new 23 clinics have been set up in Hungary, and we have started a wage increase program, which will result in a doubling of nurses' wages between 2012 and 2019, and we will be working on continuing these increases. Thank you very much.
u2018-07-16-211	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Lajos Szűcs, a representative of Fidesz, wishes to ask the Minister of Finance: the Cradle of Pest County is renewed! What conditions and when will it be possible to apply to the settlements? It's an address. Congressman Lajos Szűcs has the floor. [[19.20]]
u2018-07-16-212	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, One million jobs and one million children are missing today, said the Prime Minister at the beginning of the government. After eight years, we can say that we are close to full employment and that we already have results in the area of childbearing. But we must remember that in 2002 the first thing the Socialist Government did was to cut back on the family tax relief, which was worth only HUF 4,000 a month and paid only to large families. In addition, population government confidence was lifted and later the child was tightened up and the family allowance was frozen, and even regular child protection support was removed and absorbed into the family allowance. It is no wonder that in such a family support system, people have lost their desire to have children. Today, our country has introduced a more effective and stimulating family policy than other countries in Europe. Hungary is one of the European countries where there is a tax relief for families, but there is no family support system in Europe that is similar and efficient to that of the country. 2018 is the year of the family, and a call for proposals to support the development of local government-owned nursery facilities in Pest county has been announced. The government's objective is to ensure that the number of seats for children under the age of 3 reaches 60,000 by 2020. During the 2014-20 development cycle, HUF 100 billion was earmarked for the expansion of nursery and nursery seats. Last year, a tender for the development of kindergartens was launched in the framework of the targeted HUF 80 billion grant project in Pest county, and now another project for the county will be launched, as our county is much more affected by the positive results of childbearing. So the question is when this proposal will be launched. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-07-16-213	Thank you, Congressman Lajos Szűcs. I give the floor to Secretary of State Sándor Bodó.
u2018-07-16-214	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Congressman! Indeed, the year 2018 is the year of families, and the government has shown with countless decisions that this decision has its content. This content will continue in the project you mentioned, as one of the important elements of the HUF 80 billion support programme for the development of Pest county was announced in the previous days, when you launched a tender to support the development of local government-owned nursery facilities in the amount of 4.5 billion. The programme includes the modernisation of existing buildings, the construction of new buildings and, in any case, the condition that the number of seats be increased. It is possible to renovate crèches with a maximum of HUF 100 million and to build new ones up to the limit of HUF 400 million. Fortunately, the government is also thinking of smaller settlements, so there is also a tender source for the establishment of the mini-cradle. A maximum of HUF 50 million is available here for each application. How and how the number of cradle seats shape the life of a family, a settlement, I think it does not need to be justified, because we know very well that the attitude of parents is quite different, parents ethic their work when they know that their children are in the right place. This atmosphere clearly provides an opportunity for these young parents to show up in the labour market, in addition to having children, and for their activities to be truly effective. Maintenance of institutions is also another challenge, but it is obviously much easier in the case of energy-saving facilities. The invitation to tender itself will be published on the website of the Hungarian State Treasury on 10 September 2018 at 8 a.m., and the applications can be submitted there, and Pest county will develop with this. I wish you good work for all of us to achieve it. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-07-16-215	Thank you, Sándor Bodó, Secretary of State. Dear Parliament, The time frame for these questions has been exhausted and we are moving to the next item. The 2013 XXII on the Hungarian Energy and Public Utility Regulatory Office follows. The Commission's reports on the amendment of the Act and the debate on the draft amendment. Government referral T/626. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. Dear Parliament, The debate will be the first to present the position of the Legislative Committee within a 15-minute time frame. I give the floor to Congressman Sándor Hadházy, rapporteur of the committee.
u2018-07-16-216	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, I hereby inform the honourable Members that the Legislative Committee put it on its agenda on 12 July 2018 and discussed the 2013 XXII on the Hungarian Energy and Utility Regulatory Office. T/626. Bill No. 1. There has been no substantive debate on the agenda. I can say that there was a relatively large consensus on this issue, and therefore the summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in Article 10/2014 on certain house rules. Parliamentary resolution No 46. Under § 27 yes, 2 sexes and 2 abstentions, he supported without debate. Thank you for your attention.
u2018-07-16-217	Thank you very much, Congressman Sándor Hadházy. I'll ask the author if he'd like to speak. [[Dr. Peter Kaderjak: Yes.]] It says yes. Mr Péter Kaderjak, Secretary of State, has the floor. I would like to inform you that you have a 10-minute time frame with a possible closure. You have the floor.
u2018-07-16-218	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Perhaps I would like to add to the Commission report and report that I would like to draw attention to the fact that the originally tabled bill included amendments to the employment relationship of persons in the Office's staff. As you may recall, on the basis of what was said in the general debate, these terms were criticised, and the Government decided to establish a regulation based on uniform directives for the wage of independent regulators and market regulators. In view of this, the proposal for a summary amendment tabled by the Legislative Committee and presented to you leaves the bill both the provisions on the fixing of wages for workers and the provisions for raising the wages for managers. The summarised amendment is in line with the Government's position. In view of all this, I ask you to support the summarised amendment proposal and the bill. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2018-07-16-219	Thank you, Secretary Kaderjak. Dear Parliament, No rapporteur was drawn up by the designated Economic Committee. Representatives' speeches will follow in the time frame on the agenda. There is no possibility of a two-minute comment during the debate. I give the floor to Congressman Lajos Kepli, Jobbik.
u2018-07-16-220	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, Indeed, in the seven-party consultation and in the general debate, we indicated our concerns about the fact that the rights of the heads of the office to set a wage would be too broad in this amendment, i.e. the original form of the amendment which was submitted to Parliament. We were very pleased to see it, or rather, to say that with relief, the joy is perhaps a strong expression that it has been removed from the final proposal and that the government is trying to settle the wages of civil servants and public officials in a uniform manner. This can obviously be good news for those who work in this sector, not only in the energy sector, but also in public offices in general, because their wages will be treated uniformly, and there cannot be a situation where the head of the energy office determines a disproportionately high wage by virtue of his powers. [[19.30]] Although, of course, we also said in the debate that we know that in the energy sector, in the competitive sector, incomes are very high, and the level of wages is much higher than that which can be paid at a state office at all, and the state, the government, is just trying to catch up with this. But still, it could have given rise to certain tensions if, at one state office, let's say, a department head made this much in the same position, I did so, or head of department, while at the other state or government office, several times more of this, either disproportionately or at least disproportionately. This is perhaps the most objectionable part of this proposal. I think there is nothing left to prevent us from supporting this with our vote, because what is left in it is on the one hand dealing with the performance of statistical tasks, on the other hand, the very right and technically desirable part of the suspension of the procedure, and, on the third, the requirements for consumer claims. So, if we interpret it correctly, and hopefully we interpret the summary proposal correctly, these amendments remain in the final proposal. Without discussing the time frame available for my part here, given the late date, I can say to Mr Secretary of State, as a representative of the Government, that we are pleased that whatever was really the cause of this decision is that we may feel as opposition that our proposals are taken into account at times. Unfortunately, it does not occur very often, although the ratio may be better than average in professional debates of an energy nature. I am pleased that this is the case now, and I am pleased that this controversial part of the draft legislation has been removed, and therefore I can say that, in the final vote tomorrow, the Jobbik Group can support the proposal. Thank you very much.
u2018-07-16-221	Thank you very much, Congressman Lajos Kepli. I would like to ask if someone else would like to take the opportunity to speak. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. Dear Parliament, The debate is closed and I will ask Mr State Secretary if he wishes to make use of the closing opportunity. [[For signal:]] He doesn't want to. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. The Commission's report on the amendment of certain laws relating to the management of state assets follows a debate. Mr Balázs Győrffy and Mr István Jakab submitted by Fideszes MEPs T/709. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. Dear Parliament, I will ask the rapporteur, Mr Balázs Győrffy, if he would like to speak now. [[For signal:]] It says no. Dear Parliament, I'll ask the government representative if he'd like to speak. [[Dr. János Fónagy, State Secretary of the Prime Minister's Government Office: Thank you, Mr. President, no.]]
u2018-07-16-222	No, thank you very much. No rapporteur was drawn up by the designated Economic Committee. Representatives' speeches will follow in the time frame on the agenda. I give the floor to Congressman János Pócs, Fidesz.
u2018-07-16-223	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, At the meeting of the Economic Committee on 10 July, the Committee shall adopt its Rules of Procedure. Parliamentary decision HSZ 44-45. It held a detailed discussion of the bill on the basis of Article 5 of the Act. The committee, examining the bill, concluded that it was in line with HSZ 44. The requirements of paragraph 1 of paragraph 1 of this Article shall apply. The Committee did not submit a proposal for an amendment to the Commission closing a detailed debate.709/2. Jobbik submitted an individual amendment, which Jobbik did not present at the meeting of the Economic Committee and did not provide representation. On this basis, the Committee did not support this amendment since it would have resulted in the withdrawal of the original proposal. Nevertheless, Jobbik is 709/4. The Commission requested that the individual amendment's proposal be maintained. At the meeting of the Legislative Committee, the rapporteur was referred to the opinion of HSZ 46. § (1) (c). The rapporteur did not make a statement, since no amendments had been tabled to the Committee. In the first part of this bill, it amends the law on national property so that the Government may decide to designate in a decision a person who can be designated as a holder of ownership rights in respect of the assets owned by the State. The second part of the proposal is a technical amendment to the National Farms and Farms Act. In the closing procedure, it provides that the proposal is to be drawn up in accordance with Article 1. Article 38 (1) and (2) of the Fundamental Law constitutes a fundamental principle. In the spirit of these thoughts, I would ask my fellow Members to accept the proposal. Thank you for the floor, Mr President.
u2018-07-16-224	Thank you, Congressman János Pócs. Dear Parliament, I'll ask if anyone else would like to comment on the remaining time frame. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see a signal. Dear Parliament, The debate is closed and I will ask the rapporteur if he wishes to respond to what was said in the debate. [[For signal:]] The author says no. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, The 2011 CXII on the right of information self-determination and freedom of information follows. Discussion of the Commission's reports on the amendment of the Act to the European Union's data protection reform and amendments to other related laws and the summary amendment proposal. Government referral T/623. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the parliamentary IT network. Dear Parliament, The debate will be the first to present the position of the Legislative Committee within a 15-minute time frame. I give the floor to Congressman István Bajkai, rapporteur of the committee.
u2018-07-16-225	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that, at its meeting on 12 July 2018, the Legislative Committee discussed the 2011 CXII on the right of information self-determination and freedom of information. T/623 amending Act T/623 relating to the European Union's data protection reform and amending other related laws Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report shall be drawn up by the Committee in accordance with Article 10/2014 of the Rules of Procedure. Parliamentary resolution 46. By 29 votes in favour, no votes against, with 1 abstention. The amendment of the info law transposes the law enforcement directive into Hungarian law, sets out the rules for the processing of supplementary national defence and national security, and settles the rules of the administrative procedure. Attila Péterfalvi, President of the National Authority for Data Protection and Freedom of Information, took part in the committee meeting, who said that the proposal and the related amendments were fully supported by the Agency, since the Authority actively participated and cooperated in the preparation of the proposal. The President's comments also show that the proposal is based on a professional basis, which is why I ask you to support its adoption. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-07-16-226	Thank you, Congressman István Bajkai. Dear Parliament, I'll ask the author if he'd like to speak. [[For signal:]] It says no. No rapporteur was presented by the designated Judicial Committee. Representatives' speeches will take place within the time-frame on which they will be put on the agenda. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. Dear Parliament, The debate is closed. I ask the author, he wishes to make use of the opportunity to speak. [[For signal:]] It says no. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. [[19.40]] Dear Parliament, The 2011 CLXII on the status and remuneration of judges follows. The Commission's reports on the amendment of the Act and the debate on the draft amendment. T/711 submitted by MEPs Csaba Hende, István Bajkai and Barna Zsigmond Pál Fideszes The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. The debate will be the first to present the position of the Legislative Committee within a 15-minute time frame. I give the floor to Congressman István Bajkai, rapporteur of the committee.
u2018-07-16-227	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that, at its meeting on 12 July 2018, the Legislative Committee discussed the 2011 CLXII on the status and remuneration of judges. T/711 amending Act No. Bill No. 1; hereinafter referred to as "Bj'. I'm going to use a shortcut. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report shall be drawn up by the Committee in accordance with Article 10/2014 of the Rules of Procedure. Parliamentary resolution No 46. By 24 votes in favour, 1 against and 6 abstentions. It is proposed that if the Judge's service is Bjt. 90. § (g) or (n) because the judge establishes or receives the legal relationship specified therein, after the end of his term of office, he may ask that he be reappointed by the President of the Republic without a tender being issued. The Bjt. 90. § (g) and (n) is subject to several different legal relationships, therefore, the expiry of the law in force does not ensure uniform application of the law, and therefore the proposal amends it to the end of the act. Ladies and gentlemen, In the interests of clarity, I ask you to support the adoption of this proposal. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2018-07-16-228	Thank you, Congressman Bajkai. Dear Parliament, I'll ask the author if he'd like to speak. [[Dr. István Bajkai says no.]] It says no. Someone from the government wants to speak. [[Dr. Pál Völner says no.]] They're signaling no. No rapporteur was presented by the designated Judicial Committee. Representatives' speeches will follow within the time frame on the agenda. [[No one's reporting.]] I don't see an application for a speech. Dear Parliament, The debate is closed. I'll ask the author. [[Dr. István Bajkai says no.]] He does not wish to make use of the opportunity to speak. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, The Commission's reports on the amendment of the laws relating to each election and the discussion of the summary amendment follow up. T/714 submitted by representatives of Gulyás Gergely, Bajkai István, Zsigmond Barna Pál, Kocsis Máté and Németh Szilárd István Fidesz. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. I would like to inform you that the proposal is being discussed as a minority item by the Parliament. The debate will be the first to present the position of the Legislative Committee within a 15-minute time frame. I give the floor to Congressman István Bajkai, rapporteur of the committee.
u2018-07-16-229	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that, at its meeting on 12 July 2018, the Legislative Committee discussed the T/714 amendment of the laws relating to individual elections. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report shall be drawn up by the Committee in accordance with Article 10/2014 of the Rules of Procedure. Parliamentary resolution No 46. By 23 votes in favour, 1 against and 1 abstention. Ladies and gentlemen, Over the past four years, there has been enough experience to modify, clarify or fine-tuning, where necessary, the electoral procedure law. Professor András Patyi, the chairman of the National Election Committee, summarized in his oral report, following the traditions of public law, the subjects where the Committee's experience suggests that a legislative amendment is necessary. We have complied with this, and we have made the necessary corrections based on further legislative comments and our own experience. It is enough to think only about the elimination of queues, the reduction of so-called fake parties, the definition of the form of envelopes or the extension of the operation of regional electoral committees. Ladies and gentlemen, From the draft, it can be concluded that a necessary and professional proposal has been drawn up, in which comments, guidelines and some opposition initiatives made by the legislator have been added. I would ask you to support this proposal in order to ensure the cleanliness of the election, to promote the enforcement of the law and to make it easier for voters to exercise their rights. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2018-07-16-230	Thank you, Congressman Bajkai. I will ask the rapporteur, Mr Bajkai, who is here on behalf of the authors, that he would like to speak again. [[Dr. István Bajkai: No.]] It says no. Dear Parliament, He wishes to speak on behalf of the government... [[Dr. Pál Völner says no.]] Secretary of State says no. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to the advocate asked by the Committee of Hungarian Nationalities, Mrs Kissné Köles Erika.
u2018-07-16-231	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Spoštovani Predsednik, spoštovane gospe Poslanke in gospodje Poslanci, cenjeni Zbor! Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen of the Council, Dear Congresswoman, Dear House, The Committee of Nationalities of Hungary by the Government of Hungary T/714. The Commission has discussed the legislative proposal submitted to the European Parliament and to the Council. The members of the committee expressed their views in the detailed debate, since as members of the electoral system, voters belonging to ethnic communities are also actively involved in the development of democratic public opinion. At its meeting on 9 July 2018, the Committee held a detailed debate on the bill, during which it expressed an intention to amend it further. The committee is the bill 54. It proposed to add a new paragraph (2) as follows: § 2 of the registration campaign shall run from the date of the election until the 49th day before the day of the vote. In addition, the committee of the bill is a 55. Article 14 of the Act on Election Procedure was proposed to supplement it as follows: §2 of the Act would be replaced by the following: (1) Campaign activities for the use of campaign instruments during the campaign period and for any other campaign period, with a view to influencing or attempting to influence the electoral will. (2) The national minority self-government may carry out campaign activities pursuant to paragraph 1 to promote registration as a national minority voter [[hereinafter referred to as the "registration campaign']] This paragraph was proposed to be supplemented as follows:, A,,, A,,,,,,, A,,,, A,, A, A, A, A, A, A, A, A, A, A, A, A, A, A, A, A, A, A, A, A, A, A, A, A, A, A, A, A, A, A, A, A, A, A, A, A, A, A, A, A, A, A, A, A, A, A, A, A, A, A, A, A, A, A, A, A, A, A, A, A, A, A, A, A, A, A, A, A, A § 2 of the registration campaign shall run from the date of the election until the 49th day before the day of the vote. In addition, the committee of the bill is a 55. Article 14 of the Act on Election Procedure was proposed to supplement it as follows: §2 of the Act would be replaced by the following: (1) Campaign activities for the use of campaign instruments during the campaign period and for any other campaign period, with a view to influencing or attempting to influence the electoral will. (2) In order to promote registration as a national minority voter, the national minority self-government may carry out campaign activities under paragraph 1 (hereinafter referred to as the'registration campaign '). I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. The committee during the detailed discussion of the bill 82. It also proposed to amend §8 of the Act as follows. The Act on Election Procedure 255. (b) at the request of the nominating organisation, on the thirty-eightth and thirteenth day before the vote, on the 89th day before the election. § (1) provides free of charge to the national minority self-government, which is legally registered as nominating organisation, with effect from the election of the Members of Parliament in the central register, the names and addresses of the voters who have been elected as national electors, with effect from the election of the Members of Parliament in the central register. [[19.50]] (4) Data on data reporting pursuant to point (a) of paragraph 3 may only be used for the purposes of the registration campaign and the collection of recommendations and the reporting of data under point (b) of paragraph 3 for direct political campaign purposes. For the management of data transmission data, Article 155 is amended as follows: Article 2 (1) (a) and (b) Paragraph 2 (d) shall also apply. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. LXXXVII of 2013 on the transparency of the campaign costs of the election of Members of Parliament. Annex 1 to Law No 1 proposed to add the following point (g). The amount of support for national minority self-governments which draw up a list of nationality in the general election of Members of Parliament shall be allocated according to the following procedure. The national minority self-government is the 4th. § 1 of the Act on Election Procedure shall be entitled to an advance on the aid provided for in paragraph 1 of the Act. The amount of the advance in the previous general parliamentary elections 4. § 1 is equal to the secondary amount of the aid paid to national minority self-governments. The advance shall be transferred to the national minority self-government within three working days of the date of the election. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. The Commission's proposals for amendments are based on the experience of the last two parliamentary elections that have substantially affected nationalities. According to the committee's proposal, the registration campaign and the registration campaign period will be introduced as a new concept in the electoral procedure law. The Committee of Hungarian Nationalities requests that the ladies and gentlemen, who have the right to vote in Parliament, agree with the proposal of the Committee of Hungarian Nationalities, to support it as far as possible. Hvala za posornost. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2018-07-16-232	I would like to thank Mrs Kissné Köles Erika for the voice she has asked by the Committee on Nationalities. Dear Parliament, It is now up to the Members to speak within the time-frame on the agenda. The speaker announced was not present, so I give the floor to Mr Zsolt Molnár, MSZP.
u2018-07-16-233	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, First of all, I am speaking to the authors, the initiators, and I would also tell them that they have learned nothing and have not forgotten anything about the conduct of the last elections. The sublime objectives that you have spoken very well about by your rapporteur, my fellow Member, which are about the abolition of fake parties, transparency, transparency, fair conduct of elections, are the least visible in this proposal. But perhaps the biggest problem is not what is involved, but what is not in your proposal, so you can do nothing but to withdraw this proposal tomorrow, to start again with a multi-party consultation, involving experts, taking into account the views of civilians, with recommendations from the European Union that set the framework for a fair choice. There are three basic elements missing. The first is perhaps the most important institution in the fight against fake parties, which is the elimination of the plural recommendation. As long as the plural recommendation works, we can see that there are several investigations in Zugló and across the country, where it can be seen that they simply copied the arches, the reference sheets, use the data of others, and then, well after the parliamentary or municipal elections, there is an investigation over the years, but most of all, there is no result. Therefore, the institution of the plural recommendation is unacceptable and should be terminated. Only by appearances is it democratic, as a voter can vote for a party in secret elections, so it would be right for everyone to consider and decide who to recommend. The other very important institution, which must be removed in any way, is the campaigning of municipal and state companies or the self-governments and the state in the campaign with various techniques, even hidden techniques, with messages of public interest and advertising of public interest. This is all about smuggling Fidesz and government propaganda into the elections. A fair procedural law would forbid them, not a word of them in substance in the law. This is the second serious deficiency of this bill. The third one you talk about a lot is the institution of the vote on letters, which is all about making more fidesz votes come in different dubious ways. The National Election Office's response envelope doesn't have to be used now, does it? A little damaged means anything with a response cover that's only a little open can still be valid. So we can feel the compulsive effort to save a large mass of letter votes, even if we do not know exactly who can vote in the registration process, because your proposal includes automatic registration. It's all about giving the dead souls the chance to vote for Fidesz. It's not a good regulation, it's too easy. It does not even contain the current guarantees, but the biggest problem is that it does not extend the institution of the letter vote to all our countrymen who are abroad on election day. This violates the principle of equal opportunities, and it violates the perfectly logical principle that everyone who is not in the country on the day of the election, with the letter vote, of course, with the guarantee elements, could vote. They are obviously afraid of the hundreds of thousands of our countrymen who were born Hungarian citizens, or who have a domestic address, and by the way, they could cast their votes by means of a letter vote. The aim is not to vote, as far as possible, or to have hours in a row at consulates, or to travel long hours or days in order to reach the nearest voting opportunity. It is therefore not suitable for achieving the goals which you have otherwise set out on the basis of very sublime principles. This proposal must be withdrawn. It is only painful to note that the Judicial Committee has not included a series of subjects, it has not supported the socialist proposal which would at least have addressed these most fundamental issues, but thinks that it is possible to turn a blind eye to the plural recommendation. It is possible to turn a blind eye to the disproportionateness and discriminatory nature of the vote on the letter, and it is obviously most important for you, if the electorate does not receive the cavalry, then the municipality and then the Hungarian state will help out with paid advertising, advertising in the public interest, corporate advertising, using government propaganda elements under the electoral law, which in this sense is not excluded by your bill. If this were to be limited, at least the appearance or the theoretical possibility of equal opportunities would prevail. I therefore ask the rapporteur or his present representative, or the author of the summary amendment, who is not in an easy position, but at least consider that it would not be right to withdraw this proposal and to remedy these problems in September to October, with a much more democratic proposal based on much broader consensus before the Parliament. Because now we have to conclude that all that matters is the Fidesz party interest, and that is not in the country's interest. Thank you for the floor, Mr President.
u2018-07-16-234	Thank you, Congressman Zsolt Molnár. I give the floor to Andrea Varga-Damm, Congresswoman Jobbik.
u2018-07-16-235	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Well, unfortunately, there are only six Fidesz Members sitting in the Chamber with two State Secretarys, even though everyone would think that if Fidesz already has a law on electoral procedure and Fidesz wants to amend its own electoral law, then at least its representatives will take the trouble and have a demonstration at least in the Chamber and try to protect the indefensible one. In 2010, Fidesz felt, with two thirds of the votes won, that it would have to create an electoral law that would give it the opportunity for a long time to overcome, on the one hand, if it won the elections, and, on the other hand, to make it more difficult to participate in the electoral proceedings. [[20.00]] I would not talk about the fact that he is constantly using the entire municipal system, in every election, to help him in the election by officials and the people around them, because that would be a moral issue, although it is also true that it is quite difficult to talk about morality in this system of relations. When, following the elections here in the House, the presidents of the National Election Committee and the National Election Office gave a detailed and long list of the problems of the electoral law, which, in fact, caused quite a lot of difficulties in their activities, which made it necessary to ask for Commission resolutions on a continuous basis, and in which, in many cases, it was not possible to obtain resolutions that could be indicative, given that many provisions of the electoral procedure law were inapprehensible or incomprehensible. We thought that when this inaugural meeting took place, and to be honest, I myself felt that, oh, but as a good, new Member, perhaps an amendment to the electoral procedure law based on a seven-party consensus would come to the House, because if these two persons who, in any case, can be said to be beneficiaries of the Fidesz government, and have great respect for them in such detail and thorough presentation of the problems that arise from the law, then it will be time, and we will probably receive a very, very good amendment of the electoral law. Compared to this, we got this, which is basically, I consider very few institutions of law to be in place and really try to make this law more applicable, but most of it actually shows exactly the same phenomenon that Fidesz has already had so far, that Fidesz should have its own electoral law. narrowing down the time limits for appeals, preserving all the absolutely unconstitutional or unconstitutional provisions that violate the principle of equal treatment, which Mr.Zsolt Molnár spoke about several times in this House, just a few minutes before me, not generally allowing the Hungarians living abroad to vote in a letter, this huge distinction that distinguishes one of our citizens from another. [[President Tamás Sneider, Vice-President of the National Assembly.]] When we talk about the electoral law, there is simply no moment in which I do not recall the words of István Mikola, who and, in fact, the whole Fidesz attitude towards Hungarians living across the border was, and I think that you are still using these countrymen to retain their own political power, when you said that if our countrymen stranded across the border become Hungarian citizens, Fidesz will govern for up to twenty years, because they will ensure this. Well, this electoral law, by the way, gives you everything you need. I am most sorry that these great Hungarian people, who have been caught across the border because of the terrible event in history, are practically being used by the Fidesz government. Unfortunately, you don't see that all this is just a system of deception. I am very sorry that everything the Election Office and the President of the Election Committee have said as a problem has not been resolved with this proposal. I think, and I ask the honourable rapporteur or author to join Mr Molnár in his earlier words that it would really be best that this proposal be withdrawn, because this proposal is not suitable for what the justification is intended for. There is a very kind, very subtle saying, which says that our flaws are the fertilizer by which the flowers of our souls leap into stems, so our mistakes also create flowers. And if our mistakes create a flower, then you can see that this electoral bill's proposal accumulates mistakes, and this proposal cannot be maintained in such a way that the Fidesz government shows the people that this amendment to the electoral procedure would serve justice and the cleanliness of elections. I think, fellow Members of the Fidesz, KDNP, that it is always the human greatness that one can recognize that something he has done cannot achieve a beautiful and noble goal. Because let us try to assume that you may still have a beautiful and noble goal, not just to use the citizens of this country, the parliament and all democratic legal institutions to preserve power at all. I'm always interested in it, and I'm hoping that honesty and good feeling are everything, but it can solve all the problems, and it can smooth out all the differences. The Jobbik Group has not been able to contribute to this legislation in any way, and I am very sorry that my fellow Member from Bajkai, who presented what happened in the Legislative Committee, failed to say that Jobbik Commission representatives did not press a button, they did not vote. This means that Jobbik's representatives do not believe that they, as Members, have anything to do with this law, that such a proposal cannot be identified even if we give an opinion on it at all. So I ask the rapporteur with great respect and I ask the members of the Government to do everything in their power to withdraw this proposal. Thank you very much for the floor.
u2018-07-16-236	Welcome, fellow Members. Thank you, Congresswoman. As an independent Member, Congresswoman Anett Bősz will now have the floor.
u2018-07-16-237	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, There are currently primary and secondary citizens in Hungary as regards the exercise of the right to vote. The fact that the electoral law differentiates between the exercise of the right to vote of Hungarians across borders and abroad violates the principle of equal treatment. While the publication of cross-border votes by letter also gives rise to serious abuses, the vote of Hungarians working abroad is severely blocked. We know the pictures of the sneezing London lines, which forced our countrymen to wait several hours, but we also know stories that someone chose not to vote because it would have cost him $800 to get to the nearest consulate. Ladies and gentlemen, This absurd situation could have been resolved through a uniform e-vote. Please do everything you can to ensure that Hungarian citizens' rights [[The president's ringing the bell.]] They should be equal. Thank you for listening.
u2018-07-16-238	Thank you. I would like to ask my fellow Members if someone would like to comment on the debate. [[No one's reporting.]] I do not see a candidate, so the debate is closed. I would like to ask Mr István Bajkai to comment as rapporteur. [[On Dr. István Bajkai's signal:]] Yeah, he's signaling. You have the floor.
u2018-07-16-239	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, In part, I am trying to be brief, because we have actually already had this debate here and in this Chamber, and we have also partly conducted it during committee meetings, so in some respects I think that some recurring questions are unnecessary or, even if not unnecessary, we have already answered them in a way known to everyone. Firstly, I would like to make an observation and not to oppose what the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary has said, that I thank you for the invitation, and that is where we expressed our position as rapporteur and expressed our opinion on what the committee has said. Imre Ritter, if we did not, but it was expressed at the committee's meeting that the proposals there concern issues of a principled and technical nature, so that they also concern the fundamental principles of the electoral procedure, obviously this requires fundamental consideration, and there are some issues which do not address matters of principle or not of principle. That is why we have remained, or have expressed ourselves, to each other, that we will return to this question, to the points, and that we are open to discussion. I would just like to say that to the woman who spoke. In fact, there were three questions about the opposition. We also had a rather detailed debate on the plural recommendation, so I think that it may be a constitutional right by the Fundamental Law that a voter offers more parties to vote in elections, this is not in itself illegal, it is not against fundamental law, nor does it affect the purity of the election. The fact that there is suspicion or suspicion that someone has abused it by comparing how many recommendations have been made nationally does not mean that this has not affected either the mass or the purity of the choice. [[20.10]] I note only briefly, in brackets, that part of the votes that everyone knows have proved that a voter can imagine, where appropriate, several political trends, not to mention that at the time of the recommendations, many people will wait for the end of the election campaign and decide on it. So we do not consider this to be contrary to the philosophy of electoral procedure, and we do not consider it in any way unconstitutional. I believe that this is a right granted to voters, which has been properly exercised, and that the ongoing procedures have not affected either the completeness of the electoral procedure or its purity or the expression of the will of the voters. Obviously, if there has been abuse, law enforcement bodies must act with the determination and power of the law, but this alone does not justify the termination or modification of this institution. There was also a lengthy debate on the letter vote. During the night-long debate, Mr Secretary of State also explained the expression of the principle of Homogenicity, which I would not like to repeat, but I see from the opinion of those sitting in opposition lines or from the speakers that the implementation of these fundamental provisions resulting from the principle of homogenicity of a certain principle is either not known or not accepted. In any case, this is also a clear one of the legislative provisions in force today, and this has been accepted by those in the left-wing and opposition ranks that have started here, and accordingly participated in the elections under the electoral procedure. The fact that a person subsequently disputes this or feels it belongs to a specific party, I think, in part, to a certificate of themselves. However, I must reject the term, even though I am not a representative of the Hungarians living abroad, but yet somehow I feel that I must reject the fact that we are doing the qualification of their vote in this Parliament. Perhaps Congressman Andrea Varga-Damm appreciated the fact that buying the votes of foreigners, or allowing them to vote, would be of any interest to the Hungarians. I find this much more expressive that we are united, as it is in the electoral process, and even in our constitution; it is worth studying our Fundamental Law, and it is worth studying our history. Perhaps the party that has changed a lot since then, unfortunately, to the national radical party, is obviously the term, that the right to vote granted to those living abroad and those who have been separated from this country would be a violation at all, and I think that it is most offensive to them, and I think that it is actually not an acceptable term to use it at all in relation to them. With regard to the principle of Homogenicity, I would like to note only in parentheses that the Secretary of State explained this in more detail in the previous nightly debate, that if we look at this institution, its effectiveness, we will analyse the international, European or even overseas comparison or legal situation, Hungary will ensure the participation of voters in the electoral procedure in a very broad way, in the expression of their will, and this is reflected or made possible by the way of the so-called letter vote. If someone analyses the practices of Western European countries or analyses the practices of the overseas countries, then he must say that Hungary is one of the best and most powerful, most effective ways to ensure that the right to vote abroad or those working abroad is exercised, to live with this right. Anyone who denies this is likely to have no comparative analysis of other countries' electoral practices. In fact, there has been some abuse of voting letters, although only in half a sentence. I would like to say that there is no such procedure, no such suspicion, I personally have no knowledge that such an investigation would take place, or only one, as this term was used, that the literary formulation of dead souls would have been used by a non-existent or already deceased person, and this would have been evaluated. There is no such procedure, this type of suspicion may have been expressed by you, only one such data is not available to the law enforcement. I find this rather a distasteful suggestion on my part, and I can say that, if anyone is aware of such an infringement, of course, he has the right to an appropriate remedy. I have to say that, overall, the current bill and amendment on the electoral procedure have been made with the intention of improving it. Perhaps it has also been said here in the debate from the speaker of the MSZP that he actually lacks certain wordings from the law. What I can say is that what the law says, what it wants to apply, what is in the proposal, is progress. This is true on the part of creating responsibility for fake parties, and it is true that clarification of the form of expressing the will to vote by voting by letter is a step forward from previous legislation. And as the Romans have said, considering progress is a good way, and we are considering going, so we are trying, and that is why we are proposing proper clarification and amendment of the law, thus making our electoral system even better. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-07-16-240	Thank you, Congressman. The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. The Commission's reports on the groundwork of Hungary's central budget for 2019 and the discussion of the draft amending proposal are now in order. Government referral T/629. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. I would like to inform you that the proposal is being discussed as a minority item by the Parliament. The debate will be the first to present the position of the Legislative Committee within a 15-minute time frame. I give the floor to Congressman Sándor Hadházy, rapporteur of the committee.
u2018-07-16-241	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, The Legislative Committee discussed T/629 at its meeting on 12 July 2018. the draft law laying down the basis for Hungary's central budget for 2019. The background was the Commission's proposal to amend the detailed debate approved by the Economic Committee and the amendments proposed by the TAB. In the course of the debate, there was a substantive debate about the remuneration of its representatives and the amendment of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences. Jobbik, MSZP and other parties sought to make a joint proposal, which is why the chairman of the committee has given us the opportunity to express it with a calm, precise heart, and a 30-minute hearing was therefore concluded. Subsequently, representatives of opposition parties, such as opposition parties, made a proposal dealing with remuneration and the support and financing of parliamentary factions. The governing parties accepted this amendment, supported it, and on this basis a broad support was established in this area. Next, the Legislative Committee is the House Rule 46. By 25 votes in favour, 1 vote against and 10 abstentions, the rapporteur accepted the amendment and the summary report. I ask this House to support this proposal. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-07-16-242	Thank you, Congressman. I would like to ask the rapporteur, Mr Péter Benő Banai, if you would like to comment now. [[For signal:]] It says no. The designated Committee on Budgets did not draft a rapporteur, so I give the floor to the advocate requested by the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary, Mr Varga Simeon.
u2018-07-16-243	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Уважаеми господин Председател, Уважаеми Народно Събрание! Позволете ми да ви приздравяот името на Малцинствената комисия и involving моето име. Mr President, Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary and on behalf of myself, I welcome you. As a spokesperson requested by the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary, I would like to inform the Parliament that the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary is T/629 on the basis of the 2019 central budget. On 1 July 2018, the Commission held a detailed debate on the legislative proposal No.3 in accordance with the house rules. The Committee did not comment on the proposed amendments to the bill nor did it intend to make any further amendments. [[20.20]] Considering that the Aht. We still consider it important that the property of the national authorities which serves as a public service and are managed as strategic property to be owned. This would enable the national authorities to use the property management fee for the properties they own for the operation of their institutions and increase their value by means of their investments. Mr President, Dear Parliament, The Committee on Nationalities in Hungary has not tabled a proposal for a Commission amendment closing a detailed debate, so the detailed discussion of the bill was closed on 4 July 2018. The committee proposes the bill submitted to Parliament for adoption. Thank you for your attention. Благодаря завашето внимание!
u2018-07-16-244	Thank you very much, Mr. Speaker. I ask Congresswoman Andrea Varga-Damm to press the button on the previous one. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea says she doesn't want to say anything.]] Okay, then you can also press it calmly, and then the spreadsheet will be simpler. Thank you. I now give the floor to Congressman Péter Ungár of the LMP.
u2018-07-16-245	Thank you for the floor. Dear House, In this summary, we used to say they smuggled things in under cover of night that they didn't want to discuss, or to get a lot of publicity. I think that now the cover of the night is right in the not-so-transmitted sense of the word. Here, I would like to say two things that appear in this summary, which, by the way, is something that the government does not like to talk about openly or does not like to talk about much. One and most important thing is that in the budget, one of the basic criteria that is always mentioned, which is always referred to, which is always argued to the European Union that the budget deficit is below 3 per cent, the budget deficit is included in the percentage that the European Union still allows. This is because, for example, Eximbank's debt is not included, while the debt of similar banks organised for export imports is included in the rest of the region. Here is the fact that Eximbank's debt rating is so, it's so much fun that what Eximbank produces is not counted against the government debt. My question, which is probably not going to get an answer, because neither so many people are here, nor this is not the genre, is that if it's not public money, then what is it? So if this is not part of the Hungarian public finances, if this is not part of Hungary's debt growing, if this full state-owned bank creates a deficit, then what is part of the Hungarian government debt? Why is it that in the V4 region, in almost all other V4 countries, the lack of such export-import banks is included in the debt, and why is this not happening here? I know that it is very important in this country and in your government that we build artificial lakes in the Philippines, and in other ways this bank participates in the Hungarian foreign economy, but my question is, if this bank works so well, and if the Hungarian foreign economy is so successful, then why doesn't this bank make a profit, then why can it contribute to the general government deficit with its profits instead. But that's just one of the main points we're talking about in the budget during the night. There's another one. I am thinking of the good-looking colleagues and my fellow Member, who has done a lot of work on this, Mr Demeter, on the issue of settlement bonds. Here's the thing, and it's basically a good thing to shut it down, or it looks like I'm trying to put it softly, stop the settlement bond business. This is a good thing, once again, we are very pleased that the government has acknowledged that this Hungarian people have no interest in it and is creating a shortage in the Hungarian budget by bringing in uncontrolled, often terrorist-like people with a password to protect Hungary, but I would just like to point out here that the 18 billion losses that this establishment bond institution has already created, and we do not know precisely whose personal benefit it has produced this 18 billion, we still do not know where it went or where any political responsibility has been... [[For signal:]] Unfortunately, I have time, so I can still say, Congressman. So there was no political responsibility for why this 18 billion public money could come to Hungary because of people of questionable security. So I wanted to say that I thank you very much and I am glad that this is now being carried out, that we can discuss this in this summary, but then I would be happy if Mr. Secretary of State or someone would answer why the government thought that this would no longer serve Hungary's security, or if you admitted this political error, then this HUF 18 billion public money, which was lost here, what political responsibility they found, and what political responsibility it had. Thank you very much.
u2018-07-16-246	Thank you, Congressman. I'm asking if anyone else would like to comment on the debate. [[There's no signal.]] I don't see a candidate. I'll ask the author if he'd like to comment. [[Peter Benő Banai: Yes.]] Mr. Secretary of State has the floor.
u2018-07-16-247	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Allow me first of all to express my optimistic opinion that, in my view, there may be consensus on most of the elements of the motion submitted, since the motion concerns the amendment of 42 laws, which are directly or indirectly linked to the implementation of next year's draft budget law. Only a few of these provisions have been highlighted by honourable Members, and I think that, overall, all the economic policy objectives that the government has set in the draft budget law for next year can be achieved with the motion for a budget. There were two concrete suggestions from Mr Ungár Péter, who said that during the night he had made his proposals hidden in the bill establishing the 2019 budget, namely that we did not mention any changes to the Eximbank. Then, with all due respect, I would ask you to look at the rapporteur's exposé and see what justifications have been given in the detailed discussion process. At the time of the submission, I myself told you what the provision concerning Eximbank was about, and I must say that, unfortunately, at the end of the debate, I can only confirm that it is a complete misinterpretation of the motion. [[Interjection from the ranks of Fidesz: Or not of his knowledge.]] On the one hand, the position of Eximbank does not affect the deficit, it concerns the public debt, and the proposal before you is precisely about allowing Exim to make an obligation or an initiative to increase public debt only by having a prior government licence. Under the current legislation, all items increasing public debt require prior approval by the government. Given that we had a long debate with Eurostat on Eximbank's status, and Eurostat made the specific decision to consider Eximbank as part of the State, the Government therefore made a motion for the National Assembly to have the obligations of Exim, which are now counted into public debt, only to be implemented by repeating its prior government approval. Let me just mention in relation to Exim's cases that the Hungarian statistical authorities asked Eurostat to conduct a transparent procedure in all EU Member States on where Eximbank and ex-exemi organisations are classified as part of the State and where they are considered to be outside the State. It is a very specific thing, however, that most European Union countries have such organisations, and there are countries where my exi is considered to be part of the state, and elsewhere it is outside of it. So in this, we asked Eurostat for a clear resolution and a transparent resolution; it did not do so, but we take note of it, and Exim's debt is already part of the public debt in the current statistics. At the same time, we were able to reduce the government debt ratio compared to the end of 2016 by the end of last year, and I trust that we will be able to continue this in the next time. As regards the settlement bonds, we have repeatedly stated that after 31 March 2017, the claim for a settlement bond could no longer be lodged. And the bill before you now is about the final implementation of this construction. I have not seen any calculations on which Mr President has referred to the fact that, in particular, the taxpayers of this scheme, I have not seen the calculation which Mr President has mentioned. What I can tell you, however, is that when the Honourable Parliament decided to introduce the settlement policy, it was a completely different economic situation than Hungary today. [[20.30]] We can tell you that we've been under excessive deficit procedure. We can say that, even in 2012, there was an economic downturn throughout the European Union. We can say that it was extremely difficult to obtain foreign exchange resources, and we can say that with this construction Hungary has followed an international practice that characterizes a number of European countries to mention only neighbouring Austria as an example. Today, however, this arrangement is no longer necessary because we are out of the excessive deficit procedure, with or without Exim, we can reduce public debt year after year, the share of foreign exchange debt is much less than a few years ago for God; now I think that this economic policy step can also be considered good by many, we are in the category recommended for investment by all three large credit rating agencies. We do not need this instrument anymore, which is why it is in the proposal before the Honourable Parliament that we are talking about the permanent deployment of the construction. I therefore hope that, in the majority of the measures that have not now been discussed, there is consensus and that their adoption will form an integral part of the proposal for a budget law next year, and therefore I would like to thank you with respect for the comments and opinions expressed during the debate on the bill, and I would recommend that the proposal be adopted. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-07-16-248	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. This brings us to the end of the discussion of today's agendas. We now have post-scheduled speeches. Mr Erik Fülöp came forward for the speech following the first agenda:. When will the resolution of Mr 3502 be renewed? Main road between Hajdúnánás-Tiszavasvári? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2018-07-16-249	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear fellow Members, I confess that as mayor of Tisavasvári, I have always been very annoyed by the fact that the accessibility of Tisavasvári's neighboring settlement, Hajdúnánás is almost impossible from Tisavasvári. I don't see the reason for that. I think it is extremely annoying that a section of the road on the county line is not only impervious and causes everyday annoyance to motorists going there, but it is also dangerous and even risking that in many places the road is so dim and so impenetrable that it is almost life-threatening. This is also very annoying, because from Tiszavasvári, which is a 13.5 thousand settlement, a district centre, with six other settlements it is the only reasonable approach to the M3 motorway. It is very interesting that several years ago part of the 3502 part of the road was renovated, and what a strange and interesting story is that the road section between Debrecen, Hajdúböszörmény, Hajdúdorog and Hajdúnánás will be completely renovated, the only border section of Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg county has been left behind from this renovation plan. I believe that this extremely bad method, this extremely bad decision, must be changed by the government, and that money should be spent, that money should be transferred to renovate this section of the road, because, on the one hand, there are more than 13 thousand people living in Tisavasvári, as I said, and on the other hand, Hajdúnánás is a very well-equipped city of Hajdú, a city of 18 thousand souls, and it is very difficult for the inhabitants of the two settlements to cross, for exactly the same reasons I have mentioned. In addition, I can say that one of the most developing, best performing and largest agricultural enterprises in the region is located right in the middle of this critical section of the road. I think that their everyday farming, their everyday work, is also greatly complicated by the fact that they have to do their job on an almost inaccessible road. Third, regardless of whether the citizens of Tisavasvár, Hajdúnánás and the neighborhood deserve it, it is true, because they are tax-paying citizens, so they can cross an accessible road at EU level every day, but I also think that Tisavasvári and the surrounding settlements, as well as Hajdúnánás, have made progress in the past period that can not only be a tourist attraction and an attractive force for visitors from further areas. I am thinking primarily of the high-quality thermal bath, the thermal water of the two settlements, and second of all famous sights such as the unique White-Sik landscape protection area in Central and Eastern Europe, which can be one of the jewels of Tisavasvári. Thirdly, I think that perhaps economic considerations can justify modernising this section of the road, namely, in Tisavasvári and Hajdúnánás, there are large companies working, producing and helping to develop the Hungarian economy, which are essential for a high-quality motorway to survive. I am thinking primarily of the Alkaloid Chemical Factory, which is a long-standing pharmaceutical factory that, to date, employs hundreds of chemists and all kinds of chemists and supplies drugs to many countries of the world. It is also essential for them to be able to approach the highway. But I can think of the vehicle assembly company. a group of companies, which for more than a hundred years has been a 100% Hungarian-owned company, which is also able to distribute its own goods mainly by calling on the motorway. One word, like a hundred, I think it would be essential for the government, for the government, to provide not only the people of Tisavasvár but also the people of the area with conditions that can really reach the highway and the surrounding settlements. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2018-07-16-250	Thank you. I would like to ask Mr. István Cseresnyés Secretary of State to comment... Mr.Péter Secretary of State! Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2018-07-16-251	Thank you very much; I almost had to call Mr. President the godfather, sorry for the bad joke. Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, I would like to respond very briefly to the question, and I would first like to thank you for saying in your speech that thanks to the attention of the government and the attention of the profession in your area, your electoral district, there has been considerable investment in infrastructure over the past period, as it can be said that improving the state of the national road network is the government's priority and is therefore making great efforts, and we are therefore making great efforts to improve the service quality of national roads. We have to say that we are in a difficult situation, because we have a difficult legacy. I go to my own constituency every day, especially on weekends when I'm free, and there are countless multi-digit roads that were last touched in the '50s. It is not possible to make up for this huge lag or lag in a year or two, but, as you have said in your speech, significant progress has been made in this regard over the past few years. I would like to tell you that the complex road renewal programme of 2017-18 is currently being implemented from domestic sources, with a significant amount, the list of which was established by extensive professional consultation and priority setting. The preparatory tasks for the preparation of programmes for the coming years have also started, which, if the source is available, provide the opportunity to carry out technically justified renovations. The Hungarian State signed a contract with Magyar Közút Nonprofit Zrt. for the operation and maintenance of the road network for the years 2016-20 worth some HUF 400 billion, thus proving that this road renovation, infrastructure development and maintenance is very, very important to the government. Within this framework, Magyar Kút Nonprofit Zrt. can perform the maintenance tasks of the road network in a more predictable and high quality way than before. [[20.40]] In carrying out the maintenance tasks, the Hungarian Road will do its utmost to eliminate the risk of accidents and failures, and to ensure the smooth operation of traffic. Thank you very much.
u2018-07-16-252	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. To speak after the next agenda, Mr Péter Ungár spoke with the title "The Queen of the West." You have the floor.
u2018-07-16-253	Thank you very much. Mr President, Once again, I have to talk about the problems of Szombathely, the problems that have been going on for more than ten years, and which have found no solution during the former social-liberal city leadership, nor now, during the right-wing city leadership. This is the problem of the Falco factory at Zanati Road. Those who live here in the eastern part of Szombathely have been fighting the negative consequences of the Falco factory for decades, and although Csaba Hende, who is not here again and who does not speak of it in Parliament, has had a false fight about it, but we cannot produce any concrete results with regard to the Falco factory. Here in 2005, the problems started fundamentally, when noise and dust and air pollution values exceeded more than tens or hundreds of times the permitted healthy limit. Here was an ombudsman's report on the violation of the right of the Szombathelyers to a healthy environment by the Falco factory being there. Several official investigations were launched, and Fidesz was still of the opinion that these official investigations were often not applied to political pressure, and that the Falco factory was allowed to be present in an environmentally destructive manner in Szombathely. In addition, a very interesting thing happened here during the previous city leadership, which was then voted by the Fidesz municipal representatives, and this was that they turned the area from a small town zone into a mixed category. This means that in terms of both transport and the level of noise and dust the Falco plant had to comply with, they were now subject to a different legislative environment. That's true, and you have to admit that the smoke emissions that were typically the first thing you saw when you went from the newly built road to Szombathely just before the elections were stopped, or you could, even now, it's going to take longer. Now, that would be basically a good thing, but when this happened or not so far away in time, they tried to install a homeless shelter in the same part of the city, near the Falco factory, and they couldn't install this homeless shelter because the official license didn't meet the noise load or dust and other levels reached more than a hundred times the official value. My respectful question is, if a homeless shelter couldn't be installed there because the noise was too high, then for people who have been raising their children there for ten years, for people who live there, what kind of noise environment should they live in next to the Falco factory, if I tell you, this homeless shelter wasn't allowed to be installed by the authorities. Here I could list the various official and ombudsman reports relating to this Falco factory, there were a lot of them, both the city administration and the Fidesz Parliamentary Representative are aware of this, but nothing has happened to this day. One of the problems mentioned most by the residents is that often, despite the ban or other official regulations, trucks going into the factory go into the small streets, where there are children, where there is a huge noise load, where the walls shouldn't be, and the walls are shaking, or when someone eats lunches, the soup shakes into a truck passing by the house. This is particularly problematic in the Pick settlement and in the district bordered by Zanati út, Kolozsvár Street, Subotica Street and Sárvár Street. I have to add that around 6,000 tons of plastic a year, such an aminoplasty, is burned in different ways. This means that there was a micro-grained dust on several dust stations that violates the right of the Saturday locals to a healthy environment in all kinds of ways, and these are also multiples of the official level. So the question arose when both the mayor and the representative of Fidesz will be able to provide a definitive solution to the right of these people to a healthy environment, this factory, this multinational company, will not be able to further pollute the environment of the Saturdays, and that, for once, Fidesz, let's say, in the example of the Falco factory, should not be on the side of multinational companies, but of the Hungarian people. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2018-07-16-254	Thank you. [[For signal:]] State Secretary Péter Cseresnyés does not wish to reply, he indicates. Thank you. After the next agenda, Mr Zsolt Becsó spoke with the title "Eastern Nógrád" at the gate of economic convergence. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2018-07-16-255	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, According to researchers, optimism means choosing how to see the world. Obviously, it is not about avoiding or denying negative information, but we strive to see the positive side of the situation. We must learn to be optimistic, which, of course, does not mean that our past, present and future are spotless and uncomplicated. Optimism is about positive expectations, regardless of external circumstances. A politician can be expected to sell hope anyway, but this is even more true in areas where living conditions and opportunities are much tougher than in, say, the region of Győr or Kecskemét. Well, that's the situation we East-Nogradians are in here on Route 21 from Pástó to Salgótarján, from Zabar to Hehalom. We have significant traditions, since once this region was one of the citadel of mining and heavy industry, but after the regime change, the former eastern industrial basin also created a new situation. A number of programmes have been prepared for industrial change and development, several government decisions have been taken, significant resources have been decided, but the real breakthrough has waited for a long time. If everyone so wishes, and the stars are in a favourable form for us, then perhaps we can now cross the threshold of historical opportunity. Dear Parliament, Several things have happened, several government decisions have been made that are favourable to us, processes have started, which, although they have been there before, but now they really create the possibility of development, the construction of an exciting and livable countryside. True, we are on a 10-year delay, but now we can see the end of the tunnel, because by the second quarter of 2019 at least by the end of it, the four lanes of highway 21 between Hatvan and Salgótarján will be completed, so joining the country's economic circulation will no longer be a dream. In the government's support policy, it was a step forward that regions and counties with multiple problems received more specific support from the TOP source than their very favourable competitors. Thus, the municipality of Salgótarján received an indicative source of HUF 9.2 billion, while the municipality of the county of Nógrád received HUF 41 billion and HUF 130 million. With an individual government decision, several companies in East-Nógrád received very significant support, resulting in job creation, job preservation and the acquisition of new technologies. Wamsler SE, Mitsuba, EGLO's Pásztó plant or Salgglas' investments are good examples of life outside Budapest. The programme "Modern Cities" can open up new dimensions in the life of the largest city in the region, but the effects of the developments will go beyond the borders of Salgótarján. We hope that the start-up program of modern villages and small settlements will also play a significant role in terms of development. The entire area of East Nógrád has become part of the free business zones and significant tax incentives can be achieved. It is also gratifying that new occupational pacts have been created, with training and work-enhancing activities in particular. New industrial areas will be established in Bátony terenyénye, Pásztón, Szurdokpüspöki and Churchesdengelegen, as well as significant brownfield rehabilitation in the county seat. It was an important government step that the University of Óbuda in Salgótarján created a training centre and a research facility that offers higher education in the county of Nógrád in a unique way. To sum up, it can be said that, thanks to many positive decisions, there is a significant shift in employment, more and more people from public employment to the primary labour market, unemployment is falling and employment is increasing. Our settlements are making significant improvements, more and more people are discovering our countryside, spending more and more time there, and the quality of life is improving. We have not yet reached the end of the long journey, but our optimism is unbroken. We are confident that the Government's excellent attention and support will continue in the future. Thank you for listening. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]] [[20.50]]
u2018-07-16-256	Thank you, Congressman. State Secretary Péter Cseresnyés indicates that he wishes to respond. You have the floor.
u2018-07-16-257	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, In 2010, there were very many people in Hungary, who were in a difficult situation, with feelings of neglect, neglect, and hope for a change of government on the evening of the elections. Such were the foreign exchange credentialers before 2010, such were the large families, such were the pensioners, such were the young people who wanted to study, work and thrive at the time. And so was everyone who lived in the countryside, who identified himself as a Hungarian countryman. Because the socialist-liberal government didn't understand the countryside, didn't want to perceive the problems in the countryside, and wanted to solve them even less. We know that this left-wing attitude has not changed since then. Their devastating statements on rural people after the current elections in April have very well confirmed this. The county of Nógrád was one of the areas where a great deal of optimism was needed before 2010. Thanks to the work of the past eight years, it is a joy that not only optimism, but also the experience and well-founded expectations, provide an encouraging vision for the people of Nógrád. The development of transport development and investment in industrial capacity, which is also listed by the Member, are undoubtedly an indispensable part of this work. They bring capital investment, innovation and job creation into the region. These facilitate the utilisation of tourism development efforts, which build on the rich traditions of the region, enhance the tourist capacity of the area and improve the quality of its attractions. At the same time, besides roads and industrial areas, the government has taken care of all aspects of putting the countryside in place and will continue to pay attention in the future. The future of Nógrád county would not have been possible without the development of education. The government paid attention to local schools and to the launch of early school drop-out programmes in many places, but also paid attention to public workers to primary labour market training and supported the recovery of preschool and school educators by raising wages. The government also paid attention to the health of the people of Nógrád when it renovated the Salgótarján hospital, when it also launched programs to assist the establishment of general doctors in the county of Nógrád when it strengthened prevention and protective service. The most important engine and resource of economic catching up is a trained and self-respecting man. Honourable Congressman, I hope that the optimism and emphasis of the Nógrádians will find a good breeding ground for the results so far, and thus help them to make use of the opportunities that open up. You can be sure that the government will continue to be able to rely on this in the future. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of Fidesz.]]
u2018-07-16-258	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. János Fónagy spoke after the next agenda with the title Balázs Balázs Balázs Verőczei, the creator of the Millennium Underground and Budapest tram transport. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2018-07-16-259	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, On 4 July 2018, András Heisler, President of the Association of Jewish Communities in Hungary, Dr. Gábor Bagdy, Deputy Mayor of Budapest, and Gábor Zsigmond, Deputy Director General of the Hungarian Museum of Technology and Transport, praised the event giving cause for my speech. The specialties of the Jewish cemetery on Kozma Street include crypts near the fence. Their historical, cultural and aesthetic value increases not only the cemetery, but also the Hungarian national property. Recently, the Hungarian government renovated the plot of the Jewish military heroes of the First World War, and the renovated Brüll crypt was handed over a year ago by the Institute of National Heritage. This line was continued by the Mór Memorial of Balázs, which is now renewed, with the support of nearly HUF 27 million, voted unanimously by the Budapest General Assembly. I quote Andras Heisler. These are important symbolic steps, and if we are proud of our own consistency in memory policy issues and anti-Semitism, then we need to confirm the cooperation readiness of power with the same consistency. Thank you, thanks to the Hungarian Government, the capital, thanks to the Mayor for his generous support. Ladies and gentlemen, Let's face it, in previous years, not many of us have heard or knew about our fellow countryman, who called the capital's transport development plan. Balázs Mór Kohn was born Moses in 1849. The active creative era of his life fell to the period of economic recovery, industrialization and the development of civil society after the compromise in 1867. His person was closely linked to the birth of a modern metropolitan city, Budapest. Hungarian Jewishism contributed to the life of this metropolitan city, and the young man from Moses Kohn to Balázs became Mór. Mór Balázs, as I mentioned, was born in the year of the defeat of the revolution and became an adult during the happy times of peace. Unparalleledly fertile, intense, and short life spans only 48 years throughout this period. Again, I quote Andras Heisler. In exchange for his short life, the Eternal gave him a long afterlife. The subterranean, the continent's first metro line, which we owe to him, still runs today, still carries tens of thousands. His example shows that even though we are all mortals, we can do things for others that survive us. I ask all of us that actions in behalf of others can be more important than anything else. Thus preserves and quotes the memory of Mór Balázs, the capital of every worker at dawn, when during the Andrássy journey the underground starts every morning. Mór Balázs, director of the Budapest City Railway Company, created the network of the Metropolitan Railways, and in his plans and work he went far beyond the size of the capital at that time, opening the way for the development in the following century. In 1896, József Ferencz recognized and decorated the Budapest City Railway Company with a coat of arms. He gained his CEO for the excellent and inexorable merits of the construction of the underground railway in Budapest. This is how the representation of Europe's first underground railway came to the noble coat of arms of Balázs Mór Verőczei. Mór Balázs, the founder of public transport in Hungary's capital city, knows the science of the modern world, has been attached to Jewish traditions for the rest of his life, and has been going along with the world all along. So and that's what made it a success. Recognizing his person, his work, preserving his memory of posterity, so it's our job too. Thank you for listening. Thank you, Mr President, for the opportunity.
u2018-07-16-260	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to State Secretary Péter Cseresnyés.
u2018-07-16-261	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Dear Secretary of State, Where he laid his tracks, the palaces came out of the ground. In terms of transport, Mór Balázs made Budapest the model city of the continent, and he really deserved to have his name recorded with gratitude in his life in the social paper of the time of the Hungarian Genius. Article 19 shall apply from the date of entry into force of this Agreement. At the end of the 20th century, Mór Balázs started the construction of Budapest's tram network according to his instructions. After the first attempts by Siemens in Berlin, trams were already in Budapest in 1887. His name is also the construction of the Millennium Underground Railway, as has been said in your speech, as well as the first plans for the subway network. Maybe it's not an exaggeration to say that he was the one who set in motion the metropolis that was then being built, which was called Budapest. It was born in the middle of Europe and the big city, which is now known as Budapest, began to grow at almost unprecedented speed in history. In many respects, one of the youngest capitals of Central Europe has become the leading city of the continent, Europe as a whole. Growing up to the work of the great ancestors is a noble task. In recent years, developments in the field of public transport in Budapest have all pointed in this direction. [[21.00]] For example, in 2014, the fast inner city connection of the South Buda region was created. After several decades, the tram lines in Buda are a unified network with the tram network operating from 2016, and there has been a non-transfer-free connection between the northern and southern Buda areas. The extension of tram 1 to the Kelenföld railway station creates a missing track connection between South Pest and South Buda. The ongoing renewal of Metro 3 which is supported by the European Union and which also facilitates the transport of people with disabilities in accordance with the requirements of the age is intended to raise the quality of travel. In the same way as the completed vehicle procurement project aimed at updating Budapest's tram and trolleybus fleet. The purchased 47 trolleybuses and 36 trolleybuses are modern, low floor and efficient in energy use. In the near future, these will be followed by additional vehicles. The stops of the routes concerned have also been refurbished so that they can provide accessible and up-to-date travel on fixed track routes. The development of Community transport routes, along with the rejuvenation of the fleet of vehicles, also shows the development of public areas such as Széll Kálmán tér and Kossuth Lajos tér, a global city celebrating its 145th birthday this year. The work done is spectacular, but not yet complete. We have many other tasks ahead of us to consider ourselves worthy offspring of their great ancestors. In this work, it is only a matter of posterity to do what we are now, at this moment, to preserve the memory of those who, by pioneering their work, have created the foundations of our lives today and our daily lives. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2018-07-16-262	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. I now give the opportunity to speak to Congressman Gergely Farkas: when will the government give assistance to the town of Kiskunhalas with the title "To solve the problems of rainwater drainage." You have the floor, Congressman.
u2018-07-16-263	Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, As I promised earlier, I would like to speak in order about the problems of my constituency, asking the government for help. I'd like to do the same today. In the centre of my constituency, Kiskunhalason, a problem has reappeared strongly in the last month and a half, which has not just occurred, but has just come to light because of the heavy rains. This has caused very serious problems. In a month and a half, there were three occasions when falling large amounts of rainwater caused serious problems in the city. Allow me to give you a little description of these conditions. On 24 May, in a short time, twice 20 minutes, about as much rain fell, 100 millimeters, that the city's low - lying streets were filled with water. Thus, it crippled traffic in several places, and the water reached the axis of the cars, and they exploded in several places. Other than that, the sewage that came out of the sewage mines was annoying. This amount of rainwater could not be absorbed at the same time by precipitation channels under optimal conditions, as Kiskunhalas' precipitation channels are currently not suitable for receiving this amount of water. At this time, the Matthias Square and its surroundings, Eötvös Street, the synagogue of Petőfi Street, Fazekas Mihály Street, a section of Vasút Street, Bocetta Street, Sas and Markovics Mária Street were completely underwater. But there was also a coherent area of water in places where rainwater did not occur at other times: on Kossuth Street, at the railway station, on almost the entire city section of Highway 53, on Szilády Áron Street; the Tó Street, Kun Square, the road ahead of the Csipke Hotel, and several streets in the suburbs became almost untraceable because of the rainwater gathered. This was repeated on Friday evening, June 8, when the precipitation machine measured nearly 70 millimeters of precipitation water, and on June 29 the city was hit by similar heavy rain. All this was enough for the municipality to address this problem. He did that at a board meeting at the end of May. For the sake of fairness, it must be said that I do not want to put this situation in the hands of the current city leadership, because this is a problem that has been looking back for an earlier period, which should have been resolved by the current city administration for several cycles. But that didn't happen. At the same time, it is sad that such cases were needed to finally start dealing with them. It is only sad because the city of Kiskunhalas has won several TOP applications in recent years, and we know very well that there could have been a TOP application for precipitation. To the best of my knowledge, the city administration has not taken advantage of this opportunity, and we are now seeing the impact of this. At the same time, we have now come to the point where, at this board meeting, the plan of action of the town of Kiskunhalas on the necessary interventions for the orderly drainage of precipitation water into the areas for installation has been submitted by the city's management to the body of representatives, which has become national news, by the way. Not that I am speaking about this right now, but it is worth mentioning, because a number of national press organisations have been writing about this action plan that I would like to tax rain water in the town of Kiskunhalas. Let me quote from this action plan for what it was based on. Therefore, in the event of a connection to the network at its own expense, a small amount of public utility fee is paid for the amount of input, but a higher fee is to be paid in accordance with the following calculation method, and a formula is to be used to calculate the amount of rainwater that would otherwise have to be paid. For the sake of interest, I would like to mention that the proportional precipitation is multiplied by the plot size by the green area, minus the amount of drying or storage capacity in the plot. After all this, the deputy mayor tried to explain very funnyly, almost in a Grimm tale, that the aim of the city administration was not to increase the tax burden on the population. Well, despite all that, they've even written the formula for calculating the tax rate. But I'm sure he thinks it's a good Grimm story explanation that anyone will believe him after all. For this reason, I have made my speech, among other things, by wanting to reflect on this problem by submitting to the budget a proposal for amendment, which, to my great sadness, was voted off by the government, the Fidesz Members, including the Fidesz representative of the constituency, Gábor Bányai. We know very well that without government help, it would be very difficult to build the sewer network. So we don't really see the answer. I do not know why this amendment had to be voted off, why they could not take into account the fact that the town of Kiskunhalas needed such support. And while you're here, Secretary of State, I'd like to ask you to reflect on the fact that the city can count on this kind of help. Thank you very much and I look forward to your reply. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2018-07-16-264	Thank you, Congressman. The Secretary of State has indicated that he does not wish to reply. After the last agenda, Mr Károly Becsó spoke on the new roads for transport. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2018-07-16-265	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, The economic development of East Nógrád, the acceleration of the catching-up process, should have always been a top priority for a local patriot MP. Although in the last three decades several programmes, several initiatives, a forward-looking decision for development have been taken, we can only talk about real change since 2010. If something of great importance, which affected almost everyone and was the basis for a positive shift, it was the scheduled implementation of the four-printing program on Route 21. The investment started in 2001 with the construction of a 2.6 km section, but instead of handing over the 52 km section by 2010 at the latest, it is expected that the 21 will be built by the end of the second quarter of 2019. True, however, this required strong and successful lobbying and a strong support from the Orbán government. By building the road, we can not only travel faster and safer in this section, but the long-awaited and desired goal has also become available, that this investment can permanently link East Nógrád to the country's economic circulation. However, a real breakthrough could be achieved if, in addition to road transport, we could finally move stationary water in the field of rail transport. Dear House, This region was once a powerful industrial area of Hungary. The urbanisation zone of the county of Nógrád and its significant industrial area until recently coincide with the Losonc-Fülek-Salgótarján-Bátonyterenye-Pásztó-Hatvan-tangelly. It is no coincidence that the construction of the railway was already on the agenda in the early 1860s, and that the Hatvan-Salgótarján- and the related Salgótarján-Józsefföldő wing was opened on 9 May 1867. This transport facility has become the most important in the region in the coming decades, not least because of the geographical and economic characteristics of the area. The peak of the climb occurred in the 70s and 80s with a multitude of international trains. [[21.10]] However, after the change in the system, due to other railway problems, services and their quality started to deteriorate and, finally, after the elimination of international and long-distance traffic, the minimum service sector remained in the service portfolio. Dear House, If we are serious about the future dynamic development of East Nógrád and Salgótarján's economy and the further development of economic relations towards Slovakia, then a programme for economic development could be justified which could also involve the coordinated development of the railway lines concerned. The Hungarian government's intention to implement the development can help the implementation of the fast train between Budapest and Warsaw. I believe that the development of infrastructure in the relevant section of the track, the demand-oriented expansion of railway services in both freight and passenger traffic, would greatly help to accelerate the dynamic economic development of East-Nógrád. So be it. Thank you for listening. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-07-16-266	Thank you, Congressman. State Secretary Péter Cseresnyés indicates that he wishes to respond. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2018-07-16-267	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, I am pleased to hear that twice the two-banding programme of Highway 21 is so highly appreciated locally in terms of road safety and economic recovery. The connection of county seats to the motorway network is a priority objective of government transport policy. After the completion of this program, Budapest will be available more quickly by car and bus from Salgótarján. From 2010 Hungary will also perform better in the field of railway development than its predecessors. The complete reconstruction of the railway line between Budapest and Hatvan also started at the end of 2017, bringing the county of Nógrád closer to other parts of the country. The gross HUF 208,5 billion investment financed by the support of the Connecting Europe Facility is planned to take place by the end of 2020. After completion, the 55 km long track will have a speed of 120 to 160 km/h and an axle load of 22,5 tonnes. In addition to Budapest-Hatvan, a number of other rail developments are taking place from the EU's fully committed funding framework 2014-2020. Honourable Congressman, No decision has yet been taken on the rail development of the next decade, but possible future developments are already being assessed and prepared. The development strategy of the Budapest-Miskolc-Nyíregyháza-Záhony railway line was completed, which also examined the development of the eight railway lines connected to the Mediterranean Corridor. Future rail development will also depend on the size and rules of EU support for the EU programming period 2021-2027. Since Brussels funds are intended solely for the development of the trans-European transport network, namely TEN-T railway lines, the development of the Hatvan-Salgótarján railway line 81, which is not included therein, can only be financed under the central budget of Hungary. In his speech he also mentioned the plan for a high-speed railway line between Budapest and Warsaw, whose detailed feasibility study will be completed by the end of 2019. This will propose the ideal track for high-speed rail connections between the Hungarian and Polish capital, taking into account the social and economic potential of the settlements concerned, the terrain conditions and the cost of the investment. I hope, along with you, that this development will also make a significant contribution to the economic development of East Nógrád. Thank you for your attention, your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-07-16-268	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. This brings us to the end of the speeches after the agenda. Thank you for your work. Parliament will resume its session at 9 a.m. Meeting day's closed.
