u2016-09-27-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] Dear Parliament, I salute my fellow Members, our dear guests and all those who monitor our work. The 6th day of the autumn session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that László Földi and István Ikotity will be taking part in this meeting. Dear Parliament, Tamás Sneider, representative of Jobbik, Vice-President, asked for a pre-meeting speech:. What is the priority of additional tax revenues for the government? It's an address. You have the floor, Mr. Vice President.
u2016-09-27-1	Mr President, Dear House, As we know, due to high unemployment and low wages, about 600 thousand Hungarian workers moved from the country or commute across the border. The process of emigration of workers has now led to a huge shortage of labour in the Hungarian economy, and although, for the sake of the multinationals, the government is doing everything in its power not to, or only to a small extent, increase in earnings, the legalities of the economy have started to work, and relatively serious wage increases have started in the competition sector. The rise in wages has also led to an increase in wage contributions and taxes. A good example is the social contribution tax, which increased from 2014 to 2016 by HUF 470 billion, by around 22 percent over the two years. The question arises as to whether the higher tax amount collected from employees and workers will return to them or disappear in some black hole or in the sea of mugs. We believe that the higher tax revenues collected from employees should be theirs. This applies separately to the social contribution tax, named by her maiden name, for pension contributions. We believe that the funds collected for the purpose of the pension should be used only for this purpose. Of course, there are several ways. It is possible to raise pensions in real terms, raise income in the pension fund for later years, and allow men to retire after 40 years of employment. On behalf of Jobbik, I have asked the government many times: do they wish to change the strict pension system in Draco, which is humanly unsustainable, as it means nothing for many professions but that it offers a miserable amount of community service for the last years? 'Cause what's this about? It is simply not possible to expect physically, but not once mentally, to provide the same physical, mental activity by the age of 65 as it was 10 to 20 years before. These workers are physically in a state of inability to do their job, but the extent of their health damage is insufficient to qualify for rehabilitation or disability benefits. Gentlemen, Have any of you ever seen a 60- or 63-year-old ambulance transport? You didn't, did you? It's supposed to be the same as 30-year-olds. They haven't asked where they are, what they're doing? Well, I'll tell you where they are: the older ones are fortunately cut off with spinal hernias, and those who have reached this age in recent years are at community service. This is what they deserved for their last working years to save lives - community service. Gentlemen, Dear Government, The opportunity has given you the opportunity to change this situation you have created. After all, workers are able to bear the cost of retiring if they feel that they can no longer carry on the often difficult and dangerous work after 40 years of employment. Have a choice if you feel unable to climb the roof at the age of 65, run up to the tenth floor with 30 kilos of equipment to put out fire if you can't get the 120-pound patient off the fourth floor at 65, or you can't run the 15-year-old thief when you're 65. Perhaps this simple list shows that Fidesz demands inhumanity from men approaching retirement. Jobbik has calculated how much of the social contribution tax paid by employers, i.e. pension contributions, should be kept in the pension system so that it can be achieved for men to retire after 40 years of employment. This amount is only one third of the current extra income. That's what we demand to give to the tired workers, no more, but no less. Thank you so much for listening. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-09-27-2	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Bence Rétvári, Secretary of State, responds to what has been said on behalf of the Government.
u2016-09-27-3	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, If I simply wanted to translate what Jobbik has demanded in the last five minutes, then on the one hand, he demanded a reduction in pension contributions and an increase in pensions at the same time. This is obviously not feasible, but it is very important to find a real solution for people who spend their retirement age, not like Jobbik, who, on the one hand, even in 2010, supported the restructuring of the three-pillar pension system, which was also done by Fidesz-KDNP, which is why the pension fund is now on a stable footing. [[Tamás Sneider: That's not true.]] That's why it doesn't have hundreds of billions of HUF holes in it every year because we did it, but Jobbik is already against it. If Jobbik's position were to be achieved, i.e. his current position - with Jobbik's year-on-year position - so if Jobbik's position in 2016 were to be achieved on the pension issue, then it would be very difficult for the pension fund to pay pensions. [[Tamás Sneider: The extra is HUF 470 billion, of which 100 should be paid!]] The budget should continue to replace this. But if we look at Jobbik, we can talk not only about the proposals which contradict themselves, but also about the vote, because when - and this is already well-known here in Parliament - we had to vote on this question to ensure that women who worked for 40 years or worked for nearly 40 years, and raised their children in other times, then - I looked at it in the minutes - Member Tamás Sneider was here with the other better Members, so obviously the faction voted unitedly, and indeed the yes button was not pressed at 7:36 p.m. on the evening of December 20, 2010 at that time. [[Interviews from Jobbik, including Gábor Vona: Which one? Which one did we hit?]] when it could have been ensured for women. I see it still hurts you, it still hurts you, they still yell at you. Ladies and gentlemen of the Council, When the faction was sitting, you should have been so loud, and then you should have convinced the rest of the faction [[Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks.]] [[Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks.]] that you would dare to vote in favour of this proposal, because now you would have the basis to make any other demands. But when you didn't support 40 years of women, you didn't vote for them here in Parliament, so your pension proposals like that are uncredited. (Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks. ) I am sorry that you are only being loud now, I'm sure you're troubled by your conscience, and you're perceived as a political error, but at least stand up and say that, yes, we made a mistake in 2010, yes, you should have supported that government proposal, and you didn't. [[8.10]] Your proposal, by the way, was decided by the Constitutional Court almost a year ago or perhaps more than a year ago. There was a long procedure, which was also in the National Election Committee, the Mansion, and ended in the Constitutional Court in 2015, summer 2015, if I remember correctly, and there the Constitutional Court also made it clear that your initiative could not continue. Thus, the Constitutional Court has spoken the decisive word in this regard. It is also important that workers over the age of 55 have obviously introduced a wide variety of benefits, whether in the Erzsébet programme or in the job protection action, because we know that it is much more difficult to work over 55 years, and therefore, in the case of employment of workers over 55 years of age, the partial allowance that employers can apply for is equivalent to 14.5 per cent of the gross wage, but not more than HUF 100 thousand; that is, instead of 27 per cent, the social contribution tax is 12.5 per cent. The number of benefits received after the employment of workers over 55 years of age, if you look at it, was an average of 318 thousand people. We were able to help 318 thousand people who were about to retire; last year, we paid a total of HUF 48 billion to get these people to do jobs that they could do well, and they were employed by employers so that they could not be unemployed or fill jobs that they could not actually do well. The number of employees over 55 was 623,000, by the way, when we gave this benefit after 318 thousand people, so almost every second person in the age group. In 14 people, it was used for HUF 45 billion, and here, if I look at the monthly breakdown, about HUF 4 billion is the monthly amount that we pay for such subsidies, so we trust that everyone can really work over the age of 55 and before retirement. For those who are retired, not only have we preserved the value of pensions, but we have also increased it, because during our administration the value of pensions has increased by more than 21 per cent, which also means an increase of 8.6 per cent in purchasing value, which is more than a month's value for pensions, so we have also returned that 13th month pension to pensioners. [[Zoltán Grimlock: Stop lying!]] What the socialists took away. Let me add that 15,000 pensioners took part in the Erzsébet programme during pre- and post-season rest [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] with a very small contribution; we also provided a bath pass for 20,000 people with a symbolic amount. Thank you very much. [[Zoltán Grimlock: 23 million, right? Tamás Sneider: Then the public programme remains. Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-09-27-4	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, László Földi, representative of the Christian Democratic People's Party, also applied for a speech before the agenda. You have the floor, Mr. Notary.
u2016-09-27-5	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, In Cegléd, on the weekend left behind, we remembered for the 21st time Lajos Kossuth's recruitment speech, with which this excellent statesman called the inhabitants of our city into battle on 24 September 1848. It was an important event that affected the fate of the whole country. Nothing proves his living memory better than the fact that the tradition of the Kossuth cult in Cegléd was added to the UNESCO list of intellectual cultural heritage in 2014 thanks to the Turini Hundred Friends Circle. Ladies and gentlemen, However, today we live in another world, a world where faith and patriotism have become a mockery. As Kossuth said 168 years ago: our nation stands before a decisive hour. The question is: Should we leave our acquired rights and independence to perish? Is there any such question now, even in 2016? I wish we could live in a time when we could recall the age of Lajos Kossuth with some loosely sketched history lesson, the inspiring details of this great statesman's Cegléd recruitment speech. But it's not the times we live in, because there's a big problem. We need to examine it: We are all brothers who are willing and able to make sacrifices on the holy altar of the country..., as Kossuth said; or our rag lives are more expensive than the honor of the country, as Sándor Petőfi wrote. I want to believe that this people are so powerful that if they rise up and stick together, the gates of hell in Hungary will not be strong. He can also maintain the vaults of the crappy sky with his arm. That's what Kossuth said at an age that, like our time, deserves the historical sign. Dear House, The stakes are whether we are being swept away by a Bible-sized migration, or whether Europe and Hungary remain what we have built together: growing and safe. Our nation, our security, our culture, our religion are in danger, and Europe, which is difficult to understand from its historic blindness, is also in danger, since Brussels leaders lack the highest sense of duty to protect borders. They are the ones who still cannot understand that security and freedom are the first, or Europe is over. And when Europe is over, Hungary is gone. Dear House, Perhaps these are the arguments that we should consider when we talk about the referendum on 2 October. After all, Hungary's security and future are at stake in the referendum announced to prevent the forced resettlement of migrants. On 24 September 1848, Kossuth called the Ceglédi who listened to him under the Hungarian flag with these words: - Shall we bring our proud Hungarian head under the imperial eagle claw? The answer is no! I also ask that we all say no to indifference, indifference, comfort, and democratic opportunity, in accordance with our duty as patriots, and participate in answering a national question of fate. Hungary must show strength and unity. This is not a party political issue, it is a national issue. On 2 October, let us step out of the pub of political spats, and let the polling booths be the salons of conscious, responsible citizens. Along with Kossuth, I ask that the God of the Hungarians, the truth of our faith, the love of our people's freedom, give us strength to fight! Thank you, Mr. President. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-09-27-6	Thank you very much, Congressman, notary. On behalf of the Government, Mr Csaba Dömötör, State Secretary, will respond.
u2016-09-27-7	Honourable Congressman, Dear House, In your historic speech, you quoted the legendary speech of Lajos Kossuth. This was also justified because we are living in a challenging time, and we are still at stake in our sovereignty and the protection of the country. That is why the government has turned to the instrument of referendum. We Hungarians have decided on several occasions in the referendum on decisive matters since the change of regime. This is what we have done in the case of the NATO referendum on the EU referendum, but I could also mention the issue of the social referendum. You referred to cynicism and indifference during the referendum campaign. Indeed, it is a rather sad phenomenon that several public figures are trying to hide their pro-immigration opinions with cynical blundering. One day, the Left denies that immigration is a problem, encourages absence the next day, supports the Government on the third day in the fight against quota, and votes in favour of a position confirming a quota package in the European Parliament on a quarter day. [[8.20]] These parties, however, are sitting here in Parliament, but a few days before the referendum, they are not willing to give a clear answer to the simple question whether they are voting "yes" or "no." Honourable Congressman, There is no room for cynicism or misconception in the case of the referendum; it is not because there is too much at stake. [[Zoltán Grimlock: We need more than that! You'd better sit down.]] The stakes, Mr Haughty, are whether we can preserve Europe the way we know it and how we love it and whether we can protect everything that makes Hungary Hungarian. We want a strong Europe, in which Hungary is strong, a Europe that is able to protect its communities, its culture and its ability to maintain security. However, Europe can only be strong if EU leaders are able to hear the voices of European people and their distress signals and are able to withdraw a decision that is contrary to the interests of the people who live here. [[Zoltán Pride: There is no such decision!]] Not only do we say it, but millions in Europe, that the Brussels quota package presents cultural, security and economic risks that we must not take on. We must therefore do everything in our power to ensure that Brussels withdraws the quota package instead of being sly to communicate. [[Zoltán Gőgös: Orbán voted for it, let's just keep it that way.]] I see that this will only be done if enough people participate in the referendum. Honourable Congressman, There are many quotes from Abraham Lincoln's statement that everything is done for the people, through the people. But perhaps fewer people know that at the time of the reform, another prominent figure, Széchenyi, was born 225 years ago He had already expressed similar thoughts in a speech in Ohio in 1852: everything for the people, everything by the people, nothing by neglecting the people, he said at the time. These timeless words show more than anything why we must participate in the referendum on 2 October. We must insist that the Hungarians cannot decide over the heads of the Hungarians on the issues that determine our future. Only we can decide who to live with. In this sense, the referendum on 2 October will also be a great day of democracy, where all Hungarian people can say what kind of Europe and what kind of Hungary they want to live in. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-09-27-8	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, At the same time, István Tukacs, Member of the Hungarian Socialist Party, spoke before the agenda with the title of healthcare bleeding from a thousand wounds. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2016-09-27-9	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I would just like to add from the point of view of the protocol: I congratulate the Secretary of State on the fact that he was able to reach the referendum from Lajos Kossuth in Turin. And I would like to congratulate you on the fact that you're very fond of rinsing about a national case these days, while I'm offering you another one. Because Viktor Orbán's personal power game is not a national matter to me. That's what referendums are all about! On the other hand, health, my fellow Members, is a national issue which you refuse to treat as such. [[Zoltán Pride: Because you are still young, that's why.]] They keep refusing to treat me like this. Let's see what the real problems in health care are. The exodus. I miss doctors, I miss professionals. Undeserved salaries. Territorial inequality is where it is determined by how one heals, where one is born. The missing GPs. The missing pediatricians. The ill and doctor, doctor, doctor and doctor's affair is an unworthy system of gratuity. And I could tell you more. I'm not even talking about the fact that the debts of hospitals are interestingly persistent. This is a sure sign, ladies and gentlemen, that there is little money for healing in this system. What are the answers of the Secretary of State for Health? Whether it's one or two or three or one-and-a-half super-hospitals. Be a Commissar called Chancellor. The elderly who are sick and need care should be kicked out of their homes, preferably in a pay-per-view system. If the institutions refuse to comply with minimum hospital conditions, these conditions must be delivered. The public health program is standing. In addition, the Secretary of State has introduced a specific system of conference governance to bring up certain matters at various conferences, for example, the most recent reason why it is necessary to be careful about eliminating those who are in bed because it would give the opposition an opportunity to attack. That's not why - it's because it's inhuman! These responses are inadequate to deal with health problems. And if someone thinks that this is not a national matter, which should not be agreed upon by the actors after long debates, but for a long time, they are deeply mistaken, and their horizons only extend until October 2. Ladies and gentlemen, For months, the government has been trying to figure out whether 18 new medicines for cancer patients can be used by patients or not. In an unworthy, so-called fairness procedure, 887 days is the time to decide if the cancer patient can heal. Think about it. And the answer to that is yes, we will deal with it. And they wait, and they can't heal, and the consequences are known. Ladies and gentlemen, It was a long time ago that serious players in the profession agreed on medicine and how to deal with health. The first condition is that this sector needs more money. More money, and this money is available. Of course, not by taking him home as Mr. Mengyi Voldemort as a constitutional cost, or by losing its common currency of 260 billion. Therefore, honourable Secretary of State, you should also express your responsibility in this, if you are willing to pay attention a little bit, if you have become Parliamentary State Secretary by the grace of Viktor Orbán and consider your responsibility in this regard. Because if there are actors in the health care sector who, as a representative of the public interest, consider this to be a good situation, then that will be decided by those who choose them. But the fact that you have a party partner, honourable Secretary of State, who has been ejected to the ambassador in Dublin to get out of sight - it's István Pálffy - and who, with a complete lack of sobriety, is accustomed to him, is able to say that health care is perfectly fine, so I have nothing to say about that. In general, like yesterday, in the case of the hospital in Marcal, where there is no doctor, and there is no longer a place to go to bed, you answer in the past eight years, and to another fellow Member's comment on gratuity money, with unparalleled personalism. Dear Secretary of State, If it's a national matter, I'd like to ask you for more seriousness, if you're at all qualified to do so. Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President.
u2016-09-27-10	Thank you very much, Congressman. On behalf of the Government, Parliamentary Secretary Bence Rétvári will respond.
u2016-09-27-11	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, If you have said the word "national" so many times: on 5 December 2004 we voted not only on dual citizenship, but also on another issue: health as a national issue, health as a national matter, not a business, but a national matter. The question was: do you agree that health services institutions and hospitals should remain state-owned and that the Parliament should therefore annul the contrary law? In English, should we stop the hospital-privatization, should we stop the process that took place during socialist-liberal governance, when healthcare was not treated as a national issue, but as a business matter, as a financial matter. And we remember your poster, on which Ildikó Bangóné Borbély was a fellow Member of his family, and said that, 2 times, it was not possible to stop the privatisation of health care, not to retain these institutions as government-owned, but to be privatized, to be private. Then somehow the Socialist Party failed to treat health care as a national matter, but treated it as a business matter. It may not be self-conscious, it may be because of the blackmail of the SDS, but it doesn't matter in terms of the outcome. He also treated health care as a business business when he introduced hospital allowances and visits. Now you say, with tears in your eyes, that, of course, it is not real that those who are now on free chronic beds would be paid for in social care. If there were socialist governance, to this day it would be necessary to pay for every hospital bed, pay for every medical visit, every day that any Hungarian person, young or old, spends there in the hospital, the hospital should pay the daily allowance! Is this your reform proposal? Was that the socialist health policy to pay for everyone in health care? What did they do in the meantime? Resources were withdrawn from health care, only the amount of the Health Insurance Fund was reduced by 200 billion and the total amount was HUF 650 billion, from HUF 1700 billion to less than 1500 billion. And what have you done with the doctors, the beds, the nurses in the small hospitals? 16,000 beds were charged during their own operation. [[8.30]] Six thousand medical personnel have been ejected from the supply system. [[Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks.]] And we could say that 80 percent of the assets were needed to be replaced in hospitals. They've started the patical liberalisation, 600 small patics have ceased, precisely in the smallest settlements, as a result of your health governance. Honourable Congressman, So you didn't manage to treat it as a national matter? When you didn't get any ambulances in the last years of your government, was healthcare still a national matter for you? This shows that all these are nice words from the MSZP in opposition, but when you have the opportunity to express your sincere opinion in a referendum or to act in a government period, you do not do so. In contrast, in the last six years we have started and completed 500 billion HUF, mainly rural development. Of these, the purchase of hospital supplies was 104 billion forints, so that they could cure with more modern tools, and now the renewal of the supply system in Budapest. You can make fun of the construction of superhospitals in Budapest, but I think the people of Budapest will benefit from it if it is created. [[There are constant interruptions from the lines of the MSZP.]] In addition, regional care management, we believe, is an important issue that needs to be discussed with hospital managers. You know, they also have a different proposal that would organise care at county level, not only horizontally but vertically, and they would raise a number of kinds of licenses. We'll see what comes out of this. But if you look at the health changes in other countries here in Europe, especially in the western or northern part of it, it will take you from hospital-centred care management to regional care organisation. I would also like to draw your attention, Mr President, to the fact that the wage increase programme that we have launched is almost unprecedented in the last 20 years. After all, from September 1st this year, doctors' salaries have increased by 107,000 HUF, 17,000 specialists and 500 specialists, and in the following year they will increase by another 100,000 HUF. That's 207 thousand forints. And if I look at the hospital nurses, in the case of 78,000 employees, they will grow by 26 percent this year, by 12 percent next year, then by 8 percent and again by 8 percent, which means they will double between 2012 and 2019, their wages will increase by 100 percent. These are tangible steps against medical emigration, in order to provide better quality care, and in order to have enough doctors in hospitals in the countryside, they can provide them, and they should not have to make a living out of gratuity money. These are such steps, your actions have affected this. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-09-27-12	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Sallai R. Benedek, representative of the LMP, also submitted an address before the agenda. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2016-09-27-13	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, This is a Jubilee speech, because now there is the 20th report, which I did and the Hungarian investigating authority rejected. And after being told here in Parliament many times, let's talk about what we know, I try to do it. And perhaps I am fulfilling my oath here in the record that the experience of my two-year parliamentary work is that it is becoming increasingly apparent that a well-organized criminal group has been incorporated into the legislation and are conspiring to steal public wealth. This is what we have to face, and that is what the Parliament must now make clear that nothing else is going on. Obviously, this is not a new type of organization, since it is the 19th century. Cosa Nostra has already achieved a very, very similar level of organization as a family-based criminal organization from the century onwards. I wanted to draw the attention of my fellow Members to this, because I still believe that they are not all in it. Now, last week, the tabloid press made it clear that György Matolcsy - how to say this nicely? - "A person close to György Matolcsy as a yoga instructor with a salary of 1.7 million, not only is he in the party, but also his mother, his sister. It is becoming increasingly apparent that this family organization is appearing. Antal Rogán's neighbor was involved. The children of John Lazarus are wealthy. Minister Sesztak's friend gets a casino, Congressman Pócs's family sells tramps. My fellow Member Satmary's family also benefited from traffiks. Congressman Kósa's wife is getting rich, Mayor Riz Levente's dear brother got a $100 million commission. Attorney General Péter Polt's wife is in positions at the National Bank that are profitable. Minister Sándor Fazekas' nephews obtained land per hectare from the state at a price of less than HUF 200,000. Minister Szijjártó owns his own estate, obviously out of family help. I mentioned Mr.Antal Rogán's neighbour, didn't we not know that Roland Mengyi's wife has achieved entrepreneurial success, and now we know that our fellow Member Simonka is also a very successful entrepreneur with his wife, Zsolt Becsó's brother and sister, and that the Prime Minister's not only wife, but also the wife's brothers-in-laws, but now the golden-in-law and his family are getting rich. And there is the degree of enrichment that now the local gasman had to be involved in order to push this property apart. It's like you can barely see this family merger with the light of the flashlights. I wanted to draw attention to the fact that this is not a rare thing. Zsigmond Móricz was probably a mandatory reading at the same time by the Relatives, which I would like to ask, since Mr Rétvári is already here, our fellow Member, that it may be necessary to make it compulsory again for the Hungarian society to prepare for what it can expect in public life. Zsigmond Móricz writes in the Relateds:.Hungary is the moorland of relatives and Panama. It's such a weird quagmire that anyone who's planted in it is either acclimatized or destroyed. Plants that love this moist soil produce lush flowers. People who don't like it drown in the mud. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. It seems that your family members and their kinship use this moist soil very, very well. After all, ministers, ministers and representatives, their parents, siblings, brothers-in-law, uncles, cousins, lovers, their parents, relatives, and then good friends, old classmates, schoolmates, neighbors, family gas mechanics, and even those who need to be involved so that the risk of being caught is not so great. Technically, this is what Fidesz-KDNP governance is all about in 2016. Is that surprising? Once again I return to Zsigmond Móricz's illustrious work:, Hm, hm. They're all relatives. There's a lot of relatives all over the world. They're related everywhere. Everyone has a poor relative who can be placed. Those guys, once they're in the job, they don't do anything, they don't have any ideas, they don't have any ideas, they don't have any more effort. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Of course, since the 30s the world has changed, and today it is not enough for a greasy job, today we need land, we need the cave, we need the tramps, we need the road construction concession, we need the hunting ground, we need the properties, we need the municipal apartments and basically everything that is worth money. As I said at the beginning of my speech, I would like it to be recorded: a well-organized, partly family-based criminal network has been incorporated into the legislation and have conspired to steal public property. That's what Hungarian public life is all about. And meanwhile, there seems to be no future for education, there is no future for health care, there is no future for the Hungarian countryside, there is no future for young Hungarians. And basically, citizens have no future in a healthy environment to raise their children and live here. You can say what's been going on in the last eight years, you can say what was done before, and most certainly everyone's stolen, and you feel absolved, too. At the same time, they forget that the victim of this is slowly a whole country. That is what I wanted to draw your attention to, Mr Vice President. Thank you very much for the floor.
u2016-09-27-14	Thank you, Congressman. Mr Csaba Dömötör, State Secretary, will respond to what has been said.
u2016-09-27-15	Thank you, Mr. President. It was a rather wide-ranging, frayed speech. [[Intercoms from the lines of Jobbik and MSZP]] And that's why it's not easy when you all have to react in a few minutes. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] Allow me to say that a number of unfounded statements have been made that do not stand the test of facts and truth, let me refer to the usual category of political hysteria. As far as the National Bank of Hungary is concerned, it is an independent institution that now generates profits. [[Zoltán Grimlock: What profit?]] , as opposed to the previous period. No wonder they're attacking him. He may also refer to Roland Mengyi's question. I would like to draw your attention here to the fact that the public authorities have initiated an investigation into the use of EU funds. No payments were made, so the state couldn't be harmed. I think it is a good decision if the Member feels that his name has been abused, he has agreed to suspend his immunity. It is in the common interest to have a reassuring answer to all questions that arise. With regard to the fight against corruption, the current government announced zero tolerance against corruption at the time of its entry into office. [[György Szilágyi: This did not happen.]] That is why he has included in the Fundamental Law the responsible management of state assets. The new public procurement law is one of the strictest in Europe. Today, the real ownership of companies starting in public procurements needs to be explored. It wasn't like that before. This is important because previously offshore companies were put in place, so there could be no discussion about who would win public procurement in the country. [[György Szilágyi, István Apáti and Dr. László György Lukács constantly intervene.]] I would continue to ask you, Mr President, that, if you are aware of any real infringement of any economic activity in the area of the state, you should initiate legal proceedings in this regard. [[8.40]] As for the second part of your speech, you said, if I remember correctly, that there was no future for citizens in Hungary. [[István Apáti: You have it for a while!]] For this reason, the state of the Hungarian economy is not irrelevant, and how it affects citizens. Let me remind you that the economy is growing stable today, and that if we refer to the previous period, it is because it was not so long ago when the Hungarian economy grew by 7 percent - 7 percent! Now growth is stable, budget deficits are low, inflation is low, public debt is on a declining path, and this is already recognised by large credit rating agencies. However, the macro numbers alone are worthless, so we need to see how all these indicators affect the daily lives of citizens. Let's start with, say, tax cuts. You cannot argue that a single-key tax is a significant help to Hungarian citizens. [[Sallai R. Benedek: For the upper tenteen, yes.]] Hundreds of billions of forints remain in the pocket of Hungarian citizens, so I do not understand why the LMP wants to increase taxes, why it insists on introducing the two-key tax again. [[Sallai R. Benedict: Multikey!]] Why do you insist? You are making such speeches in order, which are about increasing taxes. It also concerns tax reductions and the daily lives of citizens, the reduction of the VAT on the most important food next year, as well as the VAT burden on Internet use, and, moreover, the stability of the economy in the area of wages is key. That is why I would like to remind you that real wages in Hungary have been increasing for more than three years. In the first seven months of 2016, the rate of increase was 7.4 percent. [[A statement from Jobbik: Andy Vajna surely!]] In addition, I would like to remind you that the minimum wage among OECD countries increased most between 2010 and 2015. [[Mrs. Loránt Hegedűs: And the minimum wage tax!]] The teachers and law enforcement career models continue, which means that they can expect a 50% wage increase overall, and the wages of teachers and researchers working in higher education will increase by 27 percent until 2018. State Secretary Retvári has already mentioned the issue of health workers. The wages of specialists and pharmacists are increased by 207 thousand forints, while the wages of nurses are 65 percent over several years. A stable economy also means more support for families raising children. This is also supported by the new home creation programme and the family tax relief, which also leaves hundreds of billions in the pockets of families raising children. I have little time left, so I would also like to say that the textbooks are free at the entire lower level, instead of 92 thousand, there are 318 thousand children for free meals three times a day. These are just a few examples to prove that the picture you painted is false [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] to demonstrate that the Hungarian economy is on track. This does not mean that we do not have much to do, and we have nothing to do, but with respect, I ask you not to discuss the results of the joint project, not even because there are many Hungarian people working in it. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-09-27-16	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Speaking also before the agenda, Mr Dénes Galambos, on behalf of Fidesz, asked for a speech:.. How did the government protect 1200 jobs in Dunaújváros? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2016-09-27-17	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, As you may know before you, the Danube Ironworks, the outstanding heavy industrial plant of my narrower Patriam, is well known, I think that it is the largest mechanical and metallurgical complex in the country and the largest employer in Dunaújváros. The area is now the 19th. István Széchenyi's plan failed because of the lack of iron ore nearby. A hundred years later, however, in the '50s, the factory was built. Unfortunately, the company was sold by the then socialist government in 2004 and has since become Russian-Ukrainian-owned. Hot and cold rolled, pickled, galvanized strips and plates produced by Dunaferr, as well as open and closed cold-bending steel lids, are mainly used for the manufacture of mechanical, automotive and construction products, for the production of steel structures, household appliances and other components. Due to economic difficulties, ISD Dunaferr Zrt. In August 2013, he indicated his intention to lay off 890 employees and 300 additional staff in 2016. We were aware of this, but we were also sure that we would find a solution together with the government. The joint work led to a result and it was confirmed that, with the support of the government, with HUF 480 million of job support, Dunaferr also started to raise labour supply, in addition to the withdrawal of the intention to lay down the workforce and the further employment of workers who had previously been affected by dismissal. In addition to the state support for the labour force, there were two other reasons for deleveraging the workforce. On the one hand, a significant reorganisation programme has been launched, resulting in a profitable group in 2015 and, on the other hand, all the investments planned for this year have been realised, and hot rolling mills are being re-established today, which is one of the basic conditions for quality product emissions. The senior programme of the Steel Foundation for workers who are about to retire is also a junior programme, as I have already mentioned, to ensure the replacement of retired professionals for modern steel production. The programme includes the University of Dunaújváros, local vocational training institutions and neighbouring counties. This programme, this case, is also a positive example of cooperation between management and employee representative organisations and local cooperation. At the same time, it can be said that without positive government intervention, there would be fewer jobs now in Dunaújváros. Dear House, The new development contract, which will also end this year, will significantly improve the environmental performance of the blast furnace. The total value of this year's investments amounted to about €20 million, HUF 6.2 billion, but this year's impact on the investments that have been going on for several years will reach €50 million, HUF 15.5 billion. The story is also politically instructive, because a week ago, on behalf of Jobbik, Tamás Pintér talked about the fact that the government only made sound promises in this case, but not action. Jobbik's representative then threatened me with the government's interest in destroying the last iron factory. None of them were true, Congressman. The government was interested in saving the factory on the basis of the data I already mentioned. None of them were true... [[György Szilágyi: In 2013 we should have voted on Jobbik's proposal! The president bells András Tállai: Don't yell! György Szilágyi: Shouting is a parliamentary genre!]] I do not wish to enter into a debate with Mr Szilágyi. In August 2013, the programme in which the Members of Parliament and the representative of the current term took part began, and since 2013 we have had to work very hard to keep jobs in a privately owned factory, and this is the case, my fellow Members. I would encourage Jobbik to remain political in the face of local panic, and I believe that Einstein needed more time to invent and invent relativity theory, to write it, and to invent and write the cube of Ernő Rubik's cube. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] I don't think it could have been solved in three days. My fellow Member, I ask you for more reality. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-09-27-18	Thank you very much, Congressman. On behalf of the Government, Mr Péter Cseresnyés, State Secretary, will respond.
u2016-09-27-19	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, One of the government's priorities is to increase employment, and therefore it is very committed to increasing the number of jobs, and, as you mentioned in the context of the Danubefer, to promoting their retention, if there is a realistic opportunity and therefore there is a reason to do so, taking into account economic and management aspects. Among the possible measures, taking into account the economic aspects, it is appropriate to highlight first of all the support that is available to maintain the employment capacity of enterprises, to prevent collective redundancies and to facilitate the maintenance of existing jobs. [[8.50]] The rate of the job retention allowance may be set at a rate of between 25% and 90% of the combined amount of social contribution tax on the worker who has resigned. I would like to highlight one of the very important conditions of support: the employer must take on the employment of the employee during the payment of the allowance and, at least, the duration of further employment of the supported employment. In addition, the National Employment Service provides a wide range of grants and services aimed at facilitating the early re-employment of job seekers in the event of an accidental need to change their jobs. On the basis of what has been said, it is clear that the government considers each job to be valuable and is interested in saving them, so this was the case with Dunaferr, and that is why the process that has been taking place since 2013 in the way you mentioned it, since the investors of Dunaferr decided in 2004 to continue to employ the people working there for five years, but in 2013 there were problems, and as you mentioned, it was suggested that hundreds of total numbers of people over thousands were sent away from the company. NGM, the Ministry of National Economy, has therefore set up a working group to resolve the situation and, as a result of the negotiations, this number has been reduced to 400. In order to preserve jobs and ensure the stability of employment, NGM operated and operates a labour market programme which, as a result of the negotiations at that time, will ensure that people are further employed in order to protect jobs by 31 December 2017. In the meantime, during the negotiations, the government has repeatedly indicated its interest in saving Dunaferr, and has therefore also started negotiations on the buy-back of the company, but the owners have been shut down. The management of the company indicated to the government that instead of selling, it was interested in the long-term operation and stable operation of the company. You can see that the negotiations have been going on for a long time, so it would be foolhardy to think that this could be resolved in a day or two, since the current events also point to the long-term interest of the state in the further operation of Dunaferr. Thus, when the government recognised the problem, it resumed negotiations and indicated at the beginning of 2016 its willingness to participate, to participate in the company, which would help normalise the financial situation and economic situation of Dunaferr. The owners did not refrain from this negotiation either, but they indicated that this was not on the agenda in their opinion, as they are entering into a long-term development programme, and they intend to adopt a concept for the development of the ISD group at the holding's autumn board meeting. They indicated that the situation of Dunaferr within the group is one of the better, so they are definitely interested in the development of the Vasmű in Hungary. A good example of this is the transfer of the new iron furnace in July, which has led to significant quality improvements for Dunaferr. I believe that the events of the past period, the process that I have said in my speech, both the Member and I, prove that the government is determined to enable the Danubefer to operate in the long term and to provide a secure job for workers working within the framework of the Danubeferr. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-09-27-20	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, A joint debate on the proposal to amend certain laws in relation to the prevention of illegal gambling follows in an exceptional procedure. The government referral is T/12250. is available on the parliamentary IT network. Dear Parliament, The debate will be the first to give the floor to Mr András Tállai, State Secretary of the Ministry of National Economy, the author of the bill, within a 15-minute time frame. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2016-09-27-21	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, According to the European Gambling Association's online gambling market panorama of May 2016, the European online casino and sports betting market is currently the largest online gambling market in the world. In 2015, the entire online gambling industry generated EUR 34.6 billion, i.e. HUF 10 380 billion a year, in pure gambling revenues. Of this, the market share of online gambling in Europe, also ahead of the Asian, Middle Eastern, North American markets, is close to 50 percent. According to the industry analysis, in 2015 the European online gambling sector reached EUR 16,5 billion, i.e. HUF 4950 billion in pure gambling revenues. As the European online gambling market is a relatively young and new market, the sector is also showing an increasing trend compared to its current outstanding result: the clean gambling revenues of EUR 16.5 billion in 2015 are expected to rise to EUR 24.9 billion by 2020, i.e. HUF 7470 billion, taking into account the entire European online market. Industry expects that, in the short to medium term, the expansion of online games can be projected compared to traditional non-online gambling. Ladies and gentlemen, Industry data show that online gambling organizers on the European market with a net revenue of HUF 5 000 billion per year have significant economic potential. They shall pay a tax to the State of their economic establishment or to the State of their toy licence and shall contribute to the costs of handling pathological gambling only in the State of establishment or of establishment. Compared to this, the same online organizers are present in Hungary as illegal organizers, and their operation in Hungary is considered to be illegal gambling organization, i.e. a criminal offence. These illegal online organizers do not pay taxes to the Hungarian budget on pure game revenues from Hungary, they do not apply Hungarian employees or only to eliminate language difficulties, they do not participate in the Hungarian player protection system as of January 1, 2016, they do not contribute to the management costs of the Hungarian players' gambling addiction, they are essentially unavailable to the Hungarian anti-gaming and money laundering authorities. Some illegal organizers gained a significant competitive advantage in Hungary with their decades of presence, which already threatens the entry of Hungarian licensed online organizers into the market in 2016. Dear Parliament, Action against illegal online organizers is a government priority for years due to the public policy, consumer protection and central budgetary risks of illicit gambling. In the framework of this action, from 2014 we have introduced the blocking of the Hungarian gambling websites without a Hungarian gaming license, and from 2015 we have tightened the criminality of the illegal gambling organization. We have also introduced from 2015 a significant and objective penalty for illegal gambling advertising. Honourable Members, On 26 September 2016, the Government presented to the Parliament a bill amending certain laws in relation to the prevention of illegal gambling as a continuation of our series of consistent measures against illegal organisers. The exceptional and urgent negotiation of the bill is justified by the rapid and effective introduction of new official tools. In line with the principle of graduality, following the introduction of Internet blockage in 2014 and advertising blockage in 2015, the bill establishes the legal framework for financial blocking, the most effective instrument from the fourth quarter of 2016. [[9.00]] The essence of the financial blocking is that the payment service provider does not pay the bet or pay the prize from such an account to the account of the organizer with no license to play in Hungary. payment service providers block the financial basis of the organizer's operation, the pay of the bet and the payment of the prize. Details of the implementation of the financial block will be regulated in a ministerial decree following the adoption of the law. In addition, the bill includes a request from the tax authority to the person or organisation cooperating with the illegal organizer to cease the activity and to initiate the supervision procedure, to increase the maximum amount of advertising blockage from HUF 1 million to HUF 10 million, to increase the fine of the electronic communications service provider refusing to implement the Internet blockage from HUF 100 to HUF 500 thousand to HUF 1-5 million. With the new instruments included in the bill, the traditional official toolkit against illegal organisers, applied in other Member States and analysed in the European Commission's online gambling regulation document of 23 October 2012 will also be complete in Hungary. The bill provides for a quarterly reporting obligation to monitor and analyse the effectiveness of the use of an online, financial and advertising toolbox. The report shall be submitted to the Government by the Minister of National Economy on the basis of the state authority's audit data. Dear Parliament, Building the online identification of the client without personal appearance in the context of the further development of anti-money laundering legislation is a priority issue from an economic point of view, taking into account the public interest and the growing digital technology. In line with international practice, therefore, the bill, while ensuring effective action against money laundering and terrorist financing, provides the first solution to facilitate and support the establishment and operation of domestic online and telefort operators. Accordingly, the bill amends the provisions of the anti-money laundering and terrorist financing law on enhanced customer due diligence. In identifying the client, the player will be able to submit a copy of the player's identification document to the provider of remote gambling or online casino games with adequate security features to protect the client's personal data and through pre-audited electronic communications tools to ensure a credible customer identification. If the player is identified in this form, in line with the aim of combating money laundering and terrorist financing, the bill also states as a guarantee rule that payment to the player will only be made to the payment account that complies with the law. Dear Parliament, Based on what you've said, I would ask you to support the bill. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-09-27-22	Thank you very much, Secretary of State Tallai. Dear Parliament, The position of the Legislative Committee and the formulated minority opinion will now be presented within a 15-minute timeframe. From this time frame, the pro-government representative will give his opinion in eight minutes and the opposition representative will give his opinion in seven minutes. First, I give the floor to Congressman Dénes Galambos, rapporteur of the Legislative Committee, in eight minutes.
u2016-09-27-23	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, I hereby inform the Honourable Parliament that the Legislative Committee at its meeting on 26 September 2016 discussed the T/12250 amendment of certain laws in relation to the prevention of illegal gambling. Bill No. 1. The Legislative Committee adopted an amendment with 22 votes in favour, 3 votes against and 6 abstentions. The Legislative Committee, discussing its proposed amendment, adopted it in the light of the fact that it contains technical specifications and linguistic specifications, and accordingly the 2007 CXXXVI on prevention and prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing. By clarifying the concepts set out in law, it has made technical clarification. In proposing the adoption of the bill, I will explain my detailed reasons for my speech later. I ask you to support the adoption of the bill. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-09-27-24	Thank you very much, Congressman. I now give the floor for the presentation of the minority opinion to Congressman György Szilágyi.
u2016-09-27-25	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, The Jobbik Movement for Hungary could also support this law if it were really about the law, as the Secretary of State said here in words, to shift online gambling into a normal way, to whiteen the revenues from possibly providing players with protection, to provide greater public income, and to list the goals that the Secretary of State has said here, but unfortunately, when you have been gambling for years now, this is not about that. It's about Hungary having a mob government, and this mob government is putting their hands on the gambling market, putting their hands on the gambling market, and that's what it's about. The Italian example was based on: the Mafia is working well in Italy, and I think you've been studying this quite vigorously, and gambling was the first area where you thought you were going to take over this completely at the time. And so they did, because what we are talking about at the moment is nothing more than the area of your two agents, Andy Vajna and Gábor Szima, who are the only ones who can organize online gambling in Hungary, and they are the responsible gamblers - you introduced this concept to the Hungarian public - who are able to open a casino and have acquired casino concessions, they have also given them the online gambling market. That's what this law is all about. The reason why we cannot support it is, for example, the way in which this amendment is tabled, because we do not understand why we had to negotiate this law so quickly, through an exceptional and accelerated procedure. After all, no one knew about this amendment yesterday morning, and you brought it to the House quickly, and now you're going to move it quickly, and we're going to vote on it this afternoon. What is the reason for this? There is only one reason in our opinion - although I asked this question several times yesterday at the Legislative Committee, and I have not received an answer - that Andy Vajna probably has his online gambling site ready, wants to get it running as quickly as possible, wants more players to bring him the money, and you will give me all the help you can to make sure that the players you referred to at the time to change the law, that people who suffer from gambling addiction need to be protected, and now it doesn't matter that they might take the money away from people with gambling addiction, the only point is that this money they spend is to spend with you, Fidesz and Andy Vajna, and then everything is fine. Several questions were raised at yesterday's legislative committee meeting, which, unfortunately, we were unable to get answers to, and I would perhaps like to get answers to these questions today, because these are important issues in my opinion. For example, there have been questions about how to tell us and how your actions have changed in recent years, how much less gambling addicts have become in this country, which you have referred to as how much less players play. [[9.10]] Then we would also have wondered how the state revenues had turned out, because it doesn't matter how the state revenues from this market would turn out, because it still belongs to this story - and I'm sorry to bring it here - why we even got this far. Because when you started to divide the market, two powerful Fidesz politicians could not agree to operate that particular online server for gambling machines. One of the powerful Fidesz politicians had a favourite, and the other, a powerful Fidesz politician, had a favourite - I suppose they would have taken down the Shark just as they would have taken out the Shark from the settlement bonds - and they couldn't agree. Rumor has it that Viktor Orbán had enough of this and said that it is good, then we will eliminate the whole market as it is, and then we will give it to Andy Vajna and Gábor Sima. So Andy Vajna and Gábor Sima became the chosen one, whom this law is about right now. So we couldn't get an answer to that. And then we can't even get an answer to why we're supposed to make a law that we know can't be enforced. We have already said this when you talk about blocking, and since then you have blocked 360 pages, which can be found on various websites. But we also said that this is a fake measure, so you are officially blocking these sites, but anyone who would like to play on these sites can simply avoid it by buying a private proxy of 1500 forints, so they do not reach the goal themselves, they just make an appearance of how these players could be prevented from playing on these sites. The same thing is happening now, by the way. I will address these matters in my speech as the lead speaker. But what was also very important at yesterday's legislative committee was that it was a secretary of state who represented the government and the whole law, although I do not know in what capacity, because Mr. State Secretary is one of Fidesz's leading promines, State Secretary, while also an independent organisation, which should be independent, is also the head of the National Tax and Customs Office. It's a pretty big-ass situation. I learned, because yesterday I was corrected that he was not his president, because if he were his president - they simply changed the law - he would be incompatible, but he could be a leader, let's say, for the NAV a fidesz potenta. We asked how, for example, it could be [[András Tállai raises his glass to György Szilágyi: Cheers!]] How, where appropriate, is it possible - I will give only one example - to raise the fine against those who do not comply with the implementation of advertising blocking and internet blocking, if the item is raised, whether it will be possible to fold it. The Secretary of State has not been able to answer how much has been collected so far. But I'm going to go to the law in detail in my speech as the lead speaker, and I'm going to tell you what we saw wrong in this law, what we think is inappropriate, and why Jobbik can't support it. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2016-09-27-26	Thank you, Congressman Szilágyi. Dear Parliament, It is now time for the speeches by its representatives. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the factions have 30-30 minutes, and the independent Members have 8 minutes in total. In the first round of speeches, the lead speakers will present the group's position within a 15-15-minute time frame by group of representatives. First, I give the floor to Mr Dénes Galambos, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2016-09-27-27	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, Another regulation of the online gambling sector is necessary because in recent years there have been a large number of online organizations that are not authorised. There is a significant cash flow on the illegal toy pages, after which its operators do not tax, so the State is losing revenues between HUF 10-20 billion, while players are playing in an uncontrolled, unregulated system. These sites do not participate in the domestic gaming protection system since 2016, they do not contribute to the management costs of the Hungarian players' gambling addiction, and they are even unavailable to the Hungarian gambling and anti-money laundering authorities. The aim of the proposal is to ensure that only licensed organisations which comply with the legislation can operate in the online gambling market. To this end, it is necessary for authorities to be able to act more effectively against persons and organisations operating gambling on the online interface without authorisation. In order to achieve the above objectives, the proposal introduces the following instruments. Refusal to carry out financial transactions linked to illicit online gambling. In this way, the bank will not be able to transfer the money to the account of the organisers who do not have a permit to play in Hungary. The following tool is to require the mandatory indication of the bank account number created by the person or organisation implementing the prohibited gambling organisation on the website blocked by the prohibited toy organisation. An additional element is a significant increase in the amount of the fine due for illegal advertising in connection with gambling from HUF 1 million to HUF 10 million, from HUF 100 to HUF 500,000 in the case of an electronic communications service provider refusing to implement online blocking. Obligation to report to the Minister responsible for tax policy on checks related to the Gambling Inspectorate. Creating an opportunity to identify a player playing in a legal online casino not only in person but also in an online way. Dear House, Now allow me to explain a little more about the aspects that motivated the bill. In the field of gambling management, a large number of organizations have appeared in recent years that do not have online gambling licences. According to the consistent position of the National Tax and Customs Office, operators of online casinos operating without proper authorisation on the Internet will implement the Criminal Code 360. The prohibition on the organisation of gambling, as defined in § 4 of the Act, is a matter of fact. The proposal proposes to streamline the rules on player identification and customer due diligence in online casinos. In order to register players in online casinos, a clear player identification is required, which can only be achieved personally in the restrictive interpretation of current domestic legislation. This regulatory model is incompatible with online gambling activities. The bill would amend the provisions on customer due diligence in such a way that if the player does not appear personally at the verification of identity, he can also send copies of his certificate of identity to the service provider online to perform customer due diligence. It would thus be equivalent to a copy made by the consular officer or notary required under the current legislation. With this method, the proposal introduces a modern method of identifying players following international practice in the Hungarian regulatory environment, which also provides the right tools for online casino operators to safely identify players. This method also complies with the European Community Directive 2005/60/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council on the prevention of the use of the financial system for the purpose of money laundering and terrorist financing. Ladies and gentlemen, The proposal before us is not unprecedented. On 6 July 2015, the Parliament adopted the XXXIV of 1991 on the organisation of gambling. a bill amending the law. The law imposed a concession on the organisation of the online casino game and stated that access to the game could only be granted to the player applying for the home IP address. Since January 2014, gambling legislation has therefore enabled sites on which illegal gambling is organised to be rendered inaccessible. With the help of the National Media and Infocommunications Authority, the NAV has already taken more than 800 blocking decisions. This bill aims to contribute to making efforts so far more effective. I think that we should not let illegal black-gaming sites bite off and create an unregulated, opaque maze through which Hungarian citizens' money flows in an unknown direction. The state has a duty to fight the phenomenon, according to our position, based on current experience. [[9.20]] In view of these aspects, I ask that you support the bill and that you do so with your votes. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2016-09-27-28	Thank you very much, Congressman Pigeon. I now give the floor to Mr László Szakács, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2016-09-27-29	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Dear House, If we follow the logic of the Secretary of State that since 2012-13 they have fought such a fantastic fight against gambling, then we must see that these gambling operators are always one step ahead of the government. The government always skips after the events. Regulation always turns out that it is not enough, and it must always be tightened up. And indeed, those who are so determined to protect, and those who suffer from gambling, there is no less of them. If we were to see this, that is not what we are seeing, but if we were to see it on the basis of this logic, then, Mr. Secretary, we should think about the fact that someone who analyses impact assessments and prepares codification is not doing his job well, because you are always being tricked. Even though it started in 2012, despite the fact that gambling organizers are always cornered, somehow they never succeed in achieving the expected result, even if the main speaker of Fidesz's speech has such sound phrases as: the fight against money laundering, the fight against terrorist financing, and somehow you always fall behind, always skipping after the events. That's why we've been thinking that that's probably not the point in this, that you're the ones following the events - no! You are producing these events. You don't go after them. Let's take a look. In October 2012, we were also faced with an exceptional and urgent procedure under which the money-sucking vending machines were absorbed by politics and pulled out by a pen. Of course, we were still wondering why this could be, why online servers will be the only way to play the following games. And it turns out that it was because the Ministry had been in charge of a central gaming server operator at the beginning of the licensing procedure. It was the WEBGAM Central Game Server, and Fidesz wanted to put their hands on it. That's when the saying "Fidesz wants what's best for us" became eternal, but we don't. And if we couldn't get this company, we had to make a legislative amendment, and then we managed to steal this market as easily as possible. Then in 2013, not in exceptional proceedings, but in extraordinary session, Mihály Varga gave a presentation on how he would make the Hungarian gambling business impossible, and how he would help Hungarians suffering from gambling, the proposal that once again reduced the areas on which he could have used any kind of betting or gambling. It turned out that this wasn't the case, that again they weren't chasing after life, but you created a new situation: you narrowed the neck of this bottle, where those who struggled with gambling could only go in one direction. Before that, you invented a new concept of the server operator, which is the reliable gaming organizer, and the reliable gaming organizer, as we've heard before, is exactly two. And if you look at the two organizers, you can see that there is one thing missing from the definition: that the Fidesz-KDNP party association must be loyal. When we saw this, we also raised our voice, because it is not about the objectives to be achieved, which are very high and appear to be as important and formal as the fight against gambling, the fight against terrorist financing, transparency. These are not what you are fighting, but you will be forced into a sewer, my fellow Members. And well, well, we were right when we said that it would be worth it to just one person, maybe two people. Not for those who play, not for those who want to quit gambling, but for those to whom you gave this. For the only Hungarian who was worth it - so far he was the only one worth returning home to. He's the only successful product of the program, Andy Vajna. He came home. It's worth it to him infinitely. I can show it in numbers. In 2012, before the change of legislation Andy Vajna, Las Vegas Casino Kft. had a profit before tax of HUF 618 million in 2012. In 2013, when the law had already changed, Andy Vajna's pre-tax result in Las Vegas Casino Kft. increased by HUF 1 billion, HUF 776 million - HUF 1 billion, HUF 100 million. In 2014, this will increase to 3 times in 2013, 3 billion HUF 360 million. And when the law changed again, the profit of Andy Vajna was already 6 billion HUF 163 million. Not at all, ladies and gentlemen, the fight against money laundering, the fight against terrorist financing, the cessation of gambling, the contribution to it! There's no mention of the fake charade you've been playing, that you're going after the events, and these gamblers are always playing your mind off your thoughts, and they're coming up with new opportunities. No! These figures are true: Andy Vajna's Las Vegas Casino in 2012 had a profit of HUF 618 million before tax, with HUF 6 billion of 163 million in 2015. Ten times the difference, my fellow Members. At least let that question give you some thought. We see that you have released the ghost from the bottle. They're acting like something's happened that they didn't expect. It is something after which we should rapidly, exceptionally and urgently legislate that poor people who struggle with gambling will somehow be protected from deceitful and evil game organizers. That is not the case, fellow Members. Perhaps it is about what my colleague Szilágyi said that Andy Vajna's online website could have been created. It's also possible to hear that Rogán's neighbor has a new company, and it can audit these servers, and it's always the first to win. There's nothing about it here - and stop making this false argument! - which is written in your keynote speech or in the government's presentation. Of course, if a person's thinking is thrown away from reality at the same level as yours, then I can imagine that even their consciences are so subjective. But I can even imagine some people thinking what they're saying - that's not true! One, two people, tops, makes a big buck. Now a third who will carry out all the audits that this legislation will require. It's not like you're trying to help people with any gambling problem - no! You're taking advantage of this. And they're doing a damn good job of it. That's what I'm talking about. So what this law is trying to solve, it can't. It takes a minute for a banned website to move to another place, as we've heard, in just one minute. How will you follow this? What record do they have of how many people with gambling problems won't be able to follow? What results have been achieved in this, other than that Andy Vajna is one of the biggest successful participants of the programme,. What results do you have? None. Nor will it succeed that bank transfers will be banned. Well, they're gonna choose someone else, there's online reference systems. [[9.30]] Are you going to get this later? Is that why you're leaving this loophole? We're here to tell you there are loopholes, not to be disappointed again in six months, and then the next amendment will come in, and then another enemy, the online referral system, let's say, will fight PayPal. Believe me, it would be good to believe, and I trust that some of you are at least happy, and you think that this poor government is so struggling for these people and transparency, for transparency and even for terrorist financing, but that is not the case. Dear gentlemen, you put this not-so-small piece of the Hungarian economy in the hands of two or three people, and they make a good living, and you just let them take advantage of you. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2016-09-27-30	Thank you very much, Congressman Cook. I now give the floor to Congressman Imre Vejkey, the lead speaker of the Group of the Christian Democratic People's Party. You have the floor.
u2016-09-27-31	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, In view of the fact that the speakers before me, Mr András Tállai, on behalf of the Government, and my fellow Member, Dénes Galambos, have already presented in detail the bill amending certain laws in relation to the prevention of illegal gambling, so allow me to draw your attention to only the most important proposals for changes in my speech as chief speaker. Basically, the bill serves the objective of enabling all political parties to act more rigorously and effectively in respect of persons and organisations operating tele-gaming and online casinos on the online interface without authorisation. To this end, the amendment proposes changes in four laws, which are the following: the XXXIV of 1991 on the organisation of gambling. Act XII of 1998 on travel abroad Act LXXXIV. Act CXXXVI of 2007 on the prevention and prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing Law. Ladies and Gentlemen, The amendment to the Gambling Act lays down, inter alia, the prohibition of the involvement of payment service providers in transactions related to illicit gambling, clarifies the rules governing the registration of players by organisers operating remote gambling and online casinos, requires the State tax authority to publish the name of the person or entity carrying out the organisation of gambling prohibited on the website subject to inaccessible gambling, and increases the maximum amount of the fine to be imposed for advertising illegal gambling and the limits of the fine to be imposed in the event of failure to comply with the decision on temporary inaccessible gambling. In the area of player identification, the bill amends the relevant laws in order to extend the management of the KEKKH database to the license and passport database. The Pmt. in accordance with the objectives set out previously, it is amended so that registration and identification of players in licensed online casino and remote gambling operators, in accordance with the relevant EU provisions, may not only be possible in person, but also be done by means of a technical IT system with appropriate security elements. Ladies and Gentlemen, Please support T/12250 on the modification of certain laws in relation to the prevention of illegal gambling. Bill No. 1. The KDNP parliamentary group will support the bill. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2016-09-27-32	Thank you very much, Congressman Vejkey. I now give the floor to Congressman György Szilágyi, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group.
u2016-09-27-33	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Yesterday, at the meeting of the Legislative Committee, Fidesz, Mr Tállai State Secretary, who is the government secretary of state, who is, by the way, the head of the National Tax and Customs Office, independent of the government, said why we should put Andy Vajna in a political context on this law. [[András Tállai: Who said that?]] I'm afraid it's because this law is about him, it's all about him. Just so we know why we don't like Andy Vajna so much: because - so everyone knows - Andy Vajna made 16,5 million forints a day based only on his casinos last year. That's 11 500 forints a minute. This means that if you smoke a cigar by smoking the cigar and did nothing but sit in your chair and make 150,000 forints. Do you make so much money, how much do you think the average salary is in Hungary per minute today? I said Andy Vajna earns 11 500 forints a minute, the average salary is 2 forints 50 forints. While most Hungarian society earns HUF 2 50 a minute, Andy Vajna only makes HUF 11 500 from his casinos. And now he's got online gambling on him, right? That income wasn't even there yet. That is why we do not support this law. In other words, we could support it, only if we block, say, the Internet sites, then we recommend that Jobbik accept the proposals that would block Andy Vajna and its offshore companies for example. Because if we accept and create a Vajna-blocker, then of course we can support these things. The issue of gambling is an important issue at social level, partly for tax revenues and partly for the protection of those who overdo the game and of minors. Modern tools allow people to organize online gambling and participate as players on such sites. In the world of the Internet, gambling is no longer possible within the walls of casinos or the fences of the racetrack, the spread and popularity of online gambling is unbroken around the world. The Parliament is therefore responsible for the proper regulation of the issue, in order to ensure that the benefits of gambling organizers are secured by the tax revenues due to the State, and that players can be properly honoured with their passion and, where appropriate, adequately protected. Gambling is widespread all over the world, the number of games and bets is almost endless, but they have one thing in common: all countries in the world are trying to regulate this market along a concept, in order to obtain tax revenues, and in order to protect players from possible abuse. So far, you are saying the same thing, and the problem is that in these countries, which I have spoken about, there is not a mob government in power; and in Hungary, there is a Mafia government that is clearly trying to circumvent this market for its own people. Why am I saying this? The current government also has the concept of gambling, and this concept of handing over the entire market to buddies, Andy Vajna and his associates, is to get as much revenue from this market as possible. In the market, therefore, gambling is organised only by players with direct and strong influence from the government. This is one way to resolve the issue, although the Jobbik Movement for Hungary did not understand and does not agree with this practice, there are many more civilised solutions to the regulation of the gambling industry, which is more beneficial both socially and economically for the given society, but it seems that Hungarian decision-makers do not need this. The bill before us - with the above mentioned environmental conditions and anomalies aside - seems to be in fact protecting the public interest against illegal online gambling. The proposal seeks to limit, in addition to those organising illicit online gambling, those who are not organisers but who are technical participants in this activity. [[9.40]] Without payment service providers, online gambling is unthinkable. Therefore, we should rightly expect the restriction of the activities of these players to make it more difficult for illegal gambling operators, so that their activities may be reduced. I'm saying that we could wait, if we didn't know the world of the Internet, but whoever knows the world of the Internet knows exactly how to limit you, let's say, where appropriate, the banks in not being able to transfer money to different accounts, even now that this law has been passed, you should know that this is impossible. I also posted yesterday at the Legislative Committee's meeting whether you would restrict, say, the PayPal service on the Internet. They said no. But if the PayPal service will not be restricted, then this legal provision can be played out very easily, as the bank will already transfer money to PayPal, and from then on it can be transferred in the same way. If you can't solve this, then why do you really need this restriction? We're gonna make a law that doesn't fulfill the purpose for which you created it, but it's just gonna be playable. And then yesterday, we asked him how it would work in reality, because written down, let's say, it might sound nice. But where appropriate, how will the cash-flow financial institution know which transaction is linked to illicit online gambling and which is not? There is a notice about banned sites and companies, but there is only the names of the companies and the names of the sites. There's no record of bank accounts. There's no way to find it. Therefore, financial institutions should filter companies that may operate illegally on the basis of the account holder. This is a concern, in our view, because the bank is not a investigating authority, it is not something that can be expected from it. So it is possible that you will want to do this by quickly searching and posting all the account numbers you know at the time when someone is banned. What if they change these account numbers in the meantime? So these are questions and practical questions that we have not received any answers at the Legislative Committee's meeting about how this is going to be carried out. The other main direction set out in the bill is to ensure the security of players by allowing game organizers to negotiate player's personal data more widely, ensuring the electronic search of data is likely to simplify, but it will in all likelihood accelerate the identification of players. That wouldn't be a problem if we didn't consider who these data were going through. You are through Andy Vajna through Gábor Sima, and it is no longer so comforting in our view. But let us take a closer look at what market these measures are protecting. According to the current legislation, Article 3 of the Act provides that: § 1/b According to the Hungarian authorities, online casino games can only be organised by someone who has the right to a concession for the organisation of a casino game in the territory of Hungary. Well, we know these characters well, the market of these players is now protected by the bill as a brave lion. I've told you who these characters are. The proposal therefore seeks to make illegal toy organisers impossible, which would be a supportive and correct objective, as I said, but it is simply doing so to protect the pals' market, guarantee their profits and exclude competition. There is not a single word in the proposal about what we expect from tightening the law. No sentence refers to the extent to which the amendment of the law can restrain or prevent illegal toy organisers. There is no mention of what tax revenue may be expected from the planned measure, although it is right to think that by reducing illegal toy organizers, the number of players will not decrease, but these players will appear at legal toy organizers, increasing traffic and revenue. Unfortunately, there is nothing in the proposal that is indeed a topic for the Parliament's table, which would indeed be a matter of national importance. The submission intends to amend the Gambling Act 13/A. § (1), (2). The amendments provide for a prohibition for payment service providers not to participate in the activities of organising illicit gambling. This, as I said, is a very useful and important obligation, but in my view, there have been legal instruments that could have been used to limit payment services to facilitate illegal activity, and I have already mentioned the possibility of circumventing the provision with PayPal, but there are also other options that unfortunately can be played. Just as there were opportunities for that... - because one thing to be aware of is that blocking these sites is censorship of the Internet. Interestingly, this censorship in China, where the whole Internet is censored, is played out with these private proxyes the same way they're playing online right now. So the parallel is that a Chinese online censorship is played in the same way as online blocking can be played in Hungary. Unfortunately, the amendment does not specify specifically what the payment service provider should or should not do. The amendment does not include the sanction that payment service providers who do or do not do what is required or not imposed by the law are threatened with. It refers the creation of substantive provisions to the powers of the Minister's Regulation. This is not an unusual codification exercise, but in this case it is certainly thought-provoking, the law defines a simple, let us say, obvious prohibition, and assigns any further questions concerning this prohibition to the competent minister. The provision of the law cited here will enter into force on the day following its publication, but there is still no evidence of the ministerial decree necessary for its implementation, or at least, in spite of the question of what they had in mind, they refused to answer at the meeting of the Legislative Committee. The legislative amendment proposal is inaccurate in its present state and its enforceability is of concern. I cannot stress the importance and social and economic importance of gambling legislation, the organisation, taxation and limitation of gambling is a national matter, but above all it would be necessary to adopt an appropriate concept, preferably with a broad consensus, which does not mean filling the pockets of friends. But you refuse to make this consensus, you refuse to negotiate it, because that is not your goal. Indeed, their goal is limited to only one thing, namely that Andy Vajna will not earn HUF 16,5 million a day, but much more. We also had questions we didn't get answers to. If the Fidesz member, András Tállai, Minister of State of the Government and the head of the independent NAV could give us an answer, we would like to thank you very much for how the market has changed as a result of the measures so far, I have already put this on, the number of gambling addicts in Hungary has decreased or increased. How did gambling revenues develop in previous measures? For what was known was the revenues that the State had received during the past period of gambling, but it is quite difficult to find out whether it was used or not. Maybe we could talk about why we had to hand over profitable casinos to Szerencségy Zrt., and why he had to get out of this business, why it was good for the state back then, that's a pretty interesting question. And what do you expect from the new measures - I think some impact assessment has just been carried out - how much tax growth has anyone estimated or how much the implementation of the new measures will cost? So what are the financial implications of this new amendment? I would like to get answers to this - although I know that you will not listen to my request anyway - and we would be even more pleased if Mr Secretary of State would not only say things in his closet that are fundamentally not true, and that cannot be answered, but that we might create a debate, stand up, answer our questions now, and ask new questions, because that would be the point of the debate, not when someone stands up at the end and tells us, according to their own taste, what stands far from reality many times, and the opposition cannot answer that. Thank you so much for listening. The Jobbik Movement for Hungary will abstain from voting, so we cannot support this law or amendment of the law. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]] [[9.50]]
u2016-09-27-34	Thank you very much, Congressman Szilágyi. I now give the floor to Mr István Ikotity, the lead speaker of the LMP Group.
u2016-09-27-35	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Another amendment to the gambling bill came out of the sky as a bolt of lightning. Not that there is no need for further changes to the regulation, but LMP would primarily expect the protection of gambling addicts and the connection of Andy Vajna's casinos to the tax authorities, and would do so until the appropriate conditions are met. Such a measure would indeed be necessary from tomorrow, but in this amendment, this haste is somewhat strange. But let's see what this motion is about. On the one hand, the proposal on exceptional urgency increases multiple penalties for the operation of unauthorised online gambling and on the other hand makes data requests clearer. They also tighten the procedure for identifying online gamblers. By the way, it is not certain that this activity could be effectively curbed by increasing penalties, but the LMP would actually be okay with that. At the same time, we're not giving you much of a chance to make this work. The Internet does not work that way in 2016. Of course, Fidesz-KDNP's connection to the Internet is a multiple-loaded connection, somehow they don't really get along. The government didn't really manage to pick up the XXI. The rhythm of the Internet era of the century. Anyone who wants to introduce an Internet tax, who is still struggling to deliver broadband to schools, who is unable to manage the digital education strategy, who leaves 13-year-old computer science textbooks in the hands of students, may not be prepared for the challenges of the modern age. It's like they're stuck with Cut Feri in the middle of the '90s, and they're trying to get on the Internet with her. But tightening it up or not, what could be the real reason for the amendment? They probably realized that the bans and restrictions so far didn't really bring any results. According to a Monday announcement from the Ministry of National Economy, the illegal online gambling organizers do not pay taxes to the state register after pure gambling revenues from Hungary, thus causing tax losses between HUF 10 and 20 billion. But let's stop right there. Don't make us look like birds. How credible is the concern of the wallet about gambling revenues that the government commissioner Andy Vajna, Gábor Sima's government buddy or Minister Miklós Seszták's friends allow casinos to be run without online cash registers? Revenues are practically recorded on the basis of announcements and video recordings of jokes. How credible is the concern of the wallet about revenues that allows only a few billion forints to be paid as a tax after the total turnover of casinos of HUF 180 billion? In fact, they don't hardly tax casino Caesars, but they even give them billion-dollar tax incentives. In addition to eased control of casinos, there is also easier taxation for casino caesars. Isn't public finances important when it comes to throwing billions around for friends? Although complaints about revenues could be justified, according to LMP, Fidesz-KDNP is not credible at all. We think it's more about Andy Vajna's not getting rich enough. The 180 billion record income generated after the 1.2 million players turnover of the arcades - an estimate for this year - is not enough for them, and they need to be fattened with the help of online casinos. What a coincidence that the Andy Vajnas joined the online casinos, received this opportunity as a gift, and will soon be operating their system. Now they try to get every player and game addict into Andy Vajna's future online casinos, pay there, lose their money there. Well, the point is out of the bag: in fact, you are not worried about revenue falling out of public finances, but rather about income that doesn't get to Andy Vajna. This will be justified by the fact that, if it really is the way the previous speakers have done it, that in a short time the person will operate his online casinos. Thus, it is perfectly understandable why, by the time this lightning tempo is up, the proposal must be submitted with exceptional urgency. András Vajna has become such a man within the government that, if he whistles, everyone from the government will throw himself into action and immediately present the amendments he has made to the pen. Minister and Secretary of State, who is here right now, how does it feel to fulfill the wishes of casino Caesars and oligarchs? Living with a classic, how do you like the mercenary food? Dear House, What kind of casino control does LMP want? I would also like to say that we should not just mention criticism. We have already said that until the revenues are booked for announcement, as long as the arcades are not connected to the NAV until the conditions for fair taxation are met, LMP would ban casinos operated by Andy Vajna, Gábor Sima and Miklós Sesták. We need to close the arcades, because what's going on right now is damage to public finances and total exploitation of gambling addicts. If you're so concerned about tax revenues, you should also tax the Andy Vajnas properly instead of filling them with billionaire tax incentives. But let us give another example: if revenue is so important, then stop the gambling game called the settlement policy, which causes the state a hundred billion dollars in damage, and we can still make a list. On the other hand, according to the government's own declaration, hundreds of thousands of people are addicted to pathological games in Hungary - which was recognised by the Secretary of State a few months ago - should be given substantial help. The alleged spending of HUF 100-200 million on the development of the social system for prevention purposes, the fact that children's welfare services and family supporters also deal with gambling addicts is also a mistake in their concept. Not that you can see the spending of this source, which is just a very small fraction of all gambling revenues in the first place. On the other hand, they talk about modern game protection measures, when mandatory information boards cannot be placed in visible places in lotteries. They talk about game protection when gambling supervision has not been able to be installed in casino games to provide immediate assistance. But they come up with the introduction of so-called self-limiting statements, at least, but since the beginning of the year, only 37 people have lived with the tax authority. We know this from András Tállai - just like the other things mentioned above - he replied to us on September 1st. Of course, which game addict would want to limit himself? A toy addict is addicted to gambling because he can't stop gambling. This would be a good opportunity, but it should be ordered on the initiative of family members, after proper examination, of course. But now they have forgotten, for example, that the Gambling Company. a self-limiting declaration may also be made for lottery or tip-mix games organised by the manufacturer. The line could continue for a long time. In short, in the end, what is happening now. Andy Vajna called to the Ministry last week, but he may have sent Árpád Habony in his place: he is afraid that his online casino will not bring enough profit, so it would be good to take action, and the more gambling addicts should be transferred to their own online gambling. Mihály Varga and András Tállai worked feverishly this weekend, and they made the amendment, which was already submitted on Monday, and we are discussing it today. But you know how it is, luck can be turned, and not only in Andy Vajna's casinos, but also in politics, the rule and grooming of friends cannot continue indefinitely. The amendment before us on May Other in Politics cannot support it.
u2016-09-27-36	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, An independent Member has not submitted any comments. I don't see anyone applying for a two-minute comment. I see a candidate for further speeches: Mr György Szilágyi, Member Jobbik. [[10.00]]
u2016-09-27-37	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. I would like to ask you three more questions that have been left out, even because I take the opportunity to take the opportunity that András Tállai, the government secretary of state, is also the head of the independent NAV. In these two titles, you may be able to answer our questions. So the three questions that still concern me, one of which is how you feel about the fact that as the head of the NAV and the government secretary of state, it doesn't matter that someone as a foreign company takes the money of those unfortunate toy addicts, or Andy Vajna also carries it abroad, through offshore companies. So this money does not stay here at all in Hungary, as we have also found in the case of casinos that, as I said, Andy Vajna earns HUF 16,5 million a day. Another important question is that it is in the law that the maximum amount of the advertising blocking fine was HUF 1 million, the fine for those refusing to implement the Internet block was between HUF 100 and HUF 500 thousand. Yesterday, I asked the Secretary of State on behalf of the Government at the Committee on Legislative Affairs, who is also the head of the independent NAV, how much fines have been collected over the past two years. He could not answer me yesterday how these implementations had been implemented. This is interesting because this HUF 1 million is now raised to HUF 10 million, and the amount between HUF 100 and HUF 500 thousand is between HUF 1 and HUF 5 million, so the fines are increased. That's what they expect to get more revenue. But if you can't collect this money, you can raise it to 3 billion forints, you won't be able to collect it, it'll just sound good about how many fines you've tried to impose. So this would be an important question, and if I could get this from you as the head of the National Tax and Customs Office, which is fully independent of the government, a figure on how much has been recovered so far. Then there is another very important question; as I say it again, and I apologize for bringing these two together so, but there is a rare opportunity when the head of an organization, which is completely independent of the government, is also present when the government can be asked. I ask you now, and I don't know in which title the Secretary of State is - no, rather as head of the NAV - that if the NAV's aim is to ensure that tax revenues are transferred as much as possible into the state register, because that's why the National Tax and Customs Office is in place, then how can it come together that the hairdresser, the taxi driver, the vegetable guy, the arctic spicy person - and I can tell you who else needs to use an online cash register, but in casinos, which, as we know, are connected to Andy Vajna and Gábor Sima, because no one else can do such activities, we don't need an online cash register. When we asked that question once, the answer was that we don't have to because there are a lot of cameras in casinos that control traffic. And when I asked who was sitting in the camera room, they said they were Andy Vajna's men. Do you understand? The reason why you don't need an online cash register in casinos is because Andy Vajna's casinos and Andy Vajna's people use cameras to check how much Andy Vajna makes that day. And then Andy Vajna - no one controls it anymore, that NAV no longer cares - confesses and is supposed to pay taxes. This is Hungary today. That's why we're saying that we live in a mafia state, so let's say that you have nothing else to do with these laws but to fill the pockets of your buddies, so that Andy Vajna and the gas mechanics can hear it in the speech before the agenda to fill the pockets of everyone, relatives, friends and friends. That is why what I have said here several times today is important, that an independent organisation, such as the National Tax and Customs Office, is also a member of the government, operating independently of the government. Well, how independent is an organization the head of which is also a member of the government? Oh, and by the way, he's a member of the Fidesz. This could be a completely independent organization. I think everything works very well in Hungary, according to your understanding, yes, because the government lives well, the friends live well, Andy Vajna gets rich, and others, as I said, earn HUF 2 50 a minute against Andy Vajna, who earns HUF 11 500 a minute. This is outrageous! Therefore, as long as the Movement for Jobbik Hungary is only in opposition, such laws will not be supported. And when we govern, we will abolish these laws, we will abolish the privileges of our friends that you have given them in the last six years. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-09-27-38	Thank you very much, Congressman. The next speaker is Congressman Sallai R. Benedek, LMP.
u2016-09-27-39	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Although it is not my honor, Congressman Szilágyi was so strict with the Secretary of State of Tállai that I wanted to protect a little Secretary of State. Partly because I saw her with a little teddy bear on her lap this weekend, and she was so charming that I thought it would give her a reason to protect her. You shouldn't hurt him either as State Secretary or as NAV president, because he's just an enforcer of a mafia system, nothing else. Those who steal the billions will tell him what to do, and he will have to do it. I don't think every Secretary of State has any of these billions. No! This is for the Joint Chiefs, and there's an executive level. [[To intervene:]] You're saying there's more? Then I'll apologize if there's any. I'm sorry, I didn't know how to get there. I'm sorry, I just assumed it wasn't. [[András Tállai: Shame on you!]] Then I'm sorry, I'm gonna take it back a little bit, I'm sure you'll get a little bit there. But the whole reason I want to protect you is because as a server of the system I was talking about before the agenda, you have no choice but to serve this organized criminal group. The fact that it is in the interest of the organised criminal group to bring in all traffic for themselves, if possible, is obvious. The lead speaker of my party has clearly said the party's position, and I would like to add all this to what this whole story is about. Gambling is not my area of expertise. I'm not particularly good at how it works. But what I see is that a pile of wealth that gambling produces and takes away from people is going into private pockets. This wealth could not only increase public wealth, but also finance public tasks. Your principle of operation, I like it, I don't like it, is the kind of neoliberal economic policy when they let the reins out of their hands. This is what you fought before 2010. That's what you're talking about. This is the liberal economic policy where I say that I am not involved in this, only as a regulator, as a legislator, I am trying to participate in this, otherwise I will allow the free market for those two or three people, fighting with each other, to earn the highest possible income in a monopoly situation. That's what I think is totally unacceptable. That is what is not understandable, because they pretend that public service and public service do not need the wealth that is now in Andy Vajna's pocket. As I said, I have not been particularly concerned with gambling, but I do not understand that it is not possible to keep it in a state monopoly to increase as much public wealth as possible. That's exactly the kind of income that shouldn't be given to your friends, but could be funded by schools or hospitals or environmental tasks. Or it would be professionally possible to plant Paks fuel, to finance a lot of activities that are beneficial to society, which you will completely renounce. So what's the story about now? The story is that people steal, but they don't steal, so you want to channel the money to the circle of friends about this online gambling system. And they're asking the Parliament's authority to do that. Well, please, you will decide here because you are the majority. As President Matolcsy said at the time that the money he issued and the money he made into the foundations lose their public wealth, the Parliament also loses its character as a representative of the people. Because we are here to tell you what is happening, and you are in the majority, without thinking and considering, as a server of this criminal group, you are voting in his interest to get another billion to do so; and all this by doing completely different things, typically preaching water and drinking wine when it comes to economic policy activities. [[10.10]] Mr Tallai State Secretary or President of the NAV has said on several occasions here that the system will be tightened up. Well, that's obviously true, but this tightening up doesn't make any sense but to get this money into the right pockets and channel it properly and ask the legislator to help it, and they may be sitting there with a grumpy face if some of the legislators don't applaud it in the pleasure of doing so. My statement before the agenda was that an organized criminal group, operating partly on a family basis, was aimed at circumventing public wealth. Obviously, I cannot look at the revenue and resources that can come from gambling differently than a fortune that should be used to finance public tasks. So I am very confident that there will be a full opposition unit that the opposition will not assist in any form with this new villainy, and I very much hope that at some point only those executing people who serve the mafia families without conscience will reflect on what they have done to the country. Thank you for the floor, Mr President.
u2016-09-27-40	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Congressman István Tukacs, MSZP.
u2016-09-27-41	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I only asked for the floor because although we smiled and even laughed at the contents of Sallai R. Benedict's sentences, it is an unprecedented case that is happening now. The congressman tells the government representative here that he's a criminal or at least an accomplice. I don't see any government representatives standing up and protesting, everyone sneaks into their laptops, talking to each other at best. That is a tell, though, my honourable fellow Members. Think about what's going on. It's good that we're here in a family circle, and we're here with ourselves in peace and friendship, but when you think about it and really think about it, it's unprecedented what's going on. And there's a secretary of state sitting here, and he's quiet! Ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to make a comment on the agenda because it was also revealing. The members of the Legislative Committee remember the tragicomic case when, in connection with a casino regulation, we found in the hot text that was thrown down to us, that there was no VAT to be paid after the concession. And the mild question of whether to please tell me why it is, the representative of the government couldn't answer, the author couldn't answer, and then suddenly asked for a half-hour break so that someone could answer it, and after half an hour they couldn't answer it - well, I don't wonder if they couldn't, otherwise they could. So what I would like to say on this agenda is that the opposition's comments on this issue are profoundly justified. They're deeply justified. Pranking such an area as two entrepreneurs and being natural, and don't be angry, my fellow members of the government, so to sneak quietly, this is the top of everything in the Hungarian Parliament in 2016. Mr President, thank you for this opportunity.
u2016-09-27-42	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Congressman György Szilágyi for two minutes.
u2016-09-27-43	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. I would also like to respond to Mr Benedek Sallai, who said here that András Tállai is the president of the NAV. He's not the president of the NAV! So this is the method of lawmaking for Fidesz by putting Andy Vajna into position, and Andy Vajna can make this amount of money if necessary by amending and changing the laws to be good, and András Tállai, a member of the Fidesz, as secretary of state of the government, could not be president of the NAV, because it is incompatible. What were they doing here? They changed the law, and from now on, the president of the NAV is not called the president of the NAV, but the leader of the NAV, so it is no longer incompatible, and the independent NAV, regardless of the government, is free to do its job. Well, these are hundreds of legislative tricks that they keep using, and these tricks and these devious tricks are being played out, by the way, let's say, different markets to friends, friends, or getting themselves into a position, friends and relatives that makes it legal. So now András Tállai is legally head of the National Tax and Customs Office, independent of the government. If he was president, it wouldn't be legal, because that would be incompatible. It's simple, you have to change this system, just by rewriting a word, and from now on... - but we have no doubt, I have no doubt: the NAV is as independent of the government, doing investigations completely independently, doing investigations completely independently. Therefore, the government has no influence on NAV, NAV continues its activities as an independent organisation in the interests of the country. So I didn't mean to say that it wasn't, it's independent, it's just a secretary of state. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-09-27-44	Thank you very much. I will ask if anyone else wishes to take the opportunity to speak. [[No signal.]] I don't see any contact. Dear Parliament, The consolidated debate is closed. I see you are preparing, and I give the floor to the rapporteur, Mr András Tállai, State Secretary, who clearly wishes to respond to what has been said in the debate. You have the floor.
u2016-09-27-45	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Firstly, I thank the pro-government speakers for their support for the bill. It is usually in Parliament that the pro-government Members understand and support the substance, objectives of the bill. [[Adam Mirkóczki: Jesus! Dr. László Kács: Because they are smart!]] However, it is shocking and surprising that opposition representatives, Jobbik, LMP and MSZP do not support a bill whose essence is the following. Currently, there is no authorisation to organise online gambling in Hungary because of the legal conditions that did not allow it. Therefore, online gambling, which has an otherwise significant market, I have also said this in my speech to the author, is about thousands of billion HUF of gambling revenue, which is organised by foreign-owned foreign-based companies, investors and service providers in Hungary. Hungarian people have a need to play, so their money is transferred to foreign service providers. This bill says that it will introduce a third tightening, the institution of financial blocking, and the opposition says that it does not need to, will not support. In essence, all three opposition parties say that they support that Hungary should not organise a Hungarian-owned, Hungarian-based, Hungarian-based enterprise, should not organise online gambling, but should continue to support the system of organizing this by invisible foreign-owned companies. [[Dr. László Kács: Like TV2.]] In essence, opposition parties do not support the emergence of tax revenue in Hungary, which is said to be 10-20 billion. With this decision, they say they don't support it. [[Noise, interruptions in Jobbik's ranks.]] That is what they say, I am sorry that HUF 10-20 billion will not be included in the Hungarian budget. They do not support creating jobs, they do not support the system that is visible in Hungary, providing services, organizing services, having a Hungarian tax number and contributing to common costs, so that taxpayers contribute to the management costs of those with a gambling problem. They do not support the system that Hungarians give their money acquired in Hungary to a Hungarian service provider, i.e. to ensure that the Hungarian economy, the Hungarian market, is essentially purified. Let's see what they're doing instead: instead, they're personal, Sallai R. Benedek has already left the room. [[Sallai R. Benedict: I'm here!]] He's not sitting in his seat, it's okay, he can at least hear. [[Flavor, noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] That's not a problem. So he's personal, and he's hurting the government, by the way, who is one of the biggest beneficiaries and critics of the lease of Hungarian state land. [[Fury, noise in the ranks of Jobbik.]] The fact that György Szilágyi is personal and he doesn't understand or hear - first of all, he doesn't hear or understand - government arguments, there's nothing new about this. Yesterday, at the Committee on Legislative Affairs, he was given basically the answer to all his questions that he refused to understand, and I am not the government, and I am not personally the cause of this. [[György Szilágyi intervenes.]] Anyway, I'd like to put an end to a misunderstanding, and I'd like to improve your preparedness a little bit. So the NAV is not an independent organization because it operates under the government, essentially the Minister of National Economy oversees the activity of the NAV. The government determines the tax policy, the implementation of which is the responsibility of the NAV. How can it be an independent organization from the government? You probably confuse it with the State Audit Office or the Constitutional Court. Do not mix it with the NAV, because... [[György Szilágyi intervenes.]] You said it was independent of the government. You have to prepare for such a debate and read it before you make any arguments. [[10.20]] But you tell me something else, for example, you're running the Mafia, while you know that your faction leader has done some pretty significant tax evasion in recent years. [[György Szilágyi: That's a lie!]] Before you use those words, look at your own faction, who's leading you, and what kind of tax relationship he had in the past, by the way. [[György Szilágyi constantly intervenes. Grumble in the benches of Jobbik. Intruder from the benches of Fidesz: Disaster!]] This bill... and, by the way, they're wrong about the fact that there are two entrepreneurs on the casino market. Now switch slowly, because there are not two entrepreneurs on the casino market, but there are four entrepreneurs now. [[Rise and shine in the benches of opposition parties. Dr. László Kács: 100 percent!]] That's at least 100 percent more than what you're saying, so you're 100 percent wrong on this, of course. [[Dr. László Kács: They have become new friends. Noise, clear in the opposition benches. The president's ringing the bell.]] Overall, the aim of the bill is to stop illegal gambling in Hungary and to create an open, transparent market, where Hungarian-owned companies with Hungarian headquarters, Hungarian servers, Hungarian tax numbers and taxes in Hungary will organise online gambling in the future. It is regrettable that the opposition is not a partner in this either. I would ask the pro-government representatives to vote on the bill in a few minutes to enter into force as soon as possible and to establish clear relations on the Hungarian market. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-09-27-46	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on this day, but I will give the floor to Mr János Volner in order of business, in two minutes.
u2016-09-27-47	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would like to speak on a personal level. Mr. Secretary of State Tállai began to lie here in Parliament in an insolence, claiming things that did not happen. [[His micron's buzzing. The president's ringing the bell.]]
u2016-09-27-48	It's really buzzing!
u2016-09-27-49	I would just like to remind the Secretary of State that we met your Secretary of State for Communication in court just a week ago, calling him Csaba Dömötör. The court condemned him for lying about better politicians. Mr. Secretary, we already have a whole collection of these. You can't justify it, you keep saying things like that, you lose lawsuits. I resent that. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2016-09-27-50	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. Dear Parliament, At 11:00, I'm recessing until decisions are made. Thank you for your attention. [[Break: 10.23 11.01.President: István Jakabjegyzők: László Földi és Ikotity István]]
u2016-09-27-51	Dear Parliament, My fellow Members, please take your seats, and we will begin our work. Dear Parliament, We are now continuing our work with the decisions on the agenda. Please take your seats and check that your card has been placed in the voting machine. Dear Parliament, [[It's constant noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] It follows that T/12250 on the amendment of certain laws in relation to the prevention of illegal gambling. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. I remind you that, according to our decision yesterday, the bill will be dealt with in an exceptional procedure by the Parliament. T/12250/3. T/12250/4. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/12250/3. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 110 votes in favour, 17 votes against and 26 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether T/12250 accepts it. The text of the proposed amendment, as amended by the summary amendment. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the amended bill by 111 votes in favour, 17 against and 26 abstentions. Dear Parliament, The Hungarian-Bulgarian Friendship Day H/9425. Decision on the proposal for a summary amendment to the decision and the final vote. I would remind you that, according to our decision yesterday, the motion for a resolution will be discussed by Parliament with a derogation from house rules. Before making a decision, I would like to welcome his Excellency in the diplomatic box, Mrs Uliana Simeonova Bogdanska, the newly appointed Ambassador of the Republic of Bulgaria to Hungary and the representatives of the Bulgarian Minority Municipality. I would ask the Ambassador to inform the members of the National Assembly of the Republic of Bulgaria of the outcome of our decision on the day of Hungarian-Bulgarian friendship. The Legislative Committee proposed a summary amendment H/9425/5. H/9425/6. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts H/9425/5. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 153 votes in favour, 1 against and without abstention. Dear Parliament, We've reached the end of the decisions, now two minutes... [[No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. There's one more!]] Excuse me. Dear Parliament, The president made a mistake. I'll follow your lead. Dear Parliament, It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts H/9425. The text of the proposal for a decision, as amended by the proposed amendment. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament unanimously adopted the amended resolution proposal by 154 votes in favour. Dear Parliament, We've reached the end of the decisions. I'm ordering a two-minute technical break. [[It's a short break. Several Members are leaving the room.]] Dear Parliament, We'll get back to work. A general debate on the draft law on the publication of the International Rail Transport Agreement and its Annexes in a uniform structure with amendments in 2015 and 2016 will follow. The government referral is T/12178. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr. János Fónagy, Secretary of State of the Ministry of National Development, author of the item on the agenda. [[11.10]]
u2016-09-27-52	Thank you for the floor, Mr. President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The bill provides for the publication of amendments to the Agreement on International Carriage of Rail and its Annexes for 2015 and 2016. The agreement was concluded by the former socialist countries in Eastern Europe to regulate rail traffic between them back in 1951. The founding members, including Hungary, withdrew from the agreement in 1991, and in 2001 our country rejoined the international freight agreement. Annual amendments to the Agreement and its Annexes shall be published in law on the basis of the Act on Procedures for International Contracts. The 2015 changes affected the content of the Agreement and its annexes in a meaningful way, and the publication in the single structure, which also includes the amendments for 2016, has become necessary again. The amendments for 2015 concern the inclusion of new concepts; the scope of the Agreement, the Agreement may also apply to direct international ferries; the obligation to transport by rail, including forced transport, compulsory rail transport based on plans; the content of the bill of carriage, the time limits for carriage, the payment of transport costs and fines, possible cases of modification of the contract of carriage; the issue of liability, the responsibility of the consignor, the carrier or the recipient, the extent of compensation, and the final provisions, the possible cases of such addition or amendment and the list of official languages of the Agreement; furthermore, the SZMGSZ is added in more detail to the mode of transport, including the list of technical possibilities to be used in traffic between the different track gauges and the obligation to control the goods. The amendments for 2016 aim at formal clarifications and minor changes in content in the Annex. The publication of the amended Agreement and its Annexes is necessary in order to enable railway undertakings operating in Hungary to apply the provisions of the Agreement clearly and effectively in the direct international traffic of goods on the railway lines of the Member States participating in SZMGSZ. I ask the Honourable Parliament that the T/12178. Adopt a bill submitted to the Council and support the publication of the agreement and its annexes. Thank you very much for your attention. Mr President, thank you for this opportunity. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2016-09-27-53	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. I give the floor to Congressman Jenő Manninger, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2016-09-27-54	Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, The Secretary of State described in detail the content and the annexes to the Agreement on international rail freight. In view of the need to regulate this by law, it is also necessary to know this. I would like to add, on behalf of the Fidesz fraction, that the existence of this agreement is absolutely necessary, because if it were not, bilateral agreements should also be concluded in Eastern freight, which would make the operation much more complicated and difficult. Given the fact that it is essential to carry out the carriage of goods in the eastern direction and that there is no alternative to this agreement, I strongly recommend that the House support the bill. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2016-09-27-55	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congresswoman Anita Heringes, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group.
u2016-09-27-56	Thank you very much for the floor. Hungary has been a member of the international rail freight agreement since 2002. The current proposal contains the amendments and the annexes, the amendments for 2015 and the 16th year. Since we adopt these amendments every year, it is therefore natural that this proposal lies before us now. One interesting thing: the bill of government T/10717. By letter dated 17 May 2016, the Commission submitted a request to the European Parliament and to the Council by letter dated 17 May 2016, which was withdrawn by the present submission. Of course, the MSZP will support these amendments. The amendments will therefore, I think, be accepted by Parliament. Thank you.
u2016-09-27-57	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Ander Balázs, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group. Here you go.
u2016-09-27-58	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, Given Hungary's dependence on exports and the high level of external economic exposure, it is quite clear that transport and transport are of great importance in the life of a country such as Hungary. The efficient economy and a well-functioning transport system are, in fact, unthinkable, and one of the major elements of this is what we are talking about here, the rail system. There are many branches of this which I will be forced to touch now, even if I will obviously receive the accusation from the pro-government side that I am somewhat different from the subject, but believe me that there will not be such a big difference, since this system must be operated by someone, someone, namely railwaymen. If we don't focus on their problems every single time, then I think this system is in danger. Otherwise, the ruling party could avoid such, let's say, unnecessary duels for you, if the government were to send a representative to the trade union negotiations who would at least be worthy to hear the complaints of the professional organisations there. This does not happen, it is repeatedly missed, for example, the last time no one from the government appeared at the meeting of the Transport Department of MASSZ, even though the invitation had left. It is important to talk about this issue, because we all know that this issue is being dealt with by rail for about a fifth of the quantity of goods carried in our country, and this rate could be even higher if our country were able to meet the European Union's expectations of increasing this share of around 20 percent in the future. These requirements in Brussels are also fully in line with Hungarian national interests, and it is odd to say this on the right side, but yes, we say that rail, fixed-track transport is an area that is worthy of development, and even if we cannot reach its volume before the change of regime, because there is no realistic chance of doing so, we must also strive to meet the growing, let us say, number of plans. For if we think of nothing but the environment, we already have a strong argument in our possession that shows that rail should have a much more emphasis on freight transport. Forint 870 billion is the amount that experts name as the so-called negative externality caused by heavy duty vehicles. About 40 percent of this is caused by the rampage of foreign trucks across our country. What do we call a negative externality? For example, the emissions of carcinogens, the damage caused by traffic accidents, or the damage caused by the infrastructure at an annual level of approximately HUF 350 billion, obviously unintended, but still very real and very tangible. [[11.20]] And if we add to all this that in 2002 some 100,000 trucks were loaded on railway trains and transported across the country in this way, this number would have fallen to only 30 thousand by 2012, and then, by eliminating RoLa, this mode of transport actually disappeared, and it has to be said that the government's transport policy considerations do not contain such environmental considerations, because if they were included, they might try to provide funds for this, because it is known that every single forint that is spent on this type of transport will result in the savings of four other forints in the area of these negative externalities. I believe that Hungary is not such a rich state as to give up this amount of money so easily. In the absence of this, however, the huge transit traffic, which completely undermines these roads and, perhaps, as one of the most remote Members of Parliament, I face every day what dangerous situations are being created on the Hungarian roads through the Balkans, Eastern Europe or Western Europe. One of the cornerstones of this whole transport would be to get these trucks back on that bound track, which would be much safer, much more environmentally friendly to carry out the transport of goods. Therefore, Jobbik will also support the agreement on international rail freight, in line with the constructive opposition party, as we are aware that each such agreement, obviously if it does not increase our country's dependence and does not contain unilateral restrictions or clauses that would be detrimental to Hungary, supports them. We can also support this, and we will vote for it, but obviously this was not in question before the Secretary of State. However, just because the question is very important in our opinion, it is important to deal with other aspects of these, and to look at the whole in a broader perspective, to examine it in the context of such speaking opportunities as well. If we look at the legal background, then it must be said that we have always given support to this, and we will continue to grant support, since railway safety is a priority for Jobbik, and we will also do so in connection with the amendment concerning certain laws on internal affairs that will soon be discussed, which also clarify and tighten up the law on railway offences. We'll give you our support vote for this, too. However, it must be said that if everything that is laid down in such international agreements is serious about the government, it is important to think about how long the infrastructure and the assets that are now available can serve it, how long it can manage rail freight in a reassuring manner. On several occasions, let's say that there was a kind of discourse about this, I myself have often said that about HUF 3 000 billion is the amount of resources that the main lines would require for themselves here in Hungary in terms of reconstruction, and then there was not even a word about the state of the sidelines, about the fact that God's money would not actually be enough to bring them into a state of measurable rail freight growth in the near future. It is therefore important to mention that existing and in many cases, such EU funds and development funds, which will be available at around a thousand billion forints by 2020, to what extent and how the government spends, how transparent and how economically rationally these funds will be used. If we can't get rich in these EU or domestic sources, then it should be stated that the government should act with the care of a good host in each of these cases. So, of course, we can always support infrastructure development, but only if it does not involve a waste of public money, if it does not fill and enrich the pockets of political vassals with new billions more and more. Indeed, the anomalies, the scandals that we face every day on the opposition side, could be classified in an infinite length. In particular, I am thinking, say, of the nation's gas plant as the nation's railway builder and of Lőrinc Mészáros as the nation's polyhistor, whose small business of 30 people, R-Kord, is winning new and new tenders, and these tenders are somehow always rewritten, and from the government's side there is always a partner to push these infrastructure developments by more and more billions, not to renew new lines, but because perhaps the original profit rate of the greedy little ball has not been enough somehow, and this needs to be further increased. That's what we saw, by the way, about the development in South Balaton. My excellent fellow Member, Lajos Kepli, spoke on this matter, by the way, when he said that one third of the money for the Balaton development was thus removed, they swallowed it by pushing the bill that Lőrinc Mészáros then issued to the government with more than HUF 25 billion. Now, we say that Jobbik does not ask for this, and we take every opportunity to draw the attention of the public and the political community to the fact that it is not appropriate to develop infrastructure in this way in a European cultural country. But I could also mention the latest GYSEV scandal, where they announced the development tender for HUF 9.5 billion, and then suddenly it became 13.3 billion, but it wasn't enough, and it turned out that the Mészáross needed the small money, because they did bow down for the extra 426 million that would cost this whole project more. Then I could also mention the anomalies around the Szombathely-Zalasentivan line, where they are 40 percent more expensive to implement the improvements they have placed before you. It could be suggested to use Lajos Simicska as a kind of cost analyst for large infrastructure projects, because, as it turned out in the case of the M4 motorway, it is possible to build cheaper. If my honourable pro-government colleagues reach into their own pockets and build these lines or motorways on a purely market basis, then do so, be your hobby, but unfortunately this is not the case. In addition to the hardware, we should also talk about the fact that a lot depends on the people who operate the MÁV as a system, on the 38,000 railwaymen whose complaints they simply do not listen to, from whom they regret even the overtime money, from whom the MÁV has tried, in an outrageous, scandalous way, to steal the 5 billion HUF extra money that has been stolen from those who work in conduct over the years. We need to talk about this, and we need to talk about the fact that the career model is still nowhere, and we need to talk about their employment conditions. And when it comes to rail freight, security as such should be a priority, but we can see that there is a huge gap between what has been said and what is real here, my fellow members of the government, because I have asked the question a number of times, if it is so important for you to carry rail freight and its safety, why, for example, rail guard activity has been outsourced, why workers who are dealing with this have been forced into poverty in Asia, to suffer from the everyday reality of workers' poverty. [[11.30]] And unfortunately, there is no answer to these questions, although the proper running of the lines, the proper running of this truly dangerous plant could only be done if the Hungarian state, the Hungarian government, appreciated these operators. However, what we see here in many cases is nothing more than labour maiming, which, in the field of railway, is raging with the power of a runaway freight train. Here, I have discussed the role of railway guards several times. I would very much ask the Secretary of State that, in the light of the latest scandal, something that appeared at workterror.blog.hu on the Western Railway Station, something will be said. Because it is not true that the Ministry of Economics or the NAV finds that the sector is the second blackest sector of the Hungarian economy after construction, but in contrast, here the officialities find almost everything in order in such a very important area, where order should indeed be made until very bad happens; because, once again, the railway is a dangerous plant. Thank you very much for your attention. [[It's a rare applause in the ranks of the Jobbik.]]
u2016-09-27-59	Thank you. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. I would like to ask our independent fellow Members in the Chamber if anyone would like to speak. [[There's no candidate.]] [[There's no candidate.]] They say they don't want to speak. No one came forward in writing. I'll ask if anyone else wants to take the opportunity to speak. (No applicants.) I don't see any contact. The general debate is closed. I'll ask the Secretary of State if he wants to answer. [[For signal:]] Yes, the floor is yours, Mr. Secretary.
u2016-09-27-60	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, Allow me to thank those on behalf of the four parties and three factions for their support for the bill. Parliament's support for this bill, which is important for both the Hungarian railway and the Hungarian economy, is important for all of us. Therefore, I thank you for the subsidies that concern the substance. On the point made by Mrs Heringes in support of her support, I must say that it was a time-consuming thing to do, indeed, in the spring, that this was presented once, but the negotiation of the extensive foreign language texts was a time-consuming thing. So we did withdraw it in the spring, we asked for an opportunity to present it now, in the fall. I would like to thank Mr Ander for his words of appreciation for the importance of the railway. I would also like to inform both my fellow Members and the country's public once again that Fidesz and KDNP have previously ranked the possible modes of transport and transport, either in the 2010 election campaign or in accordance with the government programme, in the 2013 Single Personal Transport Act, for the first time in the history of Hungarian legislation. First, he put the tied track, so he put the railroad. The government, Fidesz and KDNP declared on a legal level, enjoying the support of the other parties in this regard, by putting the track, the railway, first. It is clear that the remaining remaining in Hungary - I must say that it has remained, as the remaining part of the Hungarian rail network - requires considerable costs to maintain a network of 7600 kilometres. At the same time, the implementation of the tasks arising from Hungary's favourable geographical situation in this respect and increasing with increasing demand while maintaining its level also appears. The railway network, which, of course, provides a basis for the safe operation of freight transport, has been modernised by the Hungarian Government within the limits of the budget and by using the EU's potential in this respect, where possible, at significant stages. My fellow Member says, and you are absolutely right about that, that this is a work with continuous and still significant tasks. At the same time, allow me to draw your attention to the fact that, in recent years, in addition to traditional East-West relations, the Hungarian Government has paid particular attention to the main North-South connections and railway possibilities that serve this. It is no coincidence that we have conducted and continued active negotiations, now in the hope of close success, on the path of the Budapest-Belgrád railway line. The purpose of this declaration is to provide Chinese shipments to the southern ports, especially Koper, with a rail import to Europe, which is Hungary's translator puck. In this respect, not only domestic but not only EU, but also if possible - it received a lot of publicity and this is completely transparent - we are also trying to involve Chinese resources. You're right, this is a serious task. You mentioned the Balaton track. If you've gone too far, allow me to comment on that in my answer. I assume that the railway development on the southern side of Lake Balaton, which has been completed, serves the residents, the important transfer traffic there, and the tourists' great pleasure. It greatly promotes the safety of the passenger traffic on the southern side of Lake Balaton, and, I add, its comfort. Our direct plans include the modernisation of the northern side, where possible electrification, and thus the creation of the Balaton circular railway, which can be a significant element of the whole Western Hungary and the whole Balaton region, but also of the Hungarian tourism and the Hungarian economy. As far as trade unions are concerned, there are over two dozen trade unions on the railroad. I myself try hard to attend all their events and meetings where I am invited. I must admit, I don't recall that kind of invitation from that organization. If I'm invited, I'd be happy to go, especially if there's something on the agenda that comes either from my ownership or from the operator's options. By the way, I am convinced that, for many years now, we have had an impeccable relationship with the trade unions, including the railroad unions. There is nothing more evidence of this than that there has always been a consensus agreement over the past six years in wage negotiations that have been regularly emerging over the years. I do not burden my fellow Members with other professional questions. In addition to the repeated thanks for the support, I would like to ask you to allow me to conclude by saying that the government considers the Hungarian railway, including freight transport, as one of the very important prerequisites and pillars of the Hungarian economy. Thank you for this opportunity, Mr President, thank you for your patience. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-09-27-61	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. [[11.40]] Dear Parliament, The Comprehensive Economic and Trade Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and Canada, of the other part, is hereby concluded. general discussion of the proposal for a decision on its conclusion until closure. The government referral is H/12180. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I declare that the presentation will be discussed as an EU item on the agenda by the Parliament. First, I give the floor to Mr Mikola István, State Secretary of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade, the rapporteur of the item on the agenda. Secretary of State, please.
u2016-09-27-62	Mr President, Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, Ladies and gentlemen. The aim of the presentation on the agenda is to establish a free trade agreement between the European Union and its Member States and Canada, a Hungarian position on the signature of CETA. CETA is an abbreviation of the trade agreement, Comprehensive Economic and Trade Agreement is its international nomination. The negotiations for the establishment of CETA were concluded on 5 August 2014 following a negotiating process of almost five years. The European Commission has presented the agreement to the Council as a mixed competence, so in addition to the European Union, the Member States will be contracting parties, and the consent of the national parliaments, including the Hungarian Parliament, will be necessary for the later entry into force of the agreement. It is important to note that although the Commission initially negotiated CETA as a non-mixed agreement, it has changed its intention in the light of strong reactions from Member States, including Hungary, at the level of the European Council, which brings together Heads of State and Government of the EU Member States, thus ultimately being classified as a mixed agreement. The European Commission and Canada are planning to sign the agreement at the EU-Canada Summit on 27 October. In order for this to happen, it is necessary to adopt draft Council decisions on provisional application. Hungary has made a general reservation on these matters, which has not been resolved so far. The Government intends to establish its position on this issue, depending on the opinion of the honourable Members of Parliament, which is why it submitted to Parliament a proposal on the signing of CETA. Hungary has supported the negotiations of the CETA Agreement from the outset. CETA can be classified as a balanced, ambitious agreement with long-term commercial and employment benefits. Although the level of bilateral trade flows in Hungary and Canada is relatively low, in 2015 it was EUR 366 million, representing only 0.2 percent of the total foreign trade flows in Hungary, but market access conditions can in any case create a more favourable environment for the development of our bilateral trade and investment relations. The agreement established improves the possibilities of Hungarian exports, and this can encourage Hungarian businesses, especially small and medium-sized enterprises, to increase exports and find new opportunities. The scope of the Agreement covers trade in goods and services, government procurement, market opening and protection of investments in investment, competition rules, protection of intellectual property rights, including the protection of geographical indications of origin, public undertakings, sustainable development, regulatory cooperation and dispute settlement between contracting parties in the field of investment. In the negotiation process, we paid particular attention to the proper reflection of Hungarian interests and sensitivities, especially our agricultural sensitivities, which have succeeded in our efforts. It is important to point out that CETA does not result in a breach of national standards on public health, animal and plant health, the environment, labour and social, EU and Member States, and that the relevant national regulatory law of the Member States remains. On the Hungarian position regarding the signing and provisional application of CETA, it is important that the Parliament 11/2016. a decision on the requirements for trade and investment agreements concluded by the European Union with third countries. It can be concluded that CETA does not conflict with the requirements of the OGY Decision that the Government cannot support a free trade agreement that threatens the current level of environmental and health protection, food safety and human rights and labour rights guarantees, as well as an anti-democratic dispute resolution procedure. In line with the expectations set out in the Parliamentary Decision, chapters in the sustainable development section of the agreement which contain areas of labour and environmental protection do not override the relevant legislation of the EU or the Member States and do not restrict the regulatory powers of the States. None of the provisions of the Agreement affect or amend the so-called precautionary principle laid down in Article 191 TFEU concerning the conservation, protection of the environment, the protection of human health and the exploitation of natural resources. Although the CETA bilateral dialogue and cooperation chapter offers partners the opportunity to cooperate and dialogue on biotechnology, it does not oblige the Union or the Member States to amend or liberalise the regulatory and authorisation procedures for GMOs. The new type of investment dispute resolution procedure in CETA cannot be considered to be an anti-democratic dispute resolution system considered to be rejected by that parliamentary decision. With the establishment of the permanent investment court, Investment Court System, the establishment of an appeal forum, the strengthening of transparency and the clear establishment of state regulatory law, CETA contains state-of-the-art rules that define obligations in more detail and provides greater guarantees for impartial decision-making in dispute settlement procedures for the capital-taking State. Hungary is primarily one of them. However, CETA is in conflict with the requirement of that parliamentary decision that the agreement should not be applied temporarily until the domestic ratification procedure has been completed. I would point out that the rejection of provisional application by the EU is not required either by the content of the agreement or by the intended material scope of the provisional application. The provisional application of the Agreement would only cover provisions falling within the common competence of the Union and, accordingly, the area of investment protection, including the resolution of the investment dispute, would be removed from its provisional application. Hungary would be able to prevent temporary application by the EU only by rejecting the signature from the Hungarian part, i.e. the entire CETA. This would not be in our interest on the Hungarian side. Once again, I stress that the proposal for a decision currently on the agenda is aimed at establishing a position on the signing of CETA. Depending on the possible positive decision of the Parliament on the signing, under the ratification obligation, the bill to announce the agreement in order to bring into force the agreement - which would cover the entire agreement - will be submitted to Parliament once again. Hungary will only be able to resolve the general maintenance of CETA-related draft Council decisions against the previously mentioned draft decisions if the Hungarian Parliament agrees. In view of the signing ceremony planned by the end of October, the decision of the Parliament should be taken as soon as possible. In the light of what has been said, I request the Parliament's consent and support for the adoption and agreement of the Parliament's proposal for a parliamentary decision on the position on the signing of CETA, so that the Government can sign the agreement. Thank you very much for your attention. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-09-27-63	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. The Fidesz Group indicated that two speakers presented the group's position. I give the floor to Mr Lajos Kósa. Here you go, Mr. Group Leader.
u2016-09-27-64	Mr. President. Dear House, When negotiating the CETA Convention, the Fidesz fraction would like to share the following with Parliament, not the material issue, but the political issue. [[11.50]] The fact is that the government has made a proposal to this House that actually reflects an alternative position, which is what the Parliament's proposal for a resolution is about. So the government has officially said this: in view of Parliament's decision, it would like to represent the Hungarian position at the signing ceremony and, of course, in the subsequent ratification process. On Monday, the Fidesz faction decided that, given that this whole convention could not be interpreted in a party political section at all, this is once again the long-term issue of national strategy, in which some kind of consensus would be extremely important for Parliament. Therefore, we have not decided in advance before the parliamentary debate on the direction in which we would like to hold a debate, but - and you will also hear from our comments - we think that we need a debate where political and political commitment does not dominate the debate, but we are trying in some way to reach consensus on the basis of arguments and arguments. So we are fully open to this, and I would like to ask this House to listen to the Fidesz speakers in the sense that the faction has not yet taken a stand. Then, after the end of the debate and after the close of the detailed debate, before the vote is due around 10 October, we will have a final position and we consider it extremely important what position Parliament and the various political groups and parties are taking on this matter. Therefore, the speakers of Fidesz, of course, represent a common position, which is not the position of the group as a whole, because there are several different opinions on this. I, too, would like to say to the House, not as a faction leader, who represents a political position, but as a Member of Parliament and a member of the Fidesz Presidency, that some aspects should not be ignored when considering the issue. The question is not only what physical problems are and what material solutions are involved in this specific trade policy agreement, but we must also pay attention to the political orientation around the whole convention, if you will, the context, what it is like. First of all, it is quite clear that this convention is close and loose, so it has this ambivalent relationship with TTIP at the same time, because otherwise it is quite clear that the first one to be born and ratified and entered into force will determine the framework for later ones. I do not think it is possible to agree on something in one design and to put in place a radically different design in the other. Especially because, by the way, the states in question are part of a common North American trade zone, which is NAFTA. In this sense, CETA is now ahead of TTIP, and if we accept this, CETA will be the guide, and otherwise this is much more favourable for Hungarian interests, as if TTIP were a guide for CETA. That's my conviction. Secondly, it is also necessary to take into account the position expressed by our own alliance, the European Union and its economic and political states and regions. It is extremely risky that, if Hungary takes a position, where appropriate, and it is necessary to assess these risks, it will take a position on a matter with which, for example, the European Union's medium- and long-term trade policy ideas will be hanged by an eye alone. This can be done, but the risks of this need to be assessed. The way I see it, if we make a decision in October, it is only the first decision, because there is a need for ratification later on. It is important to see that if the position of the Hungarian Parliament is negative in mid-October, and the government represents this - it must also represent - at the signing ceremony, then the whole thing will fail, because the Union will not go into a decision-making process that is likely to fail at ratification. The position of the Hungarian Parliament in this regard is therefore a key issue. That is what I wanted to share with you and give the floor to our lead speaker, Zsolt Németh.
u2016-09-27-65	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. Dear Parliament, So next up is the other lead speaker of Fidesz, President Zsolt Németh. You have the floor, Mr. President.
u2016-09-27-66	Mr President, Dear House, I would like to touch on three very briefly. Thank you very much, Mr State Secretary, for a very thorough assessment of the situation. The first thing I consider to be very important, as Mr Lajos Kósa, Group Leader, stressed here, is that we are debating the signing mandate, not ratification. So in a two-round debate, CETA is dealt with by the Hungarian Parliament, and what we are talking about is whether we are taking the risk of entering the CETA agreement into a forced course. Will Hungary undertake to disrupt a very high-priority free trade agreement in the European Union? Do you agree that Hungary will assume an odicum to frustrate the signature itself, which I would point out, by the way, that it will take place on 27 October in the framework of the summit between the European Union and Canada, or on 18 October, so in a long three weeks' time, the extraordinary Foreign Affairs Council will state its final and expected position on this issue. Ratification will be on the agenda for the coming years. Such ratification will take 3-4 years, it will roll over on 27 Member States, and I believe that this is the period in which - although it cannot be said that the European Union has created an unexpected emergency situation for national parliaments, since the negotiation of this agreement was concluded in 2014 and that this agreement could have been on the Internet since 2014 - so I think it could have been possible, and I think it will also be necessary to have a common interpretation, but this debate in Parliament today will clearly also be about a wide variety of interpretations of what is in it and what is not in this CETA agreement. That is why I do not wish to go into this right now, let us say, Mr Secretary of State, and yesterday Commissioner Cecilia Malmström did, too, that she has taken a stand on these issues, but apparently there are concrete things in this internal political debate here in Hungary, one party says that she is black and the other one says that she is white. However, I think that we could help the interpretation of the text more closely, and that is really the stake of the ratification debate, whether we will be able to say that this is good, not black and not white, but grey, and then we agree that this is gray. So I think that the task of ratification, the ratification debate, will be what we should not be taking over right now. Now we really need to talk about what we think about signing, whether we can take the risk of refusing to sign, and I am convinced that this cannot be accepted. The risk of refusing a signature is a risk that cannot be taken. Let us not advance the ratification debate now, so that would be the first important issue in which I would like to set my position. The second question is the general relationship between Hungary and free trade. In this regard, I think it is important to clarify what we think about the general relationship between Hungary and free trade. [[12.00]] Hungary realizes its national income through external trade. The success of the free trade regime is in Hungary's interest. Hungary... - most importantly, as a result of its membership as a whole of the European Union, the most important thing that the European Union has given it is that it has become a member of the common market, thereby benefiting the Hungarian economy from the free trade of the European Union. The Hungarian workplaces, the Hungarian industry, the standard of living of the Hungarian society are very much directly linked to free trade. Free trade, therefore, I believe, is in Hungary's interest, free trade is good. From now on, of course, the question is that there are good agreements and bad agreements. We need to be able to decide what makes an agreement good and what makes an agreement wrong. Unfortunately, in recent times, we have seen that free trade has negative effects, globalism has negative effects, and we can try to eliminate them in free trade regimes. I think that Hungary has its reservations in principle here, that it must have its reservations in principle. This is essentially a question related to Hungary's sovereignty. I believe that CETA is, in any case, a very important experiment, since it outlines a completely new investment and dispute resolution procedure compared to the investment protection agreements that have been concluded so far. So we have conditions of principle, and there are very sectoral considerations in this world, among which the aspects of Hungarian agriculture, Hungarian food safety, are decisive. I believe, Honourable Parliament, that CETA will in any case have a promising impact on issues of principle, both in terms of free trade in general and in terms of our ability to protect our interests in the sector. I think what Lajos Kósa stressed here about the impact this could have on TTIP, so it can frustrate TTIP if the solutions of CETA are successful, because Hungary can find very important supporters both in sectoral policy and in defence of Hungary's sovereignty. Of course, it is not in our interest for TTIP to fail the TTIP either, but I would just like to stress that TTIP, free trade in America and free trade in Canada are two separate doughs. It is a very important question, however, whether it is possible to find decisively, radically opposite solutions. If CETA's solutions will prove successful, I think that America will find it very difficult to back out of those solutions, such as dispute resolution, or even some important Hungarian sectoral successes, origin indicators, and what else could be referred to, but perhaps the most important one in the sector is Hungary's GMO-free approach, but this is an important approach in any case. Finally, I would like to talk briefly about the European Union's trade policy. The European common commercial policy is perhaps the only success sector in the European Union today. At a time when the European Union is in such a state as it is, I think it is not an incidental question of how any disruption or failure in the common commercial policy affects the future of the European Union as a whole. It can be seen, therefore, that the large Member States are ultimately unanimous in their support, that virtually a few small Member States still maintain their reservations, and perhaps Austria, the Austrian Socialist Party - in its present state of course, this is not a miracle - which we need to underline. However, I would also like to emphasise that the European People's Party is united in its support, as is the position of cooperation in Visegrád, and in particular the position of our Polish friends to support it is an issue that is important to consider. It is also important to us how we can maintain our cooperation on such issues with Visegrád cooperation, with the European People's Party and with the European Union as a whole. There are good issues with Europe and there are bad issues. I think that the outlines of agreement on the CETA issue, as they appear to be, should serve Hungary. Yesterday, Mrs Cecilia Malmström said that it would be a very negative message from the European Union to the world if we failed to sign this agreement. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] it could disrupt other free trade agreements in the coming period, and the credibility of the whole European Union would collapse. I think, therefore, that we are discussing a question of this dimension. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-09-27-67	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr László Szakács, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-09-27-68	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, What Zsolt Németh said helped us to understand and understand exactly why we are here today. If no one else does, it must be noted to the record that we have not yet seen such a parliamentary resolution proposal, in which we have this proposal separated by a slash and supported/received, and that this proposal has come before us. You've chosen a strange way, I must say. So if we were in a five-party meeting right now, I would understand the genre, even if we were on a debate day to discuss this free trade agreement, I would still understand the genre. That this Parliamentary resolution proposal is not, by the way, in a clear relationship with the House of Decisions at the moment, but in the end, it has come before us, which is what you have chosen. Obviously, the majority have the most responsibility to discuss this. There's still a way to discuss this, it's a strange genre, that's all I wanted to say. It seems that there is no unity within the Fidesz faction, and now there is no courage in what is usually about European affairs, or in matters concerning the United States, North America, nor is there what I would call courage in a bad sense, rather reckless. The kind of restraint that is being represented here, I think, in many other cases, would have been particularly useful, as they think, on interrelated issues, they say, let's stop for a moment, let's pause, let's think about it, and let's have this debate naturally. It's just unusual for you, because other times... [[Lajos Kósa: Are you praising us or scolding us? Defiance.]] I wouldn't dare talk to the genre of dialogue... how can I say this kind of thoughtfulness would be good. Of course, I would also be able to see behind it that you do not dare to decide until you have all the decisions in the European Union and see where the European Union's direction is, and then the government will also request a greater mandate from Parliament, and then they will try to convince 90 percent of Parliament and to say what else we cannot represent in this matter. I think those are your doubts. I'm not praising you, I'm not scolding you, I'm just summing up your doubts. [[Lajos Kósa: Thank you very much.]] We have also been trying to understand why such a parliamentary resolution proposal is coming in, in which the desired part should be underlined. [[Lajos Kósa: This is not in it.]] Well, it's not in it, but, obviously, we've come to the conclusion that this is how to use it, because it's an alternative decision, as Mr. Kósa said, that in fact the two are mutually exclusive in this matter. You are about to discuss something that I think few people know about in Hungary today. I understand that this is also available on online platforms. We also asked and received it from the embassy, of course. By the way, we believe that the government and the governing party must have the capacity to present a resolution proposal to which a system of relations can otherwise be established. You didn't do that, so the genre is interesting. [[12.10]] If this is a debate day, then everyone will be prepared and said something about this matter, there will be a record of it, and we will be able to make a decision later. The Secretary of State said that the agreement did not result in a breach of the system of public health, animal and plant health, environmental protection, labour, social union, national and national standards, and that the relevant national regulatory laws of the Member States remain. So, I'm asking you, is that a GMO? This is in line with the government's public policy goals - that's what they say, and that's what you said. In addition, we have asked more questions that have not yet been answered, because it was considered so important that it should be here today that the house rules will not be respected, but they will respect the house rules that we will receive the answers to our questions only on the 15th day, at 4:30 p.m. Therefore, I can only answer the questions, not yet. [[Lajos Kósa: So you have no position?]] Mr. Secretary. The press reports show that the government was conducting impact assessments. We asked that question in writing. What can you tell us about your effects on Hungary or Hungary's economy, Mr. State Secretary? We have received the general background material, but beyond that, what can you tell us about its effects on the Hungarian economy? And the legal environment is, of course, that if we, as a national parliament, have to approve such an agreement, then we know that the Parliament also calls on the Government to in no way support the establishment of a free trade agreement that threatens the current level of environmental, health, food safety and human rights and labour rights guarantees, and if it contains possible anti-democratic dispute resolution procedures. Does this arrangement include such an arrangement? These would be our fundamental questions, and we would have the same question with regard to GMOs. [[Lajos Kósa: That's why we have a debate.]] I saw Lajos Kósa say that we have no position either. Neither do you, nor do you. That is why I welcome you all to today's debate. We can ask our questions, and you will come before us with such an alternative parliamentary decision. I do not know what we are going to vote on in this matter and what the government's position is. Zsolt Németh's exposé, by the way, I think we can at least evaluate it in this, and he represents the Atlantis position that the government cannot and does not represent, if I understand correctly. I mean, I'm sorry, the Secretary of State said much more nuancedly what Zsolt Németh said; so they probably can't stand the support of their faction. I think that you should first decide on the government side whether you should wait for any decision-making mechanism in the European Union, whether you could resolve disputes between yourself, and then we can relate to a government position. This is your responsibility now, not ours. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2016-09-27-69	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Márton Gyöngyösi, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group.
u2016-09-27-70	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I very much welcome the opportunity to talk here for the second time, to discuss free trade agreements. In 2015, following a TTIP debate day, Parliament unanimously adopted in June this year a parliamentary resolution calling on the government not to act on such free trade agreements without the approval of Parliament. And I also welcome the fact that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has presented this parliamentary resolution proposal to the House. In the beginning, I would like to say that we do undertake or would undertake to sign this treaty in October, in Brussels, at the general council meeting. Jobbik's position is well known in both CETA and TTIP. We believe that this treaty functions as a Trojan horse, which fundamentally threatens the Europe we know, a Europe based on solidarity that we know and that we are so afraid of. I am convinced that these free trade agreements from the outside threaten European civilisation and Europe itself as much as migration endangers it from the outside, our environment, our society, our economy, the structure of our economy. Free trade agreements are influenced by the kind of profit perception that almost ignores the human factor and puts profits first of all. And it is very, very far from the Christian approach that you, my fellow Members, are proclaiming in other respects. The procedure itself is very vile, because, as my fellow Members have already referred to me, this Treaty has already been discussed and concluded in August 2014. So this treaty is now waiting for signature, for approval, for ratification. So the document itself is ready. Now, when this entire trial has been conducted, Cecilia Malmström appears in Budapest, touring Europe and wants to argue, to open a debate and promote transparency. And here the Fidesz is playing the same thing in Parliament, when there really is no decision-making situation, there is only an emergency situation to sign or not to sign, whether we are willing to accept or not. I am convinced that this is an odicum that must be undertaken, because the interests of the nation state, the national interests of Hungary are in fact and firmly, but the pan-European interests are also perfectly opposed to this free trade agreement, just like your big brother TTIP. And I believe that the government also feels that there is a problem, because it is no coincidence that, while at home in rhetoric, it does not dare to take on this kind of struggle in Brussels, and it is more like a copycat out there and is supportive of these free trade agreements. I do not want to repeat the points on which we oppose these free trade agreements. We have done this several times in this House, but only in stichwort: we believe that these treaties, or CETA, which has, however, undergone some amendments, are still fundamentally rocking the European precautionary principle. While in Canada and overseas GMOs, hormone treatment is a standard procedure - these procedures are prohibited in Europe - we consider it life-threatening to sign a contract that guarantees the duty-free import of 50 thousand tonnes of beef, 80 thousand tonnes of pigmeat, soya and maize, which pushes down European prices through dumping prices and substantially endangers the existence of producers here. In addition, the Canadian party has done a great deal during the negotiations to soften and liquefy European directives in order to allow Canadian products and services to appear on the European market. No matter what we call the dispute settlement mechanism, ISDS or ICS, one thing is certain, it is not based on the national state legal system. So as long as these treaties directly affect citizens in specific nation states, it will not be governed by the legal system of the nation state, but by a foreign court that may not function as before, but the principle is roughly the same. And in the matter of transparency, this contract leaves as much to be desired as before. [[12.20]] These contracts were negotiated secretly, behind closed doors. Even though this treaty is now available online, the way Brussels acted during these negotiations is completely incomprehensible. In the remaining time - because we share our keynote speakers - I would like to highlight the kind of distorted economic logic that the Fidesz government applies when it brings these contracts to us. Over the past 26 years, the various changing governments have conducted a kind of neoliberal economic policy in Hungary, selling national goods in these countries through privatisation and liberalisation, distributing them to the domestic mafia, which has converted its political capital into economics, and opening the gates to foreign multinational companies. In the interest of capital investment, they started lobbying these large companies with cheap labour, competing with the world, and even trying to undermine, preferably, the Bangladeshi and Pakistani wages, offering tax exemptions, state aid [[Dr. Vas Imre: You don't believe that.]] to this day, in the form of strategic contracts for companies which look only at these opportunities and not how they can conclude and operate contracts on a win-win basis in order to operate in the country where they can operate or benefit from the country in which they can operate. This policy is being pursued and campaigned against the rising GDP produced by companies that have set up headquarters and set up sites here. You're campaigning with exports that these companies make. And in the meantime, hundreds of thousands of Hungarian people are fleeing this country, because this kind of economic construct is not in their interest, and for such wages, under such conditions, Hungarian people are not able to live in their own country. Dear Government, Courage, we could change the paradigm, this is a great opportunity for you to turn off the wrong and false path that has been pursued by different governments over the past 26 years and look for those allies here in the country, in Europe and throughout the world who are equally opposed to these trade agreements, there are plenty of them in Europe. Thank you. [[Sallai R. Benedict: That's right! A round of applause from Jobbik and LMP.]]
u2016-09-27-71	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to the other lead speaker of the Jobbik Group, Mr Tibor Bana. Here you go.
u2016-09-27-72	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Confirming what my colleague Márton Gyöngyösi said, I would also stress that it is positive that, in recent times, we can talk and debate about free trade agreements that decisively determine the future of our country, either here in Parliament or within the framework of various committee meetings. It is regrettable that this has only been strengthened this year, and this has not been the way and the opportunity to do so at the previous stage of the negotiations, and we have not received any substantive information. I trust that this will certainly change in the future. It can be seen, as has been said before, that the CETA Joint Convention will be before us, so it will be necessary to ratify the Member States. Unfortunately, in the case of the EU-US Free Trade Agreement, TTIP, this is not certain at all, but we must do everything we can to ensure that this happens. Here at CETA, you can see that the agreement will be ready for signature by 27 October. However, it is important to point out, however, that in the case of the EU-US Free Trade Agreement or the Comprehensive Economic and Trade Agreement, the issue of ex ante enforcement has not yet been completed, i.e. that the Convention should enter into force once the European Parliament has approved it, but before ratifications by the Member States. The European Parliament is expected to approve the Convention in December this year. Thus, even so close to signing it, there were no such important questions as how it would come into effect. Well, ladies and gentlemen, this fact makes it even more clear how much the negotiators really wanted to deal with the whole negotiation and decision-making in a transparent, transparent way - no matter what. CETA - like the TTIP that is still under negotiation - affects several areas that will have a significant impact on the lives and quality of life of EU citizens, including Hungarian citizens. [[Lajos Kósa: TTIP has no lyrics!]] I would not go through what they are, whether they are presented or read about the areas that this covers, but I would stress that the European Commission itself may feel that the Convention is limping on several points, since it is agreed that a declaration is being prepared which, I quote, explains certain parts of it that are very sensitive to the public. This caution is no coincidence, because in recent weeks there have been huge protests all over Europe against both CETA and TTIP, which cannot be ignored by the European Union or the Hungarian government. A letter of protest was also addressed to Minister, which was signed by more than a hundred, exactly 107 Hungarian NGOs - the Green Reply civil society organisation was among them - asking Hungary not to sign CETA. I would like to underline here and now that Jobbik is asking the government to do the same. We think that we should take this risk, and we should not at all consider which countries will decide like us, because if our national interests are to be damaged, we must do so. You declared a fight for freedom and told the Hungarians that they would put national interests first in all such cases, as opposed to the European Union's dictatorships or just how other countries are trying to force their will on the European Union, which, of course, is fully assisted by the competent bureaucrats. It should also be mentioned that the European Commission is trying to base on the protests I have referred to, since yesterday we had the opportunity to hear Mrs Cecilia Malmström at the consolidated meeting of the Committee on European Affairs, the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the Committee on Sustainable Development. There have been a number of questions here, and it has also been said that there are a growing movement across Europe against these free trade agreements, and the EU Commissioner for Trade said that he knows about protests, but there are a lot more people who remain at home during such demonstrations, so there are more people who support the treaties. I think that this is a rather forced logic, and I do not think that anyone who does not express his opinion against either CETA or TTIP within the framework of a street movement would support these conventions. In fact, it must also be underlined that politics also has a responsibility for the fact that a significant part of Europeans, including Hungarians, do not even know how these negotiations take place and what they are about. However, it is clear and clear that the European Commission is unwilling to deal with those who have different views on the negotiations, consider them a minority who can be ignored. So we can say briefly and succinctly that they are not interested in people's opinions. However, the government is also indebted to the open speech, as although the TTIP has been attacked at several points in Hungary recently, their delegates in Brussels, or their MEPs, have voted in favour of the decisions in this regard. And at home, there have been a series of completely conflicting statements, either from the government or from the Fidesz side. We have no doubt that both in the case of CETA and TTIP you have a supportive attitude, and what has been said here has been confirmed either by the Secretary of State or by the main speakers of Fidesz. But it is enough to point out that in January this year, American ambassador Colleen Bell announced that Viktor Orbán and Péter Szijjártó stood up for the treaty, i.e. TTIP and thus CETA, and then Réka Szemerkényi said that the conclusion of the agreement was more important than ever. In Hungary, the protests have also been intensified, also yesterday, during Mrs Malmström's visit. And, yes, it must be underlined that CETA is certainly a forerunner of TTIP, so we are asking the government to stand firm for the Hungarian national interests and not to support the agreement in this form, so do not sign it. That is what I am asking of you, Mr Secretary of State, and I would like to see a clear and straightforward speech from the typical government side, because, unfortunately, this is not what we have seen in the past. We are dealing with a finished text here, so the Hungarian Government and the Members of Parliament must also have a position. We are strongly opposed to this in the light of the foregoing. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from Jobbik and LMP.]]
u2016-09-27-73	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Before we continue our work, let me give a special welcome to the high school students in Debrecen, Pécs, Hajdúböszörmény and Zalaegerszeg, who are present in the Parliamentary Special Class. I think it is a special event for them to be able to take part in such an important debate. [[12.30]] Dear Parliament, I now give the floor to Congressman Sallai R. Benedek, the lead speaker of the LMP Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-09-27-74	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen of the Government, I don't know where to start... [[Dr. Vas Imre: At the beginning!]] I'll start at what you know, so you can practically see it creaking, squeaking, the whole EU institutional system as it is. [[Zsolt Németh: The whole world, civilization!]] You talk about this in the media practically every day. Basically, there is a very big problem, and the problem is, as President Zsolt Németh points out, that there is a problem with the whole civilization, humanity. Yes, that is true, but this is the kind of agreements that led humanity on this path, and you are now trying to go that way... or you are not united, because I see the division that I think is good that they have in their ranks, so those who support free trade agreements of this kind are driving Hungary and the world and the Union in this direction, and that is bad. What has led to the world's problems is what has led to the failure of the European Union's institutional system, the Brexit, the immigration campaign, the internal civil war that is raging in the Union, because of such agreements and such trade. I have really listened with interest to my fellow Members in this speech, and I am very sorry to say such a silly word in Parliament - in an unpolitical, interesting conversation, I would like to know what your opinion is about what the nation is, what the nation is thinking, what it is when we talk about representing our citizens and our fellow countrymen of a nation in a nation state. Everyone may have a subjective opinion on this, there are certainly social policy definitions, but it can be seen that in a given geographical area, in a geographically defined part, the common protection of natural resources, their more even distribution, the common language, the common currency, are both levels that need to be maintained in order to keep thinking in the nation. About protecting our common interests, our common values, our citizens and our compatriots, the Parliament cannot give up this thinking. The European Union and its accession to it opened this level in 2004 and said that, at continent level, we need to cooperate more broadly as a reaction to the complexity of the world and global processes or globalisation processes, but we also give up our European nature if we bring in free trade agreements of this kind. To my colleague, Mr President, Mr Zsolt Németh, I believe that his political opponents recognise his expertise and knowledge in this area, but I cannot, however, at any level share the views that he feels that free trade is good. I think free trade is bad. That's what's ruining the world. This makes it possible that the culture created by the cradle of European culture, Rome, when it brings the resources in every way for people to live well, a narrow seed, strengthens them. This is Europe's most effective export product, the European culture of engraving. A hundred years have passed in the world of colonialism, and to this day the fate of the world is determined by the continents and countries that have taken resources from. The Free Trade Agreement of this kind is the same colonialization, the same withdrawal of resources by civilised, diplomatic means, which is part of the 21st century. It must be in the first century, but its purpose is to remove resources. If we produce goods in Hungary, we go out and plow and sow, we raise a lamb or a calf, we send the income from the goods produced to Canada, because we buy some of their products, and the profit that should otherwise increase the community will apply there. I strongly believe that free trade is bad, free trade is a major part of the world's problems and that the injustices and inequalities between the continents are among the countries, which have been greatly contributed to the creation of free trade. My fellow Member, Zsolt Németh, also said that there is literally no risk of us not supporting him at the moment. In my opinion, we cannot take the risk that we would now put the country and the European Union at risk. As we agree, there are very big problems not only in the world, but also in the Union, and such openness eliminates the thinking in the nation state, the thinking in Europeanism, which, at the moment, might still be defendable, could be repaired. Free trade removes borders, eliminates the possibility of protecting our resources and creates a competitive position where the Hungarian economy and Hungarian products must compete at some level with other natural resources on a completely different continent, with a significantly greater wealth, a completely different production structure, a completely different legal environment and other restrictions. How can that be good? The European Union has many flaws, and I believe that we could put it on long notice here today, if that were the aim, but at least at the level of the directives, if it could not create it, but at least try to create a single set of rules in environmental protection, production, support policy, and this will give us the opportunity to try to trade within the European Union, if not from our historical past, from our traditions, not on equal terms, but at some level, and try to exploit the rights that may not be available at national level. As a result, what I am also saying to President Zsolt Németh, my fellow Member, is that what he says is not white and black, it is completely clear to me and completely black, and there is nothing to think about. Everyone expects me to start talking about GMOs for a long time at this time, and to start professionally with what will happen to pig producers, because they produce the same pork from 60 percent per kilo as in Hungary. I do not want to go to such professional questions, because the risk of sacrificing Hungary's food safety, the risk that, say, the creation of GMO grain or any crop in the country may pose is small compared to what all residents of the country suffer from the fact that we allow the entire trade in other resources of another continent into the country. That is why it is very, very difficult to identify with this at any level, and that is why we hold that from white and black it is relatively clear that this should belong to the ban zone and the ban color, and that is what I am most debating with my fellow Member, because at the moment I do not see the arguments that could create the least positive that offset the negatives. There are many, many negatives that CETA and TTIP can create at all, and these risks must be borne by the society of Hungary. And obviously I cannot identify with the fact that we are trying to describe Hungary's economy, Hungary's society, with GDP and other statistics, because it does not show people's quality of life, it does not show their happiness, it does not show their everyday lives, and CETA can bring positive results in GDP, but it can destroy the quality of life of Hungary's citizens, and this is the most important indicator that you, as decision-makers, have to bear in mind. I wanted to respond yesterday to Mrs Cecilia Malmström's visit to our country. Reading what happened - basically I recall that Fidesz, the Fidesz-KDNP Group in the European Union, supported his appointment to the Trade Commissioner - I must say, it was very good to experience that the May Other is not a political representative because what he has provided and what he has expressed on the Free Trade Agreement, I think, is unsuitable. Basically, I don't have the competence to do this, and I hate to say such big words, but I, if I could, on behalf of the May Other Political faction, would like to call on Parliament to resign immediately and to leave immediately the post for which, in practice, European Union citizens are being handed over to another country and another continent and its resources. What he represented is inconclusive, because the kind of commercial approach he presented yesterday, by which he tried to convince his partners here in Hungary, does nothing but put the interests of trade and the values of trade ahead of the interests of the people, the interests of the people and the Hungarian countryside and the interests of the Hungarian fates and of the citizens of the European Union. Accordingly, I tell you frankly - as I said, I do not like to say such things, especially now that there is a possibility of a professional debate at all and not a political debate - the way Minister Szijjártó interpreted these ideas and took these arguments as Minister of Foreign Economy, unfortunately, in my order of values, he has achieved to an exhaustive extent the category of treason in which the country is delivered. I do not wish to offend or offend the Minister. [[Intercoms from the ruling parties: You've already done it! Defiance.]] That's why I've been trying to put it as an opinion, which is why I've been trying to put it in a way that my system of values... [[Zsolt Németh intervenes. Defiance.]] Yes, I would certainly find something else if I wanted to hurt you, that was not my intention, because I respect it, because I see in the world that a lot of economic directions still maintain this economic direction, that it is good, and it is obviously very, very difficult what to do with it. But let me give you a legal argument. I was very proud of the Hungarian Parliament in June this year, because in practice, in the system of national cooperation, it is not often that any initiative of a opposition politician should be included in a series of subjects or even considered in substance. [[12.40]] Despite this, 11/2016. Parliamentary resolution on the requirements for trade and investment agreements concluded by the European Union with third countries states literally that the Government does not support the establishment of a free trade agreement which threatens the current level of environmental and health protection, food safety and human rights and labour rights guarantees, as well as anti-democratic dispute resolution procedures. This is also a parliamentary decision, which is before us, which means at the level of car cards that the two vehicles are moving at the same speed, but, as I understand, it was born a little earlier in the legal hierarchy, so the constitutionality of this parliamentary decision can be called into question in this respect, because what has now been brought in as a parliamentary decision proposal completely disproves the text of a previously adopted parliamentary decision. Because if we go through all of this in substance, what exactly risks environmental and health protection, what is at risk of food safety, what is it that contains human rights, but especially anti-democratic dispute resolution procedures, all of which are now, at present, contained in CETA. The content of this is well known, and at the moment, the fact that we are discussing here is, in my view, a useful and important issue, but it does not seem to me to be fully in line with the Fundamental Law, since it is against the same level of legislation previously adopted. Accordingly, in my opinion, CETA in this form cannot be a question of negotiation and debate; there can only be one solution for the government, that it does not support this and does not accept it, given that the Parliament had already taken a decision to defend itself against the interests of the Hungarian people with pro-government support. [[Mihály Balla and Zsolt Németh: Next to him!]] Or I am sorry, in addition to the interests of the Hungarian people - a lot, but in this case in particular - and he assured the citizens of Hungary that he would not support them. Obviously, if we go into the details - although I have talked about the time here, and I have less and less time to do so if we go into the details - every single point that says it doesn't conflict with the parliamentary resolution can be refuted. CETA's article on biotechnology clearly states, and I quote: "The benefits of placing agricultural biotechnology on the market must be achieved. This is not against what is in the parliamentary resolution, it is against the Basic Law, as it is practically the case of GMOs. This is obviously what the transfer of biotechnology achievements to Hungary is all about. Literally, I quote Article 25: promoting an effective, scientific-based approval procedure for biotechnology products. The precautionary principle, which has been a basic principle of the European Union since the 7th Environment Programme, would be put at risk in the course of authorisation, and basically assumes that we are not doing anything against European Union citizens that cannot be excluded from the negative impact of scientific evidence. At the same time, it also eliminates zero tolerance for unlicensed genetically modified foods, which do not currently have a licence, in which at least the Hungarian government has stood up in words, if not in action, but so far. Obviously, I am suggesting that at least he stood up in words and not in action, because we know about Minister Sándor Fazekas's American negotiations. As a reminder, we know that he would actually allow it there, we know the fact that Hungary receives more than 540 thousand tonnes of genetically manipulated protein-based feed every year, and they talk about GMO-free as if we weren't feeding the entire livestock with this kind of feed. So obviously they stood up in those words at least so far. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Develop regulatory cooperation to mitigate the adverse trade effects of regulatory practices on biotechnology products. So everything that has a harmful commercial impact needs to be facilitated. What is not self-evident? So whatever has a negative effect on trade, it doesn't matter whether it's unhealthy or whether it's affecting people's lives, it has to be reduced because trade is more important than man because of the spirit of the convention. How can this be done? How could this not conflict with the 11/2016 parliamentary resolution I mentioned? ! Obviously, it is not possible to trust that the European Commission represents Hungary, the countries seeking GMO-free status, because the EU has a fundamentally different interest. I would not, in any way, like to do so, and that is why I did not want to start with the question of giving the impression that if the GMO exemption was demonstrated by CETA, I would feel acceptable to this convention. No, this is not the case; there is no version that would help in free trade in Hungary in the long term at the moment. Basically, the government talks regularly about local economies, talks about small and medium-sized enterprises, talks about how to keep development resources as fully as possible at national level, the problem is that all these words, although this is the direction, and this would be the only desirable opportunity not to lose a higher amount of development resources than Marshall aid that we would have been given to each Hungarian citizen living in every Hungarian region as his fellow citizens in the EU, and we could not achieve this. What thefts have been and what foolish use of resources have been since 2004 is obviously a fact today, but you would have had another way, and unfortunately now you can strengthen the other way if you had voted in favour of this initiative. Thank you for the floor, Mr President.
u2016-09-27-75	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. I give the floor to Szabó Szabolcs, an independent representative, within a 15-minute time frame. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-09-27-76	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Obviously, I'm not going to be a big surprise by starting out as a member of the Ensemble, as Parliamentary Representative of the Ensemble, that we think free trade is good. Of course, no one here is talking about throwing the reins into the horses and running wherever they want. That is what free trade agreements and agreements are about, for example, to put it within the appropriate framework and to trim down those parts of it, the wild game that we believe to be a harmful side effect of free trade, for example, when that is the word, the term has just been said. I tell you honestly, the reason I always wonder when someone is talking about free trade is because Hungary is an open economy, we have to look at the volume of exports and imports, the European Union is the most important player in world trade in terms of exports and imports, so it is perfectly logical that our opportunity as the biggest player in world trade - if I mean the Union now under the plural number - is to integrate as much as possible in this process and try to come out of this whole process as a winner, just to make Hungary a better place to live. With, of course, knowing very well, and once again stressing that globalisation has harmful side effects, our task is to overcome this in a proper regulatory system. It was also interesting, what Zsolt Németh said, because, by the way, when we talk about such topics among ourselves, we are talking about practically the same register, we are about this position, and on this basis I could say that, if we were looking at this topic, we could even have Zsolt Németh as a party member. [[Defiance in the ranks of Fidesz.]] That's how we think about the world. It is interesting because, before that, Lajos Kósa's words revealed that this is not a faction position, but it is practically a personal position or an indeterminate group position within the faction, but there is not much we can do about it. I think that if we have reached such a stage that we have this negotiated draft agreement, then it would be good not only for the government to have a relatively fixed position on what the author is saying - which, if I take it well, the government is saying should sign it - then it would be good if the governing parties, Fidesz-KDNP, had a firm position on it, because otherwise we have no attitude. I can't take part in a debate where the person in front of me says that I don't know what my position is, first I listen to what you say and then someday we'll decide. This can be imagined when the process starts, that there is such an opportunity to conclude a free trade agreement with Canada, to sit down, to find out what the framework is and what the position of the negotiator of the European Union will be. But when we have a prepared draft, I think it makes this conversation completely pointless, that there is no position on the government side. From now on, if you do not respect the opposition factions so much... - and I respect the views of the other opposition factions or the views of the opposition factions, even if I do not necessarily agree with them, but they have made it pretty clear, they have honored the House by saying what they think, especially here Jobbik and LMP have been very determined in this area. [[12.50]] Then why didn't the governing parties respect this House? That is why I think it is unnecessary to go into a very detailed analysis, because from now on this does not make sense. The ruling parties were given the power to rule the country, as they see fit. Thank you very much.
u2016-09-27-77	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We will continue with the series of speeches. Since no one has applied for a two-minute speech, I give the floor to Mr János Bencsik, the Fidesz Group.
u2016-09-27-78	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, We have heard interesting speeches in the main speaker's round, as the speaker of the Socialist Group and, above all, of the independent Members, Szabolcs Szabó further questioned the foundations and importance of the open operation of the Parliament. I tell you honestly, I am very pleased that we can discuss the issue of this rather important trade agreement here in Parliament, whether we support it or not, because, in my opinion, the approval of the Lisbon Treaty, since Christmas 2007, has not been such a major issue here at the Parliament's table. At least it is a treaty, an agreement that can influence the future of the whole European Union and Hungary to this extent and at such a depth. It is very right that we have this proposal here, that we can take sides in an open debate on this issue, who can say their own opinion, whether we like it or not, this is the genre of Parliament, which is why we have been chosen in different parts of the country, different communities, communities in different social and material situations, constituencys. Of course, there can be at least part of different positions within a larger group on such a far-reaching issue. In Europe, the Hungarian Parliament is perhaps the only one negotiating this treaty during this period, despite the fact that on Friday in Bratislava, Mrs Malmström asked the governments of the Member States to approve the decisions necessary for the signing of 27 October by ministers responsible for trade and foreign trade, to justify the possibility of temporary entry into force in advance, and to refrain from being referred to other bodies of opinion or decision-making. Please, in Hungary, the Parliament is discussing this issue, and I think it is an important thing. I did not have the opportunity to thank my fellow Members for the fact that in June, when we had already discussed CETA in the framework of András Schiffer's proposal for a resolution, they supported the amendment that I tabled, which actually resulted in such a blocking situation, which also contributed to the discussion of this subject under the present parliamentary conditions, since the Hungarian Parliament blocked the temporary entry into force by adopting the amended proposal for a resolution in June this year. Moving on, I'm a fan of regulated trade. I think that nothing has been better than a capital-based socio-economic arrangement. In particular, I am in favour of a capital-based economy and regulated trade in which talent and diligence are taken into account, and it is not the mere dominant position that promotes market access and contributes to growth. I also consider it important to ensure the unity of the European Union, but I consider it important to maintain Community control at an appropriate level at both EU and national decision-making levels. For my part, I say that, first and foremost, regulated trade should be given the opportunity to supply goods from overseas or to deliver our own goods for which there is no normal, interoperable product. This is absolutely important. You are right, Mr Sallai, that the colourful fabric of local farms can only be formed and strengthened if it is not necessary to compete with the same products imported from overseas, for example sweet corn. What is the significance of packing these products across the sea, which are being manufactured and manufactured here and there, so can they replace each other, put them back and forth, and cause an amazing amount of pollution in view of the whole atmosphere? That doesn't make much sense. Maple syrup cannot be produced here, it is right, so it should come in the context of trade regulated in trade agreements. Sweet corn may not have to come, and I don't think chicken and pork have much to offer. In our economic areas, in the regions within the country, there are a number of areas with agricultural characteristics that we must say can produce the right quality of food in a more healthy environment. We also agree that we have reached an age limit. My fellow Members in almost every corner of the horseshoe agree. And perhaps even the fact that it is impossible to move on without consequences, to cross this age line. One of our fellow Members mentioned here that the withdrawal of natural resources on one side and the release of waste on the other side and pollution of our own living space is a very serious risk. This goes hand in hand with the social slipping of different parts of the world, putting entire countries in an unworthy position. If we go further, these resources, be it a natural resource, but we can now talk about human resources, we have also used them to a significant extent in space and in time for future generations. This has difficult consequences, such as climate change or social dissatisfaction in various parts of the world, the result of which is, in fact, the migration process. Overall, we can conclude that the geopolitical environment has been significantly shaken. The expiry of the Yalta Treaty also contributed to this. What we're seeing is actually redistributing the world. We are confronted with efforts to redistribute the world in all areas. The aim of this redistribution is to ensure free access to resources or unlimited access, once again in terms of natural resources and human capabilities, including human efforts, and to organise markets on the basis of uniform rules of play. In fact, that is what free trade agreements are all about. However, I respect the socio-economic arrangements based on capital, and we also cooperate with the various investors in our city, in our constituency, regardless of nationality, and even if we do not have a substitute product that we can produce in the country, we also support them to settle in the country and in our region, but we do not want them to be foreign companies, but not foreign companies, because they are transnational companies, they are not companies with their own national identity, they are companies established in certain countries or even in several countries, not multinational companies, which are actually above the whole world, and these companies are asking for participation in European legislation. [[13.00]] The desire to be above democratically elected governments and to move to a higher level of regulated trade is fundamentally felt, and this is the free trade agreement. Now, this filter is probably the way to look at CETA, the free trade agreement between the European Union and Canada. Two cultures meet, and this was also the case: one considers the precautionary principle important: this is our culture, European culture, this is in the legal order of the European Union, and this is the practice, and there is a risk-based approach, and this is basically the American continent and the northern part of where very different aspects dominate. I do not say that the protection of human health is not important there, I am quite certain that it is important, only in other ways, while in Europe the precautionary principle says that only products that have been proven to be harmless to health are not harmful to human health, i.e. according to our current knowledge, to the current level of science; this is a very appropriate approach. While this is the other, this overseas approach is basically about the fact that the product can be placed on the market and must be proved ex post by those who do not like the product or consider it risky that it poses risks to human health. Now, in the case of the latest technologies, let's say biotechnology, it is incredibly difficult to prove this to a layman or even national governments later on in a time frame that significant damage does not occur at random in the health of the individual or the community. So there's a huge difference, that's what we need to understand, that's the big risk, that one is a culture of caution, and the other is a culture of a risk-based approach. I wouldn't say much about the investment court system, but this is an interesting enough question to change two sentences about how this would apply in Hungarian law. The whole point is that it would not be the jurisdiction of a nation state and not the EU jurisdiction to settle disputes, but rather the framework of the investment court system, where, on the one hand, the concept of legitimate expectations is formulated in the agreement, so the legitimate expectation of an investor is a criterion to be appreciated when making decisions, and on the other hand, the burden of proof is on governments, and governments must justify the need for certain market regulation decisions or consumer protection decisions, the absence of discrimination and the legitimacy of certain decisions. The big question is, let us say, the chips tax in such a case, if this agreement is reached, to what extent it will be maintained in order to enforce health and consumer protection aspects. There is no doubt that this is of economic importance. In the case of Hungary, the volume of trade currently operating between Canada and Hungary is estimated at 0.2 per cent of the total volume of trade. If we look at the changes that could be expected at European level, we could hear and read various studies here: Tufts University, using the global policy model of the United Nations, ran the impact analysis of CETA, which predicted a reduction in jobs, a decrease in wages and a decline of approximately 0.5 per cent of GDP, and basically showed that it benefits overseas companies, companies, who produce, produce, recycle parts and parts in Europe, and put them back into finished products and finished products. This does not fully serve the balanced development of the Hungarian economy. The Member States have reservations, the Poles and the Slovenians about the investment court system. We also know that in Belgium two provinces, the Provinces of Wallonia and Brussels, have rejected or intend to reject the agreement. This may even bring about the fact that Belgium will not be able to support the treaty during the ratification procedure. I think that there should be further discussions between Hungary and the Central European countries living with us in a community of fate, and I am still in the position that if Parliament decides that, all in all, economic, economic diplomacy issues - as my fellow Member Zsolt Németh said, are a very important, particularly important aspect - it decides to support the CETA, and I do not see it as too good and appropriate to put it into effect temporarily before all the Member States have concluded their ratification procedures, thus prior to the decisions approved. This would be a very risky business for both the European Union and Hungary. Thank you so much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-09-27-79	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát, Member of the Jobbik Group, also applied in writing. You have the floor.
u2016-09-27-80	Mr President, Dear House, We have finally heard a sounder pro-government voice, and I very much appreciate that; I also appreciate the example that my fellow Member has set that since the Lisbon Treaty, we have not had such a particular paprika on our table. I must agree with that, I very much hope that you have developed so much after the Lisbon Treaty was voted virtually unread before the formal translation was completed, the then Fidesz and MSZP together, in tandem, I now feel that a much deeper professional debate can be held on a document that hides amazing disaster situations at mine level, to which it is intended to sign, ratify, and which, in my view, would be equivalent to treason. I cannot yet understand, as a freedom fight, what you have been able to say is that Mrs Malmström has asked that the Member States do not talk too much about this package in alternative circles, so there should not be any issues that might hinder the transfer of CETA, but the Hungarian Parliament is brave enough to discuss it. Please, that's the minimum. So the government of Hungary has been given the mandate to represent the interests of Hungarian citizens consistently and irresistibly. The fact that we are even discussing the scrap of paper that comes before us in this package raises questions. So once again, signing a similar document is equivalent to treason, sanctioning a similar document, but the fact that we're even negotiating it as a brave stand is quite amazing. Obviously, Mrs Malmström will continue to present everywhere during her current tour how good transparency is, and has not yet been ratified, this wonderful agreement that has such economic benefits, so it can be discussed in the wider public. My fellow Member, Márton Gyöngyösi, has recently attended a similar forum, and he has made a delicate remark that this great transparency should have been forced when this was all in the development phase, not when the package was ready, and the countries had the right to sanction it, I will say this piece of paper again or not. Even in this context, concerns were raised as it would have been in the clear interest of multi-company companies to sue States and, where appropriate, EU Member States for alternative dispute resolution entities when this convention had not yet entered into force. It is therefore clear that this temporary entry into force had to be prevented in any way and must be prevented. What I really think is amazing is that Fidesz continues with the same tickle-cock as it does with regard to the issue of migration, so it has no clear position. I would expect the current government of Hungary to expect that if a foreign force field, such as, say, a multi-company network from another continent, a state, anyone who wants to force himself into the European Union's economic space, demands rights for himself, but does not actually assume obligations, then the current Hungarian government should simply tip over the board and say that it does not participate in such negotiations and makes it clear that it does not ratify something equivalent to economic occupation. And yes, we agree, since the Lisbon Treaty, there has not been such an important package in front of us, even if CETA can ultimately be perceived as a small brother of TTIP, and the package that endangers our whole GMO exemption, thus endangering our entire agriculture, our future and our life opportunities, while there are alternative dispute resolution procedures, arbitration courts before which multi-company lawsuits can sue nation states. Ridiculous, Orwell would be on his knees begging for the recipe, and you guys are even discussing it? ! [[13.10]] This bastard must be rejected as he is, and treason must speak of any ratification! And obviously, the fact that this is in CETA does not mean the end of the Hungarian nation state, even if they vote for this whole thing. But then comes the TTIP and then there are further solutions, where the question arises about what's behind them. So, manipulated by groups of lobbyists, the statements of various research institutions - you don't know who's behind them, you don't know what kind of GDP data they refer to. But I am very pleased to hear from my fellow Member Bencsik that the expectations of negative GDP figures have also been published here, in Hungarian, that the European space to which they would force all this will not only be good, it will be positive in economic terms, but it can also cause damage. It is very talkative for me that the German Minister for Economic Affairs is supporting TTIP at the moment, and, obviously, therefore, it will also support CETA, and we have heard similar opinions from France. So many of the central Member States not only support this series of economic assassinations, but it is clear that it is also sanctioned. Hungary could now lay down with a strong stand, prevent this process, at least partially and temporarily. But what we see is that they are acting about the same way as on the issue of migration, where five Fidesz Members at the Council of Europe have not expressed their opposition to a quota decision, where your EU Commissioner has not struck the table in a consensus decision and has not expressed opposition to the criminal millions due to the irregular migrants, and they have signed at all, sanctioned a closing document on the implementation of the mandatory distribution mechanism and are now organising a referendum against it. It's like the part of South Park where Cartman travels back to the founding fathers, and he finds that the ancient American strategy is to start a war, but let's get rid of it. They are doing the same thing on this issue, and I am afraid that in a much more dangerous area, in the context of CETA and TTIP, your double game will bring Hungary into this series of economic assassinations and vortex, and we cannot let that happen. In itself, what is being done here is contrary to the anti-law parliamentary decision that you adopted earlier - so how serious can you be if your own decisions are simply overwritten by the pressure of the external client? The thing is, it's submission. So anyone who accepts this is making a submission that is unacceptable for a sovereign nation state, and since the time of the Lisbon Treaty, we feel that there has not been much change. So you're here rhetorically proclaiming revolution, economic freedom struggle, the NER is created, you're campaigning with a single-digit sja, everything else, but the thing is, when the external client snaps a snap and you have to ratify either the Lisbon Treaty or CETA or the TTIP later, then you're jumping, and there's no single Fidesz stand, there's no single KDNP stand on what you think about it. So I say: to me, some of my fellow Member Bencsik's speeches are close, and I am clearly in favour of the fact that anything else can be imagined in a regulated system. What I cannot accept, however, is that in this House, in relation to CETA or even later in TTIP, anyone should defend and fear free trade. What does this have to do with free trade? The fact that multinational companies can attack nation states before elected courts? Let's say, if you do not carry out investments or do not allow such investments as the cyanide gold mine investment in Verespatak and, where appropriate, do you not undertake to raise the public's environmental and health concerns about this, in such cases, multi-enterprises may sue states? What does free trade have to do with all this? Genetically modified garbage to flood Europe, including Hungary. What does free trade have to do with this? If you bring in the genetically modified ingredients in the form you want, the Hungarian GMO-free economy will be destroyed. Over and out. So the species and agents that clearly make it impossible to retain Hungary's strategic agricultural benefits will be infected. And it is in itself that these issues will have to be discussed in favour of a reverse burden of proof, so before the chosen courts, by suing nation states, and then the nation state, Hungary, must prove that the product in question is really harmful to health, that the investment in question is really harmful to the environment, while, let us say, the investment in Verespatak will be concerned. So it is absolutely amazing to open any kind of sanctification loophole in this direction, and, yes, in terms of the volume of trade between Hungary and Canada, we are talking 0.2 percent. So I ask you: what is Hungary's interest in sanctioning, ratifying either CETA or TTIP? I want you to list three reasons why this whole madness is eligible, apart from the fact that you've been ordered from abroad. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-09-27-81	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We now have a speech from President Richard Hörcsik, the Committee on European Affairs. Mr. President, you have the floor.
u2016-09-27-82	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Dear fellow Members, The Parliament's agenda often includes proposals with an EU dimension, proposals for laws and decisions, international treaties. However, I believe that the item on the European Union's agenda that we are discussing is special, since the task is not to transpose an adopted EU directive into Hungarian law. No, but the Parliament must decide whether it agrees with the signing by the government of a comprehensive agreement between the European Union and its Member States, on the one hand, and Canada, on the other. This type of parliamentary decision is rarely taken, since the representative of the government can usually sign an international treaty without prior agreement from the legislative body. I note to my fellow Members that, some five years ago, in the case of the so-called fiscal pact, the Parliament supported the Government's proposal to sign this agreement. Ladies and gentlemen, In this case, the government, quite rightly, is asking for the mandate of Parliament to sign the overall economic and trade agreement between the EU and Canada at the summit on 27 October. I believe that the government is doing the right thing, and that is indeed its duty, because it is doing all this in the spirit of - I remind my fellow Members - that in the last spring the Parliament adopted the Parliament's resolution of 11/2016 on the requirements for the EU's trade and investment agreement, memorablely raising the proposal of my fellow Member András Schiffer, including the CETA, and binding it on ratification of the provisional entry into force of such agreements. I would like to note that the European Commission originally drafted CETA as a non-mixed convention, and President Juncker announced at the July European Council that, in view of the international situation that has emerged within the European Union, he intends to propose that the Convention should be concluded by the EU and Canada. The Heads of State or Government are also very strong Member States, and I would like to mention, in the light of the Hungarian needs, the European Commission finally amended its previous decision and presented CETA to the Council as a mixed agreement. In addition to the EU, Member States will be Contracting Parties and, in addition to the consent of the Council and the European Parliament, ratification by the national Parliament of all EU Member States will be required. So practically the Parliament's demand for this is fully met, and, yes, the government is doing the right thing by bringing this resolution proposal to Parliament, asking for its opinion and doing its job in Brussels on this basis. Ladies and gentlemen, Let us briefly say a few words about the major international treaty that this House is currently discussing - and all sides in Parliament agree on this. It has been said many times that this is an agreement of a comprehensive nature, which, if I count it correctly, together with 15 annexes, is more than 1600 pages. [[13.20]] Point 2 of the resolution proposal before us assumes that we know the text of the agreement, because it should be made in the light of the content of the agreement, but let us put our hands on our hearts, honourable Members, yet it is suspected that few have read this epic text through. However, we must make a responsible decision, the effects of which will extend far. Ladies and gentlemen, Everyone knows that we are after the Brexit, that is, as a result of the British referendum in June, the United Kingdom will sooner or later leave the European Union. This is a very serious break in European integration. Perhaps I could compare it to what was a positive expansion in 2004, and this is the first big break in the life of the European Union after the 2004 enlargement. And it does not matter at all what further steps the Member States, the EU institutions, will take to keep the Union together. It was also said that at the Bratislava summit held a week and a half ago there was a consensus on a number of issues between the 27th. Each state leader has declared that his country still wants to be a member of the European Union. Then it was agreed that, first and foremost, positive messages should be sent to citizens in order to strengthen this. This means that the Bratislava Declaration also states that, although one country has decided to leave, the EU remains indispensable for the other Member States. It is clear that signing the comprehensive agreement between the EU and Canada at the summit on 27 October would be a serious and positive message for the EU's partners and the future of the Union. Ladies and gentlemen, At yesterday's press conference, Minister for Foreign Affairs and Trade Péter Szijjártó considered it appropriate to talk about free trade agreements, and I quote: "The EU is able to build its external relations during one of the worst crises in its history, since it is important that it does not lose its ability to acquire external partners in a challenging period. From the point of view of the Hungarian national economy, it is in our interest to ensure that international trade is as accessible as possible. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. On the basis of the Commission's decision, the Canadian Free Trade Agreement is of a mixed nature, i.e. must be signed by all representatives of the government of the Member States in addition to the representative of the Union. And the failure to sign for any reason would obviously negatively affect and undermine the twenty countries with whom the Union is currently negotiating a different free trade agreement. Ladies and gentlemen, The Canadian agreement is not a Trojan horse. In my opinion, it cannot be seen as the forerunner of an agreement with the US at a negotiating stage. However, we also need to see that the Canadian agreement contains positive innovations, as requested by the EU Member States. For example, the interests of the Hungarian party have been taken into account in several places. And as a novelty, a permanent investment court would be set up, which would sound like an investment court system. The judges shall be selected and approved by the Contracting Parties, with no role for investors in this process. The court also contains an appeal forum, which also consists of permanent judges selected by the Contracting States. The selection and approval procedures of the judges will be drawn up in detail later, which I believe should also be given special attention from the Hungarian part. Ladies and gentlemen, Finally, a few words on the provisional application of the Canadian agreement, namely why this is necessary. As a mixed agreement, all Member States' parliaments and in some countries regional chambers must ratify the treaty. Experts also share that this could go on for years. I am just reminding my fellow Members that the ratification of the South Korean Free Trade Convention took more than four years. Pursuant to Article 30 of the Canadian Agreement, the Convention can therefore be applied provisionally if the European Parliament approves it. And only then can the ratification of the Member States begin. In this regard, I would also like to point out that the provisions relating to the permanent investment court may not be applied after signature, but only after ratification. I would ask my fellow Members to consider the decision in the light of the interests of the Hungarian economy, the current situation of the European Union and its future trade relations, both pró and v., which gives the government the right room for manoeuvre. And finally, I would like to conclude by saying that, yes, this is an important forum, so to speak, the Hungarian Parliament, which negotiates, gives the government the authority to sign or not to sign. This is extremely important for the people to be able to control and carry out what they want through the Members of Parliament. And here I would finally like to say that wherever this agreement goes, the Hungarian national interests will in any case dictate it, and I would ask my fellow Members to consider their decision. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-09-27-83	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Mr Róbert Sallai Benedek, the LMP Group, has submitted a speech. I give you the floor.
u2016-09-27-84	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I just didn't know how clear the first 15 minutes were, and I thought I'd ask for a little more space if you don't think I'm wasting your time. There's just a lot of things I thought I'd say during the debate. First of all, I would like to say that our position, my position, is not anti-trade. It is not what has been said here by President Hörchik or anything like that that we would object to the commercial system. Free trade itself is bad; it is the kind of trade that reduces Hungary's economic protection. Go to a typical Canadian product: Husqvarna garden machines or saws. At the moment, it is now available in every small settlement in Hungary. What's better if we tie the CETA? How does it get easier? What are the benefits of placing any Canadian product on the market in Hungary? At the moment, specific trade rules allow Canadian products to enter the territory of the Union, including Hungary. Free trade is about breaking down barriers and breaking down conditions. When I argue here and I talk for a long time about why, I don't know, the Free Trade Agreement was conceived in sin and is fundamentally wrong, it is because the trade that risks the situation of Hungarian producers, traders and the economy cannot be good. Trade is needed in ways that improve people's lives. The kind of attitude that basically takes economic aspects into account again, and President Richard Hörcsik has said several of these in his speech, I think it is risky. He asked us to make our decision in the light of the interests of the Hungarian economy and the current situation of the EU. That's what I'm talking about. The kind of free trade direction that has put the European Union and the world in this position has led to this. CETA and TTIP are a continuation of this. Technically, we're rushing towards a total global collapse with the speed of a fast train, and these free trade agreements are promoting this. Trade is needed and we should bring in products that are produced better, cheaper, in a way that is not possible in Hungary. But - and here comes the reason why it can only be an interesting conversation with my fellow Member Bencsik again - he specifically mentioned the name of maple syrup, that no one in Hungary is producing, and in principle it should not endanger the product. The problem is, yes. Basically now, when a bunch of small farmers, gardening sectors like raspberry producers are losing, you can risk it. If something is produced cheaper with mass products and large production tools, and the Canadian maple syrup appears on the Hungarian shelves, and there will be the triple priced Hungarian raspberry syrup or any other similar product, then it can indeed cause a market disadvantage. [[13.30]] This is called vicarious species in ecology, when similar ecological gaps, such compartments are filled with the same role, adapted to good landscape management and adapted to the good local economy. Our aim is to try to bring the products produced by Hungarian producers to market benefits, not Canadian or North American. Although I would like to add that I wanted to respond specifically only because of maple syrup, because it is easy for me to share my fellow Member's opinion in the vast majority of what he has said, because he presents a lot of risks that we have, and I believe it is necessary here to persuade all five MEPs who are present, pardon, seven pro-government Members, to make their views known. [[Zsolt Németh: Single LMP.]] As a single LMP, but we have 20 percent of the faction here, Mr President, which cannot be said about Fidesz-KDNP, we have 20 percent of the faction present, sorry, 40 percent with the notary. [[He looks up to István Ikotity, who sits on the notary seat.]] Together. So I'd like to continue to convince you why it's wrong. Tufts - I'm sorry, I can't say many consonants in a row - the Tufts University from Boston is a prestigious university organization that has been operating since 1852, and its interest in Hungary is that in 2002 Prime Minister Viktor Orbán was inaugurated here. The ranking of American universities is among the most prestigious 60 universities, and the first independent research that could be read - now known as this data - was born here in relation to CETA. Specifically, this research says that 200,000 jobs would be lost in the EU in the ratification of CETA. 200,000 jobs! The wages would be reduced by EUR 316-1331. This is funny, isn't it, because when we say that wages would be reduced by EUR 1331, that means that the vast majority of Hungarian producers were earning minus, so they would probably have to pay if they were reduced by that, because unfortunately, Hungarian workers are not making that much money at the moment. Government revenues will decrease. In principle, the free trade system could reduce not only the revenue from customs, trade and general circulation, but also the additional additional commercial revenues. Therefore, less resources can be used to carry out public tasks. And basically, although I, frankly, do not care what kind of indicators GDP shows, because I do not care what the quality of life of citizens is like in general, but for those who care, I say that it would fall by 0.49 percent in the European Union after the introduction of CETA. This is basically research based on the UN global policy model, and it is clear that arguments for common sense and trade and economic considerations cannot appear in any form. So the allegations that say that it will make it better to be a citizen of the European Union are not true. And let me give you two more specific examples, but there could be three. Basically, it took place in Hungary just two weeks ago when Minister Sándor Fazekas said a week ago that everything was very good in agriculture, and two weeks ago he said that everything was very good in milk production, and that he defended the dairy sector, that he had now fixed it, he fought it out in the EU to provide additional support. Compared to this, one day's news is that Hungarian milk producers are preparing for the biggest movement so far. Obviously this problem is known to all of them, they cannot sell raw milk at practically market prices and cost prices in Hungary; unfortunately, despite all the government's promises, the manufacturing industry has not built up in the last six years to create a higher value added milk production culture and try to sell cheese, cottage cheese and other dairy products, so the sector is in a very, very bad situation. At the moment, the Hungarian government cannot protect Hungarian producers from Polish and Slovak producers. At the moment, trade opportunities in the EU impose conditions that cannot be met. Now, here are the specific figures from CETA: in terms of pigmeat, it provides for the abolition of customs duties in the framework of CETA 75 thousand tonnes of pigmeat. 75,000 tons! I don't think it's enough, but forgive me, as an opposition representative, it's my job not to think enough of what the government has done for the Hungarian pig sector, but at least it's done something. In recent years, your government has tried to restore Hungarian pig production with more efforts. They tried to do so by reducing the VAT and by using sectoral subsidies. At present, the cost of producing pigmeat in the Canadian region is 60 percent lower than anywhere in the EU. And we're letting 75,000 tons in without customs duties. How will this affect your efforts to do so last year? Well, it's obviously collapsing! Well, you can't compete with him, you can't compete with him, and not because you don't want to, but because it's impossible! But I say the same thing about beef. There, I do not know how this figure came out during the negotiations: it is 45 840 tonnes of beef that Canadian producers would be authorised to import without a customs duty. Obviously, in relation to the production of bovine meat, there is a lot of weight to be done here in the Hungarian agriculture, but basically all these figures show that these represent a crazy risk which is supported by the research of this difficult-to-speak university in relation to the risks related to Hungarian jobs and agriculture. And we are still at the same point as my fellow Member, Mr Dániel Z. Carpathian, saying that, in all of this, if there is any great injustice to us, unlike what President Hörchik said, there is still a lot of risk involved in the agreement. Instead of independent judges, it is possible to consider whether or not the judges interested in profit production are present, but I believe that the investment court system is not only a matter of giving Canadian producers special rights contrary to domestic law, but in practice discriminatory ways. At the moment, it still includes the possibility of bringing out court proceedings against EU companies from the system of European law, giving the European Court of Justice a higher jurisdiction. It's a risk you shouldn't take again. President Zsolt Németh said that there is no risk of him not signing it - he argued. I think these are the risks that can't be taken and shouldn't be allowed. If we look only specifically at the factual figures that pose a fundamental threat to Hungarian producers, the Hungarian economy, the Hungarian local small and medium-sized enterprises, they are all in themselves to the extent that we must have reservations about whether this is acceptable or not. For all these reasons, I think it is very important that the position of "Maybe Other" Politics should not seem like an isolated, extreme position, which is an orthodox way of defending the idea of sustainability or the idea of eco-political policy, because that is not the case at all. This flag was once carried by you: this is the idea of thinking in the nation, the idea of thinking in the nation state, in which, at the moment, we must clearly perform the task of supporting the national interests, which are clearly about the possibility that Hungarian producers with other Hungarian producers who are trying to produce the same legal conditions, with the same natural resources backlog, will be the backbone of the Hungarian economy. I think that the kind of system that the diversified creation of small and medium-sized enterprises in the Hungarian countryside can create the only economic stability, so that all these goods remain in place, and that each forint produced will not enrich the citizens of another country one way or another, but divide these resources here and thus serve the rise of society as a whole. Accordingly, disproved paragraph 1 of the Parliamentary Decision - which is about the fact that Article 11/2016 states that the Parliamentary Decision does not constitute State aid within the meaning of Article 107 (1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. This would be in line with the parliamentary decision, because I do not think it is - I ask my fellow members of the Government, with full respect, that when we reach point 2, and, in the light of the content of the agreement, the Parliament agrees that the Government will sign the agreement or disagree with it, then as many as possible, who dare to accept that they do not agree and dare to take the decision that there is still the potential that can contribute to Hungary's rise and contribute to a better social life in Hungarian citizens, in Hungarian rural communities and in Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprises. And this obviously requires trade in the long term, we need to trade with our neighbours, trade with other continents, take advantage of the world's potential, but not without limits, not with free trade agreements, but in the interests of the nation. I ask you with all due respect. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2016-09-27-85	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Mr Gyöngyösi, Member of the Jobbik Group, also asked for the floor in a normal time frame. You have the floor.
u2016-09-27-86	Thank you very much, Mr. President. And to eliminate the fears, I will not take the full 15 minutes, I would just like to do two brief reactions, which may be a kind of extended two-minute speech. I would like to address my first reaction to my fellow Member, Richard Hörcsik, who, with a serious and dramatic tone, called on us to make a responsible decision, and, yes, only after reading the robust facts on these issues. [[13.40]] I believe that my fellow Member and his faction have a bad conscience after they usually decide that they do not read this material. Even though I believe that you can read thousands of pages in English in two days, I would like to remind you that, as I know, those sitting across from me and sitting here on 17 December 2007, everyone pressed the yes button, it was a Monday on which the Lisbon Treaty was decided to be signed on Friday in Brussels, or, as you said, an epic treaty. And here, a few days later, the Hungarian Parliament approved this. This is Hungary and your shame. This, which we are voting on, does not less affect the fate of Hungary and the fate of our entire civilization or the fate of our entire continent, just to expand the horizon a little bit, and to make the argument appropriate to Zsolt Németh, so it is a much more important issue here. This is not just about the national state framework, it is about a civilisation framework, so I can only encourage everyone to read this Treaty and think about the processes that my fellow Members have talked about for a long time. I would like to add my second comment and reaction to the opinion of Szabolcs Szabó, who has already left, and to Zsolt Németh, who supported one another in their position. I would like to put an end to a misunderstanding that concerns our perception or the perception of the people opposed to CETA. We know very well that Hungary is a small and open economy and that we cannot avoid Hungary being connected to the outside world. We do not want to shut down and shut down Hungary from any global process. That's not what's driving us. And that is not how the question is put, I add. So the question is not whether Hungary should join the global world order or the world order as an open economy at all, and the question is where, how and under what conditions we join this global world order. I am convinced that we have given the wrong answer to this question in the last 26 years. Because the whole economic policy, which was decided here in Hungary, surprisingly across governments, served to bring Hungary into this global production value chain at the lowest possible level. And that's the wrong strategy, and the problem is that we should break up with this, and now we should also have the opportunity. At a low level, we are entering this global economic competition with low added value. And we are surprised at the consequences of this bad economic policy: that we do not require taxes, that we give state subsidies for billions of Hungarian taxpayers' money, and that the Hungarian Prime Minister campaign abroad that the Hungarian workforce is well-trained, but cheap, and that the labour code is sufficiently flexible. And I think I've literally quoted Viktor Orbán from a trip to Saudi Arabia. And we are surprised that 500 000 Hungarian compatriots have fled Hungary under these conditions since we got on the train of the European Union and the great global economic order. There are successful recipes in the world, but what Hungary is carrying out is not. And I am convinced that this kind of economic concept must first be put in order and then answered what type of trade is passable for this type of economic structure. I am convinced that I fully agree with my fellow Member, János Bencsik, who said that this could not be a free trade, but a regulated trading system under control. But first, we have to do our homework: after 26 years, the Hungarian economy must be put back on a course so that Hungary does not become the assembly plant of multinational companies around the world, where the well-trained Hungarian workforce assembles the gadget's gadget - fully exposed to these companies, which, by the way, I note, strategic partnership here or there, will leave this country at the first possible opportunity if the neighbouring country offers them better conditions. Mr Lasa State Secretary, Jabil Circuit Limited's blessed activity here in Hungary, which is now moving from Tiszaújváros at the first opportunity, as he realized that Ukraine has even lower taxes and even cheaper labour. This is a bad strategy, we must get off this track and create a new economic concept in Hungary. We need to look at how tax-paying money can be invested in education, research and development with high expertise, involvement in this global production value chain at a higher added value level, and then we can talk about the conditions and how to join trade policy at a global level. Until then, however, Hungary is only interested in a well-controlled and limited trade. I would like to add a little more to the arguments that have been made here, and continue to ask you to reject this Treaty when the Hungarian Parliament can vote on it. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2016-09-27-87	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We now have two-minute speeches. I would like to remind you that one representative may speak in this round per faction. In a two-minute timeframe, I give the floor to Mr János Bencsik, Fidesz Group.
u2016-09-27-88	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would like to reassure my colleague in Gyöngyös that I was sitting in this Chamber in 2007 during the vote of the Lisbon Treaty. I did not support this major contract. The past nine years convinced me that I had made the right decision then. That is why I drew a parallel between the Lisbon Treaty and the importance of the Great International Free Trade Convention currently under negotiation. I accept that it is possible to replace the maple syrup of Canadians with raspberry syrup or raspberry syrup, but if we try to cooperate in a regulated trade framework, we must also allow and compromise. I think that this would be a viable compromise for maple syrup to come, but not for a huge amount of pork and beef, which fundamentally affects the functioning of sectors, important agricultural sectors and food production sectors where the Hungarian labour force, the Hungarian labour force employed by Hungarian owned companies, still has a significant number of Hungarian workers, thank God, present. As regards the distinction between the various multinational companies, it is very important that we do so. I agree that companies performing assembly activities contribute relatively little value added not only to the revenues of the Hungarian budget, even to the local tax revenues of local authorities, and they cannot provide wages in the field of employment that can provide a decent living for the employee. However, there are transnational multinational companies producing end products in Hungary that are able to do this, and they also bring development, including engineering activities. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] they produce very high added value end products. This is important to make clear. [[Applause in the benches of Fidesz.]]
u2016-09-27-89	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Mr Dániel Z. Carpathian, Jobbik Group.
u2016-09-27-90	Mr President, Dear House, I think it is important because it seems to be a substantive debate to ask some questions, for example, to my fellow Member Hörcsik, who strongly argued that we should allow the government free space here. I would like to hear three possible economic advantages from you or any of you that may arise in relation to CETA in relation to Hungary. I mean, you've given me such advantages. His fellow Member, Mr Bencsik, drew close to me, was already talking about real forecasts that would lead to a fall in GDP for the transfer of CETA and its economic effects. So we simply do not see the enormous economic expansion of this 0.2 per cent volume of trade between Hungary and Canada. [[13.50]] We do not see the multiplier effects that would make Hungary even have to talk to the negotiating partner about this, especially if there are multi-company lawsuits, especially if Hungary's GMO-freeness is threatened. At all: you can defend yourself by saying that we are something to an open economy, and I cannot fully identify with that, but you should be sweeping around our own house, since after the second quarter of the year, you will not receive a certificate with an increase in GDP of 1.8 per cent, after the pitifully weak seasonal effects of the second quarter. It is pathetic that a assembly plant has been allowed to be built from a country with such a good talent, and it is pathetic that it depends on the seasonal offer of German and other car manufacturers that Hungarian economic growth could be detected at all. So we could use our own resources to have our own room of manoeuvre. I do not think that we are dependent on CETA to simply lay our heads under the gallows at the cost of giving up the rest of our sovereignty. That's unacceptable. You can't give them their names. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2016-09-27-91	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The two-minute speeches are over. Mr Róbert Sallai asked for the floor in a normal time frame. You have the floor.
u2016-09-27-92	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. [[He's adjusting his microphone.]] I do not want to make a parliamentary issue of maple syrup by any means; I just remembered how much I have heard the Prime Minister on radio and in various places lately, as he introduces it, so that multiculturalism is also a scold word like the liberal word that has been made. If we encourage Hungarian consumers to eat maple syrup pancakes calmly, if we give them space, then I do not know how it reflects the protection of our cultural values. Without interfering with the introduction of maple syrup into Hungary at any level, I argue for only one long and persistently: this should take place within a regulated framework and always have the advantage of domestic products and those who maintain Hungarian jobs. There's only one thing I wanted to say, and I asked for the floor, but I was afraid I couldn't make it in two minutes. I'd like to give you a very interesting example. For all of them, the events on Verespatak are known. In Verespatak, a Canadian investor wanted to open a gold mine, despite all the local protests. After ten years, it was very difficult to reach Verespatak as a virtually A-category national monument, and it was added to the UNESCO World Heritage List. After the long haul, what happened? Aurul's big company has been dropped off, and the Romanian party is now, in effect, being charged with damages of $4 billion. Four billion dollars! This is the same dispute resolution mechanism as in CETA at the moment. This is now a unique isolated case, and if it wins, Romanian taxpayers will have to pay for the lost benefits of this Canadian company. CETA opens up this possibility and makes this procedure general if there is a lack of use for some reason. I thought that I would draw your attention to this, because I feel that, if I may not be able to convince my fellow Members, President Németh might think about this if he was in a meeting with the Joint Committee. You can think about that, if I can't convince you, because, as I said, I appreciate your talents and abilities regarding foreign policy. I respect your opinion on trade, but what affects the world as a symbol of free trade and has become a dowry of the last hundred years in the world, I do not think that too many people consider it a positive development. In the direction of the world, it is now necessary to draw a handbrake, to stop it, and to reflect on the world order in which national states, citizens of nation states, can try to live a more peaceful, better life by trying to provide an opportunity to do so in their homeland. I firmly believe that the system of free trade agreements is contrary to this principle and, in some respects, it is also a bit contrary to other Fidesz communications. So I am asking you to continue and to stress that you should consider and, as far as possible, vote 'no' in the decision. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2016-09-27-93	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I will ask if anyone else wishes to speak on the agenda. [[For signal:]] Yes, Congressman Tibor Bana, Jobbik Group. You have the floor.
u2016-09-27-94	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, In short, I would like to add to what I said in my speech as a keynote speaker, and I would like to continue with the line of thought that strengthens Jobbik's position that CETA is indeed a Trojan horse, and that we should talk about the forerunner of TTIP when we discuss the EU-Canada Free Trade Agreement. I therefore disagree with either the opinion of Commission President Richard Hörcsik or with the pro-government speeches which have taken the opposite position. Basically, these conventions are identical, and the very rejected courts, the dispute settlement mechanism, can be found here as well. From this point of view, it is irrelevant that we are talking about ISDS or ICS, the outcome of the process will in any case be negative for the nation states. It is enough to refer to the issue of genetically modified plants, or to the possibility of amending food safety regulations, and, of course, to reduce their effectiveness. Mr Sallai R. Benedek quoted this part of CETA very precisely. So when we are debating the EU-Canada Free Trade Agreement in Parliament, this cannot be separated from a similar treaty with the United States of America, which means that TTIP must also be there. What I would like to highlight, I did this recently, two weeks ago, in the framework of an interpellation, is that, whether in the case of CETA or TTIP, the government is always saying here in Parliament and in other forums that we must sit in the negotiations, we must participate in this process, we must shape the treaty in accordance with Hungarian interests, and then we will be able to state our position and our attitude after that. This is a false argument and I find this worrying because in many cases we have seen an example of international treaties, that the same government communication was during the Fidesz governments, but also during the socialist-free Democratic government, and yet the result was that there were several points that conflicted with Hungarian national interests and were contrary, but the vote or signature arrived from the government side. In the case of CETA, as already mentioned, we can indeed talk about a finished text. Therefore, we should clearly state to the government that we are also in our opinion and our position on this matter. Unfortunately, things are pointing from the Fidesz side either on the basis of the votes of their MEPs or on the official opinion of the European People's Party that, yes, they will support both the EU-Canada and the EU-US Free Trade Agreement. But then let me make one more important argument against why we couldn't take the so-called risk of saying that we wouldn't sign it. I think that we can see the opposite of communication on the issue of migration from the government's side. Prime Minister Viktor Orbán constantly claims that Hungary is a pioneer in the European Union, although we have reservations on certain points in this case, of course, only this is another agenda, but in this case we have others on our side. [[In the notary seat István Ikotity is replaced by István Szávay.]] So why should Hungary not be at the forefront in this regard? In view of the fact that protests are indeed strengthening in even larger Western European countries, there are moves towards these free trade agreements, I do believe that this should be taken up, just because we should not be considering it when it comes to the enforcement of our own national interests and the sovereignty of the country. So these are the aspects I would recommend to the Secretary of State and the Government. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2016-09-27-95	Thank you very much, Congressman. A two-minute speech has been submitted by Member Richard Hörcsik, Fidesz Group. I give you the floor.
u2016-09-27-96	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that, with regard to the criticisms of Fidesz, there is a place in Parliament where it is worth discussing the validity of CETA in this case and in this case. If there is a place, it is the Hungarian Parliament, and it is natural that before the government is signed we, the representatives elected by the people, will discuss it. [[14.00]] Well, from the point of view of history, I would like to give a brief answer to my fellow Member, Mr Gyöngyösi. He has often accused us, Fidesz and KDNP, of signing and ratifying the Lisbon Treaty without reading. Well, I was among the Members who did this, but if I remember not, then before 2004, as opposition representatives in the Committee on European Affairs at the time, we discussed the Lisbon Treaty several times, even as a draft, which started as a Constitution, but eventually became a treaty; not to mention that at our committee meeting we discussed almost a dozen times what was said in the European Convention and our amendments, such as my fellow Member József Szájer reported on this work several times. It is not true, therefore, that Members - perhaps the vast majority of them - have voted in full ignorance of the Lisbon Treaty; I have been among the few Members who - although I have not read the 3526 pages - have reviewed the essential parts of their extracts several times. And all I have time left to say to Vice-President Bana is that CETA is not the same, it is not equal and it is not the forerunner of TTIP, and no chapter of TTIP is closed while CETA is already ready. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-09-27-97	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, As I do not see any further speakers on the monitor, the general debate is closed. I will ask Mr Mikola István State Secretary if he wishes to respond to what has been said. [[On Dr. István Mikola's signal:]] Yeah. I give you the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2016-09-27-98	Mr President, Dear Parliament, I would like to thank you for the debate, there have been a lot of valuable points that the government will, of course, consider in the coming days - because there are days left until 27 October when the Canadian and European parties are planning to sign. I would also like to mention a few things here, in the general debate in Parliament. We have entered the European Union, today Europe has 37 - 37 - 37 - free trade agreements in the European Union, which are in force and 20 free trade agreements are being negotiated between the European Union and other countries and other groups of countries. A total of 57 free trade agreements would be one of the CETA that is currently under discussion. I would like to say that there are four countries that have reservations about further negotiations: Austria, Belgium, Slovenia and Hungary. In particular, we object to the dispute resolution mechanism, and we continue to take the view that the European Member States have already complied with the so-called like-mindness framework at the time of entry, which means that they have an independent legal system that is suitable for the assessment of international disputes. There are two countries that are holding a position today: Romania and Bulgaria, they are abstaining because they still have not received the visa waiver from Canada, and it is indeed strange to have a free trade agreement in operation where two signatory countries cannot enter the area where they are trying to win markets with a visa. I would like to point out what Congressman Zsolt Németh said. Indeed, there is a belief that TTIP is dead, there are views on this, and if a good CETA is born, this could actually represent such a demander situation in the subsequent TTIP negotiations. TTIP negotiations are completely off the agenda, if they continue at all, only after the US presidential elections and the US Congress's decision to accept the Pacific Free Trade Agreement. This is certainly a matter of years, if not decades, even if the negotiations continue. I would like to point out that, of course, it is not a small matter when we talk about free trade agreements, especially with regard to TTIP, but this is another dimension, since the United States and Europe together hold 44 percent of world GDP and 32-34 percent of world trade. Europe is also the strongest in this, Europe is today the strongest economy, and even the US has a surplus of EUR 10 billion a year! - he's in the trade. So the European Union is indeed negotiating from a very strong position, and it is clear that it has also demonstrated this clearly in the TTIP negotiations. We think - and I would like to be clear here - that a well-educated, well negotiated agreement with CETA, the Hungarian Government would like to support CETA and support its signature, not only because we are an open, export-driven economy, but also because we have conducted very broad social consultations, I have negotiated with 86 organisations whose views I cannot describe here, but among which there were many, and most of them that see opportunities in free trade agreements in general. And here I would like to highlight one element from this: especially young people, startups and small and medium-sized enterprises see a fantasy in the new market, and thus also in winning the Canadian market. [[Sándor Lezsák, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] But I would like to stress that it has been felt throughout the negotiations that Canada is not the United States. We have very good relations with Canada, we have very good relations in many areas, a very different world than the United States, and we have seen a very different dimension of the negotiation itself, the CETA in the process. [[László Földi is replaced by Attila Gelencsér in the notary seat.]] GMO is not in danger, I would not be able to go into these professional issues right now, the GMO is not at all in danger, and I would also like to mention that biotechnology is not the same as GMOs, the two are not synonymous with each other, but this could, of course, be the subject of further debate, but that is why Parliament's committees have these debates that are obviously possible there. What benefits can be expected - how do we see this - from the possible approval of CETA? In particular, we see the improvement of Hungarian export opportunities in this regard, the promotion of Hungarian businesses, and in this particular I highlight the validation of knowledge capital on the Canadian market. We did sit down with Ustream, Prezi, with a lot of innovative startups waiting to get into these markets, whether it's Canada or the United States. We also see, and during the negotiations, it has been constantly felt that the emerging economy, the emerging world, is beginning to accumulate enormous economic potential in its ranks, we need to put on the glove, and we also have to pay attention to this, because, if we look at it, I do not want to go into the details of this now, but let us look at the BRICS countries or 77 who opened the front against the developed world in Kyoto, then I must say that Europe must really pay attention to the fact that, alongside us, there are emerging economies that we cannot face a competitive disadvantage, we must be in competition somewhere. I would perhaps even like to say that there were demonstrations yesterday, someone mentioned that there were demonstrations. I was in Brussels, too, when we had difficulty getting into the courtrooms, because there were thousands of people there, and there was a rather aggressive demonstration around the building. Yesterday, when Cecilia Malmström arrived, nine people - first seven, then two others - demonstrated to Parliament, and at the University of Economics, where I had the debate with her in open court, in front of students, and there was a group of young people, there were 10-15 of them. So by socialising the debates, or at least striving for it, Hungary is not living the violent situations that we see either in Germany or in France in the context of free trade negotiations, which is why it is not living today. The fact that there are differences in our ranks was obvious, we are a colorful camp, please - this is exciting for the world, and I do not think this is catastrophic. Debates and the tension between visions and opinions are certainly interesting, and ultimately it helps us to explore the dimensions that we may not have achieved so far. We do not see CETA as an economic occupation, the Hungarian government supports it, but of course it will only do so if the Hungarian Parliament authorizes it to do so if the Hungarian Parliament accepts it. And I would also like to emphasise once again that, of course, the ratification procedure will take place only after that, so it is now that on 27 October, but before that on 18 October, the Slovak Presidency's initiative, there will be a KüT meeting, a Trade Joint Committee meeting, and then on 27th, the countries will sit down, and if we receive the mandate from Parliament, we will sign the treaty, and if this is done, then the ratification procedure will begin, which may actually take years. We are bound by Parliament's decision on the temporary entry into force. The Parliament may also grant an exemption from this. That is why we have taken the liberty of bringing this proposal here. Once again, I would like to thank everyone for their active participation in the debate. It was very useful for us, we really consider it. Whether it comes from our side or from the opposition side, I have carefully noted, I will inform the Minister and, of course, all the forums responsible for being clear at the negotiating table on the 27th. Thank you very much, Mr President, for your attention. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]] [[14.10]]
u2016-09-27-99	Thank you very much, Secretary Mikola. Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Dear Parliament, There will be a general debate on the bill amending Act I of 2010 on the registration procedure until closure. Presentation by representatives Zsolt Semjén, Imre Vejkey, the Christian Democratic People's Party and Albert Gyopáros, Fidesz T/12067. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr Imre Vejkey, the rapporteur on the agenda, within a 30-minute time frame. Here you go.
u2016-09-27-100	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, As you know, many families are affected by regulations on the management and registration of two-member family names. Citizens whose family names are two members may request that their family names be entered in the register with or without hyphens. In accordance with their request, the registry authority is obliged to transfer the changes to the register. You should know, fellow Members, that apart from surnames and first names, there is also a particular category of names, a group of so-called pickling names, which is widely used in some parts of our country, and in many cases the wearers themselves use them not as a pick-up name, but as an official name, as they have already been registered in the register. These families are proud of those names because they are proud of the people they inherited those names from. However, under the current rules, it is not possible to correct two-member family names in the case of predatory names, only by submitting an application for a change of name to the Immigration and Nationality Office, which can only authorise them after the completion of an official procedure, subject to payment of a separate administrative service fee. The Constitutional Court has stated in several decisions concerning the use of names that registration is the primary task of the State when determining the rules for naming and changing names. With regard to the regulation of family names, the legislator has, in a sense, more room for manoeuvre, taking into account the expectations of the public interest. However, this should not be an obstacle to the development of legislation of a kind which would prevent the name of the predators previously registered in the register from being re-equipped. On the basis of the above, I ask you to support T/12067 on the amendment of Act I of 2010 on the Civil Registration Procedure. Bill No. 1. I also announce that KDNP's parliamentary faction supports it. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2016-09-27-101	Thank you, Congressman Vejkey. I'll ask if you'd like to speak on behalf of the government. [[For signal:]] Secretary of State says yes. You have the floor, Secretary of State Tibor Pogácsás.
u2016-09-27-102	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, The government basically supports this type of amendment to the civil status law, as it does allow for a much easier and simpler use and registration of the name of the predator. At the same time, the Government's view is that the amendment should be supplemented in such a way that only two members of the last name, together with the repulsive name, are allowed, and this kind of amendment should not constitute a legal basis for replacing the family name concerned with a repulsive name. With this addition, the government supports the proposal. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-09-27-103	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. First, I give the floor to Mr Alpár Gyopáros, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2016-09-27-104	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, The bill before us, as its general justification, provides a concession for the use of predatory names. If the Parliament supports the motion, it will be possible to make a predatory name registered in the register a multi-member family name if the intention is announced in writing by the applicant and the name of the predator in the ascending birth certificate can also be requested in writing. I would like to draw my fellow Members' attention to the fact that this seemingly technical or legal issue has much deeper cultural and identity aspects than many would think at first. The oldest type of Hungarian personal naming is called pagan secular naming. Several researchers mention that pagan names are related to predator names. The formation of a twofold naming meant the integration of secular and ecclesiastical naming into a special unity, since family names were mostly derived from the predatory name created by spontaneous naming, and the first names came from the names of persons of ecclesiastical origin. Thus, the role of the predator name is the XIV. It was extremely significant until the end of the century, since until then there were single-cell names that were distinguished from each other by predator names. Later, the name of the predator became more and more fixed, a last name, and the name of the 17th. It could have been solidized in its final function by the century. Later, the need for discrimination has been repeated over time, the reasons for the creation of new predatory names in the inducing effect of the growth of the same family and first names, and psychological reasons, in the tradition of the naming community, as we read in János Baukó's research on names. In our settlements and villages, the habit of being a predator is still alive. Ladies and gentlemen, On the basis of several requests from citizens, I can say, from my own experience, that the authority has also developed a custom, not now, but much earlier, which I personally do not consider to be the case, and on the contrary, that they do not allow the descendants to bear the previously registered names of prey. The motion tabled seeks to change this practice. A decision of the Constitutional Court of 2001 stated that the name law is a fundamental right derived from human dignity, that every person has an inalienable right to his own name expressing his identity and to bear it, and that that right cannot be limited by the State. However, other elements of the name law, in particular the name choice, the name change and the name change, may be limited constitutionally by the legislator. I note that it is also contrary to the fundamental right to human dignity if the state intervenes in private relations without reason. The Constitutional Court's decision also stated that the name of the person serves to distinguish him from another, and that the name can be a carrier of family relations, social status, sexuality and national affiliation. After the birth certificate, the person is entitled to this name, but is also obliged to wear it, because it is one of the determinants of his identity. We all know from our studies that the poet Attila József's childhood caused a mental breakdown, an identity crisis, when his foster parents discussed with the neighbors that the name Attila does not exist, and from then on he was called Pista. Even if the metaphor is a little strong, I am convinced that the Hungarian state cannot play the role of a peasant farmer in your younger brother. Ladies and gentlemen, In view of what has been said, I believe that the legislative proposal before us, with a clear sense of the responsibility of the legislator, will determine in the future the limitations on the use of name law, taking into account our historical traditions and the customs of smaller communities. Thus, the norm allows the holder of the name to distinguish from everyone else, so I ask you to support the proposal. Thank you for listening. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]] [[14.20]]
u2016-09-27-105	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to Congresswoman Anita Heringes, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group.
u2016-09-27-106	Thank you very much for the floor. Under the rules in force today, it is possible to correct the family name to settle the name previously entered in the register if the persons concerned do not have the right to pay the registered name. Zsolt Semjén and Alpár Gyopáros saw that it was not enough to settle the rules on distinguishing letters in the birth certificate, so the same provisions are necessary for the name of the predators. Alpár Gyopáros gave us beautiful thoughts on both historical and literary issues. It would be really good if not only the names of the families, but also the family itself, were protected so vehemently in every case, and not pushed into the position the other government measures have taken. We suspect that we can see a new point in personalised legislation here, because for some reason the government has not taken this bill in its name, but that we can see the motion of two Members. However, since the adoption of Act I of 2010, the new rules of the registration procedure have been amended several times by the Fidesz-KDNP Party Association, even before the entry into force. We understand that, most of the time, they try to submit these legislative amendments as a proposal by their own representatives, because then we do not need to carry out impact studies, and then we do not need to take the name of the government, we do not need to ask the Institute of Linguistics of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences about this, but it is much easier to pass such a proposal. However, we do not think that it is elegant and nice to present these as a motion by its own representatives, and in our opinion it is much better that the government amends these proposals - once all the laws are amended as often as it can - to carry out the impact assessments, to ask the profession, and at the end a uniform law can be formed, and not a law that has been dealt with and dealt with. The new rule is not even bound by the limitations of Zsolt Semjén and Alpár Gyopáros, which are now required by the birth law for distinguishing letters. Therefore, since the provision applies not only to those born before 1 January 1953, it may also be possible that, if you look at the exact text of the bill, you can register predatory names such as Mengyi-Voldemort Roland. I don't know if that's what you're proposing. That is why I can say that it would be much more elegant and more democratic if the government took these proposals in its name, and not to strengthen the practice of passing through Parliament as quickly as possible, let us say that the MTA is not able to say anything, rather than asking for impact assessments on these issues, but simply passing through these proposals. That is why I ask that this practice, if you can, be omitted. Thank you.
u2016-09-27-107	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. I now give the floor to Congressman Csaba Gyüre, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group.
u2016-09-27-108	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, When I saw this bill, I remembered a story I wanted to tell you here. I come from a village called Féleslite from Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg County, where this incident occurred. An outsider, not a villager, was looking for a man in the village, he went down the main street, went to an old lady, and said, "I'll give you a name," he's looking for István Kovács. She thinks, thinks, says I've lived here for seventy years, but István Kovács doesn't live on this street. Did they tell you he lives here? Yeah, he lives right down the street. Well, he certainly doesn't live here. The gentleman goes on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on, and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on Not because her memory was so bad that she forgot her husband's name, but because everyone in the village knew her husband, her family, and they called them that, so they called her, and she didn't remember her own wife when they called her husband by her proper name. So whether the name of the predator is relevant: it is obviously of great importance, and as it is mentioned in the proposal and its justification, in certain areas this is of much greater importance, and it is mainly the villages and rural settlements where the names of the predators are used to this day. And indeed, as the speakers before me have already mentioned, these reptilian names may have developed for hundreds of years, which are inherited, inherited, and indeed exist. However, whether to register them in the register, whether to accept these names in the register is a completely different question. And speaking of which, can we say exactly what it means to be a predatory name, this is precisely defined in Hungarian linguistics. I have tried to look into this, and I have come to the conclusion that there is no common position that would have developed in Hungary. How this turned out, I'd like to say a few words about this story that I've been looking into. The first mention of the predatory name was thus written in the linguistic journal published in 1872 in the Hungarian Linguistic Guardian. It was Áron Szilády, a linguist, who began to deal with predatory names. How did he put it, what does it mean to be a predator name? I, among the people, have also heard the nickname as a rabid name, and I confess that I do not consider it an inappropriate name. So he says that besides the nasty name, they also use the term repulsive name, and that it is a kind of variation of the nickname. He also notes that descendants inherit the ugly names of the ascendants, and that this may have been a mockery for the ascendant, but the granddaughter may already be proud of that name, and often even take over the role of the last name, notes Áron Szilády. That's what I was referring to. Then Lajos Lőrincze, the famous Hungarian linguist, addressed this issue. He already differentiates between the name of the predator and the nickname, but according to him, the difference cannot be determined in every form, so in every case the nickname cannot be separated from the name of the predator. He saw the solution in the need to collect, analyse and analyse these predatory names from all parts of Hungary, and based on their analysis, it would be possible to determine exactly what the concept of a predator name is. Later, Katalin Tóth, a name researcher, also took care to determine what is a predatory name. He defined a wider collection category with sub-groups. He says that there are sub-groups within the predator name that are distinctive names, nicknames, and nasty names. The name is usually given by children, so it comes from ridicule, and in many cases the name is also a nickname to the adult. By the way, researchers do a lot of this, and students also write a thesis on how the nasty name named at school will become a predatory name, or how it will stick to a family. So that's how Katalin Tóth grouped the predator names. After that, Ferenc Egyorgh, a linguist, dealt with this. He approached this in a different way: indifferent mood, he defined a captivating name, a compliment expressing recognition and kindness in the second group, and he defined mocking nicknames in the third group. Judit Balázs, a linguist, later says that we can consider any name element that is attached to the person named for some functional reason in the name use of a community as a predator; he says what the name is. According to Mihály Hajdú, the name element that people give each other, apart from the official first and last names and nicknames, with whatever purpose. So what we see is this is how we change the definition of a predator name as we go forward in time. CHAPTER XX At the end of the century, in the 1990s, Béla Kálmán, who is also a professor of linguistics, also defines, saying that the community is giving the individual, often against his will. I think the second turn here is very important, that you often give it to him against his will. CHAPTER XXI Kriszta Fehér's most recent wording on the subject in the century: the names of individuals from the speaking community were created by informal naming. So what we can see is that even to this day in Hungarian linguistics, there is still no precise definition of what the concept of a predatory name means. I think it would be more important, if necessary, to be fully aware of the concept first, to have a precise, exact wording, that would be necessary, and in that case, to discuss whether the name of the predator can be registered. [[14.30]] What's the reason? Everyone has already come up with some kind of reason why they're giving people some kind of predatory name. On the one hand, it can be for discrimination. Obviously, in a settlement, for example in our village, there were predatory names because in Féneslitke a quarter of the population was called Gyure, and on this basis there were distinctive words and distinguishing letters. After all, this is not a problem, and the current registrar rules also allow the distinguishing letter to distinguish between the same surnames before the last name, marked with a point, and on this basis they clearly know from which family one comes. So, on the one hand, discrimination is the cause of predatory names and, on the other, mockery. This is the form where it makes me wonder whether the name of the predator, which in any case highlights that in some respects it is an ugly name or a nickname, or a mockery, or a mockery of others, is the reason why it was given that it is really appropriate to enter it in the register. Especially when, and I'm sorry about everyone who's here, but I'm not gonna say it, in a lot of cases, these predator names aren't even presentable. I wouldn't want to take any examples from the village of what kind of predatory names have developed. I don't want to say this. Another question, of course, was that these were not introduced in the register, so they could not request that the name of the predator be entered either now or after that, since it was not in the registry of the ascendants, at least not in general, that kind of nickname was not registered as a predator name. So I would then ask whether this amendment is really necessary. Because if we want to distinguish someone, then the lettering clearly allows us to separate families according to the rules we have so far. On the other hand, in many cases, it's a nickname or a nasty name, and in this case, I think there's no place for it to be included in the register in any form. So it is doubtful to me whether the adoption of this bill is justified. I think it is impossible for us to decide on this subject here, who we are a layman at linguistic level, I do not know if there are linguists, professors of linguistics in Parliament, I do not think there are any, without asking their opinion. I don't think it's necessary to get into one of these. It is difficult to say that we are against it, because there is obviously no political upheaval in this, it is only a professional question whether this is necessary. I think that if we were able to convince us in an appropriate way in this debate, to overcome the doubts that I have expressed here in my speech, if these doubts were to be resolved by the authors, it would be acceptable. But at the moment, I think that staying is the right push for a button in this case on this bill. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Sallai R. Benedek applauds.]]
u2016-09-27-109	Thank you very much, Congressman. On behalf of the LMP Group, Mr Sallai R. Benedek gives the group's opinion.
u2016-09-27-110	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. If you'll allow me, I'll give you my own opinion. Sitting here, listening to the debate, I thought of two things. First of all, I would like to thank my fellow Member, Dr. Gyure, for the doctoral dissertation and an exhaustive literary review of the subject. It was very, very interesting to listen to this. Secondly, if I do not offend the author, it is always exemplary, with all due respect, how the KDNP looks at Hungary's main social problems and questions and what it brings to Parliament. There is obviously no reason to talk about Hungary's rural situation, what is happening to Hungarian roads, what will happen to Hungarian hospitals, how to improve education. So I wanted to commend this political insight. But to say more than just political criticism, at the same time, I have seen less risk than my better fellow Member. After all, I come from a place where every street has a Big, a Little, a Kovács, a Molnár, and it's perfectly natural that in an 8 to 10 thousand community, each of them used repulsive names. I've seen in the law that it only creates the opportunity for someone to record it. I spoke to a man in Túrkeve who was called "Twice" Kovács because his great-grandfather was a blacksmith, and so he remained in the family. He always remembers great-grandfather with love, so he uses it. But Tourkeveve has the. Szurtos. Molnár, who specifically asked for a local history publication not to mention what his name is, and he will certainly not answer it. Accordingly, there is no such risk. For the whole speech, however, I wanted to say one thing. If this initiative already exists, if KDNP now sees the biggest social problem that needs to be addressed, then one thing would have been very good. The 10 to 20 years ago... [[To intervene:]] My apologies, my apologies, apologies to my fellow Member, Alpár Gyopáros, a fidesz presentation. So the Fidesz people see this problem as such, and I'll correct it right away. There's only one thing I want to ask you. In Hungary, 20-25 years ago, there was a movement called the Homeland Knowledge Movement, and a large number of small communities, small settlements and their cultural institutions supported and supported local knowledge and home knowledge research. In Hungary, this has unfortunately been very, very low in the last ten years, partly by bleeding out the municipalities to receive a few tens of thousands of HUF grants from civil society organisations, they do not have much of a chance. Unfortunately, the National Civil Fund and national civil cooperation and these funding funds have been partly party paying places for some time, not now, at the time of your administration. It would be very good if you could find any resources in addition to the proposal to ensure that the kind of knowledge research that can reveal roots for strengthening local identity is a little supported again. I think that such use of resources at local level can strengthen the attachment of many people to the place, the attachment to local traditions and the roots of their family, so that such proposals can be put to practical use and put into practice; overall, I think they can be very helpful. Accordingly, this is what I wanted you to be aware of. By the way, I don't see anything wrong with it. As far as I know, our group will support this proposal, and we don't see any public security or social policy risks in it that I should have reservations about. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. [[Dr. Csaba Gyüre applauds.]]
u2016-09-27-111	Thank you. I give the floor to Mr Alpár Gyopáros, after he has not applied for an independent Member, he is not two minutes old, so there will be further speeches. You have a 15-minute time frame.
u2016-09-27-112	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would just like to reply very briefly, because I feel that my fellow opposition Members have not read the proposal. [[To intervene:]] Yeah, that's right. Because it is not a question of taking up predatory names in order to facilitate those who would like to do so. What you're talking about is a change of name. The change of name at the appropriate offices under the Ministry of Interior, with the appropriate restrictions, with the proper procedure... - so far and in the future, of course, it will be possible for anyone who wishes to do so. This is about the fact that it becomes a name already registered in the register, but it becomes a name that is currently recognised as a ripple name in accordance with the rules currently in force, for example when introducing it into the electronic register and from then on it becomes the right of that person. To be specific, I didn't do it nearly, despite Mrs Heringes' comment, a historical overview, now I'm doing a very short one, really just a very short one. Birth registration in Hungary at the XVI. It's been going on since the first century, church registration and state registration since 1890. From then on, a number of procedural provisions have been made on how the registry of civil status should be carried out by the state administrator. These weren't synchronized during this 130-year period. In other words, there were cases where the person with, say, two personal names, from which it may have been one of the predators, but then became a normal, worn property name; so the two property names of the person with the two own names were separated by hyphen, sometimes with a pause, they put the other in parentheses, sometimes put it between double points, sometimes put it in quotes, and so on. Under the rules currently in force, second names, family names previously registered, which have been distinguished by this distinction, should be regarded as "gold names'. We didn't make this up, it's 1982, and I can't tell you how many legislative decrees have been drawn up in the same way as the birth certificate. [[14.40]] So this procedure simply applies, and this becomes clear when a person is registered under his earlier name in the register, and meets with the fact that, for example, an electronic data uploading reveals that his father or grandfather was named by a predator under the rules currently in force, which was not, in fact, his own second surname, but was considered a predator name under the current rules. This is excluded by the existing legislation and this regulation is intended to be amended. So everything that Congressman Gyüre said, for example, I also listened with interest to his truly serious treatise on nicknames and predatory names, but this does not have anything to do with this law, nor does it have anything to do with this amendment proposal. So a person who simply wants to apply for a change of name could do so before, and can continue to do so, in another procedural order. This helps those whose current legislation does not allow them to bear the name they had previously worn in the way they might have worn for 30 to 40 years in their lifetime. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-09-27-113	Thank you very much. I'll give the floor to Congressman Csaba Gyure for two minutes.
u2016-09-27-114	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. I'd just like to respond to Alparos Gyopár... [[Defiance.]] - I'm sorry, I'm sorry-- the words of the Gyopárs Alpárs. On the one hand, I would like to reject those accusations, the Movement for Jobbik Hungary will never do anything here in Parliament to react to something without reading it. So I do not want to mention the Lisbon Treaty here, and it has been mentioned enough in the previous agenda that other parties do that; we do not have such a thing, of course we read it. In view of this, we will decide how to vote and, in the light of this, to state our arguments in the debate. It is true that this also applies to what you have been talking about, but in general, the general wording concerning the name of the predators in this text. So about predator names: in the past, they may have classified the normal last name as a predator name, there may have been a lot of such cases, but this bill does not define the text precisely to apply only to them, but instead uses the wording of the predator names. That's why I gave you the opinion that I said about this, and it's true what you said, that the old last names, which were considered a predator's name in the later law, have been deleted, they can be taken back, that's true. That's true, but every predator name that was in the register earlier in the case of the ascendants can also be taken back. I have expressed my doubts only about the fact that these may include nicknames, ugly names, or anything else, and I suppose that they were registered with them at the time, such as XVII, XVIII, XIX. In the 20th century, which, by the way, was already the 20th century. Obviously, they wouldn't have put me in it in the first century. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-09-27-115	Thank you, Congressman. I will ask if anyone else wishes to take the opportunity to speak. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. Dear Parliament, The general debate is closed and Mr Vejkey points out that he wishes to respond, on behalf of the rapporteurs, to what has been said in the debate.
u2016-09-27-116	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, I thank the government, the governing parties and the LMP for their support in the amendment of the law. For MSZP and Jobbik, who do not yet support the amendment of the law, I would like to give the following briefly. T/12067 amending Act I of 2010 on the Registration Procedure In essence, the proposal complements the concept of the correction of the family name in order to make the name previously registered in the register wearable again. With the above amendment, the law would still not automatically include the name of the predator as part of the family name, but the amendment makes a concession, as it allows the name of the pre-registered predator to be used on the basis of the declaration by the person concerned, according to his intention to do so. In the context of the amendment of the law, it is certainly worth creating the possibility of applying the amended provisions to pending cases and repeated procedures, as this creates better opportunities and rules for citizens than before. On this basis, I call on the honourable parliamentary parties to support the amendment of the law on the civil status procedure. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-09-27-117	Thank you, Congressman Vejkey. Dear Parliament, They will have the opportunity to submit amendments on Thursday at 4 p.m. Dear Parliament, There will be a general debate on the bill amending certain laws necessary for the establishment of a single electronic administration system until closure. Government referral T/12173. is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr Tibor Pogácsás, Minister of State of the Ministry of the Interior, the rapporteur of the item on the agenda, within a 30-minute time frame.
u2016-09-27-118	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, In 2015, the Parliament adopted the Act on Electronic Administration, the conditions for the enforcement of which will be ensured by central IT developments to the extent necessary to fulfil the obligations. The bill we are discussing now removes the remaining obstacles to compliance with this law in sectoral laws. The obligation of electronic administration will be binding on or introduced from 1 January 2018 on the basis of the legislation adopted last year, but can be launched from 1 January 2017 for bodies where the conditions are already in place. The e-Administration Act is a framework law that generally defines the manner in which individual bodies responsible for electronic administration must interact with each other and with customers in their electronic procedures and the legal bases for the necessary IT and technological developments are ensured. The scope of cases is widely interpreted in the e-administration law. This includes all procedures in connection with the exercise of public authority, procedures before public utility providers, court cases, both the basic and the redress procedures. That is, the scope of the law covers not only administrative procedures but also all cases. The rule of generalising electronic administration is that, by default, the customer is entitled to carry out his administrative actions by electronic means, making his statements by electronic means, this can only be ruled out by the law or by the government decree established under the original legislative powers. However, there is clearly no electronic administration in cases where the law or the Government decree established in the original legislative power requires the personal appearance of the client or the submission of certain documents which cannot be replaced otherwise. Obviously, however, we strive to make sure that this happens only if it is absolutely necessary. In order to implement the rules of the e-Administration Act, it is necessary to remove from the legal system all rules which constitute a barrier to the practical application of the law, i.e. contrary to the above basic rule. In view of this, the Government indicated in a decision the steps to review the legal system, and on this basis the ministers concerned had to review the sectoral legislation, examine the rules on the prohibition, restriction of electronic administration and the personal appearance obligations of the client, the derogations regulated in relation to the law on general rules of electronic administration and trust services. On the basis of these investigations and on the basis of the proposals made from them, the Ministry of the Interior has drawn up the law that has just been discussed. In line with the government's efforts to reduce bureaucracy, the bill seeks to break the way for electronic administration, remove obstacles and simplify procedures. As above, the bill removes barriers and barriers to electronic administration in nearly 80 cases. In addition, the proposal introduces the use of the concepts of the fourth part of the e-administration law relating to trust services in the Hungarian legal system, thus ensuring uniform use of terms. The latter is also necessary because of EU legislation. [[14.50]] In view of all of this, in order to ensure a wide circulation of electronic administration, to reduce the administrative burden on citizens and businesses, and to make matters easier, I would ask the Honourable Parliament to support the proposal. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2016-09-27-119	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. First, I give the floor to Mr Vas Imre, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2016-09-27-120	Thank you for the floor. Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, The government has recently tabled the proposal before us to amend several sectoral legislation. The draft legislation was submitted with the aim of CCXXII of 2015 on the general rules for electronic administration and trust services. In order to implement the provisions of law, commonly referred to as the e-administration law, remove from the legal system any rules which constitute a barrier to the practical application of the law. CHAPTER XXI In line with the technical development of the 20th century, the Magyary programme was born in 2012, which aims to develop the entire public administration, but also clearly states that the development of electronic services is an essential condition for a well-functioning state. In this context, Regulation (EU) No 910/2014, commonly referred to as the eIDAS Regulation, and the e-Administration Act came into force in the field of standardisation of electronic administration at European Union level have been a major step forward. Let me add that the regulation has already been repealed on 1 July 16 and the corrections necessary for the application of the eIDAS Regulation have been made by the e-Administration Act. At the same time, sectoral laws require technical transfer of changed concepts, which have also been transposed in the proposal we are discussing. That legislation is therefore a framework law which generally defines the manner in which individual bodies responsible for electronic administration must interact with each other and with customers in the course of the electronic procedure and provides the legal basis for the necessary IT-technical developments. This means in practice that citizens do not need to come into the office, but have the opportunity to conduct their affairs from home. The point of the regulation is that, by default, the client is entitled to carry out his administrative actions electronically, make a declaration by electronic means, this is only excluded by law or, as the State Secretary said, by a government decree drawn up under the original legislative powers of the government. The scope of the law covers not only administrative procedures, but also all cases such as litigation, complaints or even applications. I note that according to a survey by the Central Office for Public Administration Electronic Public Services, six out of ten Hungarian citizens are already handling their official affairs primarily via the Internet, and more than that, this number increased eight times in 2015 compared to two years earlier and is constantly growing. However, in some cases, personal presence is certainly justified and the submission of the original document in certain cases cannot be avoided, which is naturally taken into account in the proposal. This is primarily a personal interview under procedural law: in principle, it is still not done by electronic means. Secondly, there will still be no possibility of electronic procedures involving change of status, such as marriage with an electronic declaration. Thirdly, in procedures requiring a type of document which cannot be taken electronically, the obligation to submit the original remains and there are cases where the document is required, for example, whether it is original or counterfeit. Finally, I would like to point out that, at the time of the revision of sectoral legislation, the amendment of the e-administration law is also justified, given the practical experience, in some cases, which I would not mention separately here. The amendments made to this bill shall only apply from 1 January 2017 if the determining body has undertaken to introduce electronic administration from that date and the electronic handling of cases is compulsory from 1 January 2018. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, Overall, I can therefore say that the government is seeking to link needs from citizens and the availability of online administrative services in order to ensure efficiency. Please support the adoption of the bill. Thank you for listening. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2016-09-27-121	Thank you, Congressman Vas Imre. I now give the floor to Congressman Mátyás Firtl, the lead speaker of the Group of the Christian Democratic People's Party.
u2016-09-27-122	Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, The speakers before me have already presented the bill in detail on the amendment of certain laws necessary for the establishment of a single electronic administration system. The amendment of the law makes changes to 95 laws, and in my speech it is now CCXXII of 2015 on the framework law itself, the general rules for electronic administration and trust services. I would focus on law, hereinafter referred to as the e-administration law or changes. In general terms, the framework legislation sets out how individual bodies responsible for electronic administration should interact with each other and with customers in their electronic procedures and provides the legal basis for the necessary IT-technical developments. The e-administration law defines bodies subject to electronic administration and regulates processes which can be interpreted in relation to the external and inter-custodian or customer relations of the bodies responsible for electronic administration. The scope of the law covers not only administrative procedures, but also all cases, as has been said, litigation, complaints, applications and the rest. The functions to be provided appear in the law as obligations of the body responsible for e-handling, which are covered by the e-administration Act 25. Paragraph 3 of Section 3 gives a specific name. They shall be fulfilled as from 1 January 2018 and shall be optional as from 1 January 2017. A significant part of the regulation will otherwise enter into force at that time. The main obligations are: the electronic administration body is obliged to operate an electronic administration information system that ensures, inter alia, authentic electronic identification, safe delivery and receipt of messages, confirmation of service, processing of electronically signed documents, such as the authentic preparation of documents, electronic payment of the burden for the procedure and the handling of electronic forms. In order to enable the bodies responsible for electronic administration to meet the requirements laid down in the e-administration law, the e-administration law introduced the scope of central regulated electronic administration services to be provided by the government. The rule on the generalisation of electronic administration is laid down in Article 8 of the e-administration Act. §2 of the Act. The point of the regulation is that, by default, the client is entitled to carry out his administrative activities electronically, making statements by electronic means. This can only be ruled out by the law or the Government Decree created in its original legislative powers, as has already been said. However, there is no obligation of electronic administration in cases where the law, the Government decree established in its original legislative power, makes the personal appearance of the client or the submission of certain documents compulsory. However, this is only possible if this is really essential. In order to implement this provision of the e-administration law, it is necessary to root out from the legal system any rules which prevent the practical implementation of the law, i.e. contrary to the above basic rule. With this amendment of the law, this goal is realized. [[15.00]] Since the adoption of the e-administration law last year, it has emerged from the revision of the law that the amendment of the e-administration law itself is justified on some issues, the main elements of which are the following. Where, on the basis of an international contract or a binding act of general application of the European Union, a procedure or procedural act otherwise covered by an e-administration law is carried out solely on paper, there is no place for electronic administration. There is no place for electronic contact even if the document contains classified information. The law states that there is also no place for electronic administration in the case of a procedural act where this cannot be interpreted, for example, in the case of vehicle authenticity testing. The right of a prisoner to electronic administration may be restricted by law in the course of the execution of penalties, measures, measures, measures of coercion in order to maintain the order of enforcement and the security of detention, and the effectiveness of criminal proceedings. The law provides for the possibility for electronic administration bodies to set a limit on the size of electronic documents that may be submitted by 31 December 2019 and, if this is exceeded, documents must be submitted on a durable medium. In the same way, it is possible that documents of a specific size, if their digitisation would be disproportionate, can be submitted on paper. It is of particular importance that the law declares that, unless expressly provided otherwise in the Government Decree, which was created in the original legislative power, if a law requires the customer to have an original document, document or document, it is sufficient, in the case of electronic administration, to have a certified electronic copy thereof. This provision shall not apply in the case of a certificate, document the withdrawal or return of which has been ordered by law or by an electronic administration body. Subject to the previous point, if the legislation requires the customer to submit a submission in multiple copies, an electronic document shall be sufficient for electronic administration. In certain cases, the law may allow the client to authenticate the document himself, in which case the client shall undertake to retain and present the original submission for a specified period of time. If the entity does not have a credible electronic availability, the procedure may be conducted on a paper basis, but the body providing electronic administration may initiate legal supervision or official control of the entity due to the failure of that obligation. In view of this, authentic contact details as records are required in the individual sectoral registration laws. The electronic administration bodies, the categories of persons responsible for electronic administration, the regulation of the central client register, and the date on which the electronic administration body is entitled to data processing and data request in respect of the customer's identification data will be clarified. An electronic application form for general purposes is named as a new service in the law, which is intended to enable customers to submit submissions electronically to the authority in those procedures or in simple cases, and which, for their frequency or other reasons, are not justified by electronicisation, by professional administration. In the case of particular types of construction, the legislation may decide which documents should be submitted on paper even in the case of electronic communications. I trust that this proposal - the entry into force of e-administration in January 2017 - will be based on the amendment of this law, and I believe that the other parliamentary parties are also interested in it - will be supported. On the part of the KDNP, we can say that we are proposing to adopt it in the coming time. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-09-27-123	Thank you, Congressman Mátyás Firtl. I now give the floor to Mr László Szakács, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group.
u2016-09-27-124	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, Dear House, This is a monstre proposal, which is before us, since it amends 95 laws. We've been used to this from Fidesz and the ruling parties, that there are a lot of laws that need to be amended, that everyone finds something in it to please, or at least something that is very difficult to reject, and in this, you can hide some rules that are quite simply impossible to agree with. 95 rules, 95 laws will be amended now, two of which are fundamental, one of which is the relationship between the State Audit Office and the body required to contribute, and the other is the Act on Election Procedure, which they wish to amend. From now on, we no longer need to communicate through the customer gate, and requests for a central register should no longer be sent electronically to the National Election Office on the official website of the elections, which should be sent between themselves by unidentified electronic means. I think that, on the other hand, we should, of course, formulate the criticisms and look at them, so in November 2015 - as we have been reminded several times - they stood before us with this proposal, and then, in general, it came out that the person who does not support this is the XXI. It does not support the modern Hungarian public administration based on electronic communications. Now it hasn't even come into force, it hasn't even been tested, we are already facing a huge amendment in this matter. Not least - but I must criticize the wallet - in the middle of the summer, from 7 July until 20 July, the wallet also put this into a social debate, and in fact it did not bother itself, nor did it bring us all together to carry out the preliminary impact assessments, and to make us aware of the results of them, at least certainly not published a preliminary impact assessment sheet. We believe that this kind of hasty way of making legislation itself is beyond the fact that it contains a lot of errors, especially if we change 95, almost a hundred laws, of course, there are some of them that you can agree with, but I said two that you cannot agree with, and they also change a lot of rules, including the possibility of error. My fellow Member, Árpád Velez, said in November 2015, that is true to this day, that you spend years and billions of dollars on what you will not even try to do because the rules that should be used on this basis change so quickly, almost every month, that it cannot be used. It's actually called a waste, Mr. Secretary. So if you happen to be in any company that works on a competitive market, you would certainly not be able to afford this, and so that this has to be financed from the common - and I will come to what is important about what we are financing from the common - then I think there is a reason to ask you the questions that you wanted to introduce earlier, on which you have worked before, on which you have turned resources, money, tax forints and what has become of them. Is anyone gonna use it? I don't think that's how it works. This is good for one thing, for those of you who want to fish in confusion, you can provide excellent ground for this, by the way, and I'll give you a few examples. 10th of this bill. In its section, there is a rule that makes people who buy Rogan settlement bonds invisible. These people don't have to be in the Hungarian register - 16,000 people, and you're just trying to keep no one from coming into the country without registration, and we don't know who they are - it's on one side, on the other side, people who come in here, they're buying settlement bonds, they're bringing you whatever you want, and you're taking it for granted, with papers from third world countries that either have issued it, or they're not, or they're not. [[15.10]] That's what certainty means to you, and that's how a convicted Russian criminal ended up in Hungary for some 300 thousand euros, by the way, paid to you or paid to Habony companies. A Russian criminal was able to get here because there's simply no one to check it, and now, according to this law, it's obvious that when he comes here, he won't be checked, Mr. Secretary of State. I think this is unacceptable, especially when we are discussing this matter with a government that is about to create a false appearance of security: on one side, they offer Hungarians that they only have to draw an ICS, and then there will be security, and on the other hand they say that these people do not need to be registered, they do not need to know the date of final entry, they do not need to know where they are, and if they are somewhere in the Cayman Islands or in any exotic country they bring an official certificate of what kind of person they are, and you take it as cash. That is what this is all about, I think, at least that is unacceptable. It's probably Antal Rogán's top performance, so there's no way to know who these 16,000 people are, and there's actually one thing to do: stick their trail. I don't think that's a goal, Mr. Secretary. The other, where the Rogán Antal patent is actually used or provided for to be used, is an amendment to the Civil Procedure Act. You are doing this by referring to a number of institutions already in the amendment that did not come into existence. If this were a predictable, good governance, where from November 2015 to September 2016 there were not so many changes that what they had done so far had to be thrown out, one would think that it would be okay and then set up these institutions later. The problem is that we must now fear, Mr Secretary, that the wind will change, and then there will be no such institutions. Moreover, not to mention that this does not meet the European Union's requirements for enhanced signature, so international acceptance cannot be expected in this form, it is almost impossible. In addition, this proposal requires that the registration of data necessary for the registration of a Hungarian citizen returning from abroad, with the intention of being established in Hungary, be carried out only in person. Such a difference, I think, can't be made, and maybe it's not worth it. So if the person who buys a settlement policy - we know who they are from Minister Pintér's letter of reply; we don't know who they are, but what nationality they are: Russians, Chinese, Pakistani, Syrians, Afghans, Turks - he has money, and he can obtain any official ID from any exotic country, he can come, who would happen to think he would want to come home from abroad, say, the "Come home home" program, or I don't know what in his framework, and he is accidentally not as petty as Andy Vajna, then he must personally get tired and replace the Hungarian documents. It's not okay! I think that this should be considered, and this is not electronicisation, nor a better use of the Internet. It has been invented a long time ago by otherwise well-functioning companies, well-functioning e-administrations, no need to reinvent otherwise hot water, should apply what others use. I do not think that we are pioneers in this, there are many such systems. Another thing is that it is not in the interest of this system to work, it is in the interest that someone's invention be used, and others, let me say, remain calm in the dark zone: they came to Hungary, sometime, with some papers, they can go wherever they want, do whatever they want, and you really don't care. This isn't about security, Mr. Secretary, and it's not about tracking something back. One more thing. A lot of documents will be asked electronically. Can you assure me that no one will ever have access to that? The data transmitted electronically, the data stored electronically, has a very interesting feature: it can also be stolen by keeping the original in place. It's called copying. Are you sure you're only gonna have access to an authorized person? Can you do that? I think that we are looking forward to answering these questions for a reason and rightfully, and I must emphasise one or two more things, which will be discussed later by my fellow Member, Mr Nándor Gúr. With regard to the rules on civil servants and labour law as regards electronic administration, I do not think that we should go below a certain level. Public trust and trust, trust in them and the protection of their rights should be the highest priority for those working in public administration. If we understand these rules correctly, we don't now, but later on, you might be able to fire someone by text, but you can by e-mail. I do not think that this will increase confidence in the public administration on which you should rely, Mr Secretary, we, too, but also the customer who enters, should rely on the same trust. Well, I'm pretty sure that's not gonna work. Sometime personal contact, personal encounter, however embarrassing it is, is inevitable, and this must be done. As lawyers, I think we have learned a lot at the university, and we also know why certain contracts, certain declarations of rights, should be included in writing. You don't have to put it in writing to lose paper on the printer, it was invented before there were printers. It must be in writing so that someone can hold it in their hands, take it home, interpret it, read it not only through a screen, but also, perhaps by any means, modify the earlier statement. I believe that this is not the way to safety and better respect for workers' rights, Mr Secretary of State, or the way to trust. Some things are worth staying in, because trust builds and protects the law, and you have to be progressive in something, and I understand that. Believe me, one of the most important things is to get ahead of the times, and the 21st. We can answer the challenges of the century, the challenges of the Z generation in any way, but let's not fall on the other side of the horse, on the one hand, and on the other hand, if we figure something out, sometimes use it, and not just throw away the money we spent on it all the time. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Nándor Gúr applauds.]]
u2016-09-27-125	Thank you very much, Congressman Cook. I now give the floor to Congressman Gábor Staudt, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group.
u2016-09-27-126	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, There is no debate between us about the importance of electronic administration, and the urgent promotion of this and the creation of the necessary legislative and technical background is a common task, and it can also be said that it is a cross-border task. This was also said at the time, especially at the level of words, by socialist governments. The proposal before us amends a lot of laws. In fact, these amendments are technically technical, since e-administration requires appropriate legislative amendments and must be transposed in different laws, which is all right. It is true that there can also be amendments that may, we feel, are not always justified that they are here, but I say that it is mostly technical amendments, Mr Secretary, so I am not saying that this is a salad law that we meet to pack different areas. This was indeed born in some way here in the field of electronic administration. But I'd like to draw attention to a few things. When these proposals come back and forth before the Parliament, we always discuss how good they are and how much they should be supported by e-administration, but we can see that unfortunately the pace, as far as the administration is concerned, often falls short of what we have predicted, and we hope that these trends will not prevail in the future. It can be said that 2.1 million people already have a customer gate in Hungary. [[15.20]] This can be a good number, on the one hand, and on the other hand, if you relate it to, say, citizens of voting age, then that's a quarter of it. So I would rather voice a skeptical attitude, because, despite the various advantages and various services that make administration easier, it is up to a fifth or a little more than the fifth of the population and the citizens of voting age, i.e. one quarter of the adult citizens, who have a customer gate at all. We are, of course, pleased to see them expand the scope of the cases in which e-administration will be possible. Like I said, we're supportive of this. In the case of the new ID card, a concept has also been developed where there are still a lot of reserves in the system, and solutions that can still be linked to this have been developed. In fact, this is why we supported a step forward in the past. However, what is sad: despite the fact that it seems, or at least the government is saying that it is doing everything and that these measures cannot be implemented more quickly, it is absolutely clear - and this information material, which we have received for the law, confirms - that unfortunately, our position in the world, Hungary's position, which - and we are talking about UN statistics - concerns e-government, is getting worse. And we may be moving forward, but then the world moves even faster. We were in the 27th place in 2010, and unfortunately we are in the 46th place, which I stress: it may not mean that we have not made progress, but unfortunately during these six years, in fact during the Fidesz governments, we have not managed to keep up with the pace that they could do in other parts of the world. By the way, in Europe, and we are not only talking about the Union, we are 30 out of 43 European countries, and unfortunately we are not reaching the European average, which means the use of different electronic services. So there's progress, there's progress. Of course, we didn't think that this would happen overnight, but we would expect us to speed up a little bit, since these numbers I've told you suggest that since 2010, we have unfortunately slipped back from the top to the middle field. I must also say that in agreement with people who have to apply the electronic system, such as lawyers, they have said that it is a good thing, on the one hand, that these new procedures have been introduced, but the system has become quite fragmented. After all, at the time it was introduced in company matters, in corporate court cases, then a system was established, with different cards and certified electronic, certified signatures. Now, as I have been informed, this system, let's say, remains the same in business matters, is applied in the same way, and this system should also be used in payment order procedures, but already the contact with the courts goes through the customer gate, virtually through another system. Nor does it seem to me that it makes much sense that a single system has not been established. This may be the future, Mr Secretary of State, and you may already have ideas, but you have complained about those who need to use it, that the system is often too fragmented, and that is what I myself have experienced when dealing with customer-gate matters - in some cases it is still too bureaucratized. After all, the system sends too many e-mails, for example, and too many confirmations, even if you received something, it's good, because you can log in, but then you send an e-mail separately that, yes, you downloaded this document - obviously I downloaded it and downloaded it - and other information messages that might be sent by e-mail on the website, on the website of the customer's portal, would be enough to show that if you were interested, you could track it. So I feel, and this is indeed a well-intentioned approach, that often such an electronic bureaucratic system develops. So even if the system is electronic, it can still be over-regulated, it can still be difficult for citizens to understand, even for the profession to understand. I know that all beginnings are difficult, but in the future, we should strive to ensure that these systems are as uniform as possible. It is possible to get older people to get used to it, but often even young people, to apply it in an appropriate way, to simplify this system as much as possible. We also need to see it, and we have said this here in Parliament many times, that every law is worth what the administrator understands of it, or what companies or banks, if we are talking about banking, let's say, a bank administrator understands it through banking rules. It's still shocking to me when it comes to what they are and what they can't do in person. Marriage, of course, has also been mentioned in the material, here and here, as an example that obviously can only be done in person. There is no problem with that, but it is shocking to me that it can happen on a daily basis that in the leading banks of Hungary, when you want to deal with a case or deal with a member of your family, you are confronted with the fact that not only can you do nothing electronically, so you are not taking advantage of the laws in force, but you are trying to explain to me in person several times that only a relative, a family member, can deal with matters with personal appearance. And they haven't even heard that there's a power of attorney as a two-witness full-probable private document, where a relative, or not just a relative, anyone to whom the power of attorney is addressed, can act. In fact, even the power of attorney or the power of attorney before the lawyer was not regarded as such. With a long struggle, I managed to convince them that I had not come to the branch and had them accept a power of attorney for repeated return. I have only said this, Mr State Secretary, because many times even the basic things, fundamental legal foundations, are not felt in the public administration or even in the leading market service providers, and here, of course, I also classify the financial sector in the service sector. So we have a lot of work to do. The direction of the amendments is also basically acceptable in many cases. Even here in the debate and waiting for the final version, as far as the final vote is concerned, I ask that we speed up the pace of adoption of this proposal, and that the government already thinks about solutions that Estonia, Slovenia, would like to introduce, in which case not only e-administration, but also, in practice, a step or two towards the State of supply and the State of electronic service. Believe me that these examples are there, they need to be looked at, and most of them will be accepted and applied in Hungary as well. Thank you very much.
u2016-09-27-127	Thank you, Congressman Staudt. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. There's no independent congressman in the room. I give the floor to Congressman Nándor Gúr for two minutes.
u2016-09-27-128	Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2016-09-27-129	Two minutes or you're full?
u2016-09-27-130	Two minutes. Mr. President said two minutes, I'll give you two minutes.
u2016-09-27-131	Here.
u2016-09-27-132	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr Secretary of State, with regard to electronic communications, I must basically say that this process must be clearly strengthened. I should like to support the development of this process, but I would also like to add a supplementary phrase immediately that, of course, in the event that it does not make the enforcement of workers' rights more difficult. Practically in this form, in which it was presented, this cannot be said to be true. Therefore, this proposal alone in this form cannot be supported on our part. I would also like to recall to you November 2015, when the law on the basic rules of electronic administration and communication was brought to life. It hasn't been that long, it hasn't been another year, we can put it very simply. [[15.30]] And then, a year ago, or not quite a year ago, you called this law a groundbreaking bill, Secretary of State Tibor Pogácsás, with sufficient pride. What I see now is that even if I remember correctly, there were no impact assessments in the matter, they are practically transforming what they have not actually tried, and, I repeat, they are doing this without impact assessments, which is a legal obligation. It's frivolous! It's not serious, what they're doing. And in addition to being frivolous, I have to say, in a sense, they're wasting time and a lot of money, even billions. Uncertainty, chaos is what they are doing in this regard, along with - and I will finish here, with the fact that we can support the strengthening of electronic communication, but not within this framework. Mr. President, thank you very much.
u2016-09-27-133	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I will ask if anyone else wishes to take the opportunity to speak. [[No one's reporting.]] I don't see any contact. Then, yes, I give the floor to Congressman Nándor Gúr.
u2016-09-27-134	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Now I do not want to deal with the formal part of things, although I will start with the sentence that I have just finished, that I see uncertainty and some chaos in this regard, although I would not doubt that if it were to be a category of goal on the part of the authors, it would then be possible to act and fish in confusion. I'm telling you, you're wasting time, long months, years and money, or billions of dollars in the way you're doing with the presentation and implementation of this type of law - and I'm not going back to November 2015. My fellow cook said that they want to regulate certain, politically sensitive issues and sensitive issues within the framework of this law - it is no coincidence, the call to life of this law concerns 95 laws, and many things can be included. There's a lot of room for that, and it's got to do with the fact that, as I mentioned, politically sensitive issues are being washed into the story. If you look at the bill on the 10th. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, you can see that the category of invisibility is being called to life. It has been mentioned here, and I would like to confirm that my fellow Member Rogán has a new interface with regard to patenting, because this category of invisibility, which is related to the issue of settlement bonds, the authorisation of residence processes, concerns foreign persons, that foreign persons are not subject to the legal scope of personal data and the home address register, so that it can be achieved that not only will the benefits obtained through settlement bonds become untraceable, how, where they land and where they are used, but also, in fact, it becomes invisible who are the subjects involved in this story. This duality, the issue of unidentifiableness and the untraceableness of resources or the unexplorableness of the way they travel to their friends. If we are here in the end of September, then I would like to say a sentence - not a picnic, but a valid one - that is, unfortunately, the Fidesz is the one in this country by tens of thousands in terms of settlement bonds! - bringing people from the third world, and doing so by making it possible for them to be criminals, who in other countries obtain the certificates that form the basis for accessing the settlement policy. Of course, it doesn't surprise me, because I can also see how and how the current government is able to obtain certain information, to obtain certain data, but it brings my sense of danger in the sense of common sense to life, because I think that electronic registration systems or electronic administration systems that are not sufficiently regulated can lead to further similar problems. In another passage, issues relating to electoral law are also affected by the content of this bill. It is practically unacceptable here that the operating system of the customer gate is being abolished, and it is not really understandable why, not only that it is unacceptable, I think it is also incomprehensible. More distinctions are being made, and I see that the exercise of the right to vote of those with a home address but abroad is becoming increasingly difficult, difficult or difficult, and at the same time making it easier for those living outside the border to take part in the vote. It's not a good track, it's not a good path, it's against any interest that keeps the right to vote on a normal course. But in addition to all this, there is a specific question that I would like to deal with a little deeper, which is the 73rd bill. Article 2 of the Act concerning public service officials relating to the amendment of the law of public service officials. If I do not want to go too far, I just want to designate such points of reference and focus points, then it is visible in the draft law that as of 1 May 2017 it is necessary to create a suitable storage space for delivery services and to use them naturally among public service officials. This space, or this space for delivery service, would contain virtually all the important issues relating to the world of work, related to work relationship and related to it, and would be accompanied by measures that are practically coupled with the weakening of workers' rights. It is well known that, if a public service official has ever been appointed in respect of the public service, the basis for this, its statutes, was that it was written; it was written and not made at random, simply because, in a future process, there must be a clearly demonstrable and credible background on these matters. The adoption of the appointment or appointment itself, but not only its adoption, but also, where appropriate, its amendment will take place through this system as of 1 May 2017, but not only the appointment, but also the scope of the declarations of rights relating to the termination of the public service will be published here and will return here. But if there is any problem, any problem, a disciplinary procedure or a compensation procedure is conducted, and the conclusions about this are drawn, all of them will be given the opportunity to reach the parties concerned through this space, but the decisions, the sum of these, will also appear in this form. However, it is equally true that if we begin to dissect things concerning conflict of interest, they all connect the employee and the employer, the public service worker and the employer through this space. [[15.40]] Or if the employee concerned has a payment notice from the employer, it will all appear here, on this storage space. I would like to make it clear that this implies that the employer's documents will be communicated electronically and will go against the fundamental principle of employment that was applicable earlier. Once again, the root of the germ, the root of which is that written communication is compulsory at the request of the worker. This is the state of the day. If any type of instruction is given that is strictly interfering with the formation of subsequent processes, it should have a written background. If it does not have a written background, then obviously it also provides the legal basis for the debate. On 1 January 2012, I'm sure you'll remember, Mr. Secretary of State, you'll probably remember Act I and its 44th. In addition to the provisions of Section 2 of this Annex, it is also necessary to provide for the application of the provisions of Article 4 of this Regulation. You know, it's the code of work, the code of shameful work, through which workers were founded to further eviscerate. The employers were also pushed against the wall, but they were given so much more opportunity to pull another skin off the workers. But the interest representatives were also almost eliminated, looted out of the system, because their driver's license system was impaired, and the powers and immunity of the people involved in the representation activities were cut. But it's the 44th. In fact, the sentence on employment contracts should be included in writing. If the contract of employment is to be entered in writing, it is also legal and natural that the amendment to the contract of employment should also be included in writing that the termination of the contract of employment should also be included in writing. And they didn't just happen at random over the last few decades. Because if this is not the case, if the employment contract is not in writing, has not been amended in writing and is not terminated in writing, otherwise it is null and void. It's nothing, by the way. In English, I would like to say that what they are doing now in terms of electronic registration, electronic administration, is basically calling for a reduction in new employees' rights. Today, if we are talking about this formal issue, I mean, where appropriate, the employment contract, then I think everyone here knows that it is the paper with the signature and title of the signatory, which can be considered official, of course, together with the stamp of the current official organization. And the communication, as my fellow Member has mentioned in a sentence, is, even if it is unpleasant, but takes a personal form, or is carried out by properly regulated postal means, regulated; it takes a personal form, even in the presence of witnesses. What do you want in the future? In the future, in the context of this law, you are almost the foundation for people to be fired by e-mail. Are you serious? Are you serious right now? ! Don't they want to turn to people with so much honor and honor, that if they want to make changes to their relationships for any reason, they should give reasons for it, and the person concerned face to face, face all this? You want to create a multitude of e-mail firings in this country? And do you think, in future court proceedings and court proceedings, how and how will you be able to combine paper and e-mail brochures without stamps, without official content in a certain sense? Today I give you countless examples that, in a simple labour lawsuit, you know, which should usually be closed in 95 percent of the cases at the second trial, since you have been ruling, you cannot close a simple labour lawsuit in six years. Fifteenth court hearing with fifth-sixth judges? That, in itself, is saying something about how they act, isn't it? But the fact that the electronic register, the regulation of electronic communications, is, after all, in the interests of the worker, against it, is, for the sake of the sex, totally unacceptable. Mr President, I would like to conclude by saying that, with great respect, I would ask the representative of the government and the opposition representatives to think about this, to consider this, and not to act against the interests of workers, to try to call on regulations to live. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2016-09-27-135	Thank you very much, Congressman. I'll ask the Honourable Parliament if anyone else would like to comment. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. The general debate is closed and I give the floor to the rapporteur, Mr Tibor Pogácsás, State Secretary for Home Affairs.
u2016-09-27-136	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear House, I thank the representatives of the governing parties for their support for the bill. Congressman Staudt asked why we are moving so slowly because of the extension or introduction of electronic administration. To this end, I think that there are many reasons, or there are many difficult circumstances, to speed up the spread of electronic administration. If I were very pesky, I could say that, for example, the speech that we have heard last, for example, is such an approach, because if someone from this law, which contains basically the technical transfer of legislation relating to electronic administration, is able to draw down workers' rights, then I think it is a good indicator that it is difficult to start today through electronic administration. After all, if we were to conduct today's electronic administration from this line of thought, which we heard last, which is already in Hungary, then it would all be invalid and unacceptable, so obviously there are problems of perspective. But it is also a fact that one of the basic conditions for the introduction and full dissemination of electronic administration, beyond the legal background, beyond personal motivation, is the instrument and the establishment of the network. The Hungarian government is doing a great deal to ensure that all citizens of Hungary have broadband internet access by 2018, and this can create the possibility of electronic administration from all their homes in Hungary, because without the broadband band, the connection that produces the proper security of administration cannot be imagined. Here, too, it has been suggested by the MSZP representatives that any system will be thrown out by introducing this law. Ladies and gentlemen, This law facilitates the introduction of an adopted law, an adopted law in 2018, and it is not the case that any development related to electronic administration, any acquisition of assets or software would become necessary or unnecessary. It is therefore clear that the purpose of the bill is to establish a legal basis, to extend the legal basis. I trust that the future of this electronic administration in Hungary is also moving in the same way and at the same pace that we all expect. [[15.50]] Moreover, the introduction of an electronic ID card has been tried with the same or similar words, but the spread of an electronic ID card will also greatly help electronic administration, as this is necessary to complete electronic identification and electronic signature. By the way, the electronic identity card is a great success, it is spreading at a high rate, but obviously we cannot make it mandatory for everyone to change their identity card at the same time during a given period. This is also a barrier to why electronic administration is spreading in Hungary at the same pace as this is taking place. Thank you once again for the support of the governing parties. I trust that Jobbik will also support the law, because we do not have a substantive debate that the introduction of electronic administration is necessary, and this is not a party political step, but a condition that Hungary actually catches up with Europe and occupies the right place in this corner. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-09-27-137	Thank you very much, Secretary of State Tibor Pogácsás. The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Dear Parliament, There will be a general debate on the bill to amend certain domestic laws until closure. The government referral T/12174. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I declare that the presentation will be discussed as an EU item on the agenda by the Parliament. First, I give the floor to Mr Károly Kontra, Secretary of State of the Ministry of the Interior, author of the item on the agenda. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2016-09-27-138	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, The primary objective of the bill before you is to fulfil legal harmonisation obligations. The transposition of EU passenger data legislation should be highlighted. In addition, the bill introduces a number of new legal institutions, such as infringements, public employment and disaster management. Compliance with legal harmonisation obligations partly serves to comply with the so-called PNR Directive. The point of the directive is that, before the departure of the journey, the air carrier sends the air traffic data to the designated body of that country. In this context, it is necessary to amend the law on national security services because it is necessary to specify, inter alia, the scope of passenger data that can be handled only in connection with terrorist and other serious crimes, the exchange of data with other Member States and Europol, the rules for the transfer and use of data, the exchange of data between Tibet and third countries. The amendment to the APB allows Tibet to take over the full range of data from the APB. The amendment of the Aviation Act is necessary because the rules on the handling of passenger data also apply to flights within the European Union in the future. In addition, the bill contains technical clarifications in order to comply with the Schengen Borders Code and the Europol Regulation. In addition to fulfilling EU obligations, the proposal aims to introduce the following new legal institutions. The amendment of the Public Employment Act is necessary for two reasons. 1. The proposal increases the duration of labour market services, such as job-seeking education and counselling, to support job-seekers from 3 days to 15 days. It also allows public workers with mental, social and health problems to benefit from certain health and social services, such as family support services. 2. The Minister of the Interior may appoint a State Representative to monitor the management of social cooperatives operating on the basis of public employment, and the proposal will extend the powers of this Member. The purpose of the amendment to the Disaster Protection Act is to ensure that disaster protectors carrying out an official control function for the transport of dangerous goods have recourse to coercive means, since in recent years, there have been several instances in the control of the transport of dangerous goods that official inspectors have been exposed to atrocities. The amendment to the Violation Act contains a number of substantive proposals. It may be pointed out that the court may combine an infringement procedure which is not within its jurisdiction, but which is closely linked to the action it is discussing. It accelerates the procedure so that court administrators can act in the future. A mediation procedure may also be carried out in the event of traffic offences. At the request of the victim, the infringement authority or the court may order the perpetrator to compensate for the damage caused. The procedural rules on immunity are being amended. If the person entitled to immunity waives his right, he must inform the authority that he is otherwise in this circle. The courts and infringement authorities will use a single infringement account. This will be managed by the central fine management body and the payments monitored. It is intended to relieve prisons of the burden that detention begins in the police detention centre in the case of detention after official hours. A new infraction,. the infraction related to the provision of the site, has been created. The facts indicate at which locations the opposition to the instructions of a member of the authorities is considered to be an infringement. Field guards may also impose on-the-spot penalties for the commission of an administrative offence. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, The Act on the Protection of Classified Data introduces the concept of a simplified site security certificate, as well as which procedural acts are subject to industrial safety control. Only an entity holding a site security certificate or a simplified site security certificate may manage data at a confidential or higher rating level. To sum up, the bill contributes significantly to the security of the European Union and Hungary, as well as to the effectiveness of the fight against terrorism and organised crime. It also lays down new rules in the fields of public employment, non-compliance, disaster management and industrial security in order to ensure better enforcement. Dear Parliament, I declare that the amendments tabled will be discussed by the Minister of the Interior, the Ministry of the Interior, with the applicants. I ask the Honourable Parliament to discuss and adopt the bill that has been tabled. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-09-27-139	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. First, I give the floor to Mr Vas Imre, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2016-09-27-140	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, This bill, presented by the Minister of the Interior, serves both to comply with EU standards and to harmonise legislation, and to address practical problems in the application of law and to integrate experience into the legal system. As regards legal harmonisation, it contains legal clarification in order to comply with the Schengen Borders Code and the Europol Regulation and, on the other hand, it amends the law on the management of the EU Passenger Name Record and the law necessary for its implementation. In order to deal with practical experience, the present proposal would amend several laws, including law on police, national security services, public employment law on disaster management, critical systems and facilities, the protection of classified data, water associations and chimney sweeping activities. The details of the amendments to the laws have just been described in detail by the Secretary of State, so I will not comment on this separately. Ladies and gentlemen, In the context of the Directive on the use of the Passenger Name Record for the prevention, detection, investigation and prosecution of terrorist offences and serious criminal offences, and the rules on the border crossing of persons, the obligation to harmonise the laws necessary for the entry into force of the Schengen Borders Code, it is necessary to amend certain law enforcement and state-related laws. [[16.00]] As a successor to the European Police Office, the European Union Agency for Crime Cooperation was established, and it was therefore necessary to amend a number of domestic legislation on Europol. [[President Tamás Sneider, Vice-President of the National Assembly.]] The Fidesz fraction supports compliance with these EU standards and harmonisation and the transposition of practical experience into the Hungarian legal system. Thank you for listening, please support the adoption of the bill. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-09-27-141	Welcome, fellow Members. I now give the floor to Tamás Harangozó, the lead speaker of the MSZP group, who will tell his keynote speaker about the pulpit.
u2016-09-27-142	Thank you for the floor. Dear Parliament, The bill is another spectacular proof of government and legislative incompetence. Most of the 74-page salad law without any connection is nothing more than the subsequent correction of the laws submitted by the Orbán government. For example, the new infringement law adopted in 2012 has been amended for the third time. But they also want to amend laws that were just passed a year ago. The proposal therefore includes, for example, amendments to the Law on facial image analysis and to the Law on chimney sweeping activities. In this respect, the most prominent is the amendment of the anti-terrorist package adopted by a five-party consensus as a result of months of codification work and many consultations. As it turned out, the Ministry of Interior prepared the rules for the processing of information and crime analysis centre for counter-terrorism, known as Tibet, by completely ignoring the EU directive on the management of air traffic data adopted in April. The Tibek Act came into force only in July, its Director General was appointed a few weeks ago, but we are already at the point of changing the rules on the processing of Tibet. Of course, many people may just say that it is merely provisions of a legal nature. Don't do it! The whole point of Tibet's operation is that it has direct access to and access to almost all police and national security databases and other public databases. Therefore, in the case of Tibet, data management rules have an unheard of significance. There is a serious legislative failure to legislate outdated provisions in this area which are incompatible with EU law. What is truly amazing is that the Ministry of the Interior also proposes the repeal of one of the provisions, which they insisted on legislating in the spring. Despite the opposition concerns expressed, it was statutory in spring that, in the event of a terrorist attack, communications service providers should, so to speak, give priority to the communication of law enforcement bodies. The government should have laid down its implementing rules in a regulation. In the five-party negotiations, the opposition did not dispute the validity of the pro-government objective, but we questioned its feasibility. This bill of assurance, once again we were right. It is quite shockingly described by the Ministry of the Interior itself, and I quote from the explanatory statement:. As a result of the amendment to the law on the modification of certain laws relating to counter-terrorism, the built-in provisions have in the meantime lost their topicality. They should therefore be repealed. They've lost their actuality. The provisions of the Act, which entered into force on 17 July, will be lost in the middle of September. Two months ago, this proposal was still current and a national savior. However, the truly sincere confession is yet to come. In the rest of the explanatory memorandum, BM explains that the provision in question would constitute an unjustified burden for the communications service providers concerned. But BM is trying to reassure everyone that there is no problem here, because in the meantime, the smooth communication of law enforcement agencies has also been ensured through the government network. Let each of you decide for yourself whether or not this unparalleled turn of events that took place in two months will calm you down. Of course, it is to be welcomed that indeed wonderful technological progress has been made in this area, but it is more likely that communications providers have already been unnecessarily destroyed. The other, far worse, but not unimaginable scenario is that the new rule is necessary, but its detailed rules and method of enforcement have not been developed by the government. In any scenario, the Ministry of Interior made a serious mistake, which is more than disturbing. In addition to shocking amounts and surprising errors, the bill contains several elements which are unacceptable from a substantive point of view. One of these is the addition of the provision on the construction of the so-called ASP system in the municipal law. The ASP system is an IT system that allows the government to monitor the management of municipalities. According to a study previously leaked in the press, the ultimate aim of the ASP system is to distract, centralise the management tasks of the mayor's offices and put the municipalities under government guardianship. Just like the Orbán government has done in the relationship between schools and KLIK. The first step of this bill was voted by Fidesz at the spring session. In addition, in this law, the two-thirds municipal law was violated and the government was authorised by a half majority to build a system that strongly violates the autonomy of the government. The MSZP strongly opposed the construction of this system of local government rights. The bill that has just been tabled extends this pre-existing unconstitutional mandate. According to this, the government is authorised to lay down the elements and rules of operation of the ASP system in a regulation. As in spring, the MSZP considers this proposal unacceptable. It is also unacceptable from the point of view of content that the Government wants the judicial review of infringement cases to be assessed not only by court secretaries but also by court administrators. We're looking forward to the next bill on when the janitors will take place. According to the bill, a court administrator may act outside the jurisdiction of the court in cases of infringement. In other words, it could decide out of court whether to object to the decisions of the infringement authorities and in cases of non-compliance which may be subject to detention. The MSZP also opposed the fact that, in the summer of 10 summers, as one of the first measures of the Orbán government, the court secretaries were essentially entitled to exercise judicial powers in infringement cases. The bill that has just been submitted goes much further: it does not require lawyers to carry out the substantive case-law. They are trying to make this possible by allowing the court administrator to carry out this activity only under the supervision of a judicial or judicial secretary. Of course, the practice will determine the intensity and depth of supervision. However, given the stress of the courts, we cannot have any particular illusions in this regard. This amendment is particularly unacceptable in the light of the fact that the infringement law adopted in 2012 is more similar to a criminal offence code with its strict criminal law system and sanctions than to the previous infringement law. In such a legislative framework, we believe that it is unacceptable from a constitutional point of view if the case-law is not performed by a judge. It is also unacceptable, in substance, to amend the law on facial image analysis. Currently, the facial analysis register is managed and operated by the Central Office for Electronic Public Services, KEKKH. This task will be carried out by two other bodies from 1 January 2017, as explained in the bill. The management of facial analysis records will be carried out directly by the Ministry of Interior, while the operation of facial analysis activities will be carried out by the National Expert and Research Institute. This provision raises more concerns. On the one hand, it points out the consequences of the full integration and dismantling of central offices with at least some professional autonomy so far. It is far from reassuring that the facial analysis records will be managed by the Ministry of Interior itself. This is particularly incomprehensible in the light of the fact that the system itself will be operated by another body. It is incomprehensible why the body responsible for recording the facial image profile and the body conducting the analysis should be separated. The MSZP already raised a number of concerns about the way the legislation is regulated in the debate on the facial profile registration law. The concerns expressed at the time would not only be mitigated by the current bill, but would be even more serious. These unacceptable content alone do not allow support for the proposed legislation. However, the 74-page salad law is unacceptable regardless. [[16.10]] The MSZP will neither now nor in the future assist in correcting errors arising from the dilettant legislative practice of the Orbán government. We are asking you to conclude that without impact assessments and well-founded preparatory work, you will adopt an amazing amount of law. Stop treating Hungarian citizens and businesses as experimental mice, and it is up to their luck to turn into a failed law amendment! It would be time for Fidesz to finally restore professionally sound legislative preparation and the conditions for meaningful parliamentary work in the normal state. Not a few weeks after their adoption, do not improve dozens of laws, because this undermines legal certainty, and the derailed legislation becomes a serious competitive backlash for Hungary, making the life of the Hungarian people you have constantly referred to. I think, fellow Members, that's not what you're sworn to do. The MSZP does not support the bill. Thank you for listening.
u2016-09-27-143	I now give the floor to Matthias Firtl, the lead speaker of the KDNP Group.
u2016-09-27-144	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, The bill makes changes to 25 laws, and I would focus on only a few laws or changes in my speech. In general, the amendments contained in this bill have three pieces of EU legislation and their entry into force. It is also necessary to amend certain law enforcement and state-related laws in connection with the fulfilment of our obligations to harmonise legislation as a result of their entry into force. What are these EU standards? Directive 2016/681/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 April 2016 on the use of the Passenger Name Record - PNR - for the prevention, detection, investigation and prosecution of terrorist offences and serious criminal offences - hereinafter referred to as the PNR Directive. The second is EU 2016/399 of 9 March 2016 on the EU Code on the rules governing the movement of persons across borders, the Schengen Borders Code. Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council and the Regulation on the European Union Agency for Crime Cooperation. In relation to the PNR Directive and PNR data, amendments are necessary mainly in connection with two laws. One of these is the 1995 XCVII on air transport. Act and Act CXXV of 1995 on National Security Services Law. The amendment to the Aviation Act contains proposals that are necessary for the use of the Passenger Name Record for the prevention, detection, investigation and prosecution of terrorist offences and serious criminal offences. Member States' home affairs ministers have previously made a political commitment and a declaration that the PNR request for air carriers, as provided for in the Directive, will be extended to EU internal flights. The bill therefore amends the Aviation Act in accordance with this declaration. The amendment of the National Security Services Act to the Passenger Name Record is necessary to comply with the PNR Directive. It is important that PNR data can only be handled for the purpose of preventing, detecting, investigating and prosecuting terrorist offences and serious criminal offences. At the end of the six months following the receipt of the passenger data, PNR data shall be rendered unfit for personal identification by concealing the data elements indicated, while the warranty elements of re-adapting PNR data rendered unfit for identification shall also be established, whereas it should be possible to re-use them with the permission of the prosecutor. With regard to PNR data and the results from their handling, it is important that they can be compared with passenger information units in other Member States and with Europol, and their exchange and transfer of passenger data from third countries is possible. The amendment allows the authorities cooperating with the Passenger Information Unit of the Anti-Terrorism Information and Crime Analysis Centre of Tibet to request, obtain or share PNR data or the analytical results of the authorities. With regard to PNR data, they shall be made unfit for identification by concealing data elements suitable for direct identification of passengers at the end of the six months following the air carrier's transmission to the national Passenger Information Unit. The amendment to the law on the police will remove further difficulties in interpreting and enforcing the law, in particular in the event that criminal proceedings initiated by an act which does not lapse in accordance with the relevant provisions of the Criminal Code are closed without the determination of criminal liability. Another innovation is that the current amendment to the law on the police allows the foreign police authority to check long stays by providing direct access from the police register. The bill also contains an amendment to drugs and psychotropic substances. Activities related to drugs and psychotropic substances may be carried out on the basis of a licence in 2012 and then notified from 1 January 2013. The police have exercised competence in the authorisation procedure and currently exercise control powers in the case of notifying organisations. In the procedure for authorising imports of equipment which is particularly dangerous to public security, the National Police Headquarters is designated as administrative authority. As a result of this legislative amendment, the administrative processing of the police will now include data available on new psychoactive substances and on particularly dangerous means of public security. The amendment to the law on armed security, nature conservation and field guarding is, in my opinion, important to give them new opportunities with the new technical tools. Similarly, it is important in the bill, as regards the law on public employment and public employment and the amendment to other laws, that we extend the period of three days when it comes to the primary labour market, as there are jobs where it takes about 15 days. A number of unfortunate past events lie behind the amendment of the law on disaster management and the amendment of certain related laws. As is known, in recent years, there have been several instances in which the official inspectors performing the service during the control of the transport of dangerous goods have been treated with atrocities, one of which has also been the subject of restrictions on the freedom of the inspector's staff. It is therefore appropriate to provide for self-defense facilities for professional staff carrying out official controls on dangerous goods and to lay down legal provisions on the application of coercive means. Ladies and gentlemen, I trust that the amendments contained in the bill, some of which are justified by the prevention and detection of terrorist offences and serious criminal offences, and some of which require other harmonisation obligations and other technical reasons, will also be supported by my fellow Members. On the part of the KDNP fraction, I propose the adoption and support of the bill. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-09-27-145	Thank you. I now give the floor to Congressman Gábor Staudt, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group.
u2016-09-27-146	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, The proposal before us concerns a large number of areas, both legal issues and domestic law enforcement issues. It is difficult to talk about such a proposal, which is more a salad law than the previous proposal, which was about electronic administration, is more of a salad law, it is difficult to talk without finding positive, negative points in it. I cannot tell Mr State Secretary in advance, and the final vote will be revealed on the basis of the amendments, before the appropriate discussions have taken place in the various fields of expertise in the house here, and on the basis of the proposals for amendment, whether we can support the proposal. [[16.20]] I must say, however, that we do not see the law tabled as gloomy as the MSZP did. Obviously, if we see points in which there are serious violations, we always say this to the government, we read it on its head, and we don't give our support to it, but we also need to see that regardless of the situation that has arisen - we can think of immigration or the terrorist situation here - Jobbik was the one who first suggested that this would be a problem. Then came the Fidesz, who began to take this seriously, and Viktor Orbán also began to take seriously this new situation and that in the future Hungary, in the form of a terrorist threat to the Hungarian people, or in another way, could pose a threat; and then came the left, and obviously the left-wing one should share among himself who might first recognize this danger, who still doesn't recognize it. But in fact, it is strange on the left when they argue why the preparation for the terrorist situation has not happened before. That would be a credible argument from Jobbik, but on the part of the parties who considered the whole situation in which we are living as a fake problem, and when the flood of people started, the flood of mostly illegal immigrants did not take this threat seriously, they seem to be brave enough words. But back to the proposal, we believe that if technically the amendment was necessary for the laws adopted by the Parliament, especially as regards the fact that we did not have to get used to terrorism in Hungary or similar situations, this was a positive thing. Unfortunately, this seems to be changing, but obviously there may be problems to be eliminated in this case. As I have said, we will also express this with the appropriate policy amendments if we see them. It is my job to draw attention here to one or two points that are definitely positive or negative in the proposal. The law of the police will also be amended on several points. Here, perhaps, it is possible to emphasize the export of the service weapon. This is essential in certain cases to be included in the legislation and to allow the foreign police authority to collect data from the police register in order to verify long-term residence. Of course, this proposal is not from the devil. Another question, as I said, is that a lot of laws are being amended here that are already a little further away from the issue of direct terrorist threats, but can nevertheless be interpreted as a matter of law enforcement, and is included in the proposal in this form. However, what was interesting to me was in any way that, in the case of district courts, the powers to be given to administrators, this is a less domestic matter, it is exactly how this is going to go, and it has not turned out for us, so I could say that we are eager to see how the proceedings of court administrators in these infringement cases are going to go. There's a lot of question marks on this. Perhaps they should have increased the number of secretaries and the number of judges in order to properly assess these matters. What is positive, however, is that the mediation procedure is also introduced in infringement proceedings. It can be said in general that similar mediation procedures are certainly forward and less cost-intensive and can lead to a solution that can bring both parties satisfaction or the satisfaction of the victim as much as possible. Then you can see from the salad law that, although it is a disaster, in the event of averting serious damage, the review cycle time in the recovery plan is increased from 3 to 5 years. This is justified by reducing the administrative burden on small and medium-sized enterprises. Well, that may even be true, but obviously the details here are what the pudding test of this proposal will be as a meal, if it is introduced, it can show whether this can lead to the oblivion of the countermeasures, or it has already imposed an additional obligation on small and medium-sized enterprises for which it is justified to increase to 5 years. It is also possible to highlight the regulation aimed at amending the Public Employment Act. Obviously, public employment is a matter of internal affairs, but in many respects this rule stands out from this package, but in any case, the availability of labour market services is increasing from 3 days a year to 15 days, and thus the primary objective is to ensure that these people, the people involved in public employment, are able to work on the labour market, which, I think, is definitely eligible. Another question is obviously beyond this proposal whether there will be a job or whether these people want to go back to the labour market, because unfortunately, Mr State Secretary, in many cases we can hear it - and these are concrete experiences - entrepreneurs or employers have said that there are often no more skilled jobs among public workers, despite, say, offering double wages compared to the benefits they receive from public work. So, of course, this could be a good detailed rule in itself, but there is a lot to be done to change the fact that in many cases a person gets stuck in community service. I should also like to say that, until wages in general are caught up in the Western European wage level, these problems will reopen, as well as the whole wage system and even labour emigration, the fact that this area has not yet been properly resolved. I know that this is no longer directly related to this proposal, but you have pushed everything into the salad law, so I think that has to be said here. I can conclude by looking at these points and by drawing up our position in relation to the adoption of the amendments, and we hope that otherwise proposals which do not seem appropriate in this salad package can be eliminated. Because, as I said, it can be said that most of the amendments are technical, and I have to say that in many cases they can help the country to be better prepared for a terrorist situation, but it must also be stressed that it would be good to separate these areas in the future, and if you are looking for support from the opposition, then to present them in such a way that these laws can be better supported. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2016-09-27-147	I now give the floor to Congressman Sallai R. Benedek, on behalf of the LMP.
u2016-09-27-148	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, I'm going to tell Parliament what we're doing here. First of all, I must point out that we take it with mixed feelings, because there are many things in it that we consider desirable and unfortunately necessary in the moments of today's world, and there are some that give us concern. The LMP welcomes the fact that the Government intends to comply with its legal harmonisation obligations under the Directive on the use of Passenger Name Record Data, adopted by the Council in April this year, for the prevention, detection, investigation and prosecution of terrorist offences and serious criminal offences. [[16.30]] It is also fundamentally welcome that the Tibetans will make your passenger data unfit for identification within six months. The agreement between the European Union and the United States on privacy can, in some respects, be satisfactory as to how and for how long PNR data can be stored. The U.S. authorities will also depersonalize the data six months after receiving them, which may, in turn, provide sufficient privacy security. I'll talk about some reservations later. From a national security point of view, we believe that the amendment to provide and receive data from EU passenger data information units and competent authorities is also acceptable. To mention one last positive point: the new Passenger Name Record can provide citizens and air carriers with greater clarity and legal certainty. It allows for a more effective exchange of information between the US authorities and the European Union law enforcement and judicial authorities, with a clear definition of the purpose for which PNR data can be used, as well as a number of new and stronger data protection safeguards. If we go into detail in the general debate on the legislation before us, then we should talk about the general justification that the proposal states that it harmonises domestic legislation with the EU PNR Directive, i.e. 27 April 2016 2016/681 on the use of the Passenger Name Record for the prevention, detection, investigation and prosecution of terrorist offences and serious criminal offences. Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 9 March 2016 on the Schengen Borders Code on the EU Code on rules for the movement of persons across borders EU Parliament and Council regulation. In line with the directive, therefore, the proposal seeks to take action in the fight against international crime and terrorism by obliging airlines and passenger companies to transfer more extensive data from and to the EU. Once again, in the debate on the proposal, we find ourselves in a situation where our right to security and the protection of our personal data is at odds with each other. With new amendments on data protection, we give the authority to ensure our security so that it can deal with our personal data more widely, know more about us, see deeper into our intimate sphere. Here is the first collision, when national security aspects and personal data are somewhat conflicted, which needs to be resolved by proper legislative text. The process has been present in EU legislation for over a decade. At its meeting on 25 and 26 March 2004, the Council of the European Union called on the Commission to draw up a draft on a common European approach to the use of Passenger Name Records for law enforcement purposes. The draft Framework Decision, the text of which was drawn up by 22 October 2007, was first on the agenda of the meeting of the Multidisciplinary Group against organised crime on 12 November 2007. The text was substantially rewritten during the Czech Presidency of the EU in the first half of 2009, mainly with a view to strengthening data protection guarantees. The draft was intended to harmonise the relevant provisions of the Member States, which impose obligations on air carriers to forward Passenger Name Records to the competent authorities in respect of flights operated by them which travel from the territory or territory of at least one Member State to third countries. The purpose of the transfer is to help competent authorities fight terrorism and transnational organised crime and other serious crime. In the past, the obligation of air carriers only covered the transmission of API data, i.e. advanced passenger information, in accordance with Article 2004/82. on the basis of a European Community Council Directive. The API data are recorded on the basis of travel documents, which allow the passenger to be identified. This will allow border control authorities to fight illegal migration more effectively. API data contains information that enables known terrorists and criminals to be identified. To this end, it is sufficient that the names of the persons concerned are run in an alert system, such as SIS. PNR data contain more information, a maximum of 19 categories of data on the basis of the current draft than API data, and allow risk-based assessment of passengers and differentiation between known and unknown persons. The whole point of the system's operation is that air freight forwards the data in their reservation system to the competent national passenger information authorities, Tibek. Following automated risk analysis by the Authority, it shall, through the manual analysis of the data, filter out passengers whose data indicate that they may be involved in specific types of crime between the objectives of the draft. PNR data include route codes, method of booking, e.g. the name of the travel agency, weight of the package, method of payment. Experts experienced from this information can identify suspects by comparing them with criminal or criminal profiles, even without knowledge of the personal data of passengers. The real added value of PNR lies in the fact that the system may be capable of identifying unknown offenders. The authority shall process and retain the data for a specified period of time in its own database. The Possibly Other Politics does not dispute that the need for more effective law enforcement, the rise in the threat of terrorism in the world, justifies the use of as many instruments as possible to avoid tragedies. However, for all such instruments, we need to examine whether the legislator is going beyond the target of the proposal or to ensure the guarantees that misuse of our data can give us. The problem is that, unfortunately, we have very bad experience in this area, because, as we have already stated, Fidesz-KNDP has ruled against data protection over the last five years against the right of Hungarian citizens to their private sphere. The first real attack on the personal data security of the Hungarian people was the termination of the Data Protection Commissioner's institution. Possibly Other Politics still opposed this and has been against it ever since, because there is no independent body today that can effectively act against the state's overencryption or surveillance that violates citizens. I think that in terms of the topical policy aspects of this, it is worth reviewing the events of the last week how this is reflected in everyday public life. The May Other Politics insists that Hungarian people need a state that is transparent and does not collect unnecessary data based on the principle of security, a state that does not leave the possibility of abuse. On these issues, we cannot be naive, we cannot underestimate the unscrupulousness of the corrupt political elite clinging to his power. We can't trust that power will limit itself, and even if it had the chance, it won't abuse the data we have collected about us. We have to assume that what they can do to our data in this system will be done sooner or later. Unfortunately, in addition to the events of the past few weeks, there have been a lot of practical examples of this, namely, how governments abuse their everyday lives, either for campaign purposes or for discrediting opposition politicians. Just think of the number of cases where data and information managed by public authorities are already available to media close to the government, especially in cases where they are detrimental to opposition representatives or to their own oligarch, which has already been disgraced. Here, for example, is the Snowden case at an international level, where it may also be pointed out that in a democracy much older than we are, it is not certain that I can call it more advanced in terms of the current American campaign, but in a democracy with an older and greater history, it is without further delay that the state apparatus uses the data it manages illegally against its own citizens. In this spirit, we must take up any bill that provides for the recording and processing of our personal data, including the proposal before the Honourable Parliament at the moment. In the debate on the bill, the need for harmonisation of laws and the use of passenger data records in the fight against crime, we would like to draw attention to the fact that we have become vulnerable to power because of the Fidesz governments' actions in the field of data protection. [[16.40]] Hungarian citizens have lost in particular in relation to data protection and data security regulations implemented by Fidesz-KDNP in Hungary since 2010. Legal and technical guarantees may be used to protect personal data. The most powerful technical guarantee, as appropriate, is that no personal data is processed or technically impossible to access. Compared to technical guarantees, legal guarantees are always possible, as they can be easily altered or even removed. In order to be able to fulfil their purpose, it is necessary, on the one hand, to monitor their compliance by effective means, and not to break the rules that constitute legal guarantees without consequences, and, on the other hand, to prevent amendments that undermine legal guarantees by the Constitutional Protection Body, such as the Constitutional Court, from changing the rules containing guarantees. As I pointed out earlier, these institutional conditions do not exist at the moment in Hungary, unfortunately, on the contrary, they have weakened in recent years, so it is difficult for opposition parties to make a choice with this proposal, since, recognising and bearing in mind the national security aspects that I said at the beginning of my speech, we have unfortunately not been able to ignore how much and how much data was misused during the governance of Fidesz-KDNP in the last six years. Accordingly, we will establish our political position, while respecting the tasks of harmonisation of laws. Thank you for the floor, Mr President.
u2016-09-27-149	I am asking my fellow Members if anyone else would like to comment on the debate. [[There's no candidate.]] I do not see a candidate, so the general debate is closed. I will ask Secretary Károly Kontra if he wishes to comment. [[For signal:]] It says yes. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2016-09-27-150	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, I also explained in the expozee that the primary objective of the proposed legislation is to comply with the obligations of harmonisation, and I highlighted the transposition of passenger data legislation. In addition, the bill introduced a number of new institutions, such as infringements, public employment and disaster management. I would now like to turn to your contributions and to your response. I would like to thank my fellow Member, Imre Vas, for his statement of support from the Fidesz Group. Thank you very much for supporting this proposal in view of the importance of the proposed legislation. I think I am not exaggerating if I say that this also contributes to making Hungarian people, Hungary, safer for the future. I would like to answer the following on behalf of Mr Tamás Harangozó's comment. The hardest thing he could do was complain about why court officials act in infringement cases. That was one of his excuses - while Kati Kovács is doing it - do not call me again! If you listen to me, I'll thank you. Well, I'm going to answer why court officials are acting on certain infringement cases. I would like to say that this regulation was included in the proposal on the basis of a proposal from the National Court of Justice. This was necessary in order to speed up cases, to relieve judges and court secretaries, honourable Member. I would also like to highlight one more point regarding this comment and the solution to the proposal. Their proceedings are not general, they can only act in certain ways, so they are not entitled to decide on the whole range of cases. That is what I would like to draw attention to. His second point is why the transposition of the PNR Directive was not resolved in the so-called terrorist package, in this connection, honourable Member, I would like to say that the terror package was submitted on 19 April 2016 and that the official translation of the directive in Hungarian was completed afterwards. So this is the explanation for this solution. As regards his third criticism or comment, the system of facial analysis was shared because the tasks relating to the management of the register when KEKKH ceased to exist will be transferred to the Ministry of Interior, and the analytical tasks will be transferred to the institute of experts. So this is a practical explanation, honourable Member. As regards the amendment of the Communications Act, it is not necessary because the bodies that would have enjoyed the highest call priority of the telecommunications service providers will be able to communicate under the EDR system. That's what I'd like to say. So I propose to the honourable Member that if amendments or amendments are tabled, we stand before the debate. The Ministry of Interior has a tradition of conciliation. We have now chosen the method that we would like to agree after the amendments have been tabled, if that is what is needed, so I would ask you to use it if you really think it is important to improve the objectives achieved by the bill. Thank you very much. I would also like to respond to the comments made by Congressman Mátyás Firtl. Mr President, in his detailed statement, in which he explained the importance of the bill and why it is beneficial for Hungary, the Hungarian people, he said that he was proposing its adoption and support. Congressman, I want to thank you for that. Thank you for your support. I hope that they will also support it in the vote. I would also like to thank Mr Gábor Staudt, representative of Jobbik, for his contribution. He said in summary at the beginning of his speech that they had not yet decided on the outcome of their position on the proposal in the vote. I would like to offer you this, because your criticism partly coincides with the comments of the MSZP representative, and I would not repeat this now, but I would like to draw attention to the possibility of conciliation after the proposal for amendment. I would ask the congressman to use this. We are at our disposal and we also hope that a solution will be found that will help your group to support and vote in favour of this proposal. I'm asking you to take this opportunity. Thank you very much. Mr Sallai R. Benedek, Member of the LMP, in his contribution, which I would also like to thank, has made criticisms of the proposal. I can recommend with great respect that you submit amendments, and if they are formulated, if they really consider it important to adopt rules that you can support, then use the consultation offered by the Ministry of the Interior. However, I would like to reject one statement. He said that during the six years of the Fidesz government, a series of data abuses took place. I would like to reject this statement, which does not correspond to reality. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, Once again, I would like to thank you for your contributions to the general debate. I trust that, as a result of these comments and the amendments to be tabled and subsequent negotiations, Parliament will be able to adopt a law that will at this time contribute to ensuring that the Hungarian people, Hungary, are safe, comply with EU legal harmonisation obligations and that we can create rules that will benefit Hungary, Hungary's country. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-09-27-151	The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. We now have the bill on the Habsburg Otto Foundation and the XXXVIII of 1992 on public finances. Act LXV of 2006 amending certain related laws Act CLXXXI of 2011 on the judicial records of civil society organisations and related procedural rules. joint general debate on the draft law amending the law until closure. [[16.50]] Presentations submitted by MEPs János Lázár, Zsolt Semjén, Imre Vejkey and György Rubovszky T/12176. and T/12177. available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr Imre Vejkey, the author of the item on the agenda.
u2016-09-27-152	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Archduke Károly Habsburg, expressing the intention of the Habsburg family, offered the legacy of the last Austro-Hungarian heir to the throne, Otto Habsburg. The Government of Hungary welcomed the offer with joy and honour, and considers it important that the estate be placed in a decent place and in a decent manner. The place of Otto Habsburg's legacy in Budapest is of great importance, embracing an entire century, creating a worthy memory of the last Hungarian king, Happy IV. It also expresses the connection of the Habsburg family to Hungary. For the purpose of this respect, and in recognition of Ottó Habsburg's oeuvre, his outstanding performance in Hungary and in the case of Hungarians was prepared on the basis of the proposed laws. Ladies and gentlemen, You should know that Otto Habsburg's life has been intertwined with the fate of Hungarian freedom and independence since childhood, as well as with the fate of Christian Europe. Ottó Habsburg was born on 20 November 1912 in Reichenau, the last Hungarian king, Happy IV. As the firstborn son of Charles and Princess Zita Bourbon. One day after his 4th birthday, he became a prodigal of the Holy Crown, and in the great political reorganization of 1918, the young heir to the throne found himself in a completely new position: the Monarchy ended, and thus the position he was meant to fulfill. His life's work is also instructive for today's generations because he is exemplary in pointing out that whatever can happen to humans can be in a completely different environment, he must remain faithful to his country and faith. After World War I, he became poor because his family's wealth was taken away by the so-called Habsburg laws. At the age of seven, he was forced to flee Austria, so from 1919 he lived in Switzerland, in Madeira in the autumn of 1921 and in Spain in 1922. He spent the thirties in Belgium, the first half of the 40's in the United States, and after World War II he settled in Pöcking, Bavaria. Austria was first visited in 1966 and Hungary only in 1989. He was tirelessly trying to make amends to the fatal mistake made by Emperor Franz Joseph on 28 July 1914, which led to the redeployment of the political map of Europe, including the borders of Hungary, at a great power level. At the time of the change of regime in Hungary, he tried to support Hungarians in international political life on a number of issues, standing up to the end for the Hungarians of the disconnected territories, for our autonomy efforts, for our free language and religious practice. From 1936 he was a member of the Pan-European Union, from 1957 he became Vice-President and from 1973 he became President. He was a member of the European Parliament between 1979 and 99 with the mandate of the CSU faction, where he found that while the European Union is growing stronger and the Christian roots on which it is based are increasingly being called into question. He believed that the future of our continent, and thus the so-called Western world, was or will fail to see whether Europe would succeed in quitting Christophobia. He experienced deep pain that the attempt to recognise Christian roots as an important element of European identity in the preamble to the EU Constitution failed. Ladies and gentlemen, They should also know that Prince Károly Habsburg, who is Otto Habsburg's firstborn and eldest son, has contacted the Government of Hungary, that the family and relatives are ready to work together with the Hungarian state in order to get Otto Habsburg's spiritual legacy from Vienna to Budapest, and with the name Ottó Habsburg Institute, an intellectual workshop can be established, a well-known one that will be suitable for the spiritual and written heritage, the preservation of the library and research. This institution would be placed in the Royal Palace of Buda. Ladies and gentlemen, They need to know that in 2006, the possibility of setting up public foundations has ceased and that the possibility of the government setting up a foundation is also to join foundations. Experience so far, as is well illustrated in the present case, has shown that in exceptional cases, however, there is a need to establish foundations founded by the government. Ladies and gentlemen, Beyond party political interests, in order to promote the economic and cultural interests of our country, it is exceptionally necessary to express the importance of the foundation to be established in some cases, also by authorising the Parliament to establish a foundation by the government. The placement of the Habsburg Ottó legacy in Budapest is an outstanding opportunity for the general public to be informed of the archduke and his work, while at the same time providing significant support for the historical and political research of professionals. It is also a question of history philosophy to place the legacy here, reminding Hungarian people that Hungary was the leading authority of Central Europe, which seems to be playing a stronger role today. In the future, the provisions of the bill will allow the foundation of these foundations of principle, but often of greater importance. On the basis of the above, the purpose of the legislative proposals is to amend the detailed rules on public foundations and foundations, which would enable the government to establish foundations with separate laws. The amendment also covers the amendment of the Act on the Rules of Procedure of Civil Organisations, which sets out the procedural rules for the registration of foundations established by the Government and includes a mandate for the Government to designate the person entitled to exercise the founding rights. Ladies and Gentlemen, On this basis, I ask you to support the T/12176 on the Habsburg Otto Foundation. Legislative proposal XXXVIII of 1992 on public finances. Act and Act LXV of 2006 amending certain related laws Act CLXXXI of 2011 on the judicial records of civil society organisations and related procedural rules. T/12177 on the amendment of Law T/12177 Bill No. 1. I would like to inform the Honourable Parliament that the parliamentary faction of KDNP supports both legislative proposals. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]] [[17.00]]
u2016-09-27-153	I now give the floor to State Secretary Pál Völner.
u2016-09-27-154	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, The Government of Hungary is happy to comply with the offer of Archduke Károly Habsburg, and we do so because, in our view, Ottó Habsburg's oeuvre represents an exemplary quality on the map of European politics. Ottó Habsburg, as President of the Pan-European Union, Member of the European Parliament and Chief Patron of the Pan-European Picnic, played a prominent role in the creation of a Europe based on strong, Christian-social roots, as well as in the realization of the change of regime in Hungary. Otto Habsburg has always been proud of his attachment to Hungary. In an interview in 2005, he said that I was born in three languages: Hungarian, German and French. He stood up for a Europe based on Christian foundations all his life, regretting that the reference to our common heritage, the Christian faith, was left out of the European Constitution planned in 2005. Protecting this common heritage is one of the greatest challenges facing Europe today. Dear House, A memorandum of intent was signed in March 2016 between the Government of Hungary and Prince Charles Habsburg, which includes the following: through the Memorandum of Cooperation, the parties expressed their intention to establish a scientific, research and conference centre, Ottó Habsburg archive, which manages the entire legacy of Ottó Habsburg in a worthy manner in a unified collection, to facilitate scientific research of the legacy in view of its priority activities. As part of the national Hauszmann plan, the Buda Castle is used to accommodate the legacy and the archive to be created. The management of the estate will be transferred to the archive to be created for 99 years. The Government of Hungary undertakes to finance the establishment and operation of the archive in accordance with current legislation and budgetary possibilities. Furthermore, the legacy consists of the following parts: the political articles published in different languages, published books, book collections, studies and works based on discussions with heads of state and key politicians, the reports of 20 years of his work in the European Parliament, newspaper articles from the period of his return to Austria, correspondence, personal items, medals, including 2 thousand titles of honorary citizens, film and photo archives, and other documents and material monuments which the archduke intends to add to the legacy in the future. Ladies and gentlemen, It is a great honor and opportunity for Hungary to keep Otto Habsburg's legacy in Hungary. In order to achieve the above objectives, we ask you to support the bill. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-09-27-155	The speeches will now be followed by the speeches by the representatives, and in the first round by the keynote speakers. I give the floor to Imre Vas, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2016-09-27-156	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, T/12176 on the Habsburg Otto Foundation. The Hungarian Fundamental Law undertakes, as part of our national creed, to cultivate and preserve our heritage, our unique language, Hungarian culture, the language and culture of Hungarian ethnicities, the natural and man-made values of the Carpathian Basin; and we believe that our national culture is a rich contribution to the diversity of European unity. These lines rhyme very much to the pan-European idea world so often promoted by Otto Habsburg. The pan-European movement intends to create a united Europe in such a way that, while the peoples of the continent retain their national cultural identity, to increase the cultural heritage of the continent with their preserved language and culture, and to make it more colourful and valuable. A united Europe by the pan-European movement is therefore by no means a melting pot of peoples or cultures. In this - if you like - philosophical but practical debate, you have clearly voted for the Europe of nations and fought for the rest of your life to achieve this. Otto Habsburg devoted his life to the idea of creating a united Europe, but Archduke Otto, extremely active in politics, did not want to regain his father's imperial throne. Adolf Hitler offered the possibility of Austrian restoration, if he was willing to join Nazism - the young archduke strongly and clearly rejected the offer. It is no coincidence, therefore, that the idea of the Danube Confederation was formulated very early in the day. He confessed that the countries of the former Austro-Hungarian Monarchy would provide sufficient guarantees in Central Europe against all totalitarian regimes, national and international socialism, the brown and red dictatorship. In essence, the Confederacy Plan would have meant the restoration of the balancing role that ended with the destruction of the Austro-Hungarian Monarchy, and its absence was clearly clear during the period between the two world wars. Ottó Habsburg's spiritual and spiritual greatness proves that after his persecution, expulsion, and many humiliations, he did not hesitate to defend the interests of his country, Hungary and Austria. After receiving German citizenship in 1978, in 1979 he was nominated as CSU MEP. The gesture by which on 8 July 1982 a resolution was adopted to place an empty chair in the Chamber of the European Parliament, whose task was to remind the world of the empty, not yet occupied place of the nations living behind the Iron Curtain. As the only Hungarian MEP in the European Parliament, he was pleased to be the spokesperson for the Hungarian case, as he repeatedly stated that one of Hungary's most beautiful dreams, one of the most important goals of his life, was to promote and achieve Hungary's membership of the European Union. The Pan-European Picnic series of 1989 was closely connected with his name. Europe's merits are inexhaustible in the breakdown of its internal borders. He considered the Europe of small states to be harmful and even dangerous. He saw the benefit of European integration not primarily in the economy, in the enlarged possibilities of economic development, but in politics, culture and, above all, in the security of the continent, in the elimination or exclusion of the possibilities of international terrorism and regional conflicts in principle. These thoughts also stem from persecution and the experience of the two world wars; it would be good to find sufficient breeding ground not only in Hungary but also in as many Member States of the European Community as possible. The idea of the Danube Confederation today, if we perceive it correctly, is understood by the Visegrád Four, because we must believe in the power of Central European cooperation. Let us not forget that, despite Otto Habsburg's seven decades of forced absence, he managed to keep alive his demanding, Hungarian-language preparedness, and he always took the case of Hungary with humility and always with his heart. [[17.10]] In view of what has been said, this is why I consider the bill before us, which calls on the Hungarian Government to establish the Habsburg Otto Foundation, to be appreciated and, if possible, to be promoted. Only 1120/2016 can be identified. It also has a government decision. The Government welcomes Otto Habsburg's legacy and considers it important to place the estate in a decent place and manner, in order to call on the Prime Minister's general deputy and the Minister in charge of the Prime Minister's Office to carry out the necessary consultations and to take the necessary measures to place Otto Habsburg's legacy in the Castle in Buda. As has already been said, T/12177. a legislative proposal creates the legal environment under which the government can establish a foundation. However, this may only be necessary in exceptional cases, such as the present one. That is why I also call on the opposition groups to support the placement in Budapest of Otto Habsburg's legacy spanning the century above party political interests. I am convinced that the estate must have its place in the Castle of Buda. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-09-27-157	I now give the floor to Congresswoman Anita Heringes, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group.
u2016-09-27-158	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, I believe that no one in this House is questioning the spiritual greatness of Otto Habsburg and the greatness of his actions. The Patros of the speeches so far would also be understandable in the name of Ottó Habsburg to give this name to the foundation, but we have a lot of questions about this proposal, because in 2006 the MSZP government decided to abolish the possibility of establishing public foundations to ensure the continued provision of public service by the Parliament, the government. But for this reason and in this context, it created the possibility of amending the Public Finance Act as an institution for the so-called chapter appropriation for support purposes. The construction of chapter-based appropriations for support purposes is fully capable of replacing the institution of the public fund. The provisions on such special appropriations allow for a more transparent, efficient and cheaper use of public funds. It is precisely because we are standing in the walls of this Parliament, and that we have seen a lot of things from you over the last six years, which is why you have had a bad feeling about this initiative, and just as I have said, not about Otto Habsburg, because we think that his actions and his spiritual size deserve a lot of things between Parliament's walls, but that this initiative is not credible and has a bad feeling. Just because we don't understand why they're going against this government decision in 2006 so that the government can't create public foundations, why they don't choose the other method, which would be much more transparent, it would be more normal to supervise public funds. Unless it is because the government wants to eliminate the public money in the same way as the Hungarian National Bank. That's why, because we've seen this before, and that's because you're talking about setting up foundations for your reasons, so you're probably gonna want to create a few more of these in the future, which may not be such a big and famous person anymore, but you're gonna be able to bring us people who aren't acceptable to everyone. That is why we do not understand why they take this step in this way and in this form. Obviously, they're doing this for a reason. It is clear that the majority of the government has thought this step well, and they tie this foundation to Otto Habsburg's name because they know that the opposition is less able to speak against it, resisting this proposal, since everyone can only agree with Otto Habsburg's name and such a great name. That's why we're afraid that later on, on the basis of your plans, they'll set up foundations similar to other names, even less acceptable names. At the same time, we do not oppose the creation of a bill on the recording of Otto Habsburg's memory, the transparent promotion of his legacy, and therefore the MSZP faction will submit an amendment to the bill on the Habsburg Otto Foundation. Please consider whether this is the right way to make a decision. The legacy must be preserved, and the spirit of Otto Habsburg must be preserved, but they have chosen a form that, if you were not in government and had not taken the steps that have been taken in recent times, we would believe in the path that my fellow Members have said. Thank you very much.
u2016-09-27-159	I now give the floor to Mr István Szávay, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group, who will give his speech on the pulpit.
u2016-09-27-160	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Mr. Secretary. Dear fellow Members, We have two legislative proposals ahead of us, one of which is Ottó Habsburg, who died in 2011, the last Hungarian king, IV. Charles wishes to refer his son's legacy to the activities of a public benefit foundation to be established by the government. The other wishes to create the necessary legal conditions for this, because, as we have already heard, since a 2006 amendment of the law, the government cannot establish such a foundation in Hungary. This bill sets specific, short deadlines for the courts to register or classify as a public benefit the foundations to be set up by the government in the future - and I believe that it is justified, unfortunately, the plural number. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that we believe that Otto Habsburg's life and work must be presented to a few, and that, I think, very nicely and solemnly, has also been done by my fellow Members before me, of course I will not be completely indebted to that myself. The perception of Otto Habsburg's person is far from as divisive as the assessment of his family's historical role, and of course there is a need to say a few words about this. Undoubtedly, on the one hand, the offspring of the ruling family that, over the centuries, has brought suffering and destruction upon our country, whose members have executed Batthyány and the Arad thirteen, forced the great prince into exile, persecuted Protestant believers, destroyed our revolutions and our freedom struggles, oppressed our people, colonized and exploited our country. At the same time, let us not forget that, after the agreement, our nation's amazing economic, social and cultural development was also achieved during the Habsburg reign, which led to the growth of factories, industrial companies, commercial banks, museums, theatres and modern cities from almost nothing, in number and in wealth, the Hungarian population, railway lines, and the Hungarian agriculture, whose products also reached distant continents, also started to grow. In the decades of dualism, in the community of state, Hungary became a European great power with Austria, and with the passing of years and decades the portrait of Lajos Kossuth was placed on the wall of many families in the language of the people with the gentle portrait of Ferenc Jóskavá. Our successful catch-up to the more developed West has fought with honor on the four fronts, but it has finally lost World War I, Europe's second communist dictatorship, the Hungarian Council republic and XX. The unparalleled injustice of the century, the country mutilation of Trianon, ended. Ottó Habsburg was only 6 years old in 1918 and fled from his father's raging empire with his family to Switzerland and the island of Madeira, from which he could only return to Austria in 1968 and Hungary after the change of regime. Dear Parliament, However, in Otto Habsburg's exile in foreign countries, he did not forget us Hungarians, but also his other, unfortunately, people of his former empire today. Undoubtedly, he fought for a united Europe, but in free and sincere cooperation between individual nations, as well as for a Union based on Christian foundations, which will succeed in fighting the 21st century. The challenges of the century. It would be nice to be a member of such a European Union today. [[17.20]] His work has in many cases been effective in supporting the various aspirations of Hungary, and his attachment to Hungary is more than ever demonstrated by the fact that his heart was placed at his request in the Archabbey of Pannonhalm. In May this year, the news was that according to the agreement between the family and the government, the Habsburg Historical Institute can organize and manage the vast and diverse material and intellectual legacy. This task would be taken over by the future Habsburg Otto Foundation. For our part, we believe that probate care in the form of a foundation is supposed to be a good idea, especially knowing that the Habsburg research in the form of an institution is in the hands of a well-defined spiritual circle. The question is, therefore, who exactly will sit in the board of directors of the foundation to be set up, because the proposal shows that the government is not in its right mind to put the operation of this foundation on a broad footing, either for the political sphere or for the civilians. It will be, I'm afraid, Mr. Secretary of State, as from the National Remembrance Committee: the government will tell you, the Fidesz, how important a national matter is, and then they won't let anyone outside their own people. We believe that there should also be a structure for this foundation, such as for the Public Foundation of the Centre for Democracy behind the Tom Lantos Institute and the Institute for Democratic Transformation. Or I can take as an example the Foundation for the European Interest Representative of the Hungarian National Communities operating the Hunineu Office in Brussels, where members are delegated by both foreign and Hungarian political parties. I would not say that the latter foundation is a scandal, that it serves only the national political hobbies of László Kövér and his cross-border people, and spends most of the resources on quasi-fidesz campaign events and Transylvanian village days rather than portraying the problems and grievances of the separated Hungarian communities as a genuine lobby organisation and taking them to European level. Therefore, Jobbik can support the establishment of the Foundation itself in principle, but we would like to see clearly in that respect - and I hope that we can get some answers from the Secretary of State on this - exactly how and with whom this organisation will work. Dear Parliament, The draft legislation which would allow the government to establish foundations, which should be registered with special short deadlines and qualified as public benefit, is linked to the establishment of the Habsburg Ottó Foundation. However, we have serious reservations about this proposal. The civil sector in Hungary is struggling with problems, one of which is the scandalous lengthening of decisions and administrative activities relating to the courts. The only answer the government has is to open a way for itself by speeding up the registration of foundations that are important to it, rather than starting to solve the problem complex as a whole and finally presenting a civil law or its comprehensive amendment, of course by consulting stakeholders and conducting extensive consultations with representatives of the civil sector. This should be done according to Jobbik, not once again in self-interest, by means of a law that has, in recent years, been proven to be bleeding from a thousand wounds and would be highly timely for a thorough review of its experience. It is not, therefore, with regard to this proposal, my fellow Member Vejkey, which you have mentioned that the extraordinary importance of the foundation must now be emphasised with this amendment, but precisely what my fellow Member has referred to before me is that, under the pretext of this proposal, you are opening a loophole, abolishing a limit so far, probably not by accident, and in the future, you will be free to set up any foundation without any kind of control or control. By the way, of course, we know that the practice of the situation or individualised legislation on the part of Fidesz is far from new. Unfortunately, in recent years, we have seen many sad examples of one or another of the Fidesz Members using the Parliament for his petty purposes. Just to keep it narrow: In June 2015 we discussed Szilárd Németh's bill, which enabled Csepel to place their hands on the Labour Home Foundation, which had been acquired by the local left after the regime change, and thus on the cultural house maintained by the foundation and its beautiful theatre hall. The civil law was still touched, and it was not important for the government and the governing parties to make comprehensive amendments and bring them to the House, but all that happened was that, for the sake of an important matter for a Member, at some point, the civil law was opened or rewritten, or more precisely: you rewritten it. The bill before us, or at least the part of it that I have analysed above, proves precisely that there has not been any meaningful governance in Hungary since the refugee crisis started, but only cheap political communication is taking place in front of us. The aim of this is to distract public attention from the sad experiences of everyday life, the crisis in education, health care, hundreds of thousands of talented and diligent Hungarians from their departure abroad, the development of a mafia state linked to Fidesz and the spectacular enrichment of pro-government oligarchs or the total gleichschalt of the media, culture and even the civil sphere. Instead of developing a clear concept to support and solve the problems of the civil society sector in Hungary, which often carries out public or municipal tasks in addition to the debate, the government has all its weight on the area and, above all, on its financing. As a result, for example, NGOs that are not considered friends are still starting with the calmness of those who do not stand a chance on the proposals of the National Cooperation Fund, which allocates public resources to the civil sector. But as a result, it can continue to function without any problems today, led by Zsuzsa Hegedűs, Prime Minister's Chief Advisor, all Children Lakjon Well-being Foundation, which, in violation of the law, refused to report on his activities for years, while other organisations may fear the consequences even in the event of a few days late. Although Parliamentary Secretary Zoltán Kovács has repeatedly promised to investigate the affairs of the Foundation, nothing has happened since then, even though my fellow Member Zoltán Magyar has denounced Zsuzsa Hegedűs due to the abundance of abuses. And going on to the list of examples, it obviously does not lack the connection between the days before, but today the Rákóczi Association has become a Fidesz event planning company this year with an extraordinary budget support of HUF 50 million, and the fact that Zsolt Németh Fidesz MEP has recently become a member of the presidency of the organization. Not to mention that, according to some information, not everyone believes that this amount should actually be spent on external purposes and programmes operated by the Rákóczi Association. Ladies and gentlemen, Unfortunately, the government's intention is not to try to address the sector's problems through extensive consultations and a new civil law, but rather to hide behind its representatives' motion only in its own interests from the Bermuda Triangle of sluggish administration, excessive bureaucracy and multiple overloaded court systems. Unfortunately, we have plenty of ideas to offer. In recent years, I have spoken or urged the government in the form of written questions in order to solve problems affecting the civil sector, unfortunately with few results. There's a lot of trouble. Let us look at some of what the proposal before us should be about, for example, in addition to opening up important issues for the government. Although electronic administration has improved significantly over the last two years with regard to the registration of civil society organisations, the system is still too bureaucratic. Even though simplified procedures were introduced for registration of associations, they did not respect the 15 plus 15-day deadline, because the courts were burdened, often dealt with in a shared way by judges, or there are simply few. However, judicial interpretations differ, for example, according to one judge, not all pages should be signed, and another says so. It is also unclear whether a resolution should be sought from the Hungarian Academy of Sciences when using the social or scientific name of a given period, or in which cases it is necessary. It is also extremely difficult to transfer organizational changes. While, for example, the Kaposvári, Kecskeméti or Győr Tribunal usually responds to a request for a change within a month and a half, the Egri Tribunal is unable to do so in two and a half months, usually in four months, and the capital city in more than six months. [[17 .30]] I have received complaints from a number of civil society organisations whose data changes have been recorded in more than a year and a half only by the court, who have always followed the required amendments, only months have passed between court decisions. This is the task, problem and difficulty of a civil society organisation today, and in this situation, you see that it is perfectly okay and fair that civil society law is opened in such a way that foundations for the government must be registered by a court within 20 days. Of course, we cannot accept this in this form. But let's keep going while we're here, and we have a chance to talk about it. We welcome the publication of the annual financial closure. At the same time, it also represents a serious annual additional cost of tens of thousands of HUF for an organization whose annual income does not exceed 10,000 HUF. A solution should also be sought, Mr Secretary of State, so that the state does not swallow the 1 plus 1 percent personal income tax offerings of taxpayers who meet their obligation to pay back over HUF 200,000 late. In this case, the laws currently in force and, in my opinion, severely restricting them are punishing not the late taxpayer, but the beneficiary civil society organisation. Only last year, the state took almost 160 million forints from more than 30,000 people, and this money was sorely missing from the cash register of many NGOs. Jobbik says that if a taxpayer fulfils its outstanding tax liability, the State will then also transfer 1 plus 1 per cent of its offer to the recipient church or civil society organisation and do not steal it. And speaking of 1 percent, unfortunately, we still don't know if the government is planning to put an end to this tax-offering system. Mr András Tállai, State Secretary, replied only to a written question in this regard that the Ministry of National Economy does not propose a change to the current system, which also means that other ministries may propose the abolition of 1 plus 1 percent. Taking into account the shrinking potential of a truly independent civilian sector, such a decision would be a huge cut in the veins. You have reduced the budget support of the National Cooperation Fund for this year, which was 5.4 HUF last year, but only 4.8 billion HUF this year. Just for the record, the many cursed and obviously damned governments of Gyurcsány and Bajnai have spent more than double on the support of civilians than the national and civil government, which is supposed to support communities and civil self-organizations. Every year, I have tabled an amendment to the budget, but Fidesz has never supported an increase in the amount allocated to civilians. Returning to funding and regular use of resources, more attention should also be paid to supporting the operation of the civil sector and cooperation between the corporate sector and the civil sector. In principle, this would be supported by civil information centres, but in practice 20 CICs operate in 20 ways; CIC, yes, this is the abbreviation. There are examples, such as Bács-Kiskun County, where local civilians regularly receive newsletters about applications, CIC employees hold various training courses, visit non-self-organized professional events, and actively participate in, for example, the National Cooperation Fund elections. Unfortunately, however, we also know of a number of civil information centres that are purely formal, but, contrary to the positive examples, I would not yet mention them. According to the relevant legislation, these centres are responsible for supporting the functioning of civil society organisations, strengthening their sustainability and facilitating the proper use of subsidies from the general government subsystem. The annual operation of the centres established in 19 counties and in the capital can be applied for by various civil society organisations, which would be a welcome direction. At the same time, the lack of feedback on the work carried out and the scarcity of resources hamper their proper functioning in many ways. Unfortunately, their activities do not generally go beyond the competent county seats or certain district centres. Dear Parliament, There are therefore a number of problems affecting the functioning of the civil sector in Hungary, which are sorely lacking clear government intentions to remedy. You seem to be at least partially aware of the current realities and obviously do not want to go up in the care of Otto Habsburg's legacy, and to be embarrassed in front of the Habsburg family by the fact that the registration or classification of a foundation is excessive. That's why they'd rather open a back door on the system, an emergency exit. In fact, this is a recognition of the sluggishness and over-grabbing of the administrative and judicial system that is hard on the Hungarian civil sector in many cases due to lack of human and material resources. You recognize what Jobbik has been saying for years now that the current civil society framework in Hungary is unlivable, and therefore calls for urgent changes. Instead of extending this law and only amending it in line with government interests, I would suggest that you just go along the path that all other civil society organisations have to go through, just like with the entry. Experience it, Mr Secretary of State, Congressman Vejkey, and experience that three out of twenty courts would immediately release it, and that the majority would replace the shortage, while, say, reject the Habsburg Otto Foundation that you intend to create from one or two places. It would therefore be good for the government to experience on its own merits the catastrophic operation of the system, how insane and pointless bureaucracy and the sluggishness of the courts make noble intentions and excellent initiatives impossible. Then perhaps they would finally be willing to do what I have done in this speech to justify thoroughly, and I have supported it many times, and, after due social consultation, I would finally present a comprehensive amendment to the civil law. Dear Parliament, As has been said so far, Jobbik can therefore support the establishment of the Habsburg Ottó Foundation, along with ensuring that this organization operates on a broad basis and making sure that it is not just another Fidesz party foundation. At the same time, we strongly reject the fact that the government can establish a foundation with short deadlines, highlighting itself from the strangling arms of bureaucracy in Hungary. Instead, we propose a common and thorough review of the legislation on the functioning of the civil sector. For this work, I would be happy to recommend the help of Jobbik and the experience of our experts. As a political community preparing for government, we want a Hungary where the government does not prevent it, but supports and supports the effective functioning of the civil sector in all possible ways, in the public interest, to eliminate social inequalities and to raise national culture. The implementation of this will not even be delayed in 2018. If we see the government's clear intention to find a solution to the most pressing problems affecting the civil sector and not only to its own interests, we will be able to come back to this issue, but until then we cannot support this part of the bill. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-09-27-161	I now give the floor to István Ikotity, the lead speaker of the LMP Group.
u2016-09-27-162	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, The LMP agrees with the objective of providing a foundation with the care of Otto Habsburg's legacy. Ottó Habsburg's oeuvre, his outstanding efforts for the cause of Hungarianism, is appreciated by all of us. Otto Habsburg helped create and expand the European Union. He worked along his Christian social convictions as a member and interim president of the European Parliament. He's always had perspectives, always found a job for himself. In 1979, as a newly elected member of the European Parliament, he set up a symbolic empty seat for the countries of Eastern Europe beyond the Iron Curtain. On 22 July 1989, he sent a message to the participants of the Pan-European Picnic:, I assure my compatriots that I will do my best within the framework of the European Parliament and the Pan-European Union to ensure that a free and democratic Hungary becomes a full member of our European Community as soon as possible. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. It has also supported and supported the membership of Hungary, Slovenia and Croatia in the EU. However, Turkey's accession was rejected. Again, I would like to mention Croatia in the first place. They're basically our countrymen. People whose history is related to Hungarian history. If you visit Croatia today, in most churches there are only Hungarian saints. In Slovenia, only Austrian saints are found. There have been difficulties in the relationship between the two countries, but this also happens in a good marriage. The Turks are a different problem. They are a great power in themselves. Turkey has a different task. I do not want Turkey, like Ireland or Portugal, to enter the EU. [[17.40]] Here, in Germany, the CDU is also of the opinion that a separate relationship should be established with Turkey. * Noha Ottot Habsburg's mother had him teach languages as a child so that he could benefit later, during his reign, but he could use his great language skills as a politician. In addition to French and German, he also called Hungarian one of his mother tongues. He wrote books in several languages on historical, political and social policy issues. He was anti-communist and anti-fascist. He had a large family, raised seven children. He was welcomed with great enthusiasm around the regime change in Hungary. Some were worried because they saw the horror of the kingdom's return, but the real reasons were the earlier silence, during the years of communism, the hostile attitude towards the historical past, the emperor, and not least the intelligent words of a truly European, speaking Hungarian. Ottó Habsburg was a citizen of 60 Hungarian settlements. His memory has been guarded by many. Let the Habsburg Otto Foundation be established, which can focus exclusively on this task! But hold on a second. Why is the government setting up, thereby amending the Public Finance Act, the Law on the Court Register of Civil Organisations and other laws? Is it not that Ottó Habsburg really wants to use his important and noble cause to give the government the right to establish a foundation, with which he can use it later? Let's start with why the current government can't set up a foundation, and why it's all good. Since 2006, a new public foundation has not been possible. This special form covers a foundation that the Parliament, the government and the body of representatives of the local government could have created to ensure the continuous fulfilment of public tasks. However, this form of organisation has proved to be a clear dead end in the performance of state and municipal tasks. The elimination of the public foundation, in particular the exclusion of the creation of new ones, the decimation of old ones and the tightening of the rules, was justified because the institution of the public foundation became one of the main channels for the flow of public funds. The majority of the public foundations were only foundations on behalf of them. It didn't work out of its dedicated assets, but received regular budget support every year - as we think now the Habsburg Otto Foundation will - and it was difficult to redistribute this with limited control. In fact, they were created to give the founder an identity of interest in the benefits of the foundation form, such as property separation from the founder. However, this has just completely excluded the state from having any influence on the money earmarked for that purpose, which is completely unacceptable at systemic level from the point of view of democratic control. It was a beautiful example of the abusive use of the legal institution, that when the then and the current party of government felt threatened by the House of Terror before the 2002 change of government, the maintenance suddenly became a public foundation founded by a city with county rights in Debrecen, which immediately protected the institution from the state. This kind of financial independence is unacceptable in the case of public money. Thus, on a principled basis, the LMP agrees with the public cleansing since 2006. The problem in the last cycle was not that Fidesz touched the remaining public foundations, but that it did so by implanting purely political cadres. In order to exclude, for the future, the possibility of setting up or joining foundations as a form of public foundation as a type of organisation, the law stated in the 2016 amendment that any organisation that was entitled to establish a public foundation before the law entered into force could not establish or accede to a foundation after the entry into force of the law. This is now loosened up by the bill for the government. Instead of supporting public foundations from public finances, a special chapter-based appropriation may be set up by the legislator at the time. And indeed, this is still the opportunity of the government at all times, for example, to implement its current memory policy ideas. What is the reason for the need for this form of foundation now? And this story isn't just about the Habsburg Otto Foundation, because once Pandora's box opens, the government parties, the government foundations, have the future. Once again, this type of foundation will be a channel of public money laundering. In 2006, when public foundations were ordered to halt the functioning of the law, the old ones, in particular their farming, were restricted by strict provisions. These are not mandatory for new government foundations, as they only apply to public foundations registered before the entry into force of the amendment. I've gathered all the restrictions on which this new type of government foundation will be free. First, the public foundation may only participate in an entity in which it has at least a majority influence and in which its liability does not exceed the amount of its financial contribution. An entity set up by a public foundation shall not establish an additional entity and shall not acquire a holding in an entity. Then: the public foundation cannot create or join a foundation, nor can it be combined with it. The Foundation shall not be appointed to exercise its founding rights. The public foundation may grant direct or indirect support to the purposes of the articles of association every year, up to 5 per cent of its assets, but not more than 1 million forints. The invitation to tender shall be issued only if it is permitted by law or government decree and the invitation to tender includes the purpose of the aid, the conditions of the aid and the detailed arrangements for the settlement. So far, I've listed three, and I'm gonna have two more, but I'm gonna stop for a second. So these are the ones that will be free of the government foundations that will follow. I will continue the line with the fourth: the managing body indicated in the statutes of the public foundation shall report annually to the founder and publish the most important data of its management. You'll be free of this, too. The amendment of the articles of incorporation of the public foundation and its text combined with the amendment shall be published in the Hungarian Gazette or in the official paper of the municipality, unless this is the case, in the usual manner. You'll be free of this, too. We have one more important point, and this is that there is no justification for the procedural preferences granted by the bill. The registration of foundations is rather cumbersome, slow, numerous practical examples and problems could be listed. The previous speaker did so, especially considering how slow this is in some counties, how long it is at times. In the case of the special form now created, the system would accelerate. The acceleration is fine, we agree with it, civil society organisations have a lot of trouble with this, but why is it only accelerating in the case of these government foundations? What's with the priority status? Why don't you give all the foundations such a relief? In the case of simple foundations, the court shall examine within 30 days of the submission of the application whether there is no place for referral, for the rejection of the application of its own motion or for the replacement of the deficiency. In the case of a foundation created by the government, the bill states that it would be sufficient to do so within 5 days of the submission. Court registration would also be significantly accelerated, from the current 60 days to 20 days for foundations created by the government. If you are talking to the leaders of civil society organisations, then very often this complaint is made that it is terribly difficult for the foundations, as is the registration of other civil society organisations and associations, to make this distinction very unfair. [[17.50]] The simplified registration has not long since become a practice, and it is also noted that these deadlines are not always kept. Dear House, We're not sure that Otto Habsburg himself would support the government to set up foundations in these circumstances. We are in a difficult situation with regard to the legislative amendment package, because the primary objective of creating a foundation called Ottó Habsburg is to support it. But as the government does, and by opening it, sending forward the name of Otto Habsburg, and abusing it, we assume, as many great people's names have been abused in the last six years, we disagree in this way. We do not think it a good idea to open Pandora's box and then create government foundations, thus saving their political power into economic power. We believe that this process, which was terminated in 2006, which stopped the circulation of these public foundations in 2006, is not acceptable. We think that the May Other is the political faction thinks that we do not want to be partners in this. Thank you for your attention.
u2016-09-27-163	I am asking my fellow Members if anyone would like to comment on the debate. [[For signal:]] Yes, Congressman István Szávay has spoken to you.
u2016-09-27-164	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I think that, in addition to being extremely honored, it would perhaps also be useful from a practical point of view if Mr Secretary of State or Congressman Vejkey, who notes this proposal, were to respond in substance to what has been said here, to these points, and, let us say, not only to a close of State Secretary. I think it would be good and useful if we could actually argue a little about this case here in the House. I would be very curious to hear from Congressman Vejkey, confident that you may have a little more to do with this bill than just putting it in front of you and signing it. If that is the case, then you certainly have an opinion on the problems and the points that my fellow opposition Members and I have made here. If so, you may be able to answer the question as to why the government should open this extraordinary discount. You may then be able to answer the question whether you are planning to do so, or if I am encouraging Congressman Vejkey, or whether I am encouraging Mr Vas Imre, as well as demonstrating the expertise of a fairly wide-ranging polythesistor today, jumping on the various issues here as Super Mario, with good heart, I am encouraging you not to encourage or encourage me to speak, but I am asking whether the civil society can expect you to solve at least the issues and problems that are clearly well perceived by you in this bill in a manner that is appropriate for the government. If we could talk a little about this issue or get certain guarantees about it, then this could obviously shape our position on the assessment of this issue. Unfortunately, what we are seeing here, and I see that I have to agree with the other two opposition speakers, the other two fellow Members, that, for the time being, there is nothing here other than that you are hiding behind the name of a person, a person who is a person, and that in his speech also stressed and asked for the opposition's cooperation, with reference to that, you are hiding behind the name of a man who you believe will not have a particularly big debate here in this House, and in this context you will break down another administrative barrier, again giving the government another opportunity, another weapon, this time in terms of cultural policy. My MSZP fellow Member said that they might want to name a public foundation in the future about some divisive historical personality. Who is the divider in this regard is not certain that we will be on a platform with the Socialist Party, so I am not necessarily afraid of this, but it is undoubtedly true that we believe that this is indeed a right instrument and a right barrier, that the government has not, so far, been able to shape memory policy in this form or in such a way as it pleases, to create a foundation, a public foundation at all, and to provide such special rules for itself. Will we have a reassuring answer on this, Mr. Secretary, Congressman? Or it must be noted that what we have said or assumed here is, unfortunately, true in this form, and your ulterior intention is, in fact, to submit this bill, and otherwise it is not at all intended for the government, at least not in the coming years to submit a comprehensive amendment to the law in order to simplify the administrative and bureaucratic burden on civil society organisations in Hungary, but merely to think of itself when it is not opening this bill for the first time in a specific case. I look forward to your reply, let's discuss this matter, if you please. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-09-27-165	I now give the floor to Congresswoman Anita Heringes for a two-minute comment.
u2016-09-27-166	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr Secretary, please stand up and answer our questions in the debate, because you will not give your opinion in the closing words, but say to everyone here that you are not creating and opening up the opportunity to create a public foundation to lose your public money character here, as we have seen in the MNB Foundations. Say that they are not talking about foundations in plural because they intend to use this amendment for much different things later. This is the place for debate, and we are in Parliament's Chamber, so please give us your opinion on what you are about to do with this proposal, not in the closing room. Thank you.
u2016-09-27-167	I'm asking if anyone else would like to comment on the debate. [[No signal.]] This will probably leave the end, so these questions will be answered in the closing. I give the floor to Congressman Imre Vejkey, the author. [[István Szávay to Dr. Imre Vejkey: You are a coward.]]
u2016-09-27-168	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, thank you for supporting both legislative proposals by the government and the governing parties. In view of the fact that MSZP, Jobbik and LMP do not support both legislative proposals, I would like to conclude by expressing that Ottó Habsburg's oeuvre and memory are preserved with respect to the whole nation. Ottó Habsburg's name represents such quality [[István Szávay: We told you that.]] It is also on the political map of Europe and the world that loves freedom, which is unquestionable. It is therefore an excellent opportunity for Hungary to honour Ottó Habsburg's oeuvre on the basis of the family's decision, not in Vienna, but within the framework of a foundation established in Budapest. [[István Szávay: It is written for him in advance.]] Ladies and gentlemen, The purpose of the amendment of the law is therefore to give the Government the opportunity to establish a foundation on the basis of a separate law, i.e. the Parliament could be authorised by the Government to establish a foundation in priority cases. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen of the Council of the European Union, So it's not about automaticism, it's just about the fact that, by adopting the new law, the National Assembly would authorise the government to establish a foundation, which in this case is intended to direct the establishment of the Habsburg Otto Foundation. [[István Szávay: In the present case!]] establishing the necessary legislative framework for its establishment. On this basis, I would ask my fellow Members to support T/12176. Legislative bill No. T/12177 Bill No. 1. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. István Szávay: Bravo! Iron Applause!]]
u2016-09-27-169	Ladies and gentlemen, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. The 2013 CCXL on the implementation of penalties, measures, certain coercive measures and detention of infringements will now follow. General debate on the amendment of law and related legislation until closure. [[18.00]] The government referral T/12179. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr Pál Völner, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Justice, the rapporteur of the item on the agenda.
u2016-09-27-170	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear House, The amendments contained in the bill before you aim at creating new legal institutions and clarifying existing legislation in the field of criminal law, as suggested by the case law. Allow me to summarise the most important changes below. As is known, the European Court of Human Rights has repeatedly condemned our country due to crowded accommodation conditions in prisons and has called for an action plan to eliminate detention conditions in breach of the Convention in its so-called leading judgment of 10 March 2015. In addition, the Court considered it necessary to introduce an effective remedy in the event of an infringement of the prohibition of torture or inhuman or degrading treatment provided for in Article 3 of the European Convention on Human Rights, in order to prevent the occurrence of a breach of the law or to ensure adequate compensation in the event of an injury. With regard to similar cases pending, the court did not suspend the investigation. The implementation of the judgment shall be verified by the Ministerial Committee of the European Council on the basis of an action plan submitted by the Government. The Action Plan was sent to the Council of Europe on 9 December 2015. The primary objective of the bill is to complement the prison congestion extension programme undertaken in the Hungarian action plan with the instruments of legislation to help address the problem and to create an effective remedy system as defined in the court's judgment. I think it is absolutely important to mention that Hungary is not the only Europe facing the difficulties arising from prison congestion and, as a result of the violation of the treaty, the court has also issued a leading judgment against its censureful decisions, such as Italy and Russia, but also against Bulgaria, Greece, Poland and Romania. In the decision of the European Court of Human Rights, the European Court of Human Rights pointed out that a significant reduction in the term of imprisonment could be appropriate compensation. However, such reparation would not serve the criminal policy objectives for which the government was firmly committed already in 2010, i.e. strengthening public security and protecting law-abiding people. Reintegration detention, however, when the sentenced person spends the rest of his imprisonment in controlled conditions in a home assigned to him, is already a legal institution with guarantee rules to reduce congestion, but not to the detriment of public safety. In view of this, the bill extends the applicability of reintegration detention both in terms of staff and its duration. According to the amendment, it would cover not only those sentenced to imprisonment for the first time, but also those convicted of all miscarriages and non-received repeaters. On the other hand, it determines the time to be in reintegration detention, depending on the degree of guilt and with a longer duration, in the event of deliberate intention, it increases the previous six months to 10 months, while in the case of the careless perpetrator it increases the duration of the previous six months to one year. As a preventive remedy designated by the court, a new legal institution will be included in the Penalty Act, the possibility of lodging a complaint for breach of the conditions of accommodation to the commander of the penitentiary. On the basis of the complaint, the commander of the Institute shall take the necessary measures as far as possible to improve or compensate the accommodation conditions. If appropriate, you may also initiate the transfer of the prisoner, which will be decided by the National Command for Criminal Enforcement on the basis of current saturation indicators. [[Dr. István Hiller, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]] As prison developments progress, it will be realistic to expect that there will be a prison facility with capacity to be transferred without prejudice to the prisoner's right of contact. If the transfer would violate the prisoner's right of contact, judicial review of the decision taken may be initiated. Finally, the central element of the amendments aimed at eliminating the breach of the convention is the introduction of a domestic compensation procedure which is proportionate to the breach of rights due to congested accommodation conditions and which provides effective compensation. The new indemnification procedure will also be incorporated into the Prison Enforcement Act, complementing the scope of prison judicial proceedings. The prison judge may consider the claim for compensation as an independent, impartial body in a simple procedure, so that a short period of time is allowed to remedy the injury. Indemnities shall be granted for any day the prisoner has spent in accommodation conditions which infringe fundamental rights. The claim for compensation may be made within a limitation period of six months from the termination of the place where the fundamental rights are infringed. The penitentiary shall provide information on the detention conditions complained of in relation to the claim, attach an extract drawn up on the basis of the detention record and any other documents necessary for the assessment of the legal basis. The prison judge shall have special knowledge and experience when considering the relevant detention conditions. You can also make a decision on the basis of the prison judge's documents. Among other things, the prison judge is in line with the general rules of proceedings, on the basis of case files, the court secretary is also entitled to the proceedings. In the course of the procedure, the amount of cash compensation is determined by the prison judge within the statutory framework of the daily lot, with a minimum limit of HUF 1200 and a maximum limit of HUF 1600, by multiplying the specific amount of the daily item by the number of days spent under detention conditions which violate fundamental rights. This solution gives rise to judicial discretion, allowing the prison judge, together with the crowdedness, to assess all the accommodation conditions in breach of the existing fundamental rights and to establish compensation in proportion to the seriousness of the infringement. The amendment places the obligation to take action for payment of compensation in the role of the Minister of Justice. The payment shall be made within 60 days from the date of service of the decision. According to the amendment, the following claims should be met against compensation: a claim in the enforcement procedure for the recovery of child support charges, a civil claim in connection with a criminal offence, or a final compensation or damages charge awarded by a civil court for the execution of a prison sentence for which compensation has been established. The bill also provides clarification on the basis of comments on the field of practical practitioners and the application of the law, which will help to implement the law and make it easier and more transparent to regulate and operate individual legal institutions. Among these, I would like to highlight the modification of the joint placement of captive mothers and their children in detention facilities and detention facilities. The current Code of Correction only allows for this in the case of children born in the course of the execution of the sentence. The proposal extends the possibility of co-location and the mother may apply for a joint placement with her child under one year of age at the beginning of the imprisonment or the implementation of the correctional institution's education or at the time of the ordering of the pre-trial detention. The joint placement takes place in a special, specially designed department, in an environment that provides adequate care for the child. [[18.10]] Following an investigation conducted on the basis of an individual complaint notification, the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights initiated the establishment of a working group with the Minister for Justice to review the legislation in this regard. The working group examined the regulation of EU states and, following an analysis of the domestic situation, proposed extending the joint placement. By extending the scope of joint placement, therefore, the purpose of the bill is to eliminate discrimination concerning the right of the child to care by the mother. Mr President, Dear House, In the event of the adoption of the bill, in addition to the action plan sent to the Council of Europe, we intend that our country will be able to meet the requirements set out in the court's leading judgment, by establishing preventive and compensatory remedies. This may make it possible for further requests to be returned to national judgment by the court. The number of applications submitted to the court is constantly increasing. In January this year, there were 3500 cases, according to the latest figures, 5,000 cases before the Strasbourg court. In order to avoid the massive condemnations of the court and the payment of serious damages and other costs in euro by the Hungarian State, it is justified that the Hungarian compensation system should be put into effect as soon as possible, since only in case of a realistic solution can the court terminate the acceptance and examination of the applications. In view of all this, I ask the Honourable Parliament to support T/12179. Bill No. 1. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-09-27-171	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Good afternoon, everyone. We will now continue our work with keynote speeches. First, I give the floor to Mr László Salacz, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2016-09-27-172	Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, The Group of the Hungarian Civic Association of Fidesz supports T/12179. Legislative bill No.1, which is CCXL of 2013 on the implementation of penalties, measures, certain coercive measures and detention of infringements. Law and related amendments to other laws. The bill contains three package of amendments, on which I would like to discuss in detail. These are the next ones. The scope of reintegration detention is extended, and the proposal introduces as a preventive tool the possibility of a complaint based on a special title for crowded accommodation conditions to the commander of the penitentiary; a new compensation procedure is introduced to ensure effective compensation in proportion to the breach of the law. As can be found in the general justification of the bill, the European Court of Human Rights has called on our country to draw up an action plan to address the congestion of prisons and to introduce preventive or compensatory remedies in connection with the violation of Article 3 of the European Convention on Human Rights. The government decided to reschedule the development and provide the necessary resources at its meeting on 24 February 2016. In the management of congestion - also reflected in the action plan - the expansion of the capacity of prison institutions plays a key role. For this reason, a total of 6207 people will be accommodated. The purpose of this bill is to ensure, in addition to the action plan submitted on 9 December 2015, in accordance with the adopted report, that the necessary amendments are prepared to enable our country to comply with the requirements set out in the court's leading judgment, thereby enabling the court to return further requests to national judgment. The new legal institutions to be introduced, such as preventive redress and compensation, will be incorporated into the Prison Enforcement Act, and the date of entry into force of the amendment would be 1 January 2017. In order to reduce congestion, the bill extends the scope of applicability of reintegration detention as a criminal intervention, both in terms of staff and its duration. Reintegration detention shall be decided by the prison judge. In controlled circumstances, the sentenced person will use remote surveillance to check his place of residence to spend the remaining time in the property designated by him and approved by the prison judge, i.e. outside the penitentiary, thereby reducing congestion, but not at the expense of public safety. According to the amendment, this option would cover not only those sentenced for the first time, but also all those convicted of a miscarriage or non-received repeaters. On the other hand, the length of time to be spent in reintegration detention is longer depending on the degree of guilt. In the event of a deliberate offence, it increases the duration of the previous 6 months to 10 months, and in the case of a careless perpetrator to 1 year. As a preventive remedy designated by the court, a new legal institution will be included in the prison law: the possibility to lodge a complaint on grounds of accommodation in breach of the Convention. On the basis of the complaint, the commander of the Institute shall take the necessary measures as far as possible to improve or compensate the accommodation conditions. The new legal institution must comply with the efficiency requirements laid down by the court, which are as follows. The decision shall be taken within a short period of time, on an objective basis; the decision shall be duly justified; the decision shall be taken without delay; the amount of compensation awarded shall not be unreasonable, i.e. not unduly low, but may be less than that which would be judged by the court. In this spirit, the third most important amendment is the new indemnification procedure, which is also incorporated into the prison law, complementing the scope of the prison judicial proceedings. Indemnities shall be granted for any day the prisoner has spent in accommodation conditions which infringe fundamental rights. In the course of the procedure, the amount of financial compensation shall be determined by the execution judge by multiplying the specific amount of the daily lot he has determined by the days spent in detention conditions which violate fundamental rights. The day-to-day compensation shall be determined by the judge within the limits laid down by law. The lower limit of the daily lot is 1200 HUF and the upper limit is 1600 HUF. The joint placement of captive mothers and their children in the penitentiary or correctional institution should also be highlighted. The current legislation of the prison law only allows for this in the case of a child born in prison. The joint placement takes place in a special, specially designed department, in an environment that provides adequate care for the child. Ladies and gentlemen, Overall, a longer-term solution for reducing congestion can be introduced by amending legislation and increasing space. I ask you, in the light of what you have just heard, to support the bill that has been tabled. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-09-27-173	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Congressman Imre Horváth, lead speaker of the MSZP Group, here we go.
u2016-09-27-174	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, It is welcome that the Ministry of Justice is trying to provide a solution to a series of violations of detention rights and is trying to avoid further decisions in Strasbourg condemning Hungary. It is a pity that this thought was lost when the government drafted a new prison law three years ago, since the circumstances that the Strasbourg court has repeatedly found illegal are not new, due to problems that have existed for decades in the prison system and are worsening. [[18.20]] There is also no doubt that by 2013 a new law had transcended and was justified in all the elements of the previous 1979 Code of Correction. However, precisely because of obvious and well-known problems, it would have been expected that the new code of law, which replaced the 1979 Legislative Decree, would face the realities of Hungary properly and make progress in the enforcement of detention conditions and detention rights. The MSZP already pointed out in the debate on the Prison Enforcement Act that the new code was not drawn up with this need. Our criticisms at that time are confirmed by the extensive amendments made in the last three years and by the bill that has now been tabled. Furthermore, the government's serious failure to make meaningful progress in this area has not been used to develop and introduce the new law on the subject. In this respect, the bill that has just been tabled is certainly too late. At the same time, legislative amendments to strengthen the protection of fundamental rights are welcome in all cases, as I indicated at the outset in the case of the bill. The Ministry of Justice proposes the introduction of a number of new enforcement procedures to prevent overcrowded detention rights from being violated. Such a new procedure is compensation for complaints or refusals of accommodation in breach of fundamental rights and for conditions of accommodation in breach of fundamental rights. However, in this case, the seemingly rule of law and defence proposals actually reflect a fundamentally flawed approach. The whole regulation suggests that the commander and his staff of the Bv institutions do not, out of mere negligence, ensure adequate accommodation for the prisoners, which can be remedied by leaving a well-written complaint. Indeed, the legislation on accommodation is still appropriate today, which are well known to the Bv commanders and their subordinates. They will do everything in their power to make sure that they are as good as possible under existing stepdaughter circumstances. Nevertheless, the bill is pouring a lot of administration into the management of the Bv institutions, while hardly providing any help to solve the problems. Thus, those who have faced difficulties and struggled against them have become even more burdened. One of the most obvious examples of this is the question of separated toilets appearing in the justification of the bill. It is understandable to expect that within the cell the toilet is separated, otherwise placement is obviously a violation of human dignity. The solution is a big task for individual Bv institutions, but it can be remedied at government level with negligible redeployment in terms of budgetary size within a few months. It's just a matter of government will. Instead, the government is acting as if it is up to the discretion and good intentions of the Bv commanders to resolve this problem. What does the author think? Will the petitioners be placed in a cell with a decomposed decency, while those who do not file a complaint remain in conditions that violate human dignity? Non-discriminatory treatment would require: if there is an infringement, it will be rectified in the case of all detentions, rather than by providing individual privileges as a result of specific remedies. Not to mention what the commander will do if every prisoner lodges a complaint, in the absence of appropriate conditions, how he will ensure sufficient accommodation conditions for all inmates. Similarly, the issue of compensation for unlawful placement is contradictory. The definition contained in the bill is strange. In fact, compensation means compensation for damage caused by a lawful nature. However, in principle, the prisoner receives compensation for violations of his rights, which can therefore be regarded as compensation. The author should decide that crowded, human dignity-infringement placements are lawful, but compensation is due, or is illegal, for which compensation is to be paid. Moreover, the proposal seems to want to introduce a form of flat-rate compensation. The amount of this is hardly fair when a person is actually held in inhumane conditions. However, if most of the prisoners prefer to allocate the amount of compensation because of circumstances that do not strike enough levels, but which are average in Hungarian prison conditions, it may pay the prisoners surprising amounts after a few years of detention. This can in an understandable way trigger a conflict in society, while it does nothing to improve the detention conditions of prisoners. In contrast to the approach contained in the bill, the MSZP takes the view that the government should resolve the problems arising in the judicial decisions of Strasbourg by fully eliminating the circumstances that really violate human dignity, not by creating procedures that seem to be a rule of law, but indeed lead to absurd situations in life. The bill does not solve the problems effectively and systematically, and therefore, in this form, we believe that it cannot be supported. At the same time, it has a signal that the government finally acknowledges and is willing to take action to tackle mass infringements. Finally, Article 24 of the bill. I would like to draw the attention of my fellow Members to the strange provision and the conclusions that can be drawn from this. For the purposes of this Decision, the following definitions shall apply: § 2 contains an amendment to the implementation of expulsions. In accordance with the rules in force, if the sentenced person is in an unknown place, the proceedings should be suspended. However, in the case of the execution of an expulsion, the government wants to derogate from this rule. That is to say, the procedure for preparing the execution of expulsion could also be carried out in the absence of the sentenced person, which is rather strange, because we might think that the expelled persons are in the public authorities' minds until such time as the expulsion is carried out. However, the Ministry of Justice admits that this is not the case. In the reasoning of the bill, the following can be read:. On the basis of practical experience, it should be taken into account that some of the convicts whose expulsion was decided in the court's judgment have left their designated place of residence to an unknown place. This is a confession, honourable Members. If we study the alien police statistics a little bit, it turns out that the Ministry of Justice has drawn attention to one of the most serious problems. In practice, the Hungarian authorities are unable to enforce decisions on expulsion, Hungary is unable to co-operate with the countries of origin and transit. To illustrate this, I would like to offer you only one piece of information: between 15 September 2015 and 31 May 2016 the court contacted the foreign police authority in a total of 2715 persons in order to carry out the expulsion for the illegal crossing of the border. [[18.30]] However, during the same period, only 56 persons were deported by the Alien Police Authority, i.e. only 2 percent of expulsions were actually carried out on the basis of court-ordered expulsions. In the case of the remaining 98 percent, the expelled persons are unable to be deported and after six months the detention of aliens must also be terminated. After a while, the authorities do not have any information about the expelled persons. The majority of asylum seekers who have been expelled and are out of the sight of the authorities are still in Europe, including refugees who have been convicted of crossing the Hungarian border, the border fence at the Hungarian-Serbian border. It can therefore be concluded that the legislation, which the government calls a legal border closure, is completely ineffective, and that the failure of this bill is 24. In this regard, the Commission considers that the measure does not constitute State aid within the meaning of Article 107 (1) TFEU and does not constitute State aid within the meaning of Article 107 (1) TFEU. Thank you.
u2016-09-27-175	Thank you very much. Mr Gábor Staudt, lead speaker for the Jobbik Group. Here.
u2016-09-27-176	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, The proposal before us is interesting in a number of ways, it has positive and negative parts; I will, in any case, highlight one or two very critical parts, but of course, I will also mention the passages that are forward-looking, although I must add that they are partial. I understand that the Court of Strasbourg has often taken decisions that have serious consistency, pay consequences, and oblige the Hungarian government to pay them; I also understand that in many cases, we do not feel and the Hungarian population does not feel justified and adequately support these decisions, but here we think - I will go on - of the judgments imposed by the various prison conditions, so the Hungarian population does not feel that they are justified or justified; and we can also see that the law offices encourage the convicts to submit these cases in bulk, because whatever happens, they will be judged, and obviously in this case not only the perpetrators or the prisoners who are in charge of their punishment are doing well, but also, of course, legal representatives, lawyers and other contributors, so an industry is based on this - it is clearly necessary to begin with this. I understand that this has raised a dilemma in the Hungarian Government, because what can be done, if we do not leave the Convention, we are bound by the Court of Human Rights, we know that, Mr. State Secretary, we obviously do not want to avoid this, that it is very difficult, even if the Hungarian State and the Hungarian Government turn to the Great Chamber, this happens many times, and we try to seek redress. I would add that these are obviously circumstances in which political pressure may not be justified, and that you may do so, obviously I do not have such an insight into this, but it will certainly result in a situation between social sense of justice and decisions in Strasbourg, which is a powerful wedge. It is also certain that if prisons are overcrowded, this task can be solved mainly by building prisons. I know that progress has been made in part in this, so I do not say that they are not building new prisons - perhaps not enough - but I do feel that this legal solution, which they are bringing in here, and it is written out in the explanatory memorandum that they are also supporting the reduction of overcrowding by means of legislation, I think that at some point this can set out a dangerous direction, because the legislative instrument can basically reduce congestion by either releasing any prisoners or trying to relocate them within the system, obviously - I will come to it - the possibility of a complaint is also a way. By the way, I would be surprised that if it were not today that the crowding of different prisons would be attempted in an appropriate way to symbiosis, so I think it is still the case that if there is a more crowded prison and a less saturated prison, then the passage is clearly possible, so that is the possibility in the system itself. However, I do not think that the introduction by you of effective compensation in proportion to the damage, as it is written, would solve the task and the problem. As I mentioned, in the first round, a complaint - that's okay - can be lodged with the Bv commander who is trying to do something. Well, he doesn't know much, because I guess, where there's crowded, there's crowded, so there's not only a lot of people in one cell, there's a lot of saturation in the others, too, I guess, but the point is, by creating a complaint, there's actually no problem, just as expanding the scope of patron inspectorship is a good direction. These instruments should be used, especially in view of the fact that, when we asked for a rigor, we also said - and unfortunately this was not sufficiently published in the text of the new law, but we also said - that we are trying to distinguish as far as possible between prisoners who want to fit in, want to fit back into society and those who do not, and that this distinction is usually possible. So help the state where possible, try to promote reintegration by all means where possible, because we know that once someone stumbles, gets there, he may, if appropriate, rethink his life and reintegrate into society, but unfortunately, there are many who do not think so, and prison is a kind of further training for us, where they think they can last a few years, and they can learn excellent knowledge, and they have no conviction in the direction that they should reintegrate into society - in the case of such perpetrators, obviously, the function of punishment must be strengthened. However, it is important to give greater emphasis to the system of patrons and to give all the opportunities for reintegration that have been given for a reason, I stress, to those who deserve it. To say one more positive thing, one small thing - because I said that I would also mention it - it is also good that the sentenced person can be granted conditional leave, that if a basic sentence in the total sentence were to rule out this, then this is a passage that clarifies the application of the law, the case law is 20. Paragraph 5. But back to our main problem, the compensation that comes with the crowdedness, especially the congestion of prison conditions, our dilemma, Mr. Secretary of State, is that in doing so... - because I feel the direction that if we introduce this, we may be able to get rid of the heavy hugging of Strasbourg, and perhaps the cases will not end up there in bulk, otherwise I am afraid that they will, because these laws that we are now making are basically binding on the Hungarian authorities as internal legislation. But in vain we expect and state the bill itself that there is no possibility that if someone has received this new form of indemnification, which you are introducing now, and the condition of which is that the right of complaint be exhausted by the prisoner, in which case there is such a prior filter, so that if they can transfer them to a less crowded place, whether in prison or in another prison, then this happens, if they do not know, then they will be entitled to this compensation, and so that they will write down a set of conditions, only I, as I have said, do not see the exit, so that then, if they do not have the same reason or the same reason, these people will turn to Strasbourg, then, or to a greater extent, they will unfortunately award them other compensation and compensation amounts. So, in fact, internal legislation has drawn a limit, but it will only oblige the Hungarian State, because in these cases, if the judge judges judge it, he will pay between HUF 1200-1600 a day. I think it's a rather interesting assumption to prescribe this as virtually automaticism or almost automaticism. I do not think that this will convince Strasbourg that it is a reasonable amount - you will also write this. However, a lot of people will take advantage of this possibility that the Hungarian state will quasi open its pockets. What is more important from the government's point of view is that the public can expect an outrage to be so easy to distribute money instead of the fact that, as long as prison constructions take place and Strasbourg does not award such compensation, the state would not commit itself under internal law. [[18.40]] Plus, what really pisses me off is the pass that tells me what satisfaction needs to be met against compensation. Child support's fine, I'm not arguing with that. Even if the damage caused by that crime has not been reimbursed, and there is a judgment, it can be deducted - this is also natural - but no other needs. Here, too, an international example is given that according to the Grand Chamber of the Court, there is an international example of it, neither by crediting nor by satisfying a claim, it is not possible from the sentenced person, even if he is judged by the overcrowding of the prison, to deduct an amount from it. So neither the state can deduct from the criminal costs that the sentenced person would have to pay, but let's say he had no assets, no recoverable property, and there was nothing to do with it, well, if, however, he was judged for a sum, let's say, because of the crowdedness, the state cannot deduct not what he owes to the sentenced person, but otherwise it is not possible to recover any other civil claims from it, only for the victim of the crime in question - it is a narrow exception. In other words, the sentenced person in prison and thus receiving compensation from the State for congestion is in a better position than a law-abiding citizen, since any claim by means of his salary or other benefits can be denied, deducted, but in this case it cannot be done by the convicts. Again, this is completely unacceptable, with reference to Strasbourg's practice. Obviously, there's a verdict for that. I don't know how Strasbourg would have been able to bring Hungary under a new procedure, because if the legislation hadn't specifically included this narrowing pass, I think it would be difficult for them to start, but it would also have to be fought politically, because a convicted, detained criminal shouldn't be doing better or shouldn't be entitled to more than the law-abiding citizens. So there's no way we can accept that. Plus the new Be. we have already said this in the social debate, and we will also say to Parliament that we want compensation for victims to be resolved in some form. In spite of the many cases they get - the press could also have cases, the Cozma case, the Szögi case - even if they receive or are judged for millions of dollars, it cannot be recovered from the convict. Or if it was foldable and he had seized assets, the state would take him to the criminal costs. And no one can do anything with it, not even the minister can grant permission, allow the victims or the victim's surviving relatives to prevent the state from getting the right of satisfaction, receive the compensation granted. In view of this, it is particularly outrageous and annoying that, while in the majority of cases the victims are not entitled to anything, Strasbourg - and now, unfortunately, with this proposal, the Hungarian government has agreed to this - is concerned that, if the sentenced person receives some compensation in prison, he will not be able to deduct it, and what a huge injustice it is if the state or other right holders withdraw their claim. And another suggestion about reintegration detention. On the one hand, like I said, there is, or there may be some use to this. But by extending it to cover only repeaters that are not repeatable, they will extend the circle that can actually be released from prison, or extend it to 10 months instead of 6 months, or, in case of negligence, to 1 year, again with the projection that law-abiding citizens will feel that criminals will get out of prison first. Somehow they'll feel like when someone gets a suspended sentence, or fills in a part of his sentence and release him as if the time of punishment had been shortened. So these are the serious concerns that, I feel, do not solve the problem that really exists, but at least reopen the problem or open up other problems. So, unfortunately, we will not be able to support the proposal in this form without eliminating them. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2016-09-27-177	Thank you very much. Mr Sallai R. Benedek, lead speaker for the LMP Group. Here you go.
u2016-09-27-178	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. With all due respect, I apologize for the fact that we are few in the group, and it would be good if we could share a few thoughts from all areas with you, so forgive me if my speech is not perfect in the absence of knowledge of the legal language. We've reviewed the entire draft with our experts, and we've been trying to come up with a position. We see good elements in it, we see bad elements in it, and we see risky elements that are worth talking about. In any case, it is a fact that the problems of daily practice in the field of prison execution are specifically highlighted in the need for amendment. In principle, it may be considered positive that there is a legal possibility that children who were born before the prisons could be placed in the mother-child's department of penitentiary institutions, of course, only if there is no other solution available to provide adequate care for the family environment, so the interests of the child dictate that. This solves the problem previously indicated by the Ombudsman. This part might even be eligible. It is absolutely welcome, although it may be a coincidence, but it is actually responding to a decision of the Constitutional Court last week, among other things, this proposal. Last week, it was clearly written and made clear:. The Constitutional Court annulled a provision relating to criminal charges and the address on the Constitutional Court's website can be found, as the Criminal Procedure Act currently provides that, in the event of the dismissal of the defendant or termination of the proceedings on grounds of prosecution by the prosecutor, the State must reimburse the defendant's costs as well as the fee and the cost of the defendant's agent's defence. Similarly, the bill now settles the obligation to pay compensation in the form of an additional private or private charge. Thus, the above-mentioned costs and charges must be reimbursed in the same order in the public and secondary proceedings and in the private proceedings. In the former case, the State, in the latter case, shall be liable for compensation, mutatis mutandis, to the replacement private accused or to the private accused. This is basically a current topic, and it got here very, very quickly in front of this House. Whether it's a coincidence or not, this must be a pleasure. And what we can obviously welcome in this system or in the amendment is that, in practice, as the previous speakers have said, the proposal reflects the requirements of Strasbourg, since the Hungarian taxpayer, the Hungarian government, is also in its own interest, because the court has only awarded a total compensation of 73 900 euros to the six complainants of a pilot decision for the unlawful treatment that has taken place so far. So the fact that the public interest partially supports the amendment is clearly factually possible, since the current practice is basically costing Hungarian taxpayers money in this form, and I am still talking about what might lead to a positive direction in the amendment. In fact, a large part of the 18,000 people in Hungarian prisons - this is approximately 140 percent crowded - could turn to court because most of them are held in extremely crowded cells, often with the toilet in the same airspace as the foot space. According to the court, such accommodation conditions are inhumane and violate the European Convention on Human Rights, so a multitude of lawsuits could be expected if the government did not act and did not take action and did not want to put an end to this fundamental human rights violation. It is no coincidence that the number of such complaints to the court exceeds 4500. This also confirms the actuality of the amendment. [[18.50]] From a purely budgetary point of view, it was obvious to the Hungarian State that instead of the European Court of Human Rights, detention rights could be remedied in front of a domestic forum. The proposal therefore introduces an indemnification procedure for the inadequacy of accommodation conditions, which could help the future without further delay. In particular, as my MSZP fellow Member said, the lack of separation of toilets, inadequate ventilation, and related to lighting, heating and insects. According to the proposal, they are combined in the formulation of accommodation conditions which violate fundamental rights, and the daily amount of compensation for damages caused by them is determined by the proposal from HUF 1200 to HUF 1600, allowing for judicial consideration. So, basically, the prison judge decides to file a complaint with the head of the bv institution first. In principle, the limits were set in the light of the average earnings in Hungary. If the European Court of Human Rights considered it to be an effective remedy, it would no longer examine the applications submitted to it in this field, but refer them back to national jurisdiction, which could, in part, facilitate the functioning of the system and, in part, administrative tasks, as a better system can be built with Hungarian remedies, and the direct feedback system can point the problems to the legislator more quickly. Such a system is also in place in Italy, where there is an amount of EUR 8 per day in the compensatory remedy system for the sentenced person, and the European Court of Human Rights has already practically accepted it, and this legal institution is in practice. This is also important because it is 1125/2016 on the provision of the resources needed to increase the capacity of prison institutions. According to the data contained in the proposal for a government decision, 5755 persons cannot be given sufficient room for manoeuvre under these conditions, i.e. 4 square meters in line with the requirements of Strasbourg. The legislator therefore quickly began to calculate, and apparently, in order to safeguard public resources, it concluded that it would be sufficient to pay 3-5 euros to the prisoners in inhumane circumstances in Hungary, and in this respect the amendment is a rational aspect. Of course, it is an interesting system of consideration that the concept of compensation is adapted to wages, as it is not intended to replace or compensate for the loss of wages. In any case, if the average amount of compensation above is based on a figure of 5755 people placed under the aforementioned housing conditions which violate fundamental human rights, it is much less than if the European Court of Human Rights condemns the State in all cases and can be a significantly more effective solution. So it is obviously a purely budgetary issue here, and not the full compliance with our international legal obligations is neither the controlling star nor the more humane detention conditions, since the senseless strict criminal policy of the majority of governments is not human in any way, and it is precisely the criminal policy system of this kind that causes the current overcrowding and unmanageability of tasks, which, among other things, appears in such amendments. Here we can talk about the criticism of criminal policy, which in itself creates an inadequacy of detention conditions, as it is one of the main causes of deprivation in the centre. The Helsinki Committee's proposal would take a great deal to heart, and it is practically also available on the Internet, public interest data, and it is worth it if the rapporteur not only implements legal aspects but also practical aspects. I think it is justified to note this because, in consultation with professionals who work in prison, the first thing that arises in connection with such legislation - and I am asking the Secretary of State specifically - is how many prison executives have been dealt with in this legislative amendment package, because I do not know how justified the criticisms in this regard are that it is not very practical and in some cases it would be good to respond better to everyday problems. At the moment - forgive me if I do not say something precisely - there are basically a lot of problems with the detention of very, very many of the two-to-four-day imprisonments that can be imposed by the police, which can be completely unjustified and impose unjustified costs on taxpayers. There are cases where there are already 170 days of detention for these two-day police detentions, and for these inmates, or I don't know what the term is, there are also serious costs to the public. At the moment, what they are sitting down or carrying out is approximately HUF 500 to HUF 1000, most of which are already HUF 1000, while their daily supply costs HUF 8,000, and the payment of HUF 1600 comes up, so the thousand HUF damage is actually multiplied for taxpayers. Obviously, a more effective solution or a solution that could possibly be spent under house arrest would be significantly more practical, because in fines and infringement proceedings such detention may not be productive or, in many cases, potentially harmful to society. The practical procedures that appear to provide a virtually five-time meal, twice-cooked food, are in question not in terms of feasibility in many cases, but because we provide services or care to prisoners that they never received at home, and therefore increase costs, while the goods they can produce while they are being held are not worth the cost. Let me give you an example and forgive me, I do not want to spread rumors with celebrity, I have no idea how common the spread of mobile phone services or applications in penitentiaries has become, that prisoners who are in detention must be provided with mobile phone services. Bad languages say that one of the ministers who deals with internal affairs is interested in the appearance of these mobile services, but there is certainly a prison facility where more than 200 such phones have disappeared in the first period. The practical keeping of this and its administration impose a full additional burden on the functioning of the whole system. The reason why we still need to talk about this is because, at the moment, the overload of prison execution basically requires that if this remains the case for the Btk., and the government continues to operate with this not-repaired, but sanctioned prison execution approach, then it will be justified to build another eight prisons, which, if we know correctly, may have already started, or at least there is a government decision. At the same time, there is no indication in the Hungarian education system of how the training of law enforcement professionals stands. And workers are already being alarmed that they will be disarmed throughout the country to train new people, because there will be no adequate background for who will work there. In many cases these practical problems occur every day. Once again, I can say that there are good people in the initiative, and prison professionals say that reintegration detention can be basically good, so that in the last six months they will let you go home with leg cuffs, if I understand correctly, but in many cases, from much lighter penalties, the return twice a month is disproportionately more severe than the reintegration process. Therefore, their harmonisation and moderation should be better taken into account. Efforts on social attachment are also commendable, it can be a good direction and can help, but the amount of detention at all costs must be reduced, because the overload will not be able to be sustained by Hungarian society. What is probably a theoretical question of the law of punishment, and you are better at this because of your profession, is the issue of enrollment, which previously contributed as a well-functioning system to making prison execution tasks more visible. Now, with a serious restriction, there is practically a succession of sentences, which means that the same individual can be held in a series of detentions because of the judgments that he has been in the system for a long time, so he doesn't actually get the chance to prove that his integration into society can happen. Since 2010, judges have to start from the mid-size of the sentence when the judgment is issued, on the basis of which there have been significantly stricter sentences with longer deprivation of liberty than in the past, even by virtue of the law in cases where the margin of discretion of judges in the individualisation of criminalisation would be rational. [[19.00]] The rethinking of these clearly concerns the Btk. and not the execution of the sentence. But these, of course, are hand in hand, so it would be good to consider these in parallel. The existence of sanctions that do not involve deprivation of liberty seems to be a big mistake if they are not applied. Moreover, the number of detentions for offences is increasing and criminal proceedings for minor crimes have been in place since 2013. A summary of all these raises a number of questions, but because of my time limit, if you will allow me, I will say this in a separate speech. In the meantime, I ask for your patience, and thank you for listening. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2016-09-27-179	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. There is no independent Member in the Chamber, no two-minute speeches have been made, so there will now be further speeches. First of all, Congressman Staudt. Gábor Staudt, Jobbik, here you go.
u2016-09-27-180	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Only very briefly, because one thing was said, and I couldn't respond to it because of time constraints. This is the mother-child placement, which can be supported first and, of course, in broad terms. However, I think that it has not been properly thought out, because it is okay for the child's aspect to be the first and the mother to be placed with the child. Though I might add, it would have been nice for the mother to look at the child's perspective before she turned her head to crime. Obviously, it should also appear. I don't know if it can be achieved with preventive programs or what, because it's not a natural condition, and it's definitely traumatic, if you're an infant, but you have to spend the first part of your life in prison or juvie. Not to mention that even if he doesn't remember it, it will obviously become clear to him when he gets older. And I'm not sure that this will lead to a healthy self - esteem for that child. But if that's the case, then, of course, joint placement is eligible. There is a point concerning juvenile offenders, and it is about investigating judges having a child under one year of age being arrested in a juvenile detention facility and not in a bv institution. I hope this is not the Hungarian practice, obviously there is no statistics on this, but it hurts to have many minors who are already criminals and even have children. But back to the main problem, if a person did not commit the crime to harm his own child, the mother and child must be placed together. But it may also arise that, let us say, he didn't do anything to harm that child, but to harm another's own child, or to harm another alien child. Not to mention that there may be other crimes in the circle, in which case a bv judge should decide whether or not to order the child to stay with him. If you look at the child's aspects, believe me, there is not only one system of considerations as to whether the person concerned committed a crime directly towards his own child, but there may still be a lot of other aspects leading to the outcome of a bv judge, it can lead to the decision that it is not justified, and even endangers the child if he decides to place it together. So I would consider these, if I were Mr Secretary of State, although I understand the objective, and in many cases this can be supported. But there are cases in which the judge finds himself so surrounded that he can't decide otherwise, because the law clearly regulates that he must be ordered to do so, otherwise, if he is left to weigh. That's all I wanted to say. I would not go back to what I said here on the compensation issue. In this context, I also agree only partially with my fellow opposition Members. I, and I would like to emphasise this once again, do not think that if we introduced this, it would eliminate and eliminate the litigation in Strasbourg. However, I fear that it is a permanent obligation for the state, so otherwise the social benefits will not be too great. I'd rather spend this money building new prisons, new seats, maybe we'd be better off. Mr. President, thank you. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-09-27-181	Congressman Sallai R. Benedek, LMP.
u2016-09-27-182	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Excuse me, I don't want to abuse your patience, I just want to say what's missing. The increase in detentions, not for criminal offences, has been caused by the fact that since 2010 theft of the value of the offence can now be punished by deprivation of liberty under HUF 50,000. The 2012 new infringement law also maintained an extended range of criminal offences which could be prosecuted by detention and allowed for reprimands to be punished by detention, even if, by default, it is only possible to impose lighter sanctions. Furthermore, the law allows the fine to be changed or the public interest work to be closed without hearing the person subject to the proceedings if the person concerned does not pay the fine or does not carry out the work of the public interest. At the moment, the practice is that people who did not use their safety belts are now being held in Hungary, walking through the street with a broken bicycle lamp, walking through the street with a red light, or walking on the street under the influence of alcohol or under alcohol influence. There are examples of this in the current penitentiary. The question is how much this should be expanded, if the common sense of the criminality of these infringement cases is considered to address the overload, then perhaps there is something to be changed about the relevant Btk. For an unreasonably long period of time, people who did not pose a threat to the procedure have remained in custody. In many cases, prior detention is used in opposition to common sense in Hungary again, and it functions as an advance punishment in practice, not against the threat of escape, against proof. Technically, this legal institution works for the prosecutor's bellows. The judges often accept the prosecutor's material with an eye-bendingly unfounded argument. It's useless to say from the other side, even for years, that there was no risk of escape from someone who, for example, applied to the police when he found out that he was wanted. Recently, in the case of Lajos Galambos, former head of the NBH in Strasbourg, for example, the Hungarian State cost EUR 6500 in compensation and EUR 3 thousand in litigation. The authorities referred to the threat of escape in the face of the otherwise completely unpunished, almost 60-year-old, well-established family and other backgrounds of the legislation-cooperative Pigeon. The retired general thus spent nine months in pre-trial detention, then a year in house arrest, and finally, in March 2013 he was banned from residence. In June 2013, he was sentenced to two years of ten months in prison for espionage, but that sentence was annulled by the Metropolitan Court of Justice in the summer and the procedure was re-established. Another example is the Hagyó case, where the Hungarian State has not been able to adequately justify and back up the justification for the prolonged prior detention in the obvious corruption case before the European Court of Human Rights, which cost exactly EUR 18 500 to Hungarian taxpayers and Hungarian public, as this amount of compensation has been awarded in the case which would otherwise appear to be relatively obvious, which could have been properly dealt with. So, overall, the strict criminal policy of the Orbán governments is one-sided and inadequate to achieve the objectives set in this form, because it is not possible for the execution of the sentence to meet the demand that is often spoken and tricked into Parliament only for PR purposes and communication purposes in prison. Only to the extent that prison population is enormously swollen, it does not offer lasting solutions. It doesn't know what to do with the critical situation due to overcrowding, it dissipates the institutions of resocialization, it doesn't create the financial conditions for effective education and aftercare. It does not act effectively against crime, stores criminals for a longer or shorter period of time, and then lets them back into society without any substantial help, often not seeking to improve their behaviour, and so returning to society may not be able to achieve social inclusion with substantial progress. [[19.10]] Many times, it increases previous negative behaviour rather than alleviates the problem of criminality. For all these reasons, recognising that there are directions that should be welcomed and supported overall, but in some things it does not seem practical and enforceable in everything, and it would be good to reconsider the problem and practical problems of prison execution if a joint debate on the amendment of the Btk. could be reviewed to see how harmonised all these execution tasks are with our current criminal system. These changes and the need for these amendments are quite obvious to the Possible Other Politics, but it is also clear that if the Fidesz government were to aim at helping those involved in prison to change their behaviour and influence it in a positive direction, a completely different prison practice would be needed. As long as other prison practices do not have an infrastructure background, it is entirely unjustified to maintain further overload, supply and procedural behaviour which clearly violates additional human rights, and it would be more justified to take practical steps with some practical care in order to improve the performance of the task. In the past, there was a practice in prison that some partial amnesty was provided, obviously not in connection with crimes, but only in relation to minor violations. At the moment, for these 10-20-day detentions, this would affect very, very many people, so it would affect 1000-1100 people. Practically, if the government were to think about such amendments or practical steps, it could, in effect, trigger the construction of a penitentiary right now, since we could definitely achieve meaningful results with 1000-1100 people. We ask the government to look for practical solutions that do not merely bring financial benefits to the government and less the system of subsequent litigation, but also, in part, improve the supply conditions of those involved in the execution of punishment, while not overloading taxpayers and public wealth with regard to what rationality would otherwise require. Accordingly, our group is now inclined to abstain, obviously in the course of further discussions and in the detailed debate we will develop our opinion. Thank you for the floor, Mr President.
u2016-09-27-183	Thank you very much, Congressman. I'll ask if anyone else wants to take the opportunity to speak. [[There's no candidate.]] I'm gonna say no. As no one has made any further comments, the general debate is closed. I'll ask the author, Mr. Secretary of State, if you'd like to reflect now. [[Dr. Völner on Pál's signal:]] Secretary Pál Völner, please.
u2016-09-27-184	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, First of all, I would like to thank the Members present for their professional and professional representation in the context of this proposal, although the identity of the opinion was obviously not entirely compatible. But some points have been raised that I would like to answer. First of all, the emergence of prison congestion is essentially due to a change in European attitudes and the development of human rights court practice. As I mentioned at the outset, these judgments have triggered a series of serious measures in several European countries, since the Strasbourg court is not examining these cases individually, but, in fact, exerting pressure on the states, in itself, the prison congestion, so let us say, if the square meter is missing, is actually setting the amount of compensation to be paid in a concrete manner. At the same time, this regulation, which is before you, has practically taken account of the Strasbourg practice, for example, of the Italian solution adopted by Strasbourg, but also of the Hungarian relations that were also accepted by the Strasbourg court in the case of Italy when it accepted the establishment of the compensation amount there. As far as the legislative instruments are concerned, it has been said in the introduction and it is also known by you that an increase in the number of seats is also under way, but it is clear that this will take time. For example, as a transitional rule for dealing with cases that have been refurbished, it is necessary to set this compensation or compensation limit and to provide for a judicial procedure to accept that these issues will be settled within the internal legal order. I mentioned the extent of the compensation, so it was established taking into account the Hungarian relations. As regards the extension of the reintegration detention that my colleague from Sallai also welcomed, it is a permanent element, because, obviously, regardless of the prison expansions in the system, hopefully this can also permanently reduce the crowdedness of prisons. It was about the mother-child that was raised by my fellow Member, Mr Staudt. Therefore, such a procedure can be initiated upon request, and all circumstances, including the opinion of the guardianship authority, are taken into account in the decision-making process, so the decision is not made on the basis of subjective rights. Theoretically, these problems can be considered there, and on this basis, a decision can be made not to place the child with the mother. The issues relating to criminal offences and criminal proceedings referred to by Mr Sallai: as has already been reported several times, the Criminal Procedure Act will be submitted to the House shortly, and it will probably be possible to discuss the subject of pre-trial detention in substance in the context of procedural questions. That is all I wanted to say. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-09-27-185	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that the amendment proposals can be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the discussion of our agendas today. It is now time for the speeches after the agenda. First of these, the LMP's representative, Mr Sallai R. Benedek, applied for the post- Agenda address:. "Futureless Country II." I am trying to introduce all of this and to lead the meeting in such a way that I give Mr. Congressman the opportunity to put on his jacket and put on his microphone, to give us his interesting thoughts about a country without a future, and also the second part of it. Here you go.
u2016-09-27-186	Thank you for the floor, Mr President, and with respect, I apologize and thank you very much for your patience. I wanted to introduce before today's agenda what I would like to talk about more in the next period, and this is obviously the future that Hungary is now facing in the current system. I wanted to be the first to talk about it, and I apologize for bringing my own specialty here first, how the issue of environmental safety and the guarantee of the fundamental right of citizens to a healthy environment guaranteed by the Fundamental Law is being implemented in Hungary today. With daily practical tasks, doing everyday work in the committee, we are in a position to face up to the fact that the Hungarian government does not basically comply with its obligation to ensure this fundamental right. I could mention the case of the Liszt Ferenc International Airport, where people have been complaining for virtually years that the noise burden is so high that it can't ensure a healthy life, the people of cancer, the Zuglós, the anvils, the Vecsési are involved in this, and the Hungarian authorities are doing nothing. The case of Falco woodchipboard production company in Szombathely is a very, very typical story. According to local residents, noise and air pollution, the local government and environmental authorities have been pushing tasks and files among themselves for many years, but practically everything can be done for the company concerned, and the health consequences are already proven by the medical reports, but no action is taken. [[19.20]] The Fidesz government has given the previously foreign-owned company several billionaires of EU and state aid, and this EU support is now being used to destroy the living conditions of those living there and to make it impossible to raise children and family or to develop the future of the family there. The question of Metrans in Csepel is typically another of these flagship matters that can practically appear. Minister Péter Szijjártó announced last year as a success that, following his personal negotiations, the German Metrans company is building a logistics and storage terminal in Csepel. In practice, this means that an additional request from investors to the disaster management authority in the meantime has shown that they want to extend their activities to containers containing all kinds of dangerous substances by transferring containers to different means of transport. This was just a sideline in the company's activity, but at the same time, the people of Csepel and the capital were practically forced into an emergency situation, and they couldn't do anything, and there was practically a poison warehouse, a temporary poison warehouse and a poison loader. In the case of Százhalombatta and Kaposvár, Homatech Recycling Zrt. linked to Csányi Sándor OTP President. He wanted to set up a rubber scrap processing plant. Technically, he got the green light and the priority government investment by completely opposing all environmental aspects and by sending this development from several places, because no one wanted this rubber burner plant. This story happened in a completely random positive case, but it was not because the government was supposed to perform its task, but because it was a successful local referendum initiative, and research clearly confirmed the high level of rejection that the local government had practically refused. Jász-Plasztik Kft. of Jászberény This was not an exception, since the introduction of ambitious, albeit meaningless, plans through fire and water is very, very typical of this activity, and if there are good government relations, such as one of my favourite representatives, the proud representative of Jászság, Mr Pócs, is doing so for the Jász-Plaszti, so it is much easier to carry out these projects which are fundamentally dangerous. If we're going to the capital, then the Városliget project is a serious matter that is practically threatening the viability of the capital. But there is still the Scent Road case, which went as far as it got public attention and was in the middle of the media, and since then there has been virtually no substantive action; but now, in recent weeks, in the Kiskunhalas area, it has been revealed that its hazardous waste storage site is similar. Late remediation costs a lot more in life, in value, in time and in money, but no action is taken. Long list of cases, from the coast of Rome to Villánykövesd, from the port of yacht in Balatonfenyves to Budakeszi, where everyday improvements are made by damaging natural values [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] and none of this is hindered by any government measures, thereby risking the future of Hungarian people. That is what I wanted to draw attention to in my speech. Thank you for your patience, and thank you for your opportunity to speak.
u2016-09-27-187	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Member Tamás Pintér, representative of Jobbik, has applied for a speech after the agenda:. We need immediate action instead of half-solutions. Here you go.
u2016-09-27-188	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, I wanted to respond to today's fidesz speeches, unfortunately there are no fellow Members here, but I would like to hope that what I am saying here will also get to them. I would like to respond to the promises made today and last week by Mr Péter Cseresnyés State Secretary on Dunaferr, which, although commendable, are unfortunately very few. We were pleased to hear that, after my speech on Monday, when I told you about the problems with Dunaferr, the government finally heard the Dunaújváros cry for help through me, and even if temporary solutions, but at least half a step was taken to address the problem. In the speeches before the agenda, today's pro-government representatives have asked me to stay on the ground of reality. Okay, well, let's just stay there, but let's go over what reality is in order. The realities that Fidesz MEPs want to use political capital again from the success of Dunaferre workers, even though they want to take over the renovation of the furnace for themselves. What are the realities? There is no and unfortunately there will probably not be a junior programme in the Iron Works against the promises made by the Fidesz MEPs. But let's see what real realities are. For years we have seen that there is no political will to save the Danubefer. The last time I asked Minister of State Cseresnyés about the situation of Dunaferr, he did not say a word about how they wanted to support the factory. And what does God do, two days after my question, it was announced in Dunaújváros that they would support the Iron Works with half a billion forints. We welcome this success, but this success is mainly due to the persistent work of trade unions, and I trust that it is also due to our pressure. On the other hand, I would like to highlight, in contrast to today's speeches, the sacrificial work of professionals who have had serious resignations for many years, but have managed to make Dunaferr profitable. Congratulations to every iron worker who stopped the wave of layoffs. Even as a municipal representative, I felt it was a personal task to save the Danubeferr and protect the people there effectively and fully. In 2013 we launched in this very spirit the task force which, under the leadership of Mr János Volner, sought to find a solution to this serious problem by the most effective means possible. The reality is that if the Fidesz did not vote down our proposal here in Parliament then perhaps the 242 people who have been laid off since then would still have their old job in the Iron Works, and perhaps even more jobs could have been created since then. Even then, it was clear to me that the government only wanted to solve the problems that arose with promises, and they never got to action. Although we have repeatedly drawn attention to the fact that if the existence of a factory is threatened, the economic and labour market stability of the whole region will be affected, but not least there has been no concrete action in this matter, there has not been enough of a parliamentary speech from a pro-government representative. It seems, however, that our efforts, the Jobbik's efforts, have, if at least, been achieved. After many years, the government finally took the trouble and took the first small step for the flagship of Hungarian steel production. I would like to send a message to the pro-government representatives from here too, this half-billion HUF support is commendable, but there is little to be done. We continue to believe that the government should conclude a strategic partnership agreement with ISD Dunaferr Zrt. and that the government and the management of the company should sit at the negotiating table with trade unions bringing together the workers, thus ensuring the currently uncertain future of Dunaújváros. Dear fellow Members, I would like to offer our assistance to the pro-government representatives, because we are here, we will continue to serve the interests of Dunaferr and Dunaújváros. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] and, of course, we have many proposals that we will make available to you. Thank you very much for the floor. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-09-27-189	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches after the agenda. Thank you for your work. The Parliament will resume its meeting next week, Monday at 11 a.m. Meeting day's closed. Good evening, everyone. [[Meeting ended at 7:29 p.m.]]
