u2016-02-22-0	Dear Parliament, The 3rd day of the spring session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that László Földi and István Ikotity will be in charge of the meeting. I welcome all those who monitor our work. [[Interview in the lines of the MSZP: Where?]] Dear Parliament, We will start our work today with speeches before the agenda, then the questions will take place, then the hour for immediate questions and answers, and we will end the Parliament's session with the speeches after the agenda. Dear Parliament, Prime Minister Viktor Orbán has applied for a speech before the agenda today. Prime Minister, I give you the floor.
u2016-02-22-1	Mr President, Dear House, After the EU summit that took place this weekend, I came to the conclusion that, because of the importance of the decisions taken there, it would not only be appropriate, but it would also be appropriate for this House to be informed firsthand about the consequences of the Prime Minister's summit. These consequences are far-reaching and are therefore rightly of wide interest. In this context, we have rarely spoken to the Hungarian public about the initiative of the British, but in fact the British have proposed nothing less than to reform the European Union. In Hungary, it is only the referendum that they talk about whether there will be, whether there will be, and if so, under what conditions, but in fact it is that the British have suggested that we reform the European Union thoroughly, if possible, without amending the treaty. They have proposed this because their plan is to have the UK citizens answer the question of whether the good British wish to remain in the reformed European Union or rather leave it. So what we are talking about is not just a series of decisions to prepare a referendum, but a UK initiative to reform the essence of the European Union. After marathon negotiations at the last EU summit, these reform proposals were finally adopted by the Union. The British argue that this proposal, these reforms, is intended to make the European Union stronger. According to the British, this needs to be achieved in three ways: to make the European Union more competitive - we agreed on this, and therefore we have changed some things -; less bureaucracy and bureaucratic procedures are needed - there was also agreement - and the British also said that the role of national parliaments should be increased - this is the primary reason why I have to say this, as I am talking about it here in Parliament - so reforms apply not only to governments but also to national parliaments. The role of national parliaments should be increased, and the stealthy withdrawal in Brussels - that is, without amending the Treaty and agreeing on certain matters in substance - is increasingly transferred to Brussels - this practice, the United Kingdom said - must also be put to an end and the role of national parliaments should therefore be strengthened. We will do this in a complicated procedure and we will increase the role of national parliaments in European Union legislation. Interestingly, these questions aroused a little interest, although from a historical point of view, they are more important. What the British have even proposed, and what we had to decide, is that in view of the UK's particular social system - which really runs out of the system of all other EU Member States not only in its solutions but also in its foundations - it is possible to change the system of social benefits for UK citizens other than UK citizens. There were very serious threats here, and very important EU principles and Central European interests, including Hungarian interests, had to be protected. After all, the negotiated solution means that, as a result of the joint action of the V4 countries, the principle that free employment will continue to cover all its citizens throughout the European Union. It is therefore not possible to limit the right of any EU Member State to work in another country. Similarly, it was possible to protect the principle that, no matter how complex the UK's social care system is, if someone, say, is working there, is paying a contribution, and on this basis receives social benefits, it cannot be affected. So anyone who pays for social benefits or contributes to common risk-taking will continue to be entitled to what has been done so far, without any restrictions. [[11.10]] The real debate was that there are also benefits due to the specificities of the British system, for which the worker does not pay but receives social benefits. The question was what to do with the social benefits that are granted to third countries and for which no contributions were paid there in Britain. Here, too, we have managed to achieve that these social benefits cannot be taken away. Only in the future will it be possible, with proper justification and a separate decision, if, somewhere because of these social expenditures, they are disturbed, then they can be suspended for a certain period of time and then returned to the previous regulation after the period, so the benefits for which workers in the United Kingdom have not paid contributions were also protected. Finally, it is an important result that, at the beginning of the negotiations, it was possible to exclude any amendments to commuters. Therefore, no amendments should apply to Central Europeans and Hungarians who do not live in another EU country, but go in the morning, come in the evening or leave at the beginning of the week, come at the end of the week. There has been a sharp debate on the issue of social support on the children's basis; because it is the case that there are families where the head of the family or both family members work in the United Kingdom, on the basis of which child support is used, because the family has a child, but the child does not live in the United Kingdom and does not reside there. And the question was, in this case, what can we do? To show the magnitude, according to the 2014 English statistics - which we cannot be responsible for, of course, for the accuracy of - 55,000 people are working today from Hungary in the UK. According to our fact-finding, our data is now our data, there are about 220-224 Hungarian people where the family head or both adult members of the family work outside, but the child is in Hungary. [[Interview in the benches of the MSZP.]] We see now that this is about that. We are happy to discuss whether or not this much is possible and how it can be stopped at all, I just want to say that what I am talking about here does not usually affect Hungarian workers in Britain, not even those workers who are, by the way, family members. What I'm talking about is what I'm talking about. [[Noise in the benches of MSZP. The president's ringing the bell.]] For whom the workers are out and the children are home. Otherwise, this was not the biggest challenge for Hungary, as tens of thousands of them are registered in Poland from the same life situation. Our involvement is roughly the same as that of the Slovaks. Here we adopted the view that if the child does not live at the place of work, then the social benefit on the child's basis can be indexed, so that it can be adjusted by means of a mathematical model that adjusts the social benefit for the child's care to the subsistence costs of the country where the child is staying. [[Lajos Korózs intervenes.]] Without mentioning specific figures, there seems to be a country in the European Union where local support for children is between 7 and 10 pounds, while in Britain it is more than 100 pounds. That's the sensitivity the British wanted to handle. [[Dr. Tamás Bellozó: Tell us about the salaries.]] Here we agreed that these benefits could not be taken away, that child support would continue to be due to parents. If children are in Britain, they will be the same as everyone else, but if the child is not in Britain, a calculation method should be used to index the subsistence costs of the residence. [[Dr. Tamás Bellozó: Did you take care of it?]] It's a fair deal. However, there are two important things here that we have protected, and what is more important than concrete, perhaps. The first important thing is that the European Union has a principle, which if we do not respect, the whole European Union will fall apart. This is referred to as the principle of Community preference in Brussels, which means that no citizen of an EU State can do worse in the territory of an EU Member State than a non-EU Member State. Therefore, citizens of a non-EU Member State should not be subject to more favourable rules than citizens of an EU Member State. This is important for countries that previously had empires, extensive colonial empires. Finally, it is an important lesson from this debate that Hungary would not have been able to achieve these results in the course of the negotiations alone. We certainly have good negotiators in Brussels and we do not back down, but I must say that the Hungarian virtus would not have been enough to achieve the results. It was necessary for the governments of Slovakia, the Czech Republic and Poland to be able to achieve these results in a common position, making joint declarations. So I would like to thank the governments of the Czech Republic, Slovakia and Poland for their endurance and for being good comrades. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]] So the situation now seems to be that it is the UK's citizens, the European Union has been changed and reformed in so far as this was possible without treaty amendment, and whether the British wish to remain a member of the European Union or not, it is their decision alone, and we do not want to influence it. Of course, without affecting their decision, it is important to say that Hungary - at least as far as this part of the horseshoe is concerned - feels honoured to be in the same community with a country as Great Britain. [[11.20]] We think that it would be in our interests if Britain remained a member of the European Union, but what is appropriate for the British, not in the Hungarian Parliament, but in the referendum that will be organised in Britain, the United Kingdom. [[Dr. Tamás Bellozó: People's vote!]] It's the British who have to decide. [[Dr. Tamás Bellozó: What liberalism! Dr. László Kács: You are very lenient! Intercoms. The president's ringing the bell.]] Ladies and Gentlemen, Of course, we have considered and made some decisions on the migration situation in Europe. I would like to provide you with further information on this. Firstly, there was consensus and there is a consensus in Europe that 2015 was a difficult year not only for Hungary but also for the European Union as a whole. Unidentified and unknown masses have appeared in millions of sizes at the southern borders of the continent and Hungary. The Hungarian response was clear and understandable in 2015: verification, identification, stopping and reversing, as required by the Schengen Treaty. This has proved to be an expensive, difficult, but successful and effective method of defence so far, and we intend to maintain it in the future. The most important development of the EU summit in terms of migration is that the Hungarian approach was adopted for the first time across Europe. It has been stated that the most important first priority is the need to stop migrants. All other aspects have previously been put before this, and this is the first time that this has been ranked first. We have made it clear that the external borders must be protected - this has previously been secondary to other international asylum and humanitarian aspects - and we have made it clear that Schengen must be respected by all. I must say that, in political terms, we are now where the European Union was supposed to be a year ago. In any case, the Balkan countries, including Austria, have taken the path of common sense. Of course, after Hungary got cold and warm, but mostly cold for the policy that we introduced a year ago, and which is now being taken over by everyone, and even the whole European Union has accepted these principles, but after we got cold and warm, no one will, of course, fall on our necks and acknowledge that we have introduced these principles a year earlier than they have. Although this would be a nice human gesture, because self-knowledge, self-esteem, and its proper proportion are a nice human virtue, but in politics it might not be justified to expect that. In any case, it should be noted that, however they vary, they color, explain, in fact, the European Union has today adopted the principles and identified the things that the Hungarian government has already represented. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties. Moore from the benches of MSZP.]] It follows that protecting our southern borders has become possible, and even if the Austrians keep their word and the other countries on the Balkan route act according to what they have announced, it will be easier to defend Hungary's southern borders in the future. It won't be easy, because you can see the news, which is that, indeed, physical obstacles need to be strengthened, it is not impossible to extend them. For now, the government has not yet made a decision, but is prepared for this possibility. It is also important to tell you that, even though Hungary made its own decisions unilaterally in 2015, it would not have been possible to protect and generalise them within the European Union if it had not been possible to make this a common V4 post in Central Europe. On this issue, the Czechs, Slovaks and Poles have stuck with Hungary all the time, gave us a hinterland, and even arrived here, if necessary, making the efforts that Hungary started on a national basis international. So far, the good news. Bad news is linked, ladies and gentlemen, fellow Members, to the fact that we are facing a very serious threat in 2016. While the situation may improve in the south, the situation in the west may become more difficult. The European Union also decided, at the end of last week, to bring its summit on migration and reform of the whole asylum system due on 17-18 March to 5-6-7 March. This shows the seriousness of the situation. This is not only related to the German provincial elections, which is easy to identify, but it is more than that. The situation is indeed urgent, and Hungary is under enormous pressure with the other V4 countries. The subject of the pressure is whether we can get it down the throats of Central European countries, including ours, a new EU asylum migrant system, which would now legally entitle the European Union to allow those countries who accept migrants to distribute them with binding force among other countries of Europe; including those who do not accept it, do not want to, object to it and do not want to participate. So the stake of the EU summit, which will take place at the beginning of March, is whether the prime ministers will give their blessing to a compulsory resettlement quota system that will be integrated into the EU legal order, constantly, as a mechanism of asylum, and to Hungary, the migrants that we do not want to allow, and we will also hold back at our southern borders. That's the bet for the next few weeks. A completely different question from this question is that a specific decision has already been taken by the European Union on the resettlement of 160,000 migrants. This is to be divided into two groups, 40 and 120, which we have not accepted and which we have brought under trial. Two countries, Slovakia and Hungary did not accept this individual decision, even though they forced us to implement them, this is a serious legal dispute about whether we should implement such legislation in a court of law. We do not want to implement this, but we want to wait for the judgment of the judge, and we want the court to say that this obligation has been unlawfully placed on Hungary's neck. We will see what happens at the Court of Justice of the European Union. In any case, the Slovaks and we will continue to endure, and we will not accept the specific decision of the compulsory resettlement quota - on behalf of the Slovaks I cannot now express myself, but on behalf of the Hungarian Government yes - and we will not accept that a general regulatory principle and solution will be built from this individual decision. That will be the issue of the March summit. Well, I am convinced that avoiding this attack on Brussels in the European Union is the most important task in the coming weeks and months. I would like to inform my fellow Members that this situation will be assessed by the Hungarian Government at its meeting on Wednesday, and at its meeting on Wednesday, it will shape the position of the government on how and how we will try to reverse the attempt in Brussels to continuously move and install, for years and years, people with whom we do not wish to live. If the government has made a decision on Wednesday, I will also inform my fellow Members and the public in the country of our decision. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2016-02-22-2	Thank you, Prime Minister. Dear Parliament, As the Prime Minister's speech exceeded 20 minutes, the political groups have 8-8 minutes to speak. I ask the political groups who wants to live with it. I don't see a candidate yet. [[It's a lot of noise.]] Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Gábor Vona, Head of Group, Jobbik Group. [[Noise in the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2016-02-22-3	Mr. Prime Minister, Dear Parliament, Thank you very much for the floor. Thank you, Prime Minister, for this report on the European Union summit. [[11.30]] The first subject I would like to comment on is the future of the European Union. Didn't the Prime Minister say that this was a more decisive issue, although less attention was given to the issue of last week's peak? We can see that for the vast majority of the leaders of the European Union, the future of the European Union is equal to the united states of Europe. And on the other hand, there is the concept of a Europe of nations, which the government, you too, Prime Minister, has repeatedly said. I would also like to draw your attention to the fact that, unfortunately, Fidesz MEPs do not always receive this information; they very often support the concept of European united states in these decisions, although this is a mistake, and I think we agree with the Prime Minister. It is a much more difficult question of what the Europe of nations itself means. As long as we say negatively that this is saying no to the united states in Europe, we all agree on it, or at least we agree a lot, but what a positive Europe of nations means is, I think, that we should have more serious debates and that we are not having any discussion about it anyway. So, for example, how can a Europe of nations be competitive at the same time, how can it preserve its identity, European or even national identity, how can it be safe, how can it be united, how can a community based on welfare societies - or one of these aspects be abandoned? This is the big question of the future; I am afraid that not all of these aspects can be represented at the same time. But it is certain - and Jobbik's position is clear - that the concept of a Europe of the nations must be supported in Hungary, and the united states of Europe must be rejected as a foolish and totally wrong idea. The other thing to say in this regard is that cooperation between the V4 can be important not only in the current situation, but also in the event that Europe fails to cope with this issue. Even if I do not think it is impossible - perhaps I am running too far ahead - that the countries of Central and Eastern Europe, either in the face of the European Union falling apart, should be on their own feet; we should also start thinking about this together. What has been decided on the social issue, and what the Prime Minister has also said, is that Eastern benefits should be paid for the children of parents who have migrated from the east to the west - not least, to simplify that decision - but it should be logical in the debates in the European Union when we talk about solidarity, and many such great ideas, to wonder whether it would also be fair that when a multinational company comes from the west to the east, Western wages should be paid to its workers. Therefore, the question of this issue should also be asked. And although this is not an EU issue, I would like to point out here, Prime Minister, that it remains a priority for Jobbik to make it easier for Hungarians to vote in Western Europe. We have given our brothers and sisters across the border the opportunity to vote in a letter; I would like, Prime Minister, to finally hear whether the government has any intention of giving the hundreds of thousands of people the opportunity to vote in the elections. Legally, we have it, but basically, there's a lot of exclusion from the voting option for them. Turning to the issue of migration: there was a final document, Prime Minister, which, during the weekend, for the past 48 or 72 hours, has stimulated the whole country, everyone has started to understand how this decision is related to previous decisions, such as the decision of the Home Ministers on 22 September. We can say that, however, and in essence your speech has acknowledged this, Prime Minister, that there may be a lot in the final document, and there is a lot in the mind of the leaders of the European Union now, whether or not the quotas that the majority of society in Hungary is actually forcing on us. Not only was this vague closing document a bit alarming for me this weekend, but also your statements. Until this Monday's speech, Prime Minister, it was not very clear to us exactly what the government wanted, but we have now learned that even for you, they will decide on this at the government meeting on Wednesday. But what I am asking myself, Prime Minister, and I am also going to my fellow Members with fidesz: their press department is constantly lying about us. They allowed themselves to say that we didn't support the fence, we didn't support the military's leadership to the border. You know very well that we have supported, that we have always supported the fence, and that we have even suggested it. [[Intercoms from the ranks of the governing parties, including Lajos Kósa: You also built it! The president's ringing the bell.]] And we're the first to suggest that the soldiers be led to the border. And that you have been able to do this, my honourable Members, let me ask you a little bit of modesty, with our support, we have given you this opportunity to two thirds. We were happy to give this, and we were aware of our commitment to the nation - so that you would not turn it in the opposite direction to us. So, there's a vague closing statement, there's confusing government communication, there's lying - it'd be nice to see clearly what's going on right now. It is precisely that we have turned to the European Court of Justice, which the Prime Minister said; perhaps he remembers when he called the group leaders together, and I said first that Jobbik certainly supports us to turn to the European Court of Justice. As far as I'm concerned, it has no suspensive effect, so I'm curious about the Prime Minister's position in this. I understand that the fact that we have turned to the European Court of Justice does not give us the opportunity to postpone the decision, but I look forward to your explanation. Secondly, there was, Prime Minister, a proposal for a world quota for you at the end of last year, and I would like you to clarify in this regard that we are also rejecting the world quota, because what the European quota proposes is a crucifixion for Hungary, but what you proposed at the UN meeting, Prime Minister, the world quota is essentially the same, let us say, would execute Hungary with an injection of poison rather than a crucifixion. The biggest problem is that we do not see Plan B, and that the Prime Minister says that we are rejecting the quota is not a guarantee for us. You have already said in the Hungarian Parliament that there will be no Romanian EU accession until Szekler autonomy is granted to the Hungarian community living there - the autonomy of the Szekler has not been achieved, but the Romanian EU accession has been voted by the Prime Minister. At the Magos General Assembly, as long as you are the Prime Minister, there will be no Hungarian land owned by foreigners - you are the Prime Minister and yet foreign people may own Hungarian land. [[Intercoms from the ruling parties.]] You have also said, Prime Minister, on the TTIP that we will not support any bad decision; I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the US Ambassador said that the Hungarian Government is an enthusiastic supporter of the free trade agreement and once again referred to the Fidesz MEPs who are enthusiastically in the European Parliament for all initiatives on TTIP. By the way, Jobbik has a proposal, Prime Minister, to deal with the current situation, which may even be worth using at their government meeting on Wednesday. One is - we have tried to raise this before, but unfortunately you have swept it off the table - so that if we are already doing so often the amendment of the Fundamental Law, we should amend the Hungarian Fundamental Law to allow a referendum on a quota to be held in Hungary. It is very important to collect signatures, and ours have signed these sheets, but perhaps if the European Union moves to a higher level, we should also move to a higher level. Let us hold a referendum on this, create constitutional conditions for this and show Europe, Brussels and everyone that the overwhelming majority of Hungarian society does not want this quota. Secondly, Prime Minister, what I would like to suggest is that at the beginning of March, to the next summit of your negotiating position, a little corrective force: feel free to refer to us, Prime Minister. [[Defiance in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] You can tell diplomats in Brussels that if they want to force the quota on Hungary, then there is a party here that will not allow it, this is Hungary's second strongest party, the strongest opposition party, your challenger, and if necessary, you will take people to the streets. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-02-22-4	Thank you, Mr. Group Leader. Dear Parliament, Mr András Schiffer from the Group of the LMP will be speaking.
u2016-02-22-5	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Of course, it is welcome in itself that there is a close cooperation between the V4s. We have said years earlier that Hungary's fundamental national interests are not served by the opening up of the East and other similar clowns, but if there is a close cooperation between the countries of Eastern Central Europe and the countries of Eastern Central Europe and South Europe. On the other hand, Prime Minister, as far as the alleged results are concerned, the only thing in the prerogative is that anyone who travels through Moscow to Brussels should not expect much good [[Viktor Orbán: Why?]] That's pretty much what he's done. [[There's a grumble in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] It's the weekend. Prime Minister, I think it is worth addressing, of course, the issue that you mentioned here in your introduction, and what is less clear is that the British have a reform demand for the European Union. It is very right, you know, the fact is that there is a huge difference between a reform demand and a reform claim. Because we too say openly, not simply without amending the basic Treaty, but by amending the basic Treaty, we must fundamentally change the European Union so that we can talk about a Europe of people instead of a Europe of capital. To this end, the Treaty needs to be amended. LMP initiated two years ago with its own party family, for example, to remove land from the principle of free movement of capital. In order to do this, it is necessary to amend the basic contract so that, for example, the Hungarian agricultural land, at all times the agricultural land under the control of local communities, can be protected throughout the continent. [[Dr. Zsolt Semjén intervenes.]] The situation today is that, despite all your vows, there is also land in the hands of foreigners in Hungary, Deputy Prime Minister. [[Intercoms from the ruling parties.]] Mr. Prime Minister, Yes, what Britain wants to change in the European Union is not the same as [[Dr. Zsolt Semjén: Double citizen!]] the interests of the countries of Central and Southern Europe. When we talk about the need to change the European Union, we need another Europe, we are talking about a social Europe. [[11.40]] What your friend David Cameron is talking about is the Europe of London City. They really want to change the structure of the European Union so that City's interests are not limited by different uniform European financial rules. For example, a part of the British agreement that you did not mention contains what it contains. Britain will never be in a position in the future to provide financial assistance to any Member State of the euro area. Yes, London City, for example, has benefited from an increase in Greek debt or debt in other peripheral countries but does not wish to bear the burden. We really need another Europe, because the two-speed Europe, where the centre, such as the big banks of the countries of Great Britain, is benefiting from its big companies, is leading to a fatal break-up in the countries of Eastern Europe and South Europe. As far as British social benefits are concerned, Prime Minister, what is the assurance that what happened this weekend will not become a precedent? Your other good friend, the Austrian Chancellor, Chancellor Faymann, has begun to exaggerate so that Austria may wish to take similar steps. How many Hungarian families are affected by this, for example, in Western Hungary? How many Hungarian families are there where they go out to find a job in Austria, because they do not get a job here in Hungary, but the child is here in Hungary? ! Prime Minister, you've taken an account that this weekend [[Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] What precedent can a British EU agreement set within the European Union? And one more thing: it is time to finally address why Hungary is suffering from an emigration crisis. If it really is, as you claim, that people who are going out to search for work in Austria, Germany, or who are going out to Britain, are actually enjoying themselves, going out of an adventure, I suggest that you put forward an amendment to the electoral law, give us the possibility of voting in a letter, for example, to our fellow countrymen in Britain and Germany. I promise you that we will ensure a two-thirds majority. Be brave, Prime Minister, and allow them to vote in a letter to those who work at different points in Britain, Germany or Spain or wish to settle there permanently. Prime Minister, as regards the migration crisis, tell us what is included in point (h) of the final document. Let's just end this double speech of what you're saying here and say something else at an EU summit or sign something else. Make it clear that what you are saying here in a speech is how you are covered, for example, by point (h) of the final document. And one more thing: what happened on migration this weekend is a continuation of the same misfortune that the last year has been about. All European Heads of State and Government have a responsibility in this regard, including those who have launched a policy of single action. For example, the policy of only one step precludes a common EU border protection. The European Union, and therefore Hungary, should be able to distinguish clearly between economic immigrants, those who come to the Union for criminal purposes from those who are truly refugees, and should agree on the responsibility of the European Union for refugees, and not least the United States of America and the various Mediterranean countries. I miss it, Prime Minister, and there has also been no suggestion from Hungary, that, for example, when the EU leaders are discussing the migration crisis, it happens to be also a question of restricting arms trafficking. While large companies in the European Union, large European military companies, are involved in various armed conflicts, they are practically measuring seawater at each EU summit. There has also been no progress in the area of internal security cooperation, and there is no time left, Prime Minister, for other important things, such as what the European Union is taking to combat tax evasion, not least to eradicate offshore tomatoes. Yes, I am talking about tax evasion, such as the fact that various green organisations have shown that between 2009 and 2014 IKEA has cheated on EUR 1 billion in various EU countries. Tax evasion is not mentioned, and this is once again an area which benefits from different global corporations. To sum up this EU summit, it can be said that when it comes to security and security for the people of Europe, when it comes to the welfare and social care of European people, the European Union does not work. When it comes to the interests of European banks, such as the Greek debt crisis last summer, the institutions of the European Union are extremely effective. Prime Minister, what is the spirit of the agreement with the British is precisely contrary to the fact that we can talk about a Europe of people instead of a Europe of capital. This is a road that does not lead to the Hungarian people earning the same wage in the foreseeable future as the people working in Western Europe and doing the same work, which is exactly what is driving the social Europe apart. We need to change the European Union in such a way that, in terms of wages and social security, Hungarian people here, in Hungary, should go the same way as Western European people. Thank you very much.
u2016-02-22-6	Thank you, Mr. Group Leader. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Péter Harrach, Head of Group, KDNP Group.
u2016-02-22-7	Mr President, Mr. Prime Minister, Dear fellow Members, Listening to the Prime Minister's speech before the agenda, I think we should now address two important issues. One is the issue of migration and the other is the reform of the Union. But listening to the comments of my fellow opposition Members, it is perhaps worth expressing the need for a national unity in important national matters. Some signs were seen here and there in these comments that national matters should somehow be represented in unity on the outside, but this aspect was missing in its entirety. We also need to talk about what Europe means to us and what the Union means, regardless of what has happened now. That Europe is important to us, and we love the Europe that was the cradle of Western culture, and the dignity of the human person is the most important element of this culture. In other cultures, this does not appear with such force. This is the origin of human rights, even if today's interpretation of these rights is not entirely clear and meaningful, because it lacks a sense of responsibility, or if someone says it is an aspect of the obligation, and therefore human rights are distorted in this interpretation. But it is this culture that has developed respect for human dignity and another which, of course, appears in other cultures, but it is important for us: the role of communities. Here, too, the national community is important, not just the small family and other communities. When we are talking about European politics, we not only say that we love Europe, we not only say that we note that today the European Union is a suitable means of keeping European culture alive, even if there are serious mistakes and mistakes among leaders, even if an ideology has become so dominated that it can weaken and crush this Europe in its identity, but there is no other means than a united Europe, the Union is today an expression of the idea of the Schumani. That is why the second question that Prime Minister raised and the British represented is important: the reform of the Union. I think that what has been happening for a year in Hungary and at Hungarian borders is also an important aspect to protect migration flows, this is the other issue. Once again, I would like to emphasise that we love not only Europe but also our country, which is why it is important for us that the region of Central and Eastern Europe and the cooperation of the V4s, who represent these common interests. This has also been shown in Brussels. We can say that the outcome of the Brussels summit was good, even if there were serious concerns about the continuation. It has also been said that Europe's borders must be protected and that the Schengen Agreement must be respected. [[11.50]] When it was said, we had the hope that the danger would be reduced, but the intention to be introduced had vanished this hope, because we have been fighting for a year to stop the migrant flood. We know that this is a fight against the wind, and that means that we also have a lot of actual struggles to take on in the Union. As regards the special status of Great Britain, it has also been stated that it is not subject to the requirement to bring the Union closer and closer. The question is whether this is an exception that strengthens the rule or is a departure from the idea of the united states in Europe, which, of course, we do not represent, but the Europe of nations is important to us. It was also well-sounding that there was more than one currency in the Union. This is important for us, not just for the United Kingdom. I, too, believe that in the case of benefits linked to the employment of foreigners, a compromise has been reached, and this has protected us from the greatest danger of restricting the free movement of labour, because it is a value that we, too, insist on. And I would like to emphasise once again, and I am really not led by the debate and conflict between the parties, when I say that on these issues, perhaps we should put the interests of the internal political party aside, and clearly, perhaps by discussing the issues in a sound and calm manner, we should speak with one voice in the interests of the country. We see many good examples of this in Europe, here, among the V4s. Perhaps we should pay more attention to this. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2016-02-22-8	Thank you, Mr. Group Leader. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr József Tobias, Head of Group, MSZP Group.
u2016-02-22-9	Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The Prime Minister reported victory reports both in this Chamber and in his weekend government communications. I'm kind of sad that you guys are going through this as a win. The first thing that is important to say, Prime Minister, I do not understand what victory is that they have preserved the value of maintaining the free movement of the labour force, since all the leaders have said in advance that this is a baseline which cannot be limited, because then we should have heard that there is a country that wants to terminate the basic contract and quit the European Union. I would add that you are so proud to cooperate with the English Government or even to cooperate with the English people, it would be okay to say that at least there are countries in Europe where a referendum can still be held, where, let's say, by administrative means, there is no limit to the voter's opinion on the issue of his own life. I see you're thinking - I'm talking about Hungary right now, because this is the country where you can't keep it at the moment. But let us not just talk about that, because my fellow Member Harrach said that it was very important. Well, then, let's talk about important things. What happened, Prime Minister, after the weekend, was that the Hungarian people were demoted and that you assisted. Today, Hungarian citizens are entitled to fewer rights and less money in Europe than they have so far. That's what you've done, Prime Minister. You have achieved what you are so proud of, that the part of the reform of the European Union that a country does not wish to limit the social benefits of workers from other countries in the labour force flow, and that is the policy that you, the fact and the truth, have represented over the last year, that more nation states, less integration. Now, if things weren't serious enough, I could tell you a street slang, but I'm gonna save you the trouble, and I'm just gonna say, "Well, you just got back to the boomerang." You have been talking all along about the fact that it is a Europe of nation states, we do not need integration, and this is what has come back, because the announcement by the Austrian Chancellor, and even the announcement by the German Chancellor, will indicate precisely that those who want to work from Hungary will become second-class citizens in Europe. [[Interviews from the benches of the MSZP: That's right!]] This means one more thing, Mr President: this means that you are not talking today in this Chamber about the risk that the announcement that has been made in Europe by several European leaders this weekend is not just yesterday, already in recent months, and this is about what a two-speed Europe should look like. This decision, which has taken place this weekend, carries with it that there will be a two-speed Europe that is in direct conflict with the Hungarian national interest. And there we have to decide whether, after 1989, we will give up the idea that Europe must change, but we want to be there as full members and we want to fight as European citizens, or we will accept that status quo - I see, Prime Minister, your government wants to accept this status quo. I say from here, from the opposition, that it is unacceptable, because it is not only the practice of the European Union that needs to be reformed, but sometimes European values must also be strengthened. And the situation here today is that very little is said by the government's policy about what European values are - and my fellow Member Harrach is right, let's talk about the founders, let's talk about the Christian Europe, it's all right. But let's talk about national interests, which are the interests of Hungarian people, for which there was a change of regime in Hungary in 1989! [[Noise and interruptions from the benches of the governing parties. On Dr. Zsolt Semjén's signal:]] Well, we can have a separate debate on this, Deputy Prime Minister, about who he might have been against. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] because the Prime Minister has made this very clear in this House about who he wanted to change regime against - I do not want to open this now, and we will put this away for another occasion. Let's talk about how Europe is today on the refugee issue. [[Interview from the benches of MSZP: That's right!]] Prime Minister, it is the opposite, as you say, that the EU is not where you started a year ago. It seems to me that Europe is exactly where the opposition said a year ago what should be done. [[There's noise and clarity from the benches of the governing parties.]] This is the difference: today we are talking in Europe, ladies and gentlemen, about how the current Dublin regulation in force should be repealed, so to speak; temporarily introducing new rules; and how joint action should be organised. Prime Minister, you're talking about the V4s. He doesn't talk about Austria, he doesn't talk about Slovenia, he doesn't talk about Croatia, he doesn't talk about Romania. You are about to put a fence in front of the Transylvanian Hungarians. That's your solution! [[Moraj from the benches of the governing parties.]] The Austrians, the Germans and the Slovenians want to cooperate, Prime Minister. Today, a German policeman [[Uproar, interruptions. The president's ringing the bell.]] You may be disturbed by reality, Mr. President, that's okay, but it's a truth content. This happened. They made a deal. What have you done in the last year? You're communicating, you're conducting PR governance. They'll tell you on posters how they want to protect refugees. Prime Minister, why didn't you tell us in the walls of this House that 500 refugees had entered Hungary this weekend? And you're supposed to be putting up a fence here and protecting everything. [[Intercom from the benches of Fidesz: On the green border...]] Five hundred people are here. Prime Minister, how did you get here? Who oversees it at this moment in Parliament, in Parliament, who supervises whether what you say is actually implemented through the institutions? No one's talking about it. There is a need on the part of the National Security Committee to monitor whether the government's sentences are in fact appropriate for the security of the Hungarian people, honourable Members. [[János Lázár: It stops them from monitoring! Lots of monitoring, few immigrants. Surveillance's gonna get 'em!]] Finally, allow me one thought. If you were right about everything, then why is it that Martin Schulz said this weekend that Hungary was left alone. [[Viktor Orbán: That is not what he said...]] Yes! Prime Minister, we should ask for a correction immediately, because.... [[György Balla: Because he is a socialist and a liar! Deterioration from the governing parties and sporadically from the LMP benches.]] Dear Mr Balla, Those who lie here in this House [[The president's gonna ring the bell.]] The people told me that last Saturday, and that's you, so I think we should take this off the agenda. That's you! It's not a question of who says it. Talk to Harrach's fellow Member about Christianity and humanity, okay? So much for your morale, that's all they're capable of. That's it. If Martin Schulz is wrong, the government will probably correct him. Nevertheless, the fact is that Hungary is on its own. Prime Minister said in this House that he's been taking responsibility for everything for a week. [[Intercoms from the benches of the governing parties.]] [[12.00]] Well, that's the way it is. That's the way it is. However, if you say this, Prime Minister, then I say to you here, in this place, that you must undertake now that, if Hungary is left alone in this struggle, and we must also protect the everyday safety of Hungarians and the free movement of the European Union values, free work, and you cannot be a second-rate citizen, then you cannot say that this is a victory report, which happened this weekend. Thank you very much.
u2016-02-22-10	Thank you, Mr. Group Leader. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Group Leader Lajos Kósa, Fidesz Group. Here you go, Mr. Group Leader.
u2016-02-22-11	Mr. President. Dear House, Gábor Vona stressed the freedom of movement, namely that one of the most important values of the European Union, quite rightly, considers the freedom of movement of Hungarian and non-Hungarian European citizens, and in this connection he pointed out that foreign Hungarians should also have the right to vote. You missed the fact that it was a long time ago. [[István Szávay: Don't get me wrong.]] For the first time, one of the most important parliamentary decisions was taken when we voted on dual citizenship. I understand that Mr Vona constantly emphasises this because he did not vote for it in particular. Ferenc Gyurcsány got into a company with Ferenc Gyurcsány, except that at least Ferenc Gyurcsány honestly said that he did not agree politically, he did not agree as president of the MSZP either. As president of the MSZP, he conducted, along with the left, one of the worst exclusional and brutally xenophobic campaigns ever. We remember that there was everything here: 23 million Romanians are flooding Hungary and the rest, and so on. Gábor Vona simply claimed that he was at the cafeteria and interviewed a journalist [[István Szávay: You're lying!]] What is even more humiliating from this point of view is that an interview on any newspaper is more important than a vote on dual citizenship. [[Crying out of Jobbik's ranks. The president's ringing the bell.]] In this regard, the bad conscience is coming back and forth, since we must not forget to constantly stress how much they are working together to stop the wave of refugees, migration. But at a time when we want to ensure the most fundamental security and peace of the Hungarian people in the countries of the European Union, as well as the Fundamental Law, the opposition and Gábor Vona are also shut down on the grounds that have been discussed long ago, from Germany to Belgium to France, and the most democratic tests have been passed by these amendments. In this context, I must say that the amendment to the basic law answers whether this position, represented by Jobbik, is indeed true. [[Foreman Novak: Get on the agenda!]] Because if it were true and the safety of the Hungarian people was considered important, they would certainly support the amendment of the basic law that we will bring forward. My fellow Member Schiffer, not actually contradicting himself, has continued to make a large-scale comment on everything from EU cooperation to tax evasion in IKEA. [[Zoltán Lukács: Include the grades. Schiffer under two...]] I would just like to draw your attention to the specific issue. He said that Austria would get bloodied, and that it would impose the same restrictions on commuters as the English are now supposed to have introduced. You have been overlooked by the Prime Minister's emphasis and the statement that all this agreement does not apply to commuters. So I'm sure Austria can't get any blood on the agreement because the commuters are taken out of it. Please study the text, then these misunderstandings can be avoided. And every time you say, my fellow group leader, that Hungary is suffering from an emigration crisis because it is Hungarian and therefore European citizens are working in Europe, I will always draw your attention to the fact that you completely misunderstand the essence of the European Union. I don't know why you think that you're, by the way, some kind of broad perspective. [[Defiance. Zoltán Lukács: Sure, because Hutu or Tutsi!]] because those who work from Hungary in Europe are not emigrants, but are exercising the rights of European citizens. If someone decides to go to Germany, England or Romania, as the case may be, imagine that many Hungarian citizens work in Transylvania. [[Zoltán Lukács: You should be proud of that! Dr. László Varga: And they make more money there!]] - He doesn't emigrate, he uses European civil rights. And by the way, let me draw your attention to this, who is taking up a job and who is saying that Hungary is hit by an emigration wave: a step-by-life situation, a hopeless socialist most people leave Germany because of conditions and economic depression. Almost three million German citizens work in the territory of the European Union, but not in Germany, because of the lack of prospects, social terror and I don't know what this is, which is the cause of this. [[Crying from the ranks of the MSZP. The president's ringing the bell.]] From this point on - we really will have to solve this mystery, why the LMP does not understand one of the most important achievements of Europe. [[Dr. László Varga: If you continue like this, you will be benched sooner or later! Zoltán Lukács: Toni was better than this!]] that you don't have to emigrate or emigrate. [[Zoltán Lukács: Back Rogán!]] If someone decides to work in Vienna only as a Hungarian, otherwise. Mr. President. Dear House, The leader of the Socialist faction called on us to hold a referendum against other democratic countries, see England, here we cannot hold a referendum. But, dear fellow Member, you can't be so forgetful. Hasn't our membership of the European Union been decided by a referendum? [[An uproar in the opposition's benches. Zoltán Grimlock: We're talking about now!]] Excuse me. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] There was such a referendum! I don't understand. You guys slept through this. [[Zoltán Lukács: Change please!]] [[The president's ringing the bell.]] There was such a referendum! (Applause in the benches of MSZP. ) I do not understand, you slept through this (Zoltán Lukács: Change please!) or they don't remember those building sentences anymore (The president bells.) To vote for EU membership! Can you have a café on Mariahilfer Strasse? Because, by the way, the essence of Europeanism was captured by the socialists. [[Fidesz benches.]] The other key point was that you could also study drawing at Sorbonne. Well, László Kovács, their then president, campaigned with this. We tried very politely to tell Hungarian citizens to vote in favour of membership of the European Union, because it is the only institutional system that can ensure undisturbed Hungarian-Hungarian relations. If there were no Union, it would not really be as difficult to get from Miskolc to Košice to a Hungarian, there are just as many administrative obstacles as to go to Nyíregyháza. [[Dr. László Varga: You have to build the M30 for it!]] If this were not the case, it would not have been possible to introduce and vote in favour of the institution of dual citizenship, because without the European Union policy framework, this is impossible for Hungary. Everyone needs to know this more clearly: EU membership is not only in favour of abstract values for Hungary, it is our direct interest in national policy. [[Nándor Gúr: Very weak!]] That is why I hope that József Tobias will be able to remember how you voted in the referendum that was. So there is a referendum in England on the membership of the European Union that the Hungarian people have already said yes to. [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] and we continue to support this position. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. Claps and interrogations in the ranks of the MSZP, including: Bravo, bravo! Dr. László Varga: Good genre, stand up comedy!]]
u2016-02-22-12	Thank you, Mr. Group Leader. Dear Parliament, Each faction had the opportunity to make its point. I think that we should now listen to Prime Minister Viktor Orbán's reply with due respect. Prime Minister, I give you the floor. [[First of Novak: When do we clap? Keep that in mind, Mr. President.]]
u2016-02-22-13	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I thank the Christian Democratic People's Party and the Fidesz Parliamentary Group for their supporting contributions. [[Zoltán Lukács: Fidesz didn't say a word about it!]] As regards the speech of the honourable President of the Socialists, I am obliged to make a few comments there. [[Interview from the ranks of the MSZP: We expect it!]] [[12.10]] The first is that I propose that this position, which you have said here in relation to the British referendum and the related changes, be kind enough to say so in the Szocitern, because they support the whole package as it is. [[Deterioration in the pro-government benches. Interviews from the ranks of the MSZP.]] I propose that you take this position, which you have said here, within the European Socialists, and then you will be told how to interpret that agreement, and then, in contrast to the Hungarian Parliament, you will not be as courteous as we are in relation to material errors. [[Deterioration in pro-government benches. Interviews from the ranks of the MSZP.]] As regards the question of what position have you taken before [[Nándor Gúr: What did you sign?]] on the issue of asylum, I must remind the Hungarian public that if you had been in government in the last year and a half, then in Hungary hundreds of thousands of unidentified, unknown [[Intercoms from the pro-government benches: That's right!]] an alien with a direct risk would be present. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]] And I have to say that if the Hungarian government had adopted the policy of the socialists, Hungary would be exposed to terrorist threats to the same extent. [[Zoltán Grimlock: No one's left yet!]] As Paris was exposed, and women in Hungary would be exposed to danger in the same way as they were in Cologne on New Year's Eve. [[Intercoms from the pro-government benches: That's right! A round of applause from the ruling parties.]] This problem did not come to Hungary because you were not in the government. If you had been in government today, the Hungarian people, the Hungarian women [[Zoltán Pride: No one wants to live here!]] and our daughters should live with the danger here in Hungary, in many countries of Western Europe. The only reason this didn't happen is because you weren't in power. I wish for the Hungarian citizens to keep it that way for a long time. [[Applause from the pro-government benches. Dr. László Varga: The boss's sense of humor is always good!]] As far as President Tobias is concerned, I would like to relate to a very important part of his speech, although this is not linked to the migrant issue or to the British referendum, but one of the important issues of the future, which is why I propose that this House should take this at some point. Today, it is even more a cloud of a spiritual nature, which is projected in the sky, but it will also have concrete legislative proposals in the future. The President spoke about whether there are ambitions in the European Union - he calls it two-speed; now that is not what it is called, the problem is much bigger - that there will be a break within the European Union, not on a two-speed basis, but where there are countries belonging to the euro area, and at the border where we are, the others who are not. This is a very serious question that we need to consider carefully. I just want to say on this point that again I would like you to speak to the leaders of the French Socialist Party, who are the number one representatives of this concept and which would not be good for Hungary. I would therefore like to point out that this idea does not come from the European People's Party, which represents our Christian traditions, but from your party family, the world of socialists, and we must eliminate it. [[Intercoms from the pro-government benches: That's right! Interviews from the ranks of the MSZP. Nándor Gúr: You're taking the country to periphery! The president's ringing the bell.]] Ladies and Gentlemen, [[Nándor Gúr: You're taking the country to periphery! The president's ringing the bell.]] With all due respect, Mr Schiffer, I must say that I cannot deal with political dyslexia. [[Deterioration in the pro-government benches.]] So the situation is that the texts need to be read. For example, the last closing statement that we adopted must also be read, which clearly says that , recalling the agreements that we reached at our peak in December, where Hungary and Slovakia announced that they did not agree. So in Hungarian, this final statement refers back to our joint declaration in December because that is where Slovakia and Hungary announced that we are going to trial. Consequently, dyslexia is that if a person cannot interpret a text within himself and is unable to put two texts together. I can't help that. And I suggest that, before you speak of these texts with the courage that may not be in proportion to your knowledge, [[Deterioration in the pro-government benches.]] They're trying to understand what's written there. Similarly, I have to mention that these texts are fully accepted by 26 countries - more specifically, those that are not part of the common border protection - and there are only two of us at the moment, the Slovaks and us who are constantly opposed. But at this moment, these texts are just about what is already in the form of legislation with 120 quotas and plus 40 quotas of 160,000. And here is a legal debate that our fellow Member Vona has quoted precisely, because we have initiated a procedure before the court, and the question arises whether it has a suspensive effect, since we have been adopted legislation which is binding on us. It contains numbers, but we do not implement them, because we do not think that this is worth doing before the legal dispute is resolved. The Hungarian position is supported by the fact that, although it is the distribution of 160,000 people, so far two hundred and fifty-some people from Greece and two hundred and sixty-some people from Italy have been distributed. That's a long way from 160,000. So we advise the pro-distributive EU countries that if we only have the thousand left to live for, then let's get back to the question. [[Deterioration in the pro-government benches.]] Not until then. Ladies and Gentlemen, And if anyone does not believe the current Hungarian government on this issue, then believe Martin Schulz, who has just said today or yesterday, I quote him: "Hungary will certainly not participate in the reception of refugee facilities - so Hungary will certainly not participate - but is willing to cooperate in other Central and Eastern European states. It's true. It's true. Some people do, some people do not, we are one of the no-saying countries, and the President of Parliament Schulz, who is part of the Socialist Party, perceives this well beyond or instead of the socialist Members of the Hungarian Parliament. Ladies and Gentlemen, I will not come back to the issue of free trade agreements - this is a completely distasteful debate - because all free trade agreements must be ratified by the Hungarian Parliament and will be transferred here. Don't worry, you'll be able to express your opinion. In fact, they will vote not only on their views but also on these free trade agreements. So you're not late for anything, because we're going to have these debates here. I am not quoting the problem here, because time is running out, because I think it is a strategic mistake to confront the opening of the East and the South with cooperation in Central Europe. On the other hand, what I agree with my fellow Member Schiffer is that the amendment to the European Treaty would be timely. Now, countries that do not want to amend the Treaty - and we are almost the only countries in the EU - have solved the reforms proposed by the United Kingdom without amending the Treaty. It's been solved. I'm not saying this legal structure is squeaking, but it's been solved. I share your position, too, and I think it would be better if we touched the Treaty, but in order to start the debate on the Treaty, unfortunately Hungary - I know that you hold this against me, but - it is not a country with enough weight in the European Union to achieve this alone, because it requires a certain proportion of the vote that we do not have. As far as Hungarians working abroad are concerned, I would like to make it clear there: as so far, Hungarians are still free to work in all countries of Europe, including the United Kingdom. And I must reject once again the comments which cannot be interpreted differently, only by regularly attacking people who work abroad. [[Moore in the ranks of the MSZP.]] Different people decide for different reasons, but to have their right taken away to make that choice, I don't think it's right. [[Nándor Gúr: A million new jobs...]] And trying to keep them at home, if they want to go, that's not right. And you are doing this, and you are constantly making the Hungarians who have decided to try to work abroad for some reason. Why do you have to hurt these people? Why don't we just admit it? [[Nándor Gúr: We're not hurting them!]] Why don't we just say how brave it takes? [[Zoltán Lukács: This is political dyslexia!]] Think about it, it's not that easy, getting up from Hungary, going to London and getting a job there. Or even Germany! Not to mention the Hungarian language-speaking problems that have lived with us I don't know how many decades. So, these people should be referred to with appreciation, and we should say that we appreciate them, that they have courage and determination and Kraft. Not to mention that, by the way, they are slowly sending back a substantial share of their income to Hungary for over two billion euros. And you're attacking these people? I would like to make it clear that the government, the Fidesz and the Christian Democratic People's Party pay tribute to people who, taking a risk outside Hungary, are trying to do something for their families and we support them. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]] I would like to say to Congressman Vona, if you will allow me, my fellow Member, that if we look at the reform efforts of the United Kingdom through the glasses that you have now put up, that is to say, to the united European states, or rather, to go away from it, I must mark the latter. So the British made it clear that the ever closer union clause, which calls for closer EU cooperation, reinterpretation or precise definition, is an undefined terminology in the EU's treaties. [[12.20]] And they suggested that we make it clear that this does not mean any legally binding force; rather, it is part of European cultural tradition and European political tradition. So if I try to paint the current situation from the point of view of whether we are closer to the united states in Europe or further away from it, then we are further away from it with the British reforms. If we ask whether the new asylum and migrant legislation that we are going to discuss now and then in March will bring us closer to the European United States or remove us, then I must say that what they are going to put down on the table will bring us closer to it. So there is also a reason in principle not to support it, beyond the fact that it would be particularly harmful for Hungary. No harm shall befall Hungarians living abroad. [[Nándor Gúr: Can you vote in a letter?]] All Hungarian citizens residing abroad may exercise their right to vote according to the exact rules laid down. As far as border protection is concerned, I would like to make it clear that we have had proposals and decisions on border protection that Jobbik has supported, and we thank you for this support. And we've had suggestions, especially on military deployment, that Jobbik didn't support. We regret this and ask you to review your position. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A big round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2016-02-22-14	Thank you, Prime Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, We will continue our work by speaking with the representatives of the political groups before the agenda. Speaking in advance of the agenda, Mrs Dóra Dúró, Jobbik Group: Do not risk the future of children. It's an address. I would ask the Member to be patient until part of our fellow Members leave the Chamber in view of the urgent public affairs. My fellow Members, please do this quietly. [[Some of the congressmen are leaving the meeting room.]] You have the floor, Congresswoman. Here you go.
u2016-02-22-15	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, The Jobbik faction also wishes to express solidarity with teachers on this parliamentary day. At the same time, we would urge the government not to put the future of children at risk, and that is why we are launching the real national consultation in 2016 on issues such as education, in order to create a meaningful, professional conciliation forum. This is not what the government's attitude does, rather than a solution, they are putting the debate aside, they are trying to cover up their own mistakes, and they are dealing with the teachers with stigmatizing statements. The fact that they do not have a solution best shows that János Lázár talks in the context of the negotiations that state reservations are unquestioned cannot be discussed. This is a 20th-century attitude, so it is impossible to negotiate meaningfully if they sit down in such a way as to identify topics that are taboo, so that they cannot be reached. If the judgment is written in advance, there will obviously not be any relevant representatives of the profession involved in these negotiations. Of course, it may be said that Árpád Habony may be asked for help in the mediation, he has a great routine in this, but I do not think it will lead to results. They keep talking about it like teachers are out on the street because they have any wage demands. The president of the National Pedagogist Faculty set up by the government also stated that no, teachers have no wage claims. They're asking you to take into account the laws you've made, for example, when establishing the numbers. The 22 mandatory hours should be taken into account when the number of teachers is established and not the possible 26 hours. They are trying to bring the issues to a political level by seeking to bring forward the various party affiliations of those involved in the protest. This was the SZDSZ method in 2009, Mr Secretary of State, when they destroyed health care, destroyed education and could no longer produce results, so they started to scare me with a non-existent extreme right-wing threat. Luckily, ever since then, SDS has been in a dump in history, and it's where they belong. And they try to compensate for their own mistakes by saying that everything is okay, of course there is money, Hungarian reforms work. Well, you may think so, Mr. Secretary, that the Hungarian reforms work, but the school buses don't work, the heating doesn't work in schools and there's no chalk. You may risk all this money in one of Andy Vajna's casinos, because not going to the schools, that's for sure. In 2003, the Hungarian state spent 5.69 percent of GDP on education. In 2013, the Hungarian state spent 3.93 percent of GDP on education. This sequence of figures alone would be enough for Minister Zoltán Balog to think about his resignation, especially if we add that we can see similar data in health care. And not only should Zoltán Balog resign, but KLIK should not be seen as a taboo, but should be eliminated, because it is quite clear to everyone in this country that this form was an inoperable, unsustainable, wrong decision. In 2014, I had the opportunity to visit the Teleki Blanka High School at the end of the year, but I did not ask István Pukli which party he voted for. I didn't ask him who he was sympathetic to, and I didn't ask him about any political issues at all. Since then, as Chairman of the Commission, I have been tasked with visiting institutions continuously. I have visited about 40 educational institutions in the last two years and about the same number of cultural institutions. I have never asked a single head of institutions, a single educator, a single man working in a cultural sphere, which party he voted for, nor do I consider it my job as a Member of Parliament, nor as chairman of the Commission, to do so. Secretary of State, you should not be dealing with this either, because there are better people, there are Fidesz, there are head of institutions with MSZP, but there is only one Hungarian education system, and you should also work on making it better for you. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2016-02-22-16	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Parliamentary Secretary Bence Rétvári wishes to respond to what has been said. You have the floor.
u2016-02-22-17	Thank you very much for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Mr President, Dear House, You started by expressing your solidarity with the teachers. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and You've been sitting here in Parliament for 5-6 years; when it comes to a teacher's wage increase, why couldn't you think with the teachers and vote in the Budget Act for lines that meant more wages for teachers? Why didn't you vote for that 32 billion forint from 2012 to 2013? [[Tamás Sneider: We should have given more and voted for it!]] Why didn't you vote for the 120 billion forints that we provided as extra wages from 2013 to 14? Why didn't you vote for that HUF 38 billion from 2014 to 15? And last spring, when we voted for another HUF 34 billion in the budget law for the wages of teachers, he didn't vote for that either. [[Dóra Dúró: Look at me, Bence! Look at this. Keep going.]] It is simple, of course, to say in words that someone is in solidarity with the teachers, but when it might have been necessary to support these concrete legislative proposals here, when it was necessary to support the cover of the teacher's surplus wage, Jobbik was not so in solidarity with the teachers either. We raised wages, and, of course, we have solidarity with all teachers. Why else would we first offer a career in Hungary to teachers of all professions? Why else would the wage increase, in parallel with the increase in performance, first start in the field of education, in the field of teachers, if not because we believe that we really had to give the teachers more of the additional performance that Hungarian taxpayers and Hungarian businesses paid as taxes, as a public burden, to the budget? The Hungarian people entrusted their children to them, which is why the government had the greatest confidence in teachers in 2012-13 when it launched the teaching career. And in addition, we provide free textbooks for families in an ascending system, this year the textbook package will be free for the first four years. But it is equally important in the area of children's meals that the surplus of resources we have provided is important, and so is feedback from today's 18-year-olds and last year's 18-year-olds who choose a career, and now one and a half times as many as the number of teachers who have chosen it five years ago in 2010. [[12.30]] In contrast to 980 at the time, 1480 people applied to be teachers, and the period when we said that there would be no more teachers if we went on like this, because finally the proportion of teachers applying for teaching careers began to rise. Which is the state reservation and the usual 19th of Jobbik. 20th century, XX. 20th century, XXI. The party of the 20th century is divided, their own program is read, and it may still be the 20th century. It was written in the 21st century, only in the 21st century. Posted on their website in the 18th century [[Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks. Dóra Dúró: Not without reason!]] the same direction, direction of state reservation, increased centralisation. Look back! Look back, it's on the Internet in their own program, it's readable, it's the same state responsibility in textbook publishing as centralization in the system of public education. It seems that Jobbik can function at the same time in two centuries, from the point of view of time travel, I think it is a substantial physical step forward from the party. [[Intercoms in Jobbik's ranks.]] But you never talk about it - it's easy to say that you're going out and you say that the KLIK must be abolished, but you don't say a word about what would happen next, because of course you don't have any idea about it. [[Dóra Dúró: That's not true!]] Then how do they eliminate the social differences that existed before the KLIK was created? [[Dóra Dúró: It's in our program.]] That's 2.5 years [[The president's ringing the bell.]] The 2.5 years that a child aged 6-7 has had in a better-cased school district and in a less-favoured school district, with two and a half years of development difference... - how else could you reduce this, how else could you even the odds better, between young people in different living situations and children? [[Zoltán Haughty: Not like this! There's a noise in Jobbik's ranks.]] For 25 years or 20 years, the municipal system has tried to do this. Is the difference reduced? The difference between children living in different parts of Hungary and going to school was not reduced, but increased. A state institution maintenance is a real opportunity for many, hundreds or even thousands of schools, where many and more disadvantaged children have the chance to learn, acquire knowledge and work. [[Noise in opposition benches.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and If, in the context of the round table of public education, let us say, employers had listened to what they thought, that there were many areas where there should be a strengthening of the knowledge, the basic knowledge that young people need to acquire, because what they need to learn in the lower school, from the upper school to the vocational school, and they do not learn certain things in many difficult areas, and the employers have confirmed that. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] This is why in 2010 there was a need for a profound change in the system of public education. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-02-22-18	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Erzsébet Schmuck, Member of the LMP Group, asked for a pre-meeting address:. The Government is wasting the resources of our development. You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2016-02-22-19	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Today, I would also like to express the solidarity of the LMP with teachers and students who have drawn attention to the unsustainable situation of Hungarian public education in recent weeks and months. I think that what has now come to the surface with such elemental force in education is a direct consequence of the government's policy of reviving the future. Every reasonable person can see that if a small country wants to break out of its peripheral position, it must invest in education. Every country that has made a significant catch-up in the last half century has certainly done one thing: it has radically increased its spending on education. The Hungarian government refuses to see this, thinking that education is not the key to the rise of the nation, the long-term development of the country, the more educated and educated people. The government's vision, if any, is about a country where it competes with low-skilled and low-paid labour force and joins the international division of labour with assembly plants. In this country, it is impossible to move forward through diligence and talent, to start a family, to run successful small businesses. No wonder a lot of people choose emigration. Contrary to the government's claims, this can also be monitored in the budget, in which the share of education and health expenditure has decreased year by year. According to the latest OECD data, the annual expenditure of educational institutions per student from primary school to higher education in Hungary is half the OECD average. Between 2010-12, spending on education institutions decreased by 13 percent in real terms, while amazing money was spent on wealthy support, unnecessary expenditure and prestige investments. The single-key tax system has given HUF 2500 billion to the top 10 percent of taxpayers since 2010, which alone is one and a half times the total expenditure on education in the budget. In five years, HUF 1500 billion was spent on company purchases and recapitalisations, and another HUF 1000 billion is planned until 2017, while these purchases caused huge losses. MOL shares, which were bought for 500 billion, are not worth half today, the purchase of the E-ON gas business for 280-300 billion, which analysts say is a total loss. We also lost the recapitalisation of the state banks that bought or fell in. I could continue the line by spending hundreds of billions of dollars on Urization, Passions of the elite, such as increasing stadium spending, moving the Prime Minister's Office to Castle, the billions of public money poured into the Hungarian Academy of Arts, or dribbling public media operating as the government's mouthpiece. They've started a multi-billion-dollar Paks II project that cripples the country. With the uncontrolled spending of the Hungarian National Bank, the budget falls from hundreds of billions, while the wage ceiling of state leaders is raised from 2 to 5 million. More than three years of educational money, 4500 billion, I can tell you, were scattered in this way, only in these ways, and there is no Paks credit in this. The development of the country could also have been facilitated by EU funds if it had been properly spent. Today's management considers EU subsidies not to be a development resource, but to be a prize that it can distribute as it pleases. The money goes out on bad projects, overpriced, and most of it goes into the pockets of the economic hinterland; or, as the case of Flórian Farkas, a respected member of the faction, who disappeared HUF 1.2 billion without a trace, stealing public money from the poorest. That is why there is no more access to education, health care, because the government spends resources on its own entertainment and on prestige investments that are not due to the interests of the community. Today we have a government that spends money not on what it should be, but on short-term interests and often only on passes for private interests. Until we change that, until either the government's policy or the government itself changes, Hungary's future is doomed to failure.
u2016-02-22-20	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Parliamentary Secretary Bence Rétvári wishes to respond to what has been said. I give you the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2016-02-22-21	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, As in the speech before the previous agenda, I have broken down to you year after year how much more we spent on the wages of teachers, on the salaries of teachers, I do not wish to repeat that. [[Nándor Gúr: It would be nice!]] I can only say on the whole that it is around HUF 230 billion that we are now spending more on the salaries of teachers than we spent in 2010 or in 12 years. There is no doubt that, in 2008-2010, in addition to a decline in GDP, the current government spent less and less on education and public education compared to declining GDP. [[Erzsébet Schmuck is talking to Dr. András Schiffer.]] I'm sure you'd hear that if you weren't talking to the head of the faction, but you don't seem to want to know the answer if you've given up your lesson. So in that period, the amount spent on public education has doubled with less and less GDP, so we can say, but we, after seeing that there is a surplus in the budget as a result of the economic revolution, as a result of the Hungarian reforms, which we can spend on wage increases, which are not only a one-year, one-off expenditure - since you compare a one-off MOL share purchase or a one-off construction with a decision that is being built year after year, let's say, in the case of teachers, in the case of salaries - well, if there is a permanent sustainable decision and a wage increase, then we started with teachers at career level for the first time, and so the pay of teachers has risen from year to year, so that, on average, a teacher earns 40 percent more than he has earned before by 3-4 or 5 years. [[12.40]] The wages of teachers will continue to increase on 1 September of this year, and the wages of teachers will increase on 1 September of next year, and we have a legal guarantee. So, the resources that may be invested in one of the most important places, the wages of teachers, which is why the share of the public education budget has tilted slightly, as we are now spending 90% on wages, and, of course, the rest of the expenditure will have to be increased proportionately in the coming months and years to make more money for other purposes. But for teachers' wages, this government has launched a wage increase program to a greater extent than any government has ever done before. Obviously, it was also a sensitive moment for teachers when their 13th month salary was taken away. [[Nándor Gúr: You took the allowances from them!]] But with these measures, which the government has gone through in the field of teaching careers, we have been able to return this and much more to teachers in order to make them feel more respected, and, as I have already pointed out, if you look at the application applications, the teaching course is much more attractive, at least one and a half times more attractive than it was a few years ago, when much fewer people came up. Those that are formulated in the claims may not be wage claims, but they all obviously contain elements that represent an indirect rise in wages, whether they represent a replacement - as they ask for a return of several allowances - either in the hours allowance or in the number of hours cut, and the president of the National Teacher's Faculty himself said that they now feel an 8 percent wage disadvantage because, in addition to the wage increases in the teaching career in September, they would consider it important to raise their wages in January, equal to raising the minimum wage, so that not only once in September, but twice in one year. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: But that's not their problem, Bence!]] Obviously, if the government had the opportunity, as well as those working in the health care sector, it would make a higher wage increase. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: The wage increase is not their problem! The president's ringing the bell.]] There is only a limit to which we should say that we will not raise wages on credit, because we have seen in the period of previous government, in the period of Péter Medgyessy or Ferenc Gyurcsány, where such long-term commitments have led. [[Zoltán Grimlock: Doctors earn a million and a half, we know!]] And we also saw that, although the previous government required by law what to pay the doctors or what to pay the teachers, but did not provide the municipalities with this cover, the municipality was obliged to maintain the institution, but did not fund 100% of its operating costs, then the municipalities issued bonds, then the municipalities took out loans, and sometime sooner or later someone had to pay for it. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: Who answered? The Fidesz municipalities, right?]] And since Margaret Thatcher also said that she had not seen a socialist government that would have paid off the loans she had taken on; the socialists were not others in Britain and not others in Hungary [[István Szilárd Németh intervenes.]] - in this respect they are nothing else - neither did the socialists pay the loans that were received or raised with the municipalities, and in the order of 1300 billion Fidesz-KDNP finally paid back, in the previous years the missing part of the teachers' wages or the missing part of the doctor's wages that the then government did not provide to the municipalities. I therefore believe that you can look back not only after 2010 but also before 2010, Madam honourable Member: Fidesz-KDNP also paid the municipalities ex post coverage of the wage increases at the time. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-02-22-22	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. With all due respect to my fellow Members, please note that this is not a dialogue. The Secretary of State has listened to the Member's speech. I think it's appropriate to listen to him, too, in connection with his response. [[Nándor Gúr: We would have expected more! Zoltán Lukács: You just want to help, really!]] Dear Parliament, We will continue with the speeches before the agenda. I give the floor to MEP László Szászfalvi, KDNP Group: [[For signal:]] I'm sorry. [[Towards László Szászfalvi:]] My apologies, Congressman. I made a mistake. Dear Parliament, József Tobias, Member of the MSZP Group, has applied for a speech on current affairs. I give you the floor, Mr. Group Leader.
u2016-02-22-23	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, I would be happy to give it to Mr Szászfalvi, if he wants to tell me, I would be happy to listen, unlike some of my fellow Members. At the moment, the fact that the government doesn't govern, but is conducting PR and window steering places more posters than it would one day take government action to keep people safe. What we see is that the state has left places that have become clear in the last quarter of a century that it has a very serious task here, it must operate the health care system, the social care system, education and public administration. Today, all of these are in ruins, that's the fact. Now we can agree to see if the public administration knows how they will account for their salary, whether they will receive it at all, how they teach in health care, how they can teach or even how doctors can heal. Let's not talk about education right now, because the way it is is happening on the street today is the demand for that change. There's nothing to talk about the social services system, because you guys have completely torn up the social network. Otherwise, people miss not only the safety of everyday life, but they fear that the system you have created will make our children's future impossible. To protest the teachers, what was their answer so far? The fact that the secretary of state responsible for the area was transferred to another government position, and Mr Palkovic, in particular, is a State Secretary who has so far caused enormous damage to his territory. You don't want to change. And let's stop here for a moment, Mr. Secretary. You are talking about, and the Prime Minister is also saying that teachers in the field of education should not come up with a wage claim, and that they should not put pressure on the government. That's what you're talking about. But then you can talk about the pressure of the Olympics. You can talk about the pressure of the National Bank foundations. You can talk about the pressure on land sales. You can talk about the pressure on the traff sales. Well, take note that they spend less on themselves and give the people the money, and then this problem is solved. Because what's going on on on the street today is that people understand exactly that this government is willing to change only by pressure. Society's moving. You can't ignore that. The KLIK has accumulated seven billion debts over the past month, negotiating with utility companies to give them a six-month extension so that our children can go to school with, say, lighting and heating. And what does the KLIK do compared to that? He started threatening the director of Teleki Blanka High School at the rate of darkest times. Their arrogance is beyond imagination. However, the crowd stands up for the director and the faculty, also to demonstrate as a community-forming force of a tasteless, insensitive remark: student, parent, teacher wears a uniform plaid shirt in Hungary today. Your reaction, on the other hand, makes you an absolute laughingstock. Nearly a dozen police officers are being ordered there for this demonstration? A school? Are you really that afraid, Mr. Secretary of State? There is a generation who has learned in the last few days that they can dictate the future with their teachers, their parents, that they do have politics for them, and not the other way around, as you think. And more and more people are doing something to make Hungary a better, safer Hungary. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, The fact is, even though teachers are threatened, they threaten their parents and students. Not only would the students, teachers, parents, but even a rabbit with a square ear be afraid of you. Enough, said society, wake up, says society, to you, to sit down to negotiate with you, or without you, in order to create a new education system. I am sorry that the Speaker has left the Chamber, because I must say he has joined this anti-democratic group of intimidation, but I must say, he has not done this for the first time. In Salgótarján, he said: "If you want a future for our children and grandchildren, you must not make a mistake in the interim election. You have to choose a mayor who can manage responsibility and find a partnership with the government. This is not simply pressure and abuse of public power, it is blackmailing and threatening voters and local communities, Mr. Secretary of State! You are abusing your power, but I am convinced that the Taryans will give you a snap answer. Because you can see what we've been talking about in the political room, now on the street is the balance of your governance. Thank you, Mr. President, for listening.
u2016-02-22-24	Thank you. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Parliamentary Secretary Bence Rétvári wishes to respond to what has been said. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary. [[12.50]]
u2016-02-22-25	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Chief of Staff, Dear House, In recent weeks, socialist politicians have become accustomed to speaking here in Parliament on behalf of people on the streets. I have listened to several speeches that have been made, and I have not seen much of the name of the Hungarian Socialist Party. [[Zoltán Grimlock: We were there! Interviews in the ranks of the MSZP.]] I looked through the crowd photos, and I saw you, of course, trying to give as many interviews as possible in the protesting crowd. [[Bangóné Borbély Ildikó: And where were you, Secretary of State?]] But I've seen socialist party logos on your jacket, but not anywhere else. So don't speak for the masses who don't even pronounce the name of the Hungarian Socialist Party, precisely because they remember that period. [[Interviews in the ranks of the MSZP.]] Between 2002 and 2010, educators remember the time when there was socialist government, remember when they came to the municipality year after year to negotiate [[József Tobias: What do the two have to do with each other? Zoltán Grimlock: 50 percent wage increase, right? The president's ringing the bell.]] [[Interviews in the ranks of the MSZP.]] , between 2002 and 2010, teachers remember the period when there was socialist government, remember when they came to the municipality to negotiate year after year (József Tobias: What do the two have to do with each other? - Zoltán Grimlock: 50 percent wage increase, right? - The president's ringing. , and the municipality explained how low schools were financed, how much money was withdrawn from the system of public education, remembering when the socialists took away their monthly wages in 2008 (intercoms in the lines of the MSZP). ) ; they all remember this, and for a moment, no educator even accidentally gave a speech that the Hungarian Socialist Party would represent them in any way, or in any other case they would support the socialists. So when you do, speak for them, honourable Member. [[József Tobias: Sit down! Interviews in the ranks of the MSZP.]] But at the moment, I have not seen any sympathy for the Socialist Party. [[Interviews in the ranks of the MSZP.]] So I'm asking you not to speak for those who didn't ask you to speak. [[Tobias József intervenes.]] 'Cause I'd feel a little intrusive by a lot of people. And as for the presence of the police at protests, honourable Member, this is once again a subject that I, as a socialist, would certainly not raise in Parliament, because it will give a clear reaction not to a party here, within the walls of Parliament, because what you did ten years ago about peaceful memorialists [[Dr. Tamás Bellozó: Answer me! Zoltán Grimlock: We saw it in the peace procession! The whole town's on fire! Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] it has been engraved in the memory of the Hungarian people for a long time when the police have been used for political purposes and have been taken under political control, and for a long time people will not forget it. And there may be a lot of slogans here about how many police cars there are now, how many cars there are there, how many cars there are there, how many of them have been peacefully commemorated by the police, and obviously they didn't know how many people would arrive, it seems there were fewer people, and that's why there were so many policemen there, as many as there were, but peacefully, legally. [[Dr. Tamás Bellozó: Aren't you ashamed?]] I think it is best for you here to listen to the issues of mass events, because we all remember how we had to taste the smell of tear gas or how you conducted a horse-riding attack on peaceful memorialists. [[An intervention in the ranks of the MSZP: those who went in tanks, right? Interviews in the ranks of the MSZP.]] As far as the threat is concerned, honourable Member, it is important to note that since the very first moment, when anonymous rumors of this kind started a few weeks ago, the Klebelsberg Institutional Maintenance Centre issued a statement immediately stating that it is not doing any such pressure to do anything or not to do anything. At the first moment, this communication was published, and since then it has been confirmed by both the KLIK and the EMMI that no such pressure is acceptable. [[Dr. Tamás Bellozó: Then why are you doing it?]] And to have no doubt, the Klebelsberg Institutional Center has posted all the correspondence on its website, everyone can read it, has nothing to hide since last week, if you go up, download it, print it, look at it from the front, look at it from behind, see what you want to make it look like a threat, as if there were government pressure, although there was no intention, no will, no evidence of that. The opposition is saying this, trying to create such a mood, but if it were like this, it would obviously not have published all the documents, since then it would have something to hide. The KLIK has nothing to hide, the government has no such intention, no kind of threat, and this has also been seen in the events of the past few weeks. What we intend to do is negotiate. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: With whom?]] To try to find solutions to a number of issues in negotiations, and this is because five out of six working groups have started their work to prepare tomorrow's meeting of the Public Education Round Table, so we will obviously find the solution here, together with everyone who is present here, whether from the educator's website or as a educator's choir, or as a trade union - if the larger organisations don't boycott it, but come - as well as the stakeholder organisations, but also parents, students, employers, and the Hungarian Academy of Sciences, we will find solutions here together, and there will be one that will come into force from 1 September, which will come into force from 1 January, and that will come into force, but the solution itself will come at the negotiating table. Whoever conducts a responsible policy asks everyone to participate in these negotiations as best they can. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-02-22-26	I thank the Secretary of State for his reply. Dear Parliament, Mr László Szászfalvi, from the group of the KDNP, also applied for a speech before the agenda. I'll give the floor to Congressman.
u2016-02-22-27	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Parliament, In recent years, the government has made countless efforts and efforts to help the countryside, in order to make up for the huge lag of previous decades. The national rural development strategy has been completed, which aims to renew rural Hungary. In addition, a number of domestic and EU funds have been set aside to raise and make rural Hungary more livable. Agricultural subsidies, rural development subsidies, environmental and energy efficiency programmes and proposals have been used by a large number of people. The renovation, development of infrastructure, renovation of health, education and social basic infrastructures, debt consolidation of municipalities and a number of systems of applications and support for their operational and development activities have been launched, all of which have served the purpose of reliving the countryside. Dear Parliament, Of course, these efforts are not enough, and we have huge tasks ahead of us to achieve our goals. Dear Parliament, A number of calls for proposals will be opened in the 2014-2020 EU programming period for the rise of the countryside. These include the Territorial Operational Programme, TOP, COHEP, environmental and energy proposals, rural development programmes, economic development programmes, and the Human Resources Operational Programme. I am convinced that only complex means can be used to lift and revitalize the countryside, i.e. the use of all resources, which can be the result of the combined impact and complementary effect of each other, is the goal, the achievement of our goals. Dear Parliament, In these weeks, the rural development programme for the 2014-2020 cycle was launched, for which 1300 billion funds have been allocated. It is the government's intention that these sources should be covered by applications as early as this year. The separate funds concern a number of rural development segments: farmers for the construction of small crop storage sites, for example, more than 30 billion for small farms, livestock farmers for the modernisation of their livestock farms can receive more than 70 billion forints, there is 75 billion forints available for the gardening sector, around 76 billion forints available for the municipalities of small settlements, and LEADER LAGs can submit their support applications in a number of calls for around 60 billion forints, and young farmers are also key target groups for rural development policy, this year the rural development programme will provide HUF 76.5 billion for the start-up of new agricultural enterprises and the implementation of their investments. Ladies and gentlemen, These resources represent a new opportunity and a new perspective for rural Hungary, for many disadvantaged areas, including my constituency, for the inner-somogyi and the southern Somogyi regions. Dear Parliament, We have a shared responsibility and a shared responsibility to use the development possibilities of this cycle as much as possible for the rise of rural Hungary. We can't let the countryside break down, and it's a bigger task: we have to catch up with the Hungarian countryside, especially the disadvantaged regions. This requires cooperation and cooperation, and that all possible actors do their best to make effective use of the available resources in the next four to five years. [[Dr. István Hiller, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]] Dear Parliament, We must therefore make use of the years ahead in order to achieve our national objectives. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[13.00]]
u2016-02-22-28	Thank you very much, Congressman. Welcome back, we'll continue our work. Secretary of State Miklós Kis responds on behalf of the government, please.
u2016-02-22-29	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Honourable Congressman, Dear Parliament, I agree that the Hungarian government has a great responsibility for preparing a truly good and efficient rural development programme, and for the implementation of the programme, there should also be proposals that help the rural economy and local authorities to participate successfully in it. It is no coincidence that a rural development programme, which we are convinced by the European Commission, is a good basis for the implementation of the government's rural development objectives, has been and has come to pass. What is the main purpose of this? Rural development, in which we focus particularly on job creation, while at the same time improving the competitiveness of rural economic operators, by addressing small and medium-sized enterprises as a priority, and also by providing development ideas and resources to the community of our rural areas and local authorities. So a very complex programme had to be developed, obviously in agreement, in cooperation with and in accordance with the operational programmes mentioned by the other Members. The rural development programme was adopted by the European Commission in August 2015, and it has only been a few months since then, but we have already been through 19 calls, and almost half of our resources, more than 600 billion forints have been announced, partly for agricultural enterprises and partly for municipalities. The Member stressed the disadvantaged municipalities. Indeed, this is also apparent from the programme, since any... - for municipalities here in the call or even for businesses, disadvantaged settlements are treated as a priority in the scoring system. It is also very important that municipalities, if they have a non-profit economic organisation or even a social cooperative, are able to apply not only for municipal but also for economic development applications. In this respect, for example, we have announced development resources for the development of the food industry with a budget of more than HUF 150 billion, and we have also announced gardening investments for the creation of greenhouses and foil houses worth more than HUF 60 billion, which is obviously important for rural agricultural enterprises, but I would stress once again that local governments of small settlements can access these resources if they fulfil the conditions. In addition, what I have just mentioned, we have also recently launched a call for proposals for which the municipalities, communities, associations and churches of small settlements will be able to apply in particular, for example, for the development, modernisation of buildings defining the image of the settlement, the creation of community spaces, but also for the sewage treatment of settlements under 2 thousand residential units, with a total value of nearly HUF 40 billion. We will also continue the programmes that were previously provided by the government with a national budget for small rural settlements and farm towns, as we have all raised the very important elements of the farm programme into the rural development programme, and, for example, we have provided more than 10 billion funds for the maintenance of the outskirts. In addition, we will also have calls for proposals that will be able to help build the local market and help local producers by investing in local government projects, as well as for the development of public catering. Overall, this is well over HUF 10 billion. Thus, continuing to develop the basic services of village care, staff and local services, more than HUF 8 billion will be available at this call for proposals for all those who provide a basic service in addition to the municipality. These calls will therefore be seen in the coming weeks and months, which we have not yet announced. It can be seen that the annual development framework provides for a very dynamic timetable, and it also shows that every call for proposals that has not yet been published will be announced in 2016. By the way, we have done this system by successfully closing the 2007-13 period, using the available resources, and developing a programme that also contrasts with the previous period, so that the resource concentration that was achieved between 2007-13, and perhaps the damage to rural development in part, has been broken by us; and our aim is not to have only a narrow layer of available resources. That is why we have introduced restrictions in individual calls for proposals, which I think can be very successful for small and medium-sized enterprises, and we will be able to support as many of the local authorities as possible. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-02-22-30	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Before the agenda, Mr Zsolt Németh, Member, Fidesz, spoke with the title of the EU and the deal between Britain. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-02-22-31	Mr President, Dear Minister, Dear House, There has already been a debate a few minutes ago on what Brexit means for Hungary, and I find it somewhat depressing that the opposition does not yet support the compromise which the 28 Heads of State and Government of the European Council consider acceptable for some reason. That is why I think it is important to clarify what British membership of the European Union is worth to us, and why we should avoid the serious irresponsibleness that is reflected in the opposition's position. Firstly, we are talking about the workplace of tens of thousands of workers, honourable opposition Members. If Britain leaves the European Union, the jobs of tens of thousands of Hungarian workers could be in extreme danger. I think that neither Hungary nor any Central European issuing country can do this. Secondly, I think that the unity of the European Union must really be concerned, that the internal balance of the European Union should be concerned, that the risk of a two-speed Europe should be avoided as much as possible, but I think that their argument should be reversed. Just as the British exit would lead to the risk of a strengthening of a two-speed Europe, just as the British exit would result in Europe starting in an inevitable split-up. If you really want to avoid disrupting the unity of the European Union, then the compromise that allows the British to remain in the Union must be supported. Thirdly, I believe that the European economy would not tolerate the departure of the British. If we compare the European Union to a two-stroke engine, Germany is now one of this engine and the other engine is just the United Kingdom. If Britain were to leave the European Union, this would have very serious economic and social consequences for the whole of the European Union; the sustainability of its funding would be at risk. Fourthly, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that the Central European vision that the Central European countries have recently formulated on the European Union, on sovereignty, on the role of national parliaments, on the criticism of the ever closer European Union, on the Europe of certain nations, on all these issues, is one of our most important allies today, the United Kingdom. I think that this vision, this vision of the European Union, would also be seriously compromised if the British quit. Unfortunately, when we talk about British success and British breakthroughs, we do not calculate that we have a very difficult period of months and four months until 23 June, when the British will decide. The real question, Mr House, is whether this compromise will be enough to win in Britain and to keep Britain in the European Union. [[13.10]] I think that we are interested in David Cameron's success, we are interested in Britain's remaining in the European Union. Let us not shout this out, but let us also consider how we can help Britain and the European Union, Central European Europe, Hungarian workers and the European economy to succeed. The best way to help is for Hungary to be able to support the compromise that 28 Heads of State and Government could otherwise support. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2016-02-22-32	Thank you very much. Minister Peter Szijjártó, on behalf of the government, here you go.
u2016-02-22-33	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, Thank you for your speech, thank you for the fact that in the case of Britain, we also have the opportunity to talk about the future issues of the European Union. I do not think there is a debate here in this House, nor between analysts, evaluators and European politicians, that the European Union has lost significantly its competitiveness in recent years. There are many components and many reasons for this, in which we probably would not agree, but the sentence is likely to hold its place in every debate. So the European Union has lost much of its competitiveness. We see a global competition, a global competition in which regional trade and economic integrations compete with each other. The European Union also entered into this competition when it started negotiations with the United States on the Transatlantic Trade and Investment Partnership. Unfortunately, these negotiations - at least for our tastes - have progressed and progressed extremely slowly, so it was legitimate that the US's eyes would turn in a different direction, or at least have a stronger focus on another region of the world. Thus, the United States has recently, let's say, brought together the Pacific Partnership, which is the TPP word for it. This is a trade and economic integration that brings together 40% of the world's economic performance and a third of world trade. Unfortunately, Europe is lagging behind in this regard and the transatlantic trade and investment partnership is still very far from the point where we are at all finding out whether it will be good for Europe in its form, whether it will be good for Hungary or not. I'm a man of moderation. So as long as the negotiations are at this stage, I think it is right to take the view that, since Hungary has an open economy, it is obviously in our interest to limit the obstacles to international trade. At the same time, we have red lines that we do not want the TTP agreement to go through, but we are not yet at a point where we can clearly see how our negotiating position is going. At the same time, we also see that world trade and other major players in the world economy, China, Russia and Arab countries, are constantly building their own regional cooperation, and that is why we consider it important that the European Union is able to look at the broader horizon by stepping out of the current problems. In this respect, however, the question of the future of Britain, the United Kingdom, with regard to membership of the European Union, must be understood. I do not think that there will be much debate between us either, whether the possible departure of the United Kingdom from the European Union would weaken the European Union both politically and economically. I think the answer is clear that yes, so the European Union would be weaker both politically and economically if the citizens of the United Kingdom did not finally decide to stay in the European Union. I therefore think it is very important to say that it is in our common interest that Britain, the United Kingdom, remains a member of the European Union. Because, in addition to the narrow economic and political segment, it is also important that the ideas that the British represent for the future of Europe be represented in the European Union. After all, it is clear that the compromises that we have achieved have benefited greatly from broad support and consensus, and so the Hungarian Government has supported several points that the British have made during this debate; that is, for example, that the role of national parliaments should be stronger. We supported this to an absolute extent, or, for example, to target national economic policies, more competitiveness and less bureaucracy, we also supported this. As we naturally agree, a strong European Union can be based on strong Member States. So we reject the approach of making the Member States as weaker as possible so that the European Union can become stronger. We think this is the other way around: the stronger the European Union is, the stronger the European Union will be. In this we expect the United Kingdom, and we hope that British citizens will make a wise decision. On the other hand, I agree with the speech and thank you for raising this issue. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2016-02-22-34	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that the following Members have applied for a speech after today's agenda: László Varju, independent; R. Benedek Sallai, LMP; László Lukács, György Jobbik; Gergely Kulcsár, Jobbik; László Teleki, MSZP; Gergely Farkas, Jobbik; Előd Novák, Jobbik; László Kiss, MSZP; Gábor Staudt, Jobbik, Members. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that there has been a motion to waive your immunity in connection with the case of Mr Zoltán Gőgös, MSZP, Member of Parliament, concerning the infringement of the immunity previously notified. No. 2 of Budapest II. Annex II to Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 is amended in accordance with Annex II to this Regulation. District Court. The Speaker of Parliament has issued this to the immunity committee for examination. Dear Parliament, Now, at 1:16 p.m., we will begin the discussion of questions and immediate questions. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that the Speaker of Parliament is the Rules of Procedure 121. Under the authority of paragraph 4 (a) of Section 4 of the Act, representative Zoltán Magyar K/8721. He rejected the written question submitted to the Minister for National Development because the motion was not within the minister's remit. So now we're going to get to the questions. Dear Parliament, Mr Sándor Szabó, representative of the MSZP, wants to ask the Minister of Human Resources:. Why did KLIK completely ignore the unanimous opinion of the faculty in the election of the Director of the Fodor College in Szeged? When will the KLIK be terminated? With an address? Congressman, please.
u2016-02-22-35	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, If it's public education, it's KLIK, if it's KLIK, it's another scandal. In recent years, four out of five colleges in Szeged have received a director's proposal. One of them was the Fodor College in Szeged, where the display was pretty scandalous. The director's seat was applied for by two, the former director, who ran the institution professionally well 13 years ago, and a former Fidesz candidate for mayor, who was left behind in the last municipal elections. In such cases, the election of the director should ask the student council, the teaching board, the staff council. Each of them would have unanimously supported the former principal in the director's seat. Despite this, the district director appointed the former Fidesz mayor candidate on 1 March to run the institution without otherwise giving any justification, because otherwise, the KLIK regulations do not require it to do so. Dear Secretary of State, When are you going to understand that this is exactly the kind of thing that makes people, teachers, teachers, the KLIK, the education system? It is not enough that students, teachers, have been overwhelmed, it is not enough that they have taken away their decision-making competences, that there is no appropriate instrument in schools, then, for example, they are deprived of basic democratic legislation in this case, even if they happen to ignore their unanimous opinions in their entirety. That's why I'm asking the Secretary of State: do you think it's normal for someone who doesn't get a single vote from the faculty in a board election to be the head of the institution just because he might have been a Fidesz candidate for mayor? Do you think it is acceptable that there is no justification for the decision to appoint a director? Well, there is, you could say, just. Finally, the cancer of the whole thing is KLIK. When are they going to eliminate this anti-democratic and over-burcratized bastard, KLIK, because at this big institution, I think everything would be better. I'm waiting for your answer. [[Intercoms from the benches of the MSZP, among them: Yes! Applause from the benches of MSZP.]]
u2016-02-22-36	Thank you very much. Secretary Bence Rétvári responds. Here you go. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély rings with a bicycle bell. Nándor Gúr: You should push that bike away! Deterioration from the benches of the MSZP.]] [[13.20]]
u2016-02-22-37	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Dear House,
u2016-02-22-38	Stop! I ask you all to comply fully and in all cases with the Rules of the House. Thank you.
u2016-02-22-39	Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Nándor Gúr: The bicycle can be pushed away!]] Dear House, Honourable Congressman, You, I believe, are a routine politician in municipal affairs. You may have had the opportunity to look at the details of the education management or other legislation applicable to municipalities in your life, and you know that there are so many differences in the process itself in the previous and current agendas, i.e. before the KLIK and after the KLIK, in terms of its broad lines, that there is an opinion process going on in the same way, then the municipality had a decision-making power, and now it is being exercised by the district district district of the Klebelsberg Institution Support Centre. So we can't talk about the change in the system itself. If you say that it is anti-democratic, which is now, then basically you say about the practice of the last 25 years, also about the period of municipal maintenance - we remember, at the time when students or teachers protested against the appointment of a school principal, who was not supported locally, whether in black shirts or otherwise. So the only change in the system is that it is not the municipality who is the recipient of these licenses, but the Klebelsberg Institutional Maintenance Centre that is the recipient of these licenses. But I think that it is worth discussing all the issues, so that the so-called maintenance working group of the Public Education Round Table was established on 18 February, which deals with precisely these and similar issues, how to exercise these powers, how to review the rules on this. Organisations that have been invited [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] and participate in the round table, which they have been participating in since 18 February. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-02-22-40	Thank you. Dear Parliament, Representative Zoltán Magyar, representative of Jobbik, wishes to ask the Minister of Agriculture:. In his mid-term time, the ground-privatisation is taking place, where not only the family of capitalists and politicians, but also the offices of friends and lawyers. Here you go.
u2016-02-22-41	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Fellow Members! Mr. Secretary. We are halfway through the privatisation of state land, both in the territory and in time, and experience is devastating. I have to say that all of Jobbik's concerns have been confirmed, and it is not just that the state is getting rid of one of its last national assets, and you are pursuing the same policy that your predecessors have been pursuing for the last 25 years, and you have gone even further. And what they're constantly communicating is that small and medium-sized family farms will get to public lands here, and the opposite is happening in reality. According to our calculations, about one in five winners were only those who came out of this category. All other areas, i.e. about 80 percent of the land sold by the state, persons linked to politics, capital investors and indeed foreigners. But not only do we have a problem with the fact of sales, and not only is the outcome of privatisation unacceptable, but there is a lot that stinks about implementation. Taking an example, it would be appropriate to finally find out who the lucky 32 law firms have had the exclusive opportunity to rewrite the land. By the way, you threw a minimum of 1.5 billion forints at these 32 law firms. I have spoken to several legal practitioners in the past few days, and I can clearly say that these are simple transactions, that there should not be any extraterrestrial legal capacity to carry out these legal transactions, so that no one could have obliged you to raise such extra expectations against lawyers. It stinks, by the way, that they didn't give any information about who these lucky 32 people were. To sum up, I would therefore like to have two answers: how can it be that only a fifth of the family farmers who are actually living on the ground have become owners of the land, and in relation to the law offices, Mr Secretary, we want to hear names. I'm looking forward to your substantive answer. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-02-22-42	Thank you very much. Secretary of State Bitay Márton Örs responds. Here.
u2016-02-22-43	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, You're banging open doors, because if you'd ever bothered to look at the NFA website, you'd see all the contracts there, and at the end of the contracts, there's the names of the lawyers who countersign, so I can't agree with any encryption or encryption thing. The 80 percent of it was taken by non-family farms, but it was very well put, because he said that, according to our numbers, we know that Jobbik's numbers are not even in the relationship with reality. I'd like to highlight two data for you. If 80 percent of the large farms were taken, please tell me how out of the 130,000 hectares sold so far, it is only 10 thousand hectares sold in more than 150 hectares. Because then there would be an antagonistic contrast, because if 80 percent of it was taken by large plants, then obviously this would have to be reflected in the figures. But the thing is, out of a body over 150 hectares, it's all gone 10,000 acres, all the others are smaller. By the way, I'm just going to keep it in parentheses, but I don't want to disturb you with too many numbers that 70 percent of the land has gone into holdings below 50 hectares. As regards the work of lawyers: the first and most important thing I would like to say may be simple for you, I am glad that you are standing on such stable professional feet, but here the right to buy back must be guaranteed in a contract, a registered mortgage law must be guaranteed in the real estate register, or a prohibition on disposal and debit, which must otherwise be represented in the interests of the State, because otherwise this will not be included in the real estate register. By the way, another number: 3,200 of these 5900 units sold are under ten million, so the half-percent plus tax lawyer fee - half-percent plus VAT! - starting from a minimum of 50,000 forints means that almost 60 percent of the money was paid for 50,000 forints of legal fees. I'd like to ask you to complain if you can make a better proposal than a half-percent plus a VAT property purchase agreement. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. Dr. Wind Bernadett: You shouldn't privatize!]]
u2016-02-22-44	Dear Parliament, Sallai R. Benedek and István Ikotity, representatives of the LMP, would like to ask the Minister of Human Resources a question:. Why, in the middle of the application for graduation and the recruitment process, did they put in place unfair measures that would adversely affect young people? Congressman Ikotity has the floor, please.
u2016-02-22-45	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, This year's recruitment process is also overshadowed by violations and disadvantages for young people applying for admission. It's unfair and unfair for them to make modifications in the process of hiring. Such a change may have been experienced by the candidates in the field of agricultural training, and the scope of optional graduations has been varied. For years, those who focused on two objects, specifically, such as biology and chemistry, faculty and special classes, have now been worse, since they lose their advantage; it will be enough to choose one freely chosen subject and to graduate from it for admissions. On the other hand, for those who did not want to enter this area because of these two subjects, this amendment may be too late. Dear Secretary of State, Another topic: why can this sudden and after-time change take place in the middle of the recruitment process? Why did you have to go through their footage this January? Why didn't they do that at the latest before the school year, so this summer? Changes have also been introduced to those attending two language schools in ethnic language. Three weeks before the application, hundreds of students were disqualified from high school admissions. So far, all students have had the right to pass a graduation exam in foreign or ethnic languages, but now they could graduate immediately, in the middle of applying for a graduation from those who attended such a school but did not attend such an education, and they have taken away the opportunity, even though they may not have attended the two teaching courses, but they could still graduate in ethnic language, for example in pre-school classes. Dear Secretary of State, In connection with the infringement, the Education Commissioner also asks why hundreds of students are excluded [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] From the kind of graduation they've been planning for years?
u2016-02-22-46	Thank you very much. Secretary Bence Rétvári responds. Here.
u2016-02-22-47	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Dear House, What you have said here as a concrete example, Mr President: we are not talking about hundreds of students, but in all of our calculations, 27 students could be involved in any way on this issue. This school, where these 27 students go, has been consulted by the Ministry and the Board of Education, and thus reached a common way. Since then, students have also applied for graduation exams, including for the 27 students who would have been involved. We are talking again about a slightly inflated problem, because it is about the fact that on 22 January we repealed the graduation test code 53. Paragraph 7 of this Article. [[13.30]] Paragraph 1. (13.30) The point of this is that from now on, you can pass a graduation exam that is two teaching languages or ethnicities who have previously attended such a school, such a class, such classes. Obviously, this was a risk for many who did not study in two teaching systems, that if they took such an exam, it could be an additional difficulty for them, or they weren't fully prepared for it, or if they didn't go to two teaching languages and still graduate with such a system, it could also have been an uncertain outcome for them. For this reason, in order to be reassuring for everyone who, of course, attends two teaching or ethnic secondary schools, such a course, such classes, can continue to attend such a graduation. There hasn't been any change in that. Those who didn't go to this and go to this, precisely so that there wouldn't be an uncertain outcome to these exams, they would be safer, the change that happened to them, but, of course, they also graduated from those classes, the schools they went to, so they went to for years. The other thing you mentioned at the beginning, honourable Member, as a change, is obviously more of a relief for many. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] as you are now saying, what a challenge this is, since they can apply less and graduate with less burden, where appropriate. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-02-22-48	Dear Parliament, Congressman Gábor Riz, representative of Fidesz, wishes to ask the Prime Minister's Minister: "Luxury rather than principles! How justified is the monthly salary of the rightful mayor of Ozd? It's an address. It's for the congressman.
u2016-02-22-49	Dear Secretary of State, I suppose we can all agree that everyone is entitled to as much wages as they do work. We also agree that those who work more should receive a higher salary. There is probably no discussion between us again that anyone who maximizes taxpayers' money for his own benefit should not be left out of the question. Jobbik is the party that prefers to say, through its prominents, that it is a political crime to build a job. Several attempts have been made in recent years to bring in this amendment within the framework of legislation. Now, what is happening in Ozdon? It happens that the mayor of Ozd - mayor of Jobbik - doesn't take more than five places at the same time. A total of two of them are entitled to mayor's wages, basic wages and related salaries. All the rest is an extra income. [[Interview from Jobbik: Do you not follow the county assembly?]] We believe that the wage, the benefit you take in relation to your work, is not proportionate. Mr. Mayor could have done that and offered some of it to be useful, but instead he invested his money in a Fiat Barchetta sports car. [[Defiance from Jobbik's ranks.]] Dear House, We believe that after Béla Kovács, in their words, this is another corruption case. In my opinion, the Hungarian Treasury should propose, examine the management of the local government, and initiate with the necessary body whether the local government is legally continuing its payments. There are some questions in this regard. Is it legal, illegal, or even ethical to take that kind of money from so many places? Then I would also like to add that what my better colleagues do not know is that the municipality has made a decision to represent Mayor Dávid Janiczak as Chairman of the Supervisory Board in the Green Volgy Nonprofit Kft., from which an additional HUF 200,000 of apanázs would have been involved. [[Intercom from Jobbik's ranks, there's nothing down there.]] if there are no [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] The mayors who make up the partnership are insane. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-02-22-50	Thank you very much. Minister of State Nándor Csepreghy responds from the Prime Minister's Office. Here you go.
u2016-02-22-51	Honourable Congressman, Thank you very much for asking. I agree that everyone deserves as much wages as they do work. It is a pity that the mayor cannot be asked here in Parliament, because he could explain how Jobbik meets the requirements that every politician can only hire after one job. These are the five items we see here, the mayor's salary for HUF 621 500, the public procurement committee's fee for HUF 96 625, the reimbursement for HUF 89 745, the Ózd Communications Nonprofit Kft. The chairmanship of the supervisory board for HUF 40,000 and the salary of HUF 124 453 resulting from the membership of the county assembly goes against Jobbik's own expectations. We believe that two of these items would be appropriate to Mr Mayor, both his salary and his related expenses. There's no way we can explain it, the job he's doing as mayor and the job description that says that the work of the public procurement committee should be supervised as mayor, why and how he can get extra benefits. I think that the more better men in dominant positions, as mayors, as MEPs or Members of Parliament, the more explainable Jobbik has. [[Applause from the pro-government benches. There's a grumble from Jobbik's ranks. Intruder from Jobbik's ranks, it smells like sweat!]]
u2016-02-22-52	Dear Parliament, Congressman István Tukacs, a representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Minister of Human Resources a question: It's an address. Congressman Tukacs has the floor. Here.
u2016-02-22-53	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, In the middle of last year, and then in December, when the doctors broke the thread, they promised wage improvement, a salary increase: 247 thousand net minimum wage for specialists and 43,000 workers. They backed out of it, lied in Hungarian. One of the doctors on an Internet portal said that they lied to our faces. Secretary of State, everything is preserved on the Internet, and we can see that this wage development has been promised. It turned out, however, that it was only available to very few. Fidesz solved the problem very simply when it came to the fact that doctors and professionals did not receive a raise, quite simply took that promise off their website. Orwell's classic 1984 must have been thought of as some kind of accessory to their work. At the same time, the system does not always work well, because in December I asked the EMMI customer service about the salary increase, last Friday the answer was received with unheard of speed, in which EMMI's customer service - ridiculous! - repeats the government's promise of wage development when you've already denied it. Mr. Secretary, you didn't apologize to these people you tricked. I'm asking you why you don't want to do this. What's the point of sneaking around? Mr. Secretary, when are you going to realize that a fair raise is required, because the doctors in hospitals are going to deposit their resignations, and they're going to leave? They play with patients, they play with their healings, they play with their lives! Dear Secretary of State, I'm asking when you want to patent communication as a fire-fighting method, because disaster control would be very happy with such a tool. Mr President, thank you very much for this opportunity.
u2016-02-22-54	Thank you very much. Secretary Retvári responds.
u2016-02-22-55	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Dear House, I don't remember exactly, but I think you were there last summer at the meeting of the People's Welfare Committee where Minister Zoltán Balog for the first time spoke about this whole increase in wages, so that last year, the second half of this year, and this year, we can release the previously frozen wage elements of doctors, and we can extend the same increase to mobile wage increases as before, in 2012-13 as regards basic wages. As much as we raised in the basic wage in 2012-13, it was 75 billion forints at the time, now last year we secured a sum of 5-6 billion forints at the level of the regulation, and this year it is guaranteed by law for the first time for the whole year, not only for the second half of the year, but also for the whole year. If you work near a sickbed because you watch because you're overworked because you have more time in there, you'll get an increased surplus for this part. There, Minister Balog made this very clear at the meeting of the parliamentary committee, so I think that you have received credible information, and that is what the government has been doing ever since. I thought he was at the meeting of the Health Committee at the ministerial hearing, but it indicates that he wasn't there when the minister reported it once a year; then he could only hear about it from ex post reports. In the case of specialists, as we have said many times here in Parliament and elsewhere, we have taken these measures in the case of residents and young specialists, because they are the most mobile, they are the ones who are most in a position to be able to work easily elsewhere, and therefore we have introduced these measures in an upcoming system, with residents and then with young specialists, with a scholarship of 100, 150, 200 thousand forints for residents, and for young specialists for five years after the exam, if they are in a Hungarian public health institution, this supplement of 151 thousand forints is precisely to remain in Hungary after the exam, and for residents this extra is no longer guaranteed by the hospital, but we guarantee it from the central budget. That's what we said before, that's what we're saying now. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] Thank you very much. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]] [[13.40]]
u2016-02-22-56	Dear Parliament, Member Sebestyén Csító, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Minister of Human Resources:. Why do they make the situation of the sector and the early stage more difficult in the social sphere? Mr. Congressman, here you go.
u2016-02-22-57	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, As a result of last year's changes in legislation, family support and child welfare services have undergone a radical change. The lack of haste and preparation already creates difficulties for the sector, but there are also regulatory changes that, according to the signs of the profession, will cause problems in the operation of the system. In the past, the employer had the opportunity to hire staff without adequate qualifications, apart from the requirements of the legal requirement, in advance or in other words: to grant his employee a period of grace to obtain adequate qualifications. From 1 January, this driver's license was completely lost and the staff currently in the system were granted a grace period until 31 December 2016. The scheme also included guarantee elements, since after the deadline, compared with the employees with the relevant diploma, the employer had the opportunity to dismiss the employee on similar terms as in the case of a probation worker. We know that the social sphere is not an attractive career for young people and career changers. This is understandable, since today, with allowances, the sector's wages are more than 38 percent behind on average in relation to education and more than 23 percent behind on the health sector. As a result, when I was travelling the country, I found vacant statuses at the Child Welfare Centres, and based on the signals sent to you, after 31 December, the system is likely to have to divorce several of its employees, which could create unsolvable problems with the operation of the service. Dear Secretary of State, Do you really want to force future and current employees to leave the field and leave the country, despite the current circumstances? Or are they going to override their earlier decision and lead back to the advance on the acquisition of qualifications? I look forward to your substantive answer. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2016-02-22-58	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary of State of Rétvár again.
u2016-02-22-59	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Dear House, You know, honourable Member, that the government has decided twice in recent years to raise the incomes of those working in the social sphere. Once we accepted a sectoral wage supplement in 2014, and then we decided on a sectoral wage supplement. The first was a general wage development, and the second specifically helped those with qualifications. If I add them together, compose them, and show for some specific examples how much more a young social worker with a career degree earns after two wage developments - obviously the second was a more substantial increase - then a college graduate's monthly gross salary is now 43 690 HUF higher than, say, three years ago; a young person with university education earns 52 046 HUF more than before the introduction of these two allowances. So we have tried to make social careers more attractive for all young people, to be more precise: those who have the ability to do so have the affinity to do so, those who would like to go on this career, not those who choose not to do so as young people for financial reasons. We'd like to encourage them, and obviously get those on the field to stay. As you said, mainly because of the pedagogical career, because educational institutions smoke social workers from institutions where there was a mixed task before, we have now seen that they were constantly moving to schools, which is why they had to be here, and for other reasons, obviously, to make more money, to develop wages. However, you are right that we have indeed reformed the system of family support and child welfare services so far. Integrated departments now provide family support and child welfare services together, covering the entire country. We hope that we can help those in need more directly in every settlement, every district. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2016-02-22-60	Thank you very much. Congresswoman Bernadett Szél, representative of the LMP, wishes to ask the Prime Minister's Minister:. How many employees are the government preparing to dismiss? It's an address. Here you go.
u2016-02-22-61	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Dear Parliament, As we learned from last week's government briefing, on Wednesday, the government will decide on the next step of the project you call bureaucracy reduction, in which 73 ministerial background institutions and budgetary bodies will be dissolved or melted into ministries. We see that when selecting the institutions that were deemed to be terminated, they did not see the institution doing any meaningful work, nor did they examine the form and institutional structure in which the task of the institutions selected would be best performed. You chose the lawnmower principle instead of considering complex technical aspects. You obviously did not bother to consider, for example, how the EMMI will carry out public health and epidemiological authority tasks, but it is also questionable who, without a central body, will decide, for example, on national infrastructure development issues, if it is plowed, I will do so, the Transport Authority. The transformations seem to have no technical justification; there is no indication of what makes the state better or more efficient. We are talking about lawnmowering institutions and the expected dismissal of thousands of workers. Dear Secretary of State, Please answer the question of how many people will be put on the street from where, and exactly what aspects were considered when this position was established.
u2016-02-22-62	Thank you very much. Secretary Csepreghy has the floor. Here.
u2016-02-22-63	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and I see that it is unnecessary to hold the government meeting on Wednesday, because you have already made a decision that the government has not yet made, because the very reason the government is discussing the fate of these 73 institutions on Wednesday is because we are still talking about open issues. [[Bangóné Borbély Ildikó's intervention.]] However, the question of LMP gives me the opportunity to talk about state reform, a measure which has been started by countless governments since 1990, in 25 years. However, what did we see in the previous transformations? Smaller ministries, bigger background institutions. Specifically, the background institutions do not have a leading ministry, but the system functions in reverse. [[Bangóné Borbély Ildikó: Shouldn't have hired 34,000 people...]] If we are serious about the fact that the state's competitiveness largely determines the country's competitiveness, then we need a cheaper, more efficient and much faster state. The current institutional transformation is designed to create a very clear institutional structure: strategic decisions are made in the Ministry, they deal with the implementation of them in government offices and in district offices. Where appropriate and where background institutions need to be maintained, the relevant ministers have the opportunity to present these arguments thematically at the next government meeting and subsequent government meetings for each ministry. However, institutional transformation is not the full scope of state reform. This is, on the one hand, about an institutional transformation and related human policy issues; it talks about the amendment of the relevant rules - that is why the government submitted 110 legislative amendments to Parliament in 2015, of which 108 were adopted by Parliament - and it is also, of course, about a significant reduction in fees, because if the state is cheaper and smaller, then, of course, this must also appear in the daily lives of ordinary people. For example, from 1 January 2016 the government abolished various levies worth HUF 10 billion. However, the same reduction in the rate can be put in parallel with the measure that now, if the State or any public body misses the deadline at its disposal, it will have to pay back all charges to the citizens. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] The country's competitiveness also depends on the state's competitiveness, so these background institutions need to find their place within the government and within the ministerial structure. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2016-02-22-64	Dear Parliament, Congressman Péter Ágh, a representative of Fidesz, wishes to ask the Minister of Defence:. Why is the security of the Hungarian people not important to the opposition? It's an address. Congressman, please.
u2016-02-22-65	Dear Secretary of State, In the past, the head of the wallet said that one of today's most important problems is meeting security policy challenges, including migration in Europe. The risk factors of this must be adequately addressed, in order to protect the country and to maintain a sense of security for people, in accordance with the principles of proportionality and necessity, but extremely effective. The last few months have demonstrated that Hungarian soldiers have the expertise to protect the borders of our country and the Hungarian people. We have seen that even at EU level the security system has not worked properly, but the Hungarian security agencies, the Hungarian police and soldiers have been able to defend our borders together, which are also the external borders of the Union. Security is a fundamental value, and we can now see that one of the main safeguards for its preservation is the Hungarian Defence Forces, which has been a symbol of national cohesion and social unity for more than 160 years now. The service of soldiers is the key to the security of all of us. The government should therefore have the opportunity to introduce appropriate measures in so-called special legal order cases, including with the participation of the Hungarian Defence Forces, in order to effectively address the threat of terrorism or terrorist attacks. [[13.50]] Dear Secretary of State, How is the opposition's attitude in the debate on dealing with the terrorist threat in view of the fact that the related proposals for amendment of the basic law are also designed to guarantee the country's safety as widely as possible with a responsible attitude? How do you feel about the opposition putting the Hungarian Defence Forces and its development at the centre of party political battles in this context? [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] So the guardian of our nation's security, whose spiritual, spiritual traditions and cultural heritage have been strengthening social unity for a century and a half now? Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. Dr. László Varga: Isn't that right? That's the question.]]
u2016-02-22-66	Tamás Vargha, Secretary of State, responds.
u2016-02-22-67	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, One of the biggest challenges of 2016 is the management of migration, in a very close context the issue of the security of the Hungarian people and the people of Europe and the guarantee of this security. The events of the past months have also confirmed that the government cannot allow the demand to put the security of Hungarian society above all else. This cannot be overwritten by any party policy idea or political consideration, and not because the right to life precedes all other rights, the right to self-defense is above all else, because of no ideology or economic interest, we cannot put European citizens, Hungarian citizens, our families and our children at risk. That is why, and according to the government's intentions, it is necessary to make a sound and thought-out decision on how, by what means we manage the terrorist threat, how and by what means we protect the security of the Hungarian people and the people of Europe. The opposition, if it thinks responsibly, can see for itself that hiding behind the obstacles to the amendment of the law actually distracts attention from the point of view, thereby endangering the security of the Hungarian people, the citizens who are represented here in Parliament by their results in the elections. Compared to this, responsible politicians see and know that the people they represent want to live safe, and the responsible government hears, understands and understands the voice, opinions and acts accordingly of all Hungarian citizens. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: Which one? Sliced!]] Finally, I would like to confirm that the protection of our country and our nation is our main common concern, which must be above all political battles. This is our main responsibility, the Hungarian government assumes this responsibility and is responsible for protecting Hungary's security. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-02-22-68	Dear Parliament, Congressman Sándor Burány, representative of the MSZP, would you like to ask the Minister of Justice a question: "The government is not disturbed by the disturbance of legislation? It's an address. On behalf of the Prime Minister, Mr Sándor Pintér, Minister of the Interior, who is competent and competent according to the subject, will answer the question and, in his name, his State Secretary. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-02-22-69	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, Your hasty legislative work has already resulted in a number of confusions, one of these confusion is who is entitled to the fines imposed by the municipalities. Two laws provide for this, and in conflicting ways: whereas the Budget Act rightly provides that 100 percent of the revenue resulting from the fine thus imposed is due to the municipal government, the same infringement law provides that such revenue constitutes the revenue of the central sub-scheme of public finances. After submitting my question, the Treasury sent letters to several municipalities, and in this it informs the municipalities that the proceeds thus generated must be paid into the central fund and gives the account number. Dear Secretary of State, You are well aware that such a letter of information cannot be contrary to any law in force, and that this letter of information is in fact contrary to the Finance Act. I respectfully ask the Secretary of State that, while this seriously disturbs and affects a number of local governments, the two local governments of my constituency, Kőbány and Kispest, are also adversely affected by this legislative gap, I respectfully ask the Secretary of State when the government intends to restore this confusion. When are you going to eliminate this coherence disorder? When do you intend to submit an amendment to the law that clearly designates only local governments as owners of the revenue without a legal gap? I look forward to your reply.
u2016-02-22-70	Thank you very much. Secretary Tibor Pogácsás responds. Here.
u2016-02-22-71	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, I would like to inform you that there is no regulatory disturbance in the matter you have raised. In particular, the Act of 2015 on Hungary's central budget for 2016 provides that the local government is to be entitled to the 2012 II. on infringements, infringement proceedings and the system of the register of infringements. Law 252. 100 per cent of the revenue resulting from an infringement payment and on-the-spot fine imposed and executed pursuant to § 1 of the municipal government's payment account or its sub-account. The Violation Act is 252. Paragraph 1 contains a transitional provision. This means that infringements committed before the entry into force of the law, i.e. 15 April 2012, and ongoing infringement proceedings and their enforcement, are committed by LXIX of 1999. must be conducted or implemented under law. Therefore, the municipal authorities are entitled to the total amount of revenue resulting from the on-the-spot fine imposed and implemented under the earlier infringement law before 15 April 2012. Violent fines, which have already been imposed and implemented within the framework of the new Violation Act, constitute the revenue of the central sub-scheme of public finances, so there is no contradiction in the regulation. Thank you very much. Paragraph 1 contains a transitional provision. This means that infringements committed before the entry into force of the law, i.e. 15 April 2012, and ongoing infringement proceedings and their enforcement, are committed by LXIX of 1999. must be conducted or implemented under law. Therefore, the municipal authorities are entitled to the total amount of revenue resulting from the on-the-spot fine imposed and implemented under the earlier infringement law before 15 April 2012. Violent fines, which have already been imposed and implemented within the framework of the new Violation Act, constitute the revenue of the central sub-scheme of public finances, so there is no contradiction in the regulation. Thank you very much. (Applause)
u2016-02-22-72	Congresswoman Dóra Dúró, representative of Jobbik, would like to ask the Minister of Human Resources: "Who will heal the wounds of therapeutic pedagogy? It's an address. Here you go.
u2016-02-22-73	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, I would like to draw attention to the unworthy state of working conditions of a profession that brings respect and recognition to all well - feeling people. Medical educators not only carry out pedagogical development, education and education in the form of pedagogical support, but also play an irreplaceable role in the lives of many children and families. While it is undisputed that their professional knowledge and commitment are desperately needed by the entire Hungarian public education and society, we see that the work that is trying to make a spiritual person is accompanied by unfairly low salaries and generally poor working conditions. There is a constant decline in interest in the profession: for example, in 2001 912 persons were admitted to ELTE medicine education, only 584 in 2015; in 15 years, the number of people who decided to pursue the profession was in fact halved. To illustrate the devastating national situation, I would like to give an example from different regions. In Nógrád county, there are schools in which no applications have been submitted for the job of a medical educator. The competent director also said that one of the main problems is the lack of professionals providing for the development of pupils with special educational needs. In the Maco region, there is a medical educator who drove nearly a hundred kilometers a day to deal with 50 children. Examples could be mentioned by day, which are all about the fact that the teaching profession and its practitioners are in a vulnerable situation, but the state does not pay enough attention to them and does not hear their voices. I find it unacceptable that, in 2016, the abnormal examples listed in Hungary are essentially part of the everyday functioning of the therapeutic pedagogical system. On this basis, I ask the Secretary of State what concrete steps are planned to be taken in order to: [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] To improve the situation of teachers. I look forward to your substantive answer. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-02-22-74	Thank you very much. Secretary of State Bence Retvári.
u2016-02-22-75	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Mr President, Dear House, As you say, several decades ago, a problem has emerged in recent years, because precisely - I do not want to open another kind of debate now - state reservations have revealed the questions that in many places where a medical educator or a consultant should have been employed, they did not use it, and they should have fulfilled such a job, but they did not succeed. This was a lurking problem, but with the uniform application of the law, it has now come to a better conclusion. [[14.00]] But, as you said, here we can see in a ten-to-fifteen-year perspective how the training has dropped. For this reason, we have contacted several institutions and started negotiations with the ELTE Bárczi Gusztáv Faculty of Medicine, Pető András College, University of West Hungary, University of Kaposvár, University of Szeged, and the reasons why the training framework numbers could be increased where appropriate, as it was not only the job filling itself, which was not enough compared to the needs, but obviously the higher education training has been cancelled, and this will fill the possibility of solving the problem by five years. We also examined how the Klebelsberg training scholarship could encourage young people to acquire such skills, and the Klebelsberg scholarship committee also supported the possible extension of the prize to this circle. With this, we can solve this problem at the recording, but as I said, since it has come to this in 15 to 20 years, obviously the training will be launched in the next year, in the academic year, only five years before the desired result is obtained. But we are certainly committed to finding a long-term solution to this problem, either in cooperation with the Faculty of Medicine of Gusztáv Bárczi or with others. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2016-02-22-76	Dear Parliament, Congresswoman Erzsébet Schmuck, representative of the LMP, would like to ask the Minister of Justice a question:. Are they still unwilling to see the failure of your private failure? It's an address. Here you go.
u2016-02-22-77	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, To date, 147 individuals have filed a request for private bankruptcy proceedings. This was said by the Secretary of State in his reply to an interpellation in November. It is February now, and according to the latest data, 199 persons have so far applied for the debt settlement procedure. That's exactly 52 more people than last November. Even then, as it is now, the Ministry of Justice explained the low figure by saying that private bankruptcy is a time-consuming process, families with difficulties in paying need long weighing to decide what option to choose. They also gave this time of thought by amending the law in November and pushing the deadline. They even allowed debtors to submit their claims to the bankruptcy services of government agencies. They expected it to increase the number of admissions to tens of thousands. Well, that's not how it happened. It's time to finally realize that your private institution has failed in this form. The many entry barriers have already narrowed down the range of potential users, which has been further developed with high monthly payments and not enough income to sustain life. No wonder there were hardly any applicants. There are still more than 100,000 foreign exchange-loaners who have been remaining behind for years at risk of losing their housing, who are not helped either by the private bankruptcy or by the low-capital National Asset Manager. Without social housing and debt management programmes, these people are in a desperate situation. I'm asking if they can finally see that your private failure has failed and that they're willing to change the rules. Thank you in advance for the answer.
u2016-02-22-78	Mr Pál Völner, State Secretary, responds. Here.
u2016-02-22-79	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and The question of the Congresswoman refers to the failure of the private institution of law, but I do not believe that such a finding can be made. In recent years, we have seen that the government has taken a number of measures in this area, starting here through the rescue of foreign exchange credentials, through the importation of asset managers through the Fairbank Act, which all served the purpose of enabling those who were in financial difficulty or having problems with their repayments, to be able to escape this situation using different and other options, or to obtain an easier situation. The private institution exists in the 24 Member States of the Union, so it is a legal institution which, if we consider ourselves to be a rule of law, must also exist in Hungary. And I think it's a little bit like Btk.: Btk. is good not for as many people as possible in prison, but for creating only regulated frameworks. And the goal of private bankruptcy is not to let everyone escape into private bankruptcy, but to have as little use as possible, but to have this tool at their disposal for those in need. It can be concluded that this device is in place. It is also known that state aid also includes the existence of an enforcement moratorium in the country, but when normal conditions are restored after the crisis, when creditors' claims are revived, and perhaps in such a situation, a family has the means to maintain its housing, to agree with its creditors, not to move the lid above its head, and to effectively implement the protection of its assets within the framework of the rule of law, to recover from it, to be able to re-established in orderly financial relations. That's the purpose of the law. Of course, the experience is still being matured, there are some where a year has even passed its introduction, and we are still far away from it, and I hope that it will fulfil its role. Please accept our answer. Thank you. [[It's a rare applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2016-02-22-80	Dear Parliament, Congresswoman Márta Demeter, representative of the MSZP, would you like to ask the Prime Minister's Minister's Office: "Do nothing to help the members of the Honvéd Health Insurance Fund? It's an address. Here you go.
u2016-02-22-81	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, As is well-known, the savings of the members of the Honvéd Health Bank were stuck in the BRB Bank owned by the owners of the Buda-Cash brokerage house. In the absence of a billion-dollar amount, the operation of the Honvéd Health Bank has been paralyzed, affecting the payment of over 27 thousand soldiers, military, law enforcement and national security workers at the health bank. So let's be very specific: they lost their money for health savings. The Prime Minister's Office has already expressed its commitment to helping members in response to several oral, written questions and interpellations. Unfortunately, I have to say that there has been no concrete expression on this matter other than nice words and gestureal political messages. Unfortunately, the actions have not been carried out. The last time I asked the Minister about concrete government measures in my written question, he could not indicate any concrete measures in his reply, obviously because no action was taken, this is apparent. The only new element of your answer was a statement that, I quote, the closure of the winding-up process, however it ends, will create a new situation and hopefully bring us closer to the solution. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. That is why I am asking Mr Secretary of State whether this answer must be interpreted in such a way that, until the winding-up procedure is concluded, they do not wish to take any action in the interests of soldiers, defence, police and national security workers, so that they can get their money back as soon as possible. Please explain how you hope it will bring you closer to solving the liquidation process. Mr Secretary, I have to say that nothing has happened in a year, and I think it is very often said that the work of soldiers, military, law enforcement and national security workers should be appreciated, and I think we should start by getting their money back, and the state will be able to do so. I'm waiting for your answer. Thank you.
u2016-02-22-82	Thank you. Nándor Csepreghy, State Secretary, responds. Here.
u2016-02-22-83	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Thank you very much for pointing out with your question that you are committed to recovering law enforcement personnel' money, as is the government. You also know very well that the Government has examined, including on your proposal, whether there is a way and an opportunity to give this opportunity, like the Quaestor-harmed ones, among the opportunities provided by domestic legislation. Since then, there has been so much change in the case that on 5 February 2016 a notice was published on the website of the Honvéd Health Bank, according to which delegates decided to join the Premium Health Fund, a former health institution known as AXA. From then on, the enforcement of the HUF 1.8 billion claim on the BRB Bank will be the responsibility and opportunity of this Premium Health Bank at the end of the winding-up procedure. I would like to ask you, and through you, the MSZP fraction, not only to be committed to cleaning up the financial system and making the financial intermediary system transparent, but also when it is necessary to vote on this in Parliament, as was the case on 9 June 2015, when the MSZP unanimously voted off the amendment of individual laws to promote the development of the financial intermediary system. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2016-02-22-84	Dear Parliament, Congressman Gergely Farkas, representative of Jobbik, wishes to ask the Minister of Human Resources:. Why does the government not stand up for the interests of Hungarians working abroad? It's an address. Here.
u2016-02-22-85	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, We know very well that in recent years hundreds of thousands of Hungarians have migrated to Western European countries, most of them have gone to Britain and Germany, but the main destinations are Austria, where last year more than 70,000 of our countrymen have worked. Obviously, Jobbik has always been on the side of creating a country at home that gives everyone the opportunity to prosper, or it can lure people who have already migrated home. Unfortunately, however, we can see that the government is failing, and the rise in emigration is also showing that unfortunately many of us see the government's performance as well. In view of the situation of our fellow countrymen working in Austria, last year's migration flows have had negative effects, since immigrants represent a kind of cheap labour force for the Austrian employer, who can even be employed black. As a result, unemployment started to increase last year. [[14.10]] What is the response of the Austrian Government and some political forces? Strengthen the employment of workers in Eastern Europe. So they are not planning to take action in the case of illegal immigrants, but also in the case of tens of thousands of Hungarian workers who are legally there, working legally and doing their job well. It would be possible to analyse the impotent attitude of the Austrian Government on the issue of immigration and its erroneous conclusion on the situation, but instead I would like to ask you why you cannot hear the Government's voice on this unfair point. In addition to the MSZP, you are responsible for the fact that these people had to go to another country. The minimum would be that if conditions could no longer be created to allow these people to return to their country of origin, they would stand up for them and take action against the planned Austrian measures, against the parties that have said such things, even against the FPÖ. The Hungarians are not responsible for the tens of thousands of migrants being admitted by the Austrian government, and they are trying to increase their popularity at the expense of the Hungarians by taking action against the Hungarians. Dear Secretary of State, I ask why the government does not stand up for the interests of Hungarians working in Austria. I'm looking forward to your reply. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2016-02-22-86	According to my information, Foreign Minister Péter Szijjártó answers the question. Here you go.
u2016-02-22-87	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Thank you for bringing this up. Unfortunately, in recent months, the Chancellor of Austria has repeatedly used an unacceptable tone in relation to Hungary, the Hungarian people and the Hungarian government. There have also been cases where he compared the present Hungary to the darkest dictatorships in Europe in the 30s and 40s. This is obviously an unEuropean behaviour, as we believe that the Austrian government's immigration policy is also completely against common sense, but to give an opinion on this, it is the Austrian people's job. On the other hand, with regard to the declarations concerning Hungarian workers, I would like to say to you that we made it clear last week, when these statements were published, that Hungary cannot adopt any discriminatory rules. We will never support legislation on the European scene that would adversely affect Hungarian workers, wherever they work in the European Union. We have also made this clear on the British issues, when we said that we understand that some Member States want to eliminate the possibility of abusing their own social systems, but that this would be a discriminatory regulation, we cannot in any way consider it acceptable or acceptable. So I would like to assure the Member that we are constantly monitoring the Austrian political statements, watching if these statements are followed by real initiatives, and, if so, we will certainly be the loudest protesting against any regulation that would adversely affect Hungarian workers, and we will not support any such regulation if it were to arise on the European scene. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2016-02-22-88	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Congresswoman Bernadett Szél, representative of the LMP, wishes to ask the Minister of National Economy a question: "Will the streets be heated by the CSOK apartments? It's an address. Here you go.
u2016-02-22-89	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Government, I would like to clarify a completely confusing situation with my current question. From January, the government removed from its rules the conditions for the energy classification of real estate, the family's home creation discount, commonly known as the CSOK. Many times they said that because the energy class of the apartment does not count when determining the amount of aid, and there is no longer a need for an energy certificate. In English, this is a resolution that conveys that it doesn't matter how well the property is able to manage energy effectively. Only 7/2006 regulating the energy efficiency of buildings. According to the TNM Regulation, if a building is carried out using support from the central budget, the construction should be subject to strict energy efficiency requirements that would otherwise only apply from 2018. When this came up, NGM stated that the regulation in question does not apply to CSOK, because according to you - at least I quote your words - does not count as budget support for energy savings. However, in recent days, the European Commission has drawn clear water when it stated that according to the EU directive on the basis of which the domestic regulation is based, all new buildings must comply with the minimum energy efficiency requirements, regardless of whether they receive any state aid or for what purpose the aid is itself. So apparently there's a total disturbance, which I can only increase by saying that, according to my information, the engineering briefing at the Chamber has also stated that the requirements also apply to apartments based on a CSOK grant, and that what does not comply with the standards, is not authorised. The designer, the builder, can expect sanctions. Dear Government, I would like to ask you to give us a clean break, and here in the Hungarian Parliament it is quite clear that the most stringent energy efficiency requirements apply to real estate with CSOK support. Thank you.
u2016-02-22-90	Thank you very much. Mr András Tállai, State Secretary, responds. Here.
u2016-02-22-91	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Although the oral question was put by his fellow Member, Sallai R. Benedek, who [[Dr. Wind Bernadett: I put it on. I'm joining you! What are you talking about? Answer me! Dr. Márton Bitay: Calm down, calm down. Dr. János Fónagy: Doctor!]] It's got a signature on it. Sallai R. Benedek is a great acquaintance, tenant, buyer and farmer of state lands, so he should know that energy policy is not responsible for the Minister of National Economy, but for the Minister of National Development. So he is entitled to answer the question, however, but thanks to his unbroken confidence in the Ministry of National Economy, I can give you the following answer. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Your fan, a big fan, so he's asking you!]] I would like to inform you that the energy efficiency criteria for buildings are set out in Annex 7/2006. The provisions of the TNM Regulation must, of course, be complied with. However, this has nothing to do with the removal of the energy efficiency level of the building from 1 January 2016 in the new CSOK regulation at the amount of the aid, and in this connection there is no longer any need to present the energy certificate when applying for the CSOK. Therefore, in the future, the builder will also have to comply with the required energy standards, and in the sale of used dwellings the same must be accompanied by the relevant certificate for the land office registration. At the same time, you must acknowledge that it is a matter of making progress and also of reducing bureaucratic burdens that this procedure will not need to be repeated again in the future when applying for CSOK. So I can tell you that all claimants are better off in terms of both a sum and a reduction in bureaucracy. Thank you very much.
u2016-02-22-92	Thank you very much. I would like to draw the attention of the present members of the government to the fact that they are not qualified for housekeeping and are replaced by housekeeping; it is their job to answer to the representative. On your behalf, I welcome the students and teachers of the Baross László Agricultural College, and I'm glad you're here. Dear Parliament, Congresswoman Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Minister of Human Resources: Or why does the government not support the housing of families who already have children? Here you go.
u2016-02-22-93	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, Nothing shows the government's relationship with people better than the system of housing support. The most recent measures - the CSOK - promise millions to families who are about to have children, which, because of the conditions, does not help those who need the support of the state most. Some layers receive newer and newer benefits, while hundreds of thousands of families who have already given birth to their children are not supported by the government for their housing and livelihood. More and more people and families today live in forced housing that is not a real home, especially for families with children. In addition to teachers, bus drivers, more and more families live in work shelters. In the state system, however, it is much harder for a family to stay together if they lose their housing, since children cannot go to hostels. A temporary home for families with children - we can call it CSÁO - is short and there is a long waiting list. So I'll see you guys for the families. In addition, it is mentioned in his name that this would serve the housing of families temporarily. But the system does not provide a way out for families living in poverty, while they promise others 20 million. [[14.20]] The government pulled billions out of the social security system. Just a year ago, he abolished housing support, debt management aid, which provided at least half a million families with at least some help, so that more people are likely to end up on the brink. For this reason, I ask the Secretary of State when the government will also support those who already have children, but do not have millions and cannot meet the conditions of the ten million-dollar grant. How many families are waiting to get into the family's temporary home? I look forward to your reply, Mr. Secretary.
u2016-02-22-94	Thank you very much. The question will be answered by Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Here.
u2016-02-22-95	Thank you very much for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Mr President, Dear House, Those who have been given by you as an example, whether teachers or bus drivers, are people who have jobs, who have jobs, and who have children and jobs, who have a fully open family home-building discount, if they have three children, they can use the HUF 10 + 10 million grant. [[Bangóné Borbély Ildikó: That is not true!]] These are the two conditions. We have made it very simple, it is now contained in two separate regulations, one for new apartments and the other for used apartments, and if someone has these two simple conditions that he or she is raising a child or having a child married and has a job next to him, and obviously for certain parts of the rule he/she has six months, two years of insurance law and 180 days of work, he/she can claim this support. This is such a broad support, so much for everyone, that it has not been an example in the last 25 years. The VAT discount, the 5% VAT or the VAT refund, is that if you build your own house, it's definitely for everyone. They all make it so much easier for teachers, bus drivers or anyone else to get an independent apartment or build a house, the latter with up to HUF 10 + HUF 10 million in non-refundable support and preferential credit, plus the VAT reduction, which was not an example. You always forget to say, Congresswoman, that in order to transform the aid system, we gave the municipalities an extra HUF 30 + 5 billion to give these to those in need as municipal aid. He never reports how these were used by the municipalities, but he always talks about which side is the other side, just add this 30 + 5 billion HUF extra resource. The family's temporary home has 61 seats, 4120 seats and 95 percent utilisation of these institutions, but we are confident that many will not apply to the remaining 5 percent, but to a separate apartment through CSOK. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] They can start building a house of their own. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-02-22-96	Dear Parliament, Congressman Tibor Bana, representative of Jobbik, would like to ask the Minister of Interior:. Once again, the interests of the people living in the areas of Körmend, Szentgotthárd, Vasvár, Jánosháza and Őriszentpéter are ignored? It's an address. Here.
u2016-02-22-97	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Unfortunately, people living in the areas of Körmend, Szentgotthárd, Vasvár, Jánosháza and Őriszentpéter have become accustomed to the fact that, as a result of the government's actions, they are in a worse situation, whether it be the issue of health, education or infrastructure. They're used to it, but they can't accept it. I believe that plans have been made in the area of disaster management which could be extremely detrimental to the citizens of this region. I hear that the only high-rise rescue fire truck is being transferred from my hometown, Körmend, to the office on Saturday. This could, on the one hand, endanger the safety of the people in South-East County and, on the other hand, involve the dismissal of firefighters who have been serving us all for many years or even decades at risk of their physical integrity. The idea is unthinkable according to Fidesz customs, and completely unacceptable to the people of the southern part of Vas County. As with the downsizing of the hospital in Körmend, they intend to ignore the aspects of the Watch, the Vasi Mountains or the Rába region. If the only high-rise fire truck is removed from Körmend, this could cost people lives in an accident or fire as a result of a significant increase in migration time. This equipment may only be needed one or two times a year, but it would leave homes above two floors without protection, not to mention health, social or educational institutions. Dear Secretary of State, Are you willing to review your position for the benefit of the people living in the areas of Körmend, Szentgotthárd, Vasvár, Jánosháza and Őriszentpéter, as well as those working there, firefighters who deserve all recognition, or does the Fidesz party policy considerations override everything in this case? I look forward to your substantive answer. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-02-22-98	Thank you very much. Secretary Tibor Pogácsás responds. Here.
u2016-02-22-99	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, The government is doing everything in its power to ensure that both public security and fire safety in the country are as high as possible, so this is also true of the area you mentioned. By transforming municipal professional fire brigades into state fire brigades, the government helped to maintain the fire department and the municipal budget of small, medium-sized cities such as Körmend and other medium-sized cities, since these municipalities had to ensure the fire safety of between 80 and 100 thousand people, which was clearly not expected to create financial or professional conditions. The task of the State Fire Departments is to ensure migration time and fire safety in all areas, on the same or nearly identical terms, everywhere in the country. The product you mentioned is actually serving at Körmend, which has passed 52 times in the last four years. Out of the 52 migrations, he went to storm damage 31 times, which means that he was involved in the removal of the damage caused by the weather or by the storm and was alerted to fire 13 times over the four years. This number, these figures mean that the utilisation of an extremely high-value fire extinguisher is very low, while availability in the area, in the nearby area, can also be ensured by the relocation of the fire extinguisher, the defects caused by the lower altitude or the storm damage mentioned above, and the necessary means are in place to address the disadvantages, so that the transfer of the vehicle does not entail a reduction in the safety of the people in the area. Thank you for the floor, Mr President.
u2016-02-22-100	Dear Parliament, Congressman Sallai R. Benedek, representative of the LMP, would like to ask the Minister of Agriculture whether there will be an agreement with fishermen? It's an address. Here you go.
u2016-02-22-101	Thank you for the floor. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, As most of you know, approximately 240 fishing families have lost their livelihood by changing the rules on fishing and management that have ceased natural fishing in Hungary since 1 January. It is obviously possible to argue about this and we have already debated here in Parliament how it affects the fishfauna, the ecological state of our natural waters and the life of rural communities in general, but now there is more fire-fighting, more important work on what will happen to these fishermen and what will happen to their families. Many of these have invested a significant portion of their livelihood in infrastructure tools, fishing tools that have become worthless in one day, and thus their long-term livelihoods are inexhaustible, since what to do with their purchased boats, boats, boats, walruses, nets that they are currently unable to do with. In fact, the message of the movement organised by the fishermen's representatives was that they would be very grateful even if the government began to negotiate meaningfully with them and opened the possibility that either compensation or binding, the current fish farmer, so that Mohost would be entrusted with the implementation of compulsory ecological fishing, selective fishing, or that if they bought their worthless assets, or if they were helped to earn a new job for their livelihood. Obviously, the solution for most of them would be to get their lives back, for on a sunny day like today, the fishermen were mostly on the water, and there are many of them, who were not merely their grandfathers, but also their grandchildren, who were taught this profession, and for them it would be a solution if they could return to the waters. But I look forward to the government's position as to whether they see a chance to change this position and take action in the interest of fishing. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2016-02-22-102	Thank you very much. Secretary of State, Mr. Bitay Márton Örs, here you go.
u2016-02-22-103	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear Congressman, Thank you for your suggestion, because there really is a problem that we really need to find a solution to. I would add that I think - and as far as I have seen it here in Parliament - that, being a two-thirds law, we had the support to finish large-scale fishing in natural waters - and that is the key word you have now missed - in natural waters. I felt that there was consensus in this, and in addition to feeling, the majority of Parliament, two-thirds of which always voted in favour of the law. [[14.30]] When the original great law, a new law, was passed, you supported it, and then later, when we modified it, there was when you abstained, there was when you were not supported, but here in the Parliament horseshoe, although there are few things in which we agree on a two-thirds level, but there has always been two-thirds support in this. Indeed, there are 240 fishing families who have a problem with the abolition of large-scale fishing in natural waters, but I believe that in the 21st century this decision had to be made, taking into account ecological aspects. So the reproductive capacity of these rivers, these water surfaces, which they had 50, 100 or 200 years ago, is no longer present. And there was a consensus in that, by the way. In addition, there are 350 000 fishermen against the 240 fishing families, and the two social groups do not have the same interests. In addition, tourism developments in fishing have shown a much greater profit for the country than fishing, and once again, we have found these two to be ecologically uncoordinated. By the way, we have discussed them, and the Deputy Minister has already received them, not in connection with the organised protest, but in advance. Selective fishing for ecological purposes remains; now it is necessary to find out how and what fishermen who have lived from it can do in the future in this sector. But once again, I would like to say that 350 thousand fishermen, compared to 240 fishers, is an ecological aspect, as opposed to an economic one. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging his bell.]] We voted alongside the ecological aspect and the fishing point. I apologize and thank you for your patience, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of Fidesz.]]
u2016-02-22-104	All right. Dear Parliament, Member István Szávay, representative of Jobbik, would like to ask the Minister of Human Resources a question: why can they receive Hungarian state aid in Transcarpathia of well-known Ukrainian medical workers about their anti-Hungarianism? It's an address. On behalf of Prime Minister Zsolt Semjén, Minister without a portfolio responsible for national policy, who is responsible for tasks and powers according to the subject, Mr Árpád János Potápi, State Secretary will answer the question. Here you go.
u2016-02-22-105	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, The article published last Thursday by the KárpátHír News Portal raises suspicion of serious abuses in relation to Hungarian state aid for Hungarian healthcare workers in Transcarpathia. As is well known, the Hungarian government has recently - I add, quite rightly - decided that after teachers from the Hungarian teachers, priests, pastors and art schools in Transcarpathia, it also provides a fee supplement for doctors and medical workers and nurses who communicate in Hungarian with Hungarian patients. Of course, Jobbik welcomed all of this, even if the beneficiaries were incomplete, and the Hungarian paramedics or pharmacists, for example, were left out. At the same time, according to the reports of the KárpátHír referring to a number of local health workers, support was also given to people who, although they know our language, refuse to speak Hungarian. But there is also a supporter who does not speak Hungarian at all, but still has access to Hungarian money. But there's more. Many people do not know Hungarian, Mr. State Secretary, but are well-known Ukrainian chauvinists of their anti-Hungarianism. The article also contains specific names and initials that can be identified by those concerned. And although all of the required doctors were paid for, the above has made the nurses barely able to make it, they only reached the letter C, when they ran out of a budget of not less than HUF 100 million. The others were asked to wait patiently. It is a striking fact that the charity of the Hungarian Cultural Association of Transcarpathia entrusted with the management of grants has not responded to the writing since last Thursday, i.e. the fifth day, and so far has not denied the fact of abuse. On the basis of the above, I would like to ask Mr State Secretary how he could have obtained funding for people who do not have Hungarian language skills. Who is responsible, and what will be the consequences of abuse? Will the government initiate an investigation into the KMKZSZ charity, and finally, when, and, by the way, how will local nurses who speak Hungarian or Hungarian receive the rightful payment? I also look forward to your response on behalf of the stakeholders. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-02-22-106	Thank you very much. Mr. Potápi State Secretary. Here.
u2016-02-22-107	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Ladies and gentlemen, Let me answer in the image and voice of Deputy Prime Minister Zsolt Semyen. As a result of the crisis in Ukraine, the Transcarpathian Hungarians were in a situation of existence and life in 2015 which, in the long term, carries the risk of the end of the community. We've started several programs in the last year. Allow me to list only a few. Such was the HUF 486 million spent on supporting Hungarian teachers, then HUF 35 million for teachers working in art schools, and I could continue our action on the feeding of 4 thousand Hungarian preschool children, also on a HUF 100 million basis to support healthcare workers. Indeed, KMKZSZ charity has announced this application and several filters have been included in this application in terms of Hungarian language skills. I think it is possible that people who might not have received this support could indeed have obtained this support, but we should also talk about the hundreds of people who are doing health work among Hungarian people. In total, 110 of the 1674 applications were rejected and the others were supported. I think that it is also very important that we take action that around 800 children are already learning Hungarian, in a Ukrainian education system, Ukrainian children. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging his bell.]] However, in Beregszász we provide a Hungarian language training course for doctors [[The president's ringing again.]] And those who didn't get it, they're gonna get the support. Thank you very much for your patience, Mr. President.
u2016-02-22-108	Dear Parliament, Congressman Balázs Ander, representative of Jobbik, wishes to ask the Minister of the Interior a question: Why does the government give up part of the rural settlements? Here you go.
u2016-02-22-109	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, With regard to the illegal immigration flood, the government is right to be alarmed by the horror of the spreading no-go-showers in the West. However, they have been obscenely silent about the fact that in other editions, but also at home, we can meet settlements that are more like enemy tribal areas. Fearful law -abiding people who cannot escape from these villages rightly feel that the power of state has left these places. I would like to quote the headlines of Somogyi Hírlap, which is difficult to accuse of extreme right-wing deflection. If there is no hen, the gate will be stolen, the peasants will be chased out of here, you will die, you will be terrorized by the natives of Somogysil. The image that receives, for example, the crossing of Büssun is creepy, because where the doors were once not even closed, almost every window has now been crooked. Rural life, home production is impossible because of those whose gardens are beaten only by weeds, who never sow, only reap, and who use the hoe for martial arts purposes at best. In Somogysil, a complete street of more than half a hundred houses has been demolished over the years with no trace of the former structures left. And like the evil aliens of the American movie "The Day of Independence," who, after reviving the resources of a planet and then moving on to another planet, refused to fit in, the most basic rules of living together were moved away in Somogysil, and after Táncsics utca the houses of Martinovich utca began to be destroyed. I recommend to my fellow Members, Mr Secretary of State, that you visit there, and you will feel guaranteed to be in some kind of war zone in the ruins. And before you start a cheap racist mantra, let me tell you that the future of the honest, responsible children of gypsyhood is plagued by the terror of the criminal gypsies. Why leave the small communities worth a better future? Why do they allow the Hungarian countryside to become a hostage to the destroyers of social parasites and criminal lifestyles? I'm looking forward to your reply. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-02-22-110	Secretary of State Károly Kontra will respond. Here you go.
u2016-02-22-111	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, The police are taking action against all criminals in all the settlements of Hungary for the sake of human life and property security, public order and public security. To this end, over the last nearly six years, we have strengthened the police, and we have adopted a number of laws that have tightened the rules of the past. It is a pity, by the way, that you, who are calling these measures to account for us, did not vote for them by your faction, and now you are calling them on us here in Parliament. [[14.40]] However, in recent years, significant progress has been made in the area of public order and public security, thanks to the fact that the police have been strengthened both in their numbers and in their equipment. I think that we can never do enough for the sake of public safety, for the sake of public order, we have to do more every day than we did yesterday. That is what my fellow Member Mihály Witzmann, who is also a Member of Parliament for this region, Somogysil and Büssü, thinks. He came to me to help me improve public order and public security in these settlements. [[Intercoms in Jobbik's ranks: Even better? That's the best record of the record... of the Jobbik.]] I also contacted the Mayor of Somogyszil, Mr. Ferenc Sámoly and the Mayor of Büssü, Mr. József Szegvári. József Szegvári also expressed his view that the information published in the county media about the settlement largely does not cover reality. The mayor of Somogysil said that a camera system was built, which was otherwise supported by a 5,5 million Ministry of Interior in 2014. I'd like to improve this camera system. They have regular contacts with the commander of the Igal police station and are working together with the police to improve the public order and public security of the settlement. I believe that with cooperation, with the help of the municipalities, the municipalities, the militia, the MP, the Ministry of the Interior, the government, we still have work to do in this area, and we have every chance of moving forward in this important area. Thank you very much.
u2016-02-22-112	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Mr Lajos Kepli, representative of Jobbik, wishes to ask the Minister for National Development:. Why DRV Zrt. Do your employees pay the price for bad farming? It's an address. Here.
u2016-02-22-113	Thank you very much. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, According to Secretary of State Kontra, it's amazing if the opposition takes account of the government in Parliament, but I think that's normal, so I'm going to do the same. In the autumn, the news broke out in the media, Mr. Secretary of State, that in the water utility sector, state-owned companies will be subject to a 10% wage reduction and downsizing, which was then refuted from the government's side. However, since then, the facts have seen this news to be confirmed, as the Regional Waterworks Ltd. in Transdanubia. has recently been relieved of 60 employees, including 29 workers in Somogy County, mostly physical workers. Question is, why 29? Perhaps this has something to do with the fact that sending a worker under 30 in a month and in a county is not yet a group downsizing. Maybe that's why it's number 29. But the fact is that DRV Zrt has been separated from a total of 60 employees. We know that the company and the entire domestic water utility sector have serious financial problems. We'd like to ask the government why it doesn't do these things instead of putting dozens of people on the street with the layoffs. Whether DRV Zrt is expected at all. After that, will other water utility companies be reduced to such a large extent? In addition, it is well known that even at DRV Zrt. or other water utility companies are outsourced to external companies that have both the assets and the human resources - or at least they have so far - the company, yet they are carried out by external contracts. So our question is whether there is a threat to the employees of domestic water utility companies such as DRV Zrt. Will there be a group downsizing? And what does the government intend to do to improve the water utility sector? I'm waiting for your answer. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-02-22-114	Thank you very much. Secretary of State János Fónagy responds. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2016-02-22-115	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, Dear fellow Member, Indeed, there have been economic problems at the Transdanubian Regional Waterworks in the past, and one of the consequences of this was that there was a change of leadership at this company on 20 October 2015. One of the key tasks of the new CEO is to scan and examine the operation of the company under its control in terms of efficiency and sustainability. At present, the organisation structure of the DRV is being examined in order to ensure that, in part, the service of consumers does not suffer any harm, and not least to avoid the questions you are asking. The aim of the DRV is to be able to operate a system that can maintain its employees in the long term without reducing their wages and is able to perform the tasks at a high level and fully. The Director General of the DRV will soon respond to public opinion about the ongoing organisational changes, and it is likely that the Member's questions will be answered in a satisfactory manner. Thank you very much.
u2016-02-22-116	Dear Parliament, Congressman Gábor Staudt, representative of Jobbik, would like to ask the Attorney General: "Where does the late Hungarian Chamber of Executives of the Court and the law-breaking executives expect to be accounted for? It's an address. It's for the congressman. Here.
u2016-02-22-117	Dear Deputy Chief Prosecutor, Dear House, In 2015 we were promised by the government to put the judicial enforcement system in order and to ensure that the late Chamber and the law-breaking executives were accounted for. A process that we supported, despite our doubts that the government had sufficient determination to implement it, was also launched. In March 2015, the Ministry of Justice filed a complaint against the prosecution for a particularly high financial disadvantage of misappropriation. According to the official notice published, the Ministry of Justice has detected at several points and on several issues circumstances in which there was a suspicion of a criminal offence. In view of the above, on 7 December 2015 I asked the Minister of Justice where the restructuring and accountability of the enforcement system are. On the issue of the criminal complaint, the State Secretary who replied referred me to the Attorney General as a person who could provide information on the case. For these reasons, I'm asking you, as Deputy Attorney General, about the outcome of the D.O.J.'s complaint and when you're expected to suspect specific persons. I ask this in particular, given that the news said that a serious, complete piece of material had been forwarded to you by the Ministry, which means that most of the investigative work had already been carried out before the report was filed. I also ask how many court executioners, regardless of the case above, are being prosecuted for the crimes associated with their official activities. I look forward to a meaningful answer to these questions. Thank you. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-02-22-118	Thank you very much. The Member's questions are answered by Deputy Prosecutor Ervin Belovich. Here you go.
u2016-02-22-119	Thank you very much, Mr. President. In the case referred to in the first part of the question of the Member, the representative of the Ministry of Justice filed a complaint concerning the operation of the Chamber of Executives of the Hungarian Court of Justice. According to the complaint, the Budapest Investigative Public Prosecutor's Office ordered an investigation on 3 April 2015 for the crime of high-value misappropriation and other crimes. In the process of criminal proceedings, a judicial tax, book and real estate expert was seconded. The deadline for drawing up the opinion expired on 30 January 2016. However, the expert requested an extension of the deadline on the basis of the fact that he had to examine several marketing years in full. The opinion is expected to be completed within days and subsequently a personal responsibility decision can be made, i.e. whether there are reasonable grounds for suspecting that a criminal offence has been committed. The deadline for the investigation was extended until 30 April 2016. I sincerely hope that, until then, the issue of personal responsibility can really be clarified. In the second part of the Member's question, he was interested in the number of court executioners being prosecuted by the authorities in connection with their official activities. I would like to inform the Member that, according to the national data available to me, there are currently three court executioners in criminal proceedings against a criminal offence linked to his official activities. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-02-22-120	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, The questions have been completed for today. Here are the immediate questions. Dear Parliament, Congressman Zsolt Legény, a representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: "A disorder in the class?" ! It's an address. The Prime Minister has appointed Mr Péter Szijjártó, Minister of Foreign Affairs and Trade, to respond to his urgent public task. I would like to ask the Member whether he accepts the person who is responding, or whether he wants an answer from the Prime Minister. [[14.50]]
u2016-02-22-121	Thank you, Mr. President. I would not object to the Minister's identity, but I would like to hear the answer personally from the Prime Minister. Thank you.
u2016-02-22-122	Everyone's happy. The Prime Minister must therefore respond at the hour of the second immediate question. In this case, Mr.Zoltán Gőgös, representative of the MSZP, who wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question, would you have him operate on a quick-talking gold scalpel with a qualified surgeon? It's an address. The Prime Minister has appointed Mr Péter Szijjártó, Minister of Foreign Affairs and Trade, to respond to his urgent public task. I am now asking Mr Haughty if he will accept the person who is responding or if he wants an answer from the Prime Minister.
u2016-02-22-123	The Minister is too young for that. I'd rather wait for the Prime Minister. It's a surgical thing to see if it goes under the scalpel just because of his knee or other things.
u2016-02-22-124	Don't explain it. Don't explain it.
u2016-02-22-125	I'd rather have the Prime Minister.
u2016-02-22-126	It's better for us if you simply don't accept it - for you and for me. This means that the Prime Minister must respond at the hour of the third immediate question. To make it easier for the president, they do this. Congresswoman Anita Heringes, representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Minister for National Development an immediate question: "You are a good farmer, are you not? It's an address. The Minister has appointed Mr János Fónagy Secretary of State to respond to his urgent public mission. I'll ask the congresswoman if she'll take it.
u2016-02-22-127	Yeah.
u2016-02-22-128	He's accepted it. The congresswoman will take the floor, please.
u2016-02-22-129	Dear Secretary of State, It's a bit of a déjà vu, I'm afraid. Last year, I turned to your minister with the same problem. Since Miklós Seszták is a member of the government responsible for energy policy and State wealth control, we can say that he is the MVM Group and therefore the owner of the Paks Nuclear Power Plant in the government. I am sorry that the Minister is not here, so I am going to tell you our problem, and I just hope that we will not end up like we did at the beginning of last year: we can solve this problem here. Last year, too, it caused serious problems that the Nuclear Power Plant Sports Association and the Paks Football Club could not have received the support of MVM and the Paks Nuclear Power Plant, thus causing hundreds of millions of forints to be lost to local sports. What was unthinkable for decades was that the Paks Nuclear Power Plant could not support the Paks sport, now it seems to you that it becomes a system. We know that these sports support decisions have been taken not locally since your government, but somewhere in Budapest. Last year, our football players swallowed the huge frog that not only the support, but also the name of the MVM Paks Nuclear Power Plant, which could be used for a year by Dunaújváros, who was eliminated from class I. Mr. Secretary, why do you leave our athletes unsure at the beginning of each year? I suppose if it was Kisvárda, the Minister would do anything for the cause. In the year of Olympic preparation, they will throw it from place to place, where will our athletes, soccer players and basketball receive support? The expansion of the nuclear power plant was called the investment of the century. You boast wherever you can, with the precision, professional skills, military, accurate work of the Paks. For this good reputation and work, the Paksians and athletes can expect you to support the Paks sport with such precision and precision. That is why I am asking the Secretary of State: the Paks Football Club and the ASE can count on the support of MVM supervised by your ministry. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] In 2016? Thank you.
u2016-02-22-130	Thank you very much. Secretary of State János Fónagy responds, here you go.
u2016-02-22-131	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, Dear fellow Member, Please don't completely combine deck sports with the professional football team. Last year, the nuclear power plant, acting under its own authority, spent more than HUF 300 million on sponsorship goals for Paks and nearby sports. It is true that he does not plan to provide support for the major football team last year or this year. By the way, the Nuclear Power Plant SE - you said so yourself, this is the new name - is currently in the process of requesting support of some HUF 130 million. The KSC required an additional HUF 42 million. As regards Paks sport, the Municipality of the Ministry of National Development and Paks signed a grant agreement on 3 December last year to provide budget support of nearly HUF 800 million. On this basis, the municipality of Paks will take another 600 million of its own shares. The basic objective of this aid is to develop and support a sport facility in Paks. The public procurement procedure also took place, and the National Stadion Development Working Group approved the concept plan on 9 February 2016, i.e. two weeks ago. So, honourable Member, I would like to reassure you that neither the nuclear power plant nor the Hungarian government ignores the sports life of Paks and its surroundings, as mentioned above, hundreds of millions of HUF operating aid and [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Provides nearly a billion-dollar development aid. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-02-22-132	You have the congresswoman's rejoinder, here you go.
u2016-02-22-133	Thank you very much. Therefore, I am sorry that Minister Sesztak did not reply, because he probably would have known that the Nuclear Power Plant Sports Association had been operating for a long time. The Paks football team has been operating under the name MVM Paks. You took the name from them and took the support from professional football. For the last 30 years, Pakson has been supporting the Paks Nuclear Power Plant. You're proud of the Paks Nuclear Power Plant, proud of the Paks football and all the football. Yet interestingly, the name was also taken and the support was also taken. The 800 million forints that you provided as a support were support for the region, because you even took away regional support at the beginning of the previous year. This money was only returned after we spoke several times and repeatedly indicated that it was not good to punish the city. You should be proud of this city, who brings fame both in sports and in all areas. It is therefore very difficult for me to accept it, and I will continue to fight, if necessary, I will ask all ministers whether they can [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] provide support for sport. Thank you.
u2016-02-22-134	Thank you. Mr. Secretary's rejoinder.
u2016-02-22-135	Thank you, Mr. President. I am not a well-known football expert, but I am truly sorry that the congresswoman is protesting the 800 million-dollar grant of the Paks stadium. If you had told us earlier, we might have been able to take this request into account, but the government offered you 800 million, and Paks gets this. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-02-22-136	Dear Parliament, MEPs Ádám Mirkóczki and Gábor Staudt, the representatives of Jobbik, want to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: "What are they really asking for? It's an address. The Prime Minister has appointed Mr Péter Szijjártó, Minister of Foreign Affairs and Trade, to respond to his urgent public task. I'll ask the congressman if he'll take it.
u2016-02-22-137	Given the nature of the case, we would expect an answer from Prime Minister Viktor Orbán.
u2016-02-22-138	I see. Thank you very much. In this case, the next representative of Jobbik will follow: Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát, representative of Jobbik, as I mentioned, would like to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: "Anything can happen? It's an address. The Prime Minister has appointed Minister Péter Szijjártó to fulfil his urgent public mission. I would like to ask you the same question: do you accept the Minister?
u2016-02-22-139	Yeah, I'll take it.
u2016-02-22-140	In that case, you have the floor.
u2016-02-22-141	Mr President, Dear House, Last weekend, on the final document of the EU summit, as Gábor Vona mentioned, half the country went to a voluntary etymology course. Professional lawyers also argued a great deal about what it was that they signed up for. We see that the closing document, which you have supported once again, is bleeding from a thousand wounds, which, for example, suggests limiting the mechanism for forwarding migrants; however, the establishment of new reception centres, i.e. a procedure that is designed to prevent large migrant masses in Western Europe, will be taken here in the citational border. Support for this is a reverse in itself, but we also see that you have supported the need to fully implement the relocation process within the EU. That's where the arguments started, isn't it? In your view, they supported a voluntary quota, others came up with other arguments. We, the right-handers, used the conditional method, which could lead to the strengthening of this system in the direction of a mandatory quota, since the voluntary quota is clearly its mandatory hallway. But it is clear that if the Government of Hungary, at the March summit, clearly wants to prevent uninvited aliens from being introduced into Hungary, either by compulsory quotas or by other names, then we must take action. To do so, Jobbik offers you a very hard and powerful tool, because we feel that two million sympathizers, their signatories' opinions and their will are smacked in the face. [[15.00]] There is a stronger instrument than this, for which we will also submit an amendment to the basic law. Let us therefore hold a national referendum on the quota, the essence of which would be to reject all quota-like solutions by the people of Hungary, if you think so. And with this hard-ass warrant, I want you to go to Brussels and finally hit the table. Our question is: are you open to this excellent solution? [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2016-02-22-142	Thank you. Minister Péter Szijjártó responds. Here you go.
u2016-02-22-143	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear fellow Member, The position of Hungary's government in the context of the immigration crisis is very clear. In the framework of the national consultation, the Hungarian people made it clear that their expectation of Hungary's government to protect Hungary is to protect it from the phenomenon called immigration. Accordingly, the Hungarian Government has never, nor will it support, nor will it support the introduction of any quota. We have made it clear that the decision on the compulsory resettlement quota is, in our view, not only unreasonable, not only unenforceable, but also contrary to the interests of Europe, but, moreover, the relevant decision has been taken in breach of European legislation. That is why we have turned to the European Court of Justice, just like Slovakia, and that is why we have made it clear that we will never support the compulsory resettlement quota, and we will do everything in the European Union fora to ensure that such EU legislation never enters into force, which would impose such an obligation on us. Not to mention that this is also a matter of national sovereignty. If a country loses the opportunity to decide for itself who it lets in or who it does not allow into its own country, then it will certainly lose some of its sovereignty and we will reject every single approach and measure that would involve giving up even a small slice of our sovereignty. That is why I would like to reassure you and the supporters of Jobbik through you, honourable Member, that you have nothing to fear. The Government of Hungary will always stand firm against compulsory resettlement quotas. Thank you so much for your attention.
u2016-02-22-144	Reply to Congressman Dániel Z. Kárpát. Here you go.
u2016-02-22-145	Mr President, Dear House, Minister, you have described perfectly why you should not have signed the final declaration on the implementation of the relocation mechanism. Okay, so you say to the mandatory quota that no, but the will of the people of Hungary was against any kind of quota-like solution. Don't tell me you didn't come up with a quota. They proposed a world quota in November, I beg you. Now, the thing is, they'd say yes to a voluntary quota. They gamble because they hope that this will not become a mandatory rule in the witch's kitchen in Brussels. At the European Court of Justice, an attack was conducted which has no suspensive effect. Meanwhile, hundreds of the border is now being marched into the territory of Hungary illegally. So we call on you to do so in March in Brussels, while holding a referendum, to cross the border, to prevent the compulsory quota at any cost, and not to sign closing documents that leave not only doubts but also suicide sentences for a fair nation state.
u2016-02-22-146	A rejoinder is due in a minute. Here.
u2016-02-22-147	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear fellow Member, At the end of the meetings of the European Council, so-called conclusions are adopted, which can be clearly read in conclusions that neither Hungary nor Slovakia can accept the decision on the mandatory quotas, as said at last year's European Council meetings. So no one has adopted a decision which would be contrary to the previous Hungarian position - i.e. on the part of the Hungarian government. So I would like to make it clear here and now, it does not seem to be possible to say this enough: the Government of Hungary is opposed to the compulsory resettlement quota. As long as Hungary has this government, which at present will not participate in any compulsory resettlement quota, and at each European forum, we will remind everyone that we are against it and we will not accept that anyone impose the compulsory resettlement quota on us. I hope I've made myself clear, tried to say the same thing in a number of ways to make it clear to everyone. Thank you very much, Mr President. Thank you very much, honourable fellow Member. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2016-02-22-148	Dear Parliament, Congressman András Schiffer, head of the LMP Group, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question:. Hungary capitulates? It's an address. The Prime Minister has appointed Mr Péter Szijjártó, Minister of Foreign Affairs and Trade, to respond to his urgent public task. I'll ask the leader of the group if he'll accept his identity.
u2016-02-22-149	I might as well accept it, Mr President, but given that the Prime Minister is running the freedom fight on all fronts, I have to wait for him. Thank you.
u2016-02-22-150	That is, of course, the right of the Member. In this case, the next LMP speaker's representative, Erzsébet Schmuck, is coming, who wants to ask the Minister of the Interior an immediate question:, Why does the government abandon law enforcement workers? It's an address. The Minister has appointed Mr Károly Kontra as Secretary of State for his reply in response to an urgent public task. I'll ask the congresswoman if she'll accept her identity.
u2016-02-22-151	Thank you very much. I'll wait for the Minister.
u2016-02-22-152	In this case, the new representative of the LMP shall have the opportunity to speak, and he shall be Mr István Ikotity, representative of the LMP. You want to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: When are you going to fire Florian Wolf? It's an address. The Prime Minister has appointed Mr Szijjártó, Minister of Foreign Affairs and Trade, to respond to his urgent public task. [[It's constant noise.]] I'm asking the congressman... don't worry, it's only Monday. So I ask the Member whether he accepts the Minister's identity.
u2016-02-22-153	Poor Minister was very frightened when he heard his name. I think that, since it is a Prime Minister's Commissioner, I would like to wait for the Prime Minister's reply.
u2016-02-22-154	It's okay. There's still a representative for the LMP. Congresswoman Bernadett Szél is the following, who wishes to ask the Minister of the Prime Minister's Office an immediate question:. Because of the failure of the new payroll system, can workers also delay the tax return deadline? The Minister appointed Mr Nándor Csepreghy as Secretary of State to answer his urgent public duty. I'm a little afraid to ask Congresswoman if she'll take it. [[Dr. Wind Bernadett: I accept your response.]] He'll take it. Here you go.
u2016-02-22-155	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, I come to you with a very specific problem. Since the introduction of the new centralised salary accounting system, KIRA in November, it has not been almost a month since there was no chaos around the payment of public wages. I would like to point out that we are talking about tens of thousands of people working in health care and education, who are being paid late or incompletely. In addition, we had to wait several weeks for the payroll to explain the difference. I would also like to quote you from a document that fully shows that KIRA is responsible for the development of such a situation. I quote:. We have reviewed the deduction of the payment advance and the correctness of the persons attached to the Annex, and we have established that, due to the incorrect operation of the programme, 43 persons were not deducted with the expected result, despite correct fixing. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. So one word, as a hundred, you and, by the way, the Hungarian Treasury have shifted responsibility throughout, saying that the system has passed a good test, and if there have been so-called changeover problems, then it is not them, but the institutions that are responsible. No, the institutions aren't responsible. However, several months after the introduction of the system, we can finally say that Kira is responsible and the person who unleashed it on the system. According to my information, workers are banned from commenting on this issue, but it is an open secret what happened here. Moreover, tax returns are now becoming topical, the first deadline for reporting is II. 25th month in the case of self-employed persons working in the contractual relationship. We are concerned that the necessary certificates of income will arrive late or are at fault. The question is, how will these workers be able to pay tribute if they cannot even receive income certificates at this time and precisely because of the system's fault. So I see chaos, and I am deeply outraged at the fact that people who are already working for modest income are being forced to pay late or incompletely. So let us finally clarify in Parliament who is responsible for all this, how they intend to restore order and how they can guarantee that these people will be able to pay tribute at the end of the month or next month.
u2016-02-22-156	Nándor Csepreghy, State Secretary, responds. Here you go.
u2016-02-22-157	Mr President, Thank you very much for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and As you mentioned in your introduction, in November 2015 the Hungarian State Treasury introduced a completely new system of remuneration accounting, which basically allows the application of the monthly accounting based on actual working performance. We are talking about a system that pays wages to nearly a million people and performs their payroll tasks at the end of every month. [[15.10]] And as with the introduction of such a system, there were, in fact, IT problems that the Hungarian Treasury had already received through government offices, through district offices, among other things. I think that the Hungarian Treasury has already been able to resolve the IT problems in a large part of these list of errors, and that the training and preparation of colleagues who deal with this issue on the institutional side has also been carried out. Therefore, the fulfilment of the tax return deadline will not, in my view, be a problem for any of the institutions.
u2016-02-22-158	The congresswoman should be rejoined.
u2016-02-22-159	Mr. Secretary, I am very skeptical about your words. On the one hand, what I see is that your wallet asked for a late examination, and on the other hand, it's been bagellized. I also spoke with Mr Tállai here at the end of last year on this issue, but, overall, I see that if you had acted responsibly, you would have asked for an investigation in December when the wages in November were slipping. This is what we asked you to do, but it was only in February, which is a very significant delay - this amok run has been going on for practically three months. And I'm also asking you not to investigate these cases individually, because we're talking about a system problem here, and it can't be stopped in nice words, and we need a complete investigation. In our opinion, the government has three things to do now. On the one hand, you have to stand up and take responsibility for what you just screwed up, not put it on the institutions, please. On the other hand, you have to take responsibility for the wrong tax returns or you have to push the deadline. Because now you're giving me advice on how to do the wrong tax certificates, and then they're gonna correct it later - that's unacceptable. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] and I would very much like you to find a solution to the systemic problem. Workers have the right to receive their wages in time and in full.
u2016-02-22-160	The Secretary of State should be rejoined. Here.
u2016-02-22-161	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and If you were really interested in the government's answer, you wouldn't have read a rejoinder that didn't take into account what I said earlier. We've implemented an IT system. The State Treasury responded to the problems brought to the IT system, and tax returns will not be affected by this issue. I'm saying that you're doubting everything that's going on here, and I'm not surprised, that's your job, and the government is trying to solve these questions. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-02-22-162	Dear Parliament, The representative of the Fidesz faction, Mr Zsolt Becsó, wishes to ask the Minister of the Interior an immediate question:. Still a violation of the law in Salgótarján? It's an address. The Minister appointed Secretary of State Tibor Pogácsás to respond to his urgent public mission. I'll ask the congressman if he'll take it. [[For signal:]] You have the floor, please.
u2016-02-22-163	Thank you for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, A week ago, I submitted an interpellation:, Can Salgótarján's budget be lost? It's an address. At the time of the reply, there was no budget submitted to the Socialist-led Salgótarján, since then a week has passed, and unfortunately no budget has been submitted. There is an explanation, however, after the Deputy Mayor of MSZP, who is also a candidate for mayor, has given two reasons. I'll try to quote it literally. The first reason is that the Parliament's Committee on Budgets will discuss on Monday the items on the agenda that we have submitted that could have a major impact on our budget. These haven't arrived yet. He has arrived since then and has not been supported by the Committee on Budgets. On the other hand, I personally think that the city of Salgótarján has a county right because of an interim election, there is no mayor now. The mayor's election will take place on 28 February. And I would like the legally elected mayor's budget to be the 2016 budget. And so continued the Socialist Deputy Mayor:. If the city's budget numbers are uploaded by 15 March, Salgótarjánt will not be affected, therefore the next planned assembly will be held on 10 March, where the mayor elected on 28 February will be able to submit this budget, and with the participants of the competent office it will be sufficient for the remainder of the period until 10 March that the data set, which is needed to be uploaded, will be completed...I will summarize what we have learned: the Parliament's Committee on Budgets will discuss the agenda that greatly affects the budget, and there will be no mayor in Salgótarján due to an interim election; the mayor will be legally elected; the city's numbers will be uploaded; the competent office's players will be consulted, and the next assembly will be held on 10 March. This is bullshit. The real reasons have been silenced. Dear Secretary of State, Has the socialist deputy mayor committed an offence, and do the socialists have anything to hide in Salgótarján? I'm waiting for your answer. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-02-22-164	Secretary Tibor Pogácsás responds. Here.
u2016-02-22-165	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, All budgets are obviously also a political debate, and the budget adopted by the Hungarian Parliament is a recurring political debate year after year, and that is correct. Each settlement's budget, obviously depending on the political state of the settlement, the composition of the body of representatives, but obviously also a kind of political debate, a kind of local test of the settlement's image, the opinion of a municipal faction in Salgótarján, in this case, about the future and the future of the city. The municipal law and the budgetary law are clear: the budget must be submitted to all municipalities by 15 February and adopted by 15 March. For some reason, the municipality where the mayor is not available - in this case, unfortunately, the mayor has passed away - and the body of representatives and the deputy mayor remain operational - may exercise all the powers of the municipality, so the deputy mayor replacing the mayor would have had an obligation to submit the budget. By not submitting the budget and referring to the fact that within two weeks of the 28th election, the Office will fill the budget boxes with figures, it is clear that they have been prepared with a budget, but do not want this budget, they do not want to present it to the city's population, the voters. This is obviously a political move, obviously the municipality can do this with certain risks. The municipality that does not accept a budget by the deadline can unfortunately expect a retortion, since the state normative acts will be suspended until the budget is adopted. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-02-22-166	The congressman will be rejoined in one minute.
u2016-02-22-167	Thank you, Mr Secretary, for your answer. I believe that this is irresponsible on the part of the Socialist City Administration that the 2016 budget was not intended to be presented. Obviously, they did not commit lawlessness by accident, because if the budget had been submitted, it would have turned out in black white what the socialists were planning to do in Salgótarján: to end kindergartens, to end kindergarten groups, to levy new taxes, to stop bus services, to reduce support for sport, culture, to end the Zenthe Ferenc Theatre, and to lose hundreds of people's jobs and livelihoods. In fact, the budget would have shown that the city of Salgótarján is in bankruptcy. With this step, the socialist city leadership, I believe, deceived the people of Salgótarján, but I also believe that it is not possible to deceive the people of Salgótarján without penalty - on 28 February the judgment will be delivered. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-02-22-168	The Secretary of State should be rejoined.
u2016-02-22-169	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Honourable Congressman, The city risks receiving the annual state aid of some HUF 2.4 billion late, and obviously has to make up for it from somewhere, and can only be replaced by liquid loans, short-term loans and losses in interest rates. I can also say and say that Salgótarján has received an additional HUF 141 million in extraordinary support for the operation of Salgótarján last year, in addition to the state standards in 2015, in order to make up for the holes that he suffered in his budget last year. So the government, the Ministry of the Interior, did everything in their power - and it's still obviously doing everything in its power. [[Laszlo Varju: Don't lie! You took a billion forints from them!]] - to make the municipality work. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-02-22-170	Dear Parliament, Member Bertalan Tóth, a representative of the MSZP, wants to ask the Minister of the Prime Minister's Office an immediate question: what do you intend to do to eliminate the illegal practice of the Posta Group? It's an address. The Minister appointed Mr Nándor Csepreghy as State Secretary for his reply in response to an urgent public mission. I ask the Member if he accepts the person who is responding.
u2016-02-22-171	Yeah, I'll take it.
u2016-02-22-172	Here you go.
u2016-02-22-173	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, You probably agree that as 75% of the state-owned economic company, Magyar Posta must fully fulfil its obligations under the legislation. The Parliament has received a proposal to amend Szilárd Németh's Postal Act, the essence of which is that the contracts concluded by Posta - whether contracts concluded in the market or in the business area - do not have public interest data and cannot be known. [[15.20]] Although at the meeting of the Committee on Economic Affairs, Mr Galambos, who joined the presentation, even spoke about the need to encrypt public interest data so to speak, but it turned out that this was not the case, as these data are now available and available on the Posta website. Here, in the parliamentary debate, it was discovered that this is not only about the delivery of packages, but also about the financial activities of Magyar Posta. Although we can mention not only the financial activities of Magyar Posta, as Magyar Posta is not only doing this activity, but also in companies, companies and companies in different ways with the FHB group, so the private interest also appears in Posta's financial services. That's why I think they want to encrypt this data. During the debate, Minister of State made a statement: today the Posta must provide all the information related to the functioning of the competitive market, as it is an obligation under today's legislation. I ask the Secretary of State if he maintains this statement, so should the Hungarian Post issue these data in the public interest, according to the current rules. I'm waiting for your answer.
u2016-02-22-174	Thank you. Secretary Csepreghy, please.
u2016-02-22-175	I would like to thank Mr President for the word and the opportunity for the Member to speak once again after last week on an important issue, namely the public undertakings which are partly public, but in part operate under the conditions of competition in the market. The amendment, which lies before Parliament on the proposal of Mr Németh, is about whether there, in the areas of activity where Posta and other public undertakings are talking about Posta in the first round, but it is worth considering extending it to other companies, is indeed on a level playing field compared to those on the competition market, and is entitled to the same protection as its competitors, whether we talk about postal parcel services or talk about the mediated banking services that Posta is also doing. According to current legislation, much more data on these data should also be disclosed to Posta than to competitors and would consequently be put at a competitive disadvantage. In the view of the Government, the Member is right about the need to create market neutrality, and the Posta must not give out any data that renders his business, his competitive operation impossible. If there is a debate about what these circles can and will not be used by the Posta and the Hungarian court will have and will have the opportunity to decide. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-02-22-176	The congressman should have a rejoinder. Here.
u2016-02-22-177	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Then he maintains his claim that according to today's legislation, these data should be disclosed to the Hungarian Post. I would like to tell you that I submitted a request for data in the public interest to Magyar Posta Zrt., Magyar Posta Vagyonkezelő Zrt., Magyar Posta Kártyaközpont Zrt. a year ago - they did not comply with this request. At present, there are four lawsuits pending against these companies because they refuse to issue the contracts which you currently consider to be public interest data and the various data contained in the contracts. So I would like to ask the Secretary of State whether he is planning to make an appeal to the leaders of these companies to fail to comply with the legislation currently in force, since Parliament has not yet passed the encryption law that we discussed here last week. Will they examine whether there will be an opportunity to instruct these companies to be issued to me by the Ministry [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] is the data of public interest now, especially when concealing data of general interest is a crime in Hungary today? I'm waiting for your answer.
u2016-02-22-178	Secretary of State, please.
u2016-02-22-179	Thank you very much. Given that you have a court-martial dispute with the Post Office, you cannot seriously expect the government to intervene. The court will make a decision, and this decision will have to be implemented by the Post Office. Thank you very much.
u2016-02-22-180	Thank you. Dear Parliament, Congressman György Szilágyi, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Prime Minister's Minister's Office an immediate question: what are the actual assignments covered by corruption suspect numbers? It's an address. The Minister appointed Mr Nándor Csepreghy as State Secretary for his reply in response to an urgent public mission. I'll ask the congressman if he'll take it. [[For signal:]] It says yes. Here you go.
u2016-02-22-181	I'm gonna need my time back.
u2016-02-22-182	I'll count it.
u2016-02-22-183	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr State Secretary, you have seen enough projects in recent years, and you have obviously observed the techniques in which public money is highlighted, so to speak, with the total exclusion of real competition and the public, i.e. moving quietly into private pockets. In order to do this, public procurement procedures need to be avoided in order to avoid accidental loss of friendly hands from the greasy business. One of these methods: the basic HUF 8 million is below the threshold, but not very much, as this would be an unnecessary loss for the selected ones, so the contract amounts of HUF 7 million 995 thousand or HUF 7 million 900 thousand are very common. If the contract is below 8 million, it doesn't have to be published in the Public Procurement Notice, so it keeps the laundry in a blur. In this case, companies that do not receive any other income can conclude from the annual result that public contracts may be in the background. Let's take an example. Let's see, say, Gábor Riz's Fidesz congressman's company, who can't settle for their defeat in Oz against Jobbik, and constantly attacks the better mayor with a series of nasty and nasty attacks. Gábor Riz's company, Okt-Form Bt. The figures in his accounts are interesting. In some years, the company's result was almost zero, so it didn't have a commission, while in other cases, for example, in 2012, the mentioned HUF 7 million was 900 thousand, and in 2014 - let's not forget, it was an election year, so all the forints mattered - it closed with HUF 7 million and HUF 995 thousand. In other words, the taxpayer's money has made maximum profit to you. In my opinion, such farming raises suspicions of dishonesty, unethicality, immorality, and even corruption. I am therefore looking forward to your reply as to exactly what orders are behind Gábor Riz's said revenue and whether he considers it acceptable to circumvent the price competition for the protection of public funds in this way. If Gábor Riz's company is really gaining weight on public money [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] Do you consider it appropriate to fully investigate the legality of each payment? I look forward to your substantive answer. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2016-02-22-184	Thank you. Nándor Csepreghy, State Secretary, responds. Here you go.
u2016-02-22-185	Thank you, Mr. President. Honourable Congressman, Your question gives me the opportunity to talk about why the Public Procurement Act had to be amended, because the anomalies you mention have pointed to one of the most important problems of the EU budget period 2007-2013, according to which in Hungary there have been numerous opportunities, a legislative opportunity for some to abuse public funds. However, the new law on public procurement tabled by the Government and adopted by Parliament is a barrier to this. The three-offer procedure, which has been debated by many on the market and here among Parliament's horseshoes, can no longer work. According to the rules of the new Public Procurement Act, if a person has to conduct a procurement in a procedural context where he had previously applied the three tender procedure, apart from asking three companies to submit a tender, he must publish this call on the public procurement authority's website, and anyone who makes an offer there, through it, must be subject to an assessment. So I think this is a rule that reduces the risk of possible abuse of this type to a very large extent. It also points in this direction, and this package of measures includes the initiative of the Prime Minister's Office to maximize the so-called soft costs by 12% within an EU call for proposals, with 2.5 percent of the costs eligible for project management or other support services. This is all for the purpose of working as little as possible on so-called soft costs in a project, using as little as possible tender writing, project management and other support services, instead of investing as much as possible in the implementation of meaningful projects. There is no debate between us on the fact that the EU budget period 2007-2013 rested on the wrong basis and carried a type of abuse risk that ultimately damaged Hungary, because despite the use of HUF 9200 billion of EU funds, a very large part of which could have been done more effectively, the new EU budgetary rules [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] public procurement rules support this. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-02-22-186	The congressman should have a rejoinder.
u2016-02-22-187	Thank you very much. I'm sorry, Mr. Secretary, that you only spoke in general. I specifically asked you about the Fidesz Congressman, Gábor Riz's companies, if you would like to examine this. We're talking about the Gábor Riz who's not in the room right now, so he can't spend the one day at work he should spend every week. So he can't answer that, not even by yelling. We're talking about Gábor Riz, who says he's a luxury car for a 21-year-old car purchased for HUF 640 thousand. But while we're at it, I'm asking if the Minister's Commissioner, Gábor Riz, is going to take the assistant secretary's salary for the position. Because if so, why is this not in Gábor Riz's statement of property? Dear Secretary of State, The Ozdi people are curious about that, too. [[15.30]] Also, why is Gábor Riz, who has been a Member of the National Assembly for six years since Ozd and his neighborhood, only today's first motion with Oz's name on it? As you might wonder, is it the 10 million forints that Balassagyarmaton has in connection with the construction of the gymnasium at the Kiss Árpád Primary School? [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] he hired me to do project management activities, wouldn't he have been in a better place than that 10 million forint in school. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches. Intercoms from the same place, among them: That's right!]]
u2016-02-22-188	Secretary of State, one minute.
u2016-02-22-189	Honourable Congressman, The pay ceiling for Members of Parliament and Development Commissioners is the pay ceiling for Members of Parliament, so they have only received as many additions as are necessary for the basic wage of their Members and is maximized, so in addition to this additional [[György Szilágyi: Why isn't he in the property statement?]] they shall neither take nor take up income. I can introduce you to Congressman Riz, and vice versa. I hope they come to a conclusion. I don't care about any of the congressman's corporate affairs, but it looks like the demand is there for you. [[Applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2016-02-22-190	Dear Parliament, Congressman Mátyás Firtl, representative of KDNP, wishes to ask the Minister of Defence an immediate question:. What is the significance of MH 2. The formation of a Special Purpose Regiment? It's an address. The Minister has appointed Mr Tamás Vargha as Secretary of State for his urgent public service. The congressman is warning you to accept it. You have the floor, please.
u2016-02-22-191	Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Recent events, especially in recent months, the crisis caused by mass migration, the inhuman terrorist attack in Paris, have once again confirmed the increasingly fundamental view that everything in our security environment is uncertain. Unfortunately, this is not good news for us, because it is a very difficult task to meet new challenges in a constantly changing, unpredictable world. Moreover, we live in a world where we face a wide range of threats and challenges at the same time, i.e. new types of challenges. We need the capabilities, reserves, renewal and expansion of the Hungarian Defence Forces. However, as the Minister said at his January evaluation and task-making meeting, there is a need to support society in protecting and protecting our country, along with our common values and interests. Quoting Mr. Minister, security has become the most important value in Europe, and we have seen that the well-trained staff of the Hungarian Defence Forces have proved in recent years that they are capable of protecting borders and guaranteeing the safety of people. We see the dangers and trends. Political and moral responsibility is ours, so it is our duty to act. This is why we have been paying attention to the Minister's earlier statements, because he has repeatedly confirmed that, in the face of the current security challenges, it is important to develop and reorganize the Hungarian Defence Forces in a military and humane way, and to make reasonable use of the resources available. In Szolnok, he announced in a press conference that the Hungarian Defence Forces 2 had been founded. Colonel Special Purpose. Dear Secretary of State, Special forces have already achieved outstanding international results. Why was it necessary to merge them? Or, in terms of its purpose, [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] In view of your duties, where is the Special Purpose Regiment located within the framework of the Hungarian Defence Service? I look forward to your reply, Secretary of State. Thank you, Mr. President. [[Applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2016-02-22-192	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr. Secretary Vargha, please.
u2016-02-22-193	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, The Special Operations Forces have demonstrated their validity in recent years and decades, as most countries fighting organised crime, on the one hand, operate on a network basis, and, on the other hand, already have this capacity. And we see that the fight against global, asymmetrical hybrid threats also requires the active involvement of these organisations. And Hungary joined this process in 2005, when it began the formation of special operational forces in Szolnok. Thanks to the hard work of the last ten years, the special operation has earned inexorable merit to the Hungarian Defence Forces, both domestic and international. The Hungarian Special Operations Forces have been involved in NATO, the European Union and other coalition operations since 2009, and in the whole spectrum of their tasks, in active and passive combat actions, and I think we all agree on this, they have gained undisputed merit. The Hungarian Special Operations Forces have also proved themselves in Iraq and Afghanistan, where they have performed a special task as part of the International Special Operations Force. Their appreciation clearly confirms the efficiency of the Hungarian ability. In recent months, in carrying out border tasks, the Special Forces, together with the dedicated special police forces, have been actively and effectively involved in addressing the challenges posed by mass migration. In today's extremely changed security requirements and circumstances, it was essential to develop special operations units, and part of that was to continue building, integrating and creating the existing special forces, and thus to create the Hungarian Defence Service 2. Colonel Special Purpose. [[Applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2016-02-22-194	Congressman's rejoinder in a minute.
u2016-02-22-195	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Thank you for your answer, and in fact, when we thank you for your answer, on behalf of my group, we thank you for the activities that the Special Army has done so far, and, of course, for what you have done to protect our borders. As I said earlier, we, as Members of Parliament, have a moral responsibility to do everything we can to ensure that the Hungarian Defence Office, as a national common cause, can indeed create an environment to guarantee the safety of Hungary in an appropriate manner. It is therefore necessary to look for solutions that have already been provided to the defence in many countries of Europe in the past. I trust that the parliamentary factions are here, if in any way, but they are interested in ensuring that the Hungarian Defence Office's involvement in the defence of our country is properly guaranteed in the future. [[Applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2016-02-22-196	Mr. Secretary's rejoinder.
u2016-02-22-197	Thank you very much, Mr President, for your compliments on behalf of all the soldiers of the Hungarian Defence Forces. Indeed, we agree, we need to think together and act together. And let us also speak with respect about the unprecedented, exemplary cooperation that was established between the forces of the Hungarian Defence Office and the Ministry of the Interior, since the Hungarian Defence Office has contributed and contributed to the implementation of the task with the organisations designated by the law, without any legal or jurisdictional withdrawal. So we thank the Ministry of the Interior and thank the Hungarian police for their participation in the protection of the Hungarian border and in the defence of Hungary. It is our shared responsibility and responsibility to do everything in the time ahead so that the soldiers of the Hungarian Defence Forces can perform this task and continue it as an exemplary one. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2016-02-22-198	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Member István Ikotity, representative of the LMP, wants to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question:. Why doesn't the government stand up for teachers? It's an address. The Minister appointed Secretary of State Bence Rétvári to respond to his urgent public mission. I'm asking if the congressman will take it. [[István Ikotity: Yes.]] Yes, please.
u2016-02-22-199	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, Last month we have seen a very significant earthquake-like movement in public education. All this has happened, as we claim, because the public education law you set up in 2011 has put the entire system of public education in a position that is not a good solution. He moved the whole system in a direction that now has the real consequences, and now the public education players, such as the students, obviously the parents of the students, the teachers, the head of the institution, have felt that way. You see, all this system you've set up doesn't work. When this came to your attention, this lid started to move on the pot, so to speak, under pressure, what did they do? They responded extremely badly: they tried to subjugate everything to their political interests, practically by subjugating public education and thus the future of the country to the means of political power logic. This explains why, not only do they not stand up for teachers, but they try to turn public opinion, the whole society against them, instead of dealing with the real problem. The round table for public education has been established for a long time, and no real step has been taken. Instead, they insult them and make weapons against teachers. How else can it be explained that various pro-government representatives make statements such as László Pósán, who called the demands of teachers impertinence? [[15.40]] What else can be explained by Minister John Lazarus' accusation against teachers that they want to blackmail us with the children, I quote? Or what other explanation is there for suspecting other forces or foreign forces behind them, or making statements that did not even come out of the mouth of teachers; that they specifically want an 18 percent increase in wages? [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] Tell me, Mr. Secretary, where did you find this number? Why not 17 or 19? Where did this 18 percent come from?
u2016-02-22-200	Secretary of State, please.
u2016-02-22-201	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Let's make a quick list of the situation that the teachers were in before 2010 and after 2010, and let's go to the students. Before 2010, a month's wages were taken from them, 17,000 teachers were laid off, jobs were closed in 381 places in 381 settlements, obviously the result was the dismissal of 17,000 teachers. And now, in recent years, the wages of teachers will increase year after year, if I add up overall, it will grow by 40 percent, from 1 September this year by 3.5 percent, and the wages of teachers will increase again from 1 September next year. I think no government can stand up for anyone more than by increasing their salary by one and a half times over the four-year or five-year term. More respect - obviously there are some verbal forms of respect, there are some material forms of respect and there are financial forms, the government has tried to do both: with Klebelsberg scholarship to help teacher training, and I could tell you more; to create the security of the functioning of schools through state maintenance, which is obviously because it is a huge organization, so it needs internal restructuring, which is what we are going to do. If you have also observed the formation of the Public Education Round Table, you have already seen what tasks the government has set itself to carry out with regard to the KLIK, and by summer there will be other legislation or other organizational and operational rules, such as the KLIK now, and from 1 September, the whole organizational system will operate with another internal organizational structure; if I look at teachers, too. You forget to mention that 17,000 teachers in 2015 and 9,000 teachers in this year. This also represents a significant step forward for everyone. I believe that ensuring this progress, material, moral progress, is precisely a sign of respect [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] what the government feels towards teachers. The other issue is that certain political forces want to settle for this right now. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-02-22-202	Congressman! I'll be back in a minute. Here you go.
u2016-02-22-203	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, He knows that the teacher is I and II. between ratings, what is the net payment difference or how much work they need to do in order to prepare the portfolio? No. If you knew that, you wouldn't mention it. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Tell me! Let's hear it. Let's hear it. Let's hear it.]] I claim that you are quoting the pre-2010 situation, but obviously you are not responsible for the pre-2010 situation. However, the problem that I am now talking about has been raised by you: the amount spent on education has decreased by 30 percent between 2003 and 2013. And you're talking about a raise when you were split into parts, that promised raise was divided into years, and when you separated the minimum wage from the fund? So I think that's a completely wrong argument on your part. However, my question remains, Mr. Secretary of State. This particular 18% - because teachers did not come up with any wage claims in their 25 points [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] - Where'd they get it from? Please answer me.
u2016-02-22-204	The Secretary of State will rejoin you in a minute.
u2016-02-22-205	Thank you very much for the floor. I thought your question was poetic, because I thought the congressman read a newspaper on this subject last week, but if he didn't read a newspaper, I'll tell you: the reduction in the number of hours, the extra hours is 18 per cent, and this is yet to be realized by the raise you mentioned in January, which would be another 8 per cent according to the calculation of the teaching staff. But he says that the cost of education has been reduced. If you look at the budget laws, Congressman - I will tell you the twenty-seventh - from 2012 to 2013 by 32 billion, then the following year by 120 billion, the following year by 38 billion, and last year by 34 billion forints for public education wages. Where are you talking about any cost cuts or cuts in expenditure when, obviously, the whole public education system pays the most wages, since teachers pay the most costs, and compared to that, the cost of doing business or other expenses is dwarfed? This is the increase that we have made in recent years, and we will continue next year. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-02-22-206	Dear Parliament, Congressman János Pócs, representative of Fidesz, wishes to ask the Minister of the Interior an immediate question: "Does the song remain the same? It's an address. The Minister appointed Mr Károly Kontra as Secretary of State for his urgent public service. I'll ask the congressman if he'll take it. [[For signal:]] It says yes. You have the floor. Here you go.
u2016-02-22-207	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, As we already know, up to now, about two million people have protested against compulsory resettlement, and there is a significant number of municipalities where decisions have been taken to refuse compulsory reception of refugees. However, there are exceptions: they are the people of the past who faithfully follow the party order; there were times from Moscow and now from Brussels. I would like to quote a few points from the motion of Dr. József Gedei, a representative of the Jászberény municipality, to accept the compulsory resettlement quota. This is about József Gedei, who was a former socialist MP and former mayor of the city. Quote: The inhabitants of Jászberény, descendants of the Jász group emigrated and received. Annex XIII is replaced by the text set out in Annex XIII to this Regulation. After centuries of immigration, they arrived in Jászberény, and the folk language still calls them the gathering. The third millennium of warfare forms include terrorism, which is not due to immigration. 'The congressman says.' But let's continue with the quote. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. The inclusion and integration of some immigrants in Hungary is inevitable for historical, economic and political reasons. Follow-up to the quote:. The obligations arising from the country's membership in the EU must be fulfilled, faithfully to the historical past. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Dear Secretary of State, In the light of this quote, I ask you whether there is a causal link between current migration flows and a marked increase in the risk of terrorism in the light of the data available to the Ministry. [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] Does planting illegal immigrants pose a risk to our country? Thank you, Mr. President.
u2016-02-22-208	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary of State Kontrat has the floor. Here you go.
u2016-02-22-209	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, First of all, I would like to thank the two million people who have signed their signatures against the compulsory resettlement quota and the municipalities who have also taken a stand against the compulsory resettlement quota. In my constituency there are seven such municipalities, from Várpalota to Balatonfüred seven municipalities took their stand on this issue. Thank you for your support. As far as the facts are concerned, data from Frontex, the European Union Border Surveillance Agency, show that in 2015 more than 1 million 800 thousand illegal migrants arrived in the European Union. In Hungary, according to police data, 391 384 persons were caught last year, in 2015 due to illegal border crossings by the police. If we look at international experience, the events in Paris, and how illegal migration, uncontrolled migration, is related to terrorism, then we can say that these facts say that there is a link, because the build-up of terrorist communities to illegal migration carries realistic risks. It is clear that the attacks in Paris and the events that followed proved that illegal migrants appear among them and are constantly organizing, inciting activities that follow radical Islamic doctrines, and terrorist individuals, so this is a realistic threat. We believe that if we can protect the country, if we can prevent illegal migrants from arriving in Hungary, then we are making a great deal of progress in order to prevent this from creating a terrorist threat. We believe that the security of the Hungarian people is the most important thing, and the government - I can state it here - is doing everything in its power to protect Hungarian people. [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] and calls for Parliament's support for this. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-02-22-210	It's the congressman's turn in a minute.
u2016-02-22-211	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Well, you can see that this is what the left is up against, because they think migration processes are peaceful, disciplined, natural phenomena, the growing threat of terrorism in Western Europe, the French assassination or the atrocities in Germany seem to have fallen from the sky. They say that we should only wait obediently, and the wise leaders of the EU will show us the way to peace and prosperity. [[15.50]] Indeed, some kind of loyalty to the near historical past can be observed from their side. In the spirit of historical loyalty, the visions of a peaceful future certainly include gas price increases, foreign currency loans, IMF debt or the abolition of family tax incentives, as they say: loyalty to the European Union, the historical past. Secretary of State, thank you for your reply. Thank you, Mr. President. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2016-02-22-212	Secretary of State's rejoinder in a minute.
u2016-02-22-213	Mr President, Honourable Congressman, The position of the Hungarian government has been clear, clear and unchanged from the outset to this day on illegal migration, and in the national consultation people have made it clear that the country must be protected. We have done this, we have created legal protection, physical protection, lively protection, and this system works. Although it should be added that the number of experiments increased in the first two months of 2016 either at the Hungarian-Serbian border, but, as Prime Minister said in his statement before today's agenda, the issue of further reinforcement must be considered in order to ensure the safety of Hungarian people, or perhaps the issue of extending the physical border closure. I believe that the Hungarian government's position is clear and its practice is clear: control, identification, stopping and then return. So these are the exact stages of illegal migration. Thank you very much.
u2016-02-22-214	Thank you. Dear Parliament, Today we have the last immediate question from Congressman Lajos Rig, who is a representative of Jobbik, and he wants to ask an immediate question:. In the 21st century, it is unacceptable to have a pay-out chaos for paramedics. It's an address. The Minister appointed Secretary of State Bence Rétvári to respond to his urgent public mission. I'm asking if you'll take it.
u2016-02-22-215	I'll take it.
u2016-02-22-216	In that case, you have the floor. Here you go.
u2016-02-22-217	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, Here, my fellow Member has already spoken about the problems affecting the system, which has existed since November 2015. I am here, in an unusual way, not to ask for a raise, but to ask for the wage that is due to the workers, and they have been asking for it since November. It's unacceptable that if someone works in health care, and I say it again, for the price of hunger, they won't get even this little because of your mistake. So since November, it's been your fault that there's been a system that hasn't been able to do the job they've invented to refer to it. So zero, you failed. There are workers - and I am talking only about my own constituency - who have not been paid normally since November, they have received 70,000, 80,000, 28 thousand forints a month's salary. So that's how it's been determined. The State Treasury said in its reply that it is possible to complain to those affected by wage documents, but it is known that about a week and a half will pass between the payment of wages and the payment of wages and the receipt of the wage tape. Now the National Rescue Service has taken a measure to e-mail it to the employees, but it is nonsense, in my opinion, that the worker still complains about the wages that he has worked for. Once you are unable to provide a normal wage increase for health care workers, you can expect that the wages you set for them will be paid because they pay the rent from having their credit and feeding their children and supporting their families. All they're asking for right now is that they get this right. What's the guarantee, Mr. Secretary? [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2016-02-22-218	Thank you very much. Secretary Bence Rétvári responds. Here you go.
u2016-02-22-219	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, The introduction of the KIRA system has indeed been discussed here today, and I do not want to repeat why the Treasury introduced it and how it is performing it. At the Rescue Service, the extra specialty or changes in the content of the transition is that the Treasury carries out a monthly accounting based on actual work performance. This means that instead of the date of the month concerned around 25, only the monthly regular salaries are counted on the last day of the month concerned. It also means a kind of change that could have been part of it. The other was the incomplete fixing of the various mobile wage elements, various allowances, which was behind the problem. Not much, but that's what was behind it. As a matter of fact, less wage compensation statements have been received at the Treasury than before. But if anyone hands this in, they'll get the difference between the amounts backwards. The reason why the Treasury managed the Rescue Service a little harder is because the organisational structure of the OMSZ is much more structured than the average budget body. That's why since December, the Treasury experts and OMSZ experts have sat down to solve these problems. [[President Tamás Sneider, Vice-President of the National Assembly.]] One direction was what you said was that not only in printed format, but also electronically, by e-mail, the employees will receive their payroll, precisely so that they can check it more easily. A central e-mail address has been created where complaints are received, and they are processed here. But in order not to be such a problem, an advance in proportion to the loss of income was allocated within a day or two. A total of 135 comments were received by 11 February, so we are talking about so many problematic cases. The vast majority of these have already been investigated and the solution has been found. They're going to investigate this out of line at the Treasury, and they're going to correct it by inter-skid accounting. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2016-02-22-220	Welcome, fellow Members. I give the floor for a one-minute response to Congressman Lajos Rig.
u2016-02-22-221	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, I understand your answer, but it's very difficult to accept. I worked part-time at the National Rescue Service for 15 years until this abomination, this KIRA system, worked. Interestingly, in normal time, the workers were able to pick up normal wages. It's also true what you said about working in a changing working order and getting overtime with a month's delay. But at payroll, you know how much overtime is, and you don't have to think about big amounts. And in my opinion, I didn't make a big request to you, but I did ask that you get the wages that the payroll says you're entitled to. Some workers, on the other hand, have received much more than their salary, but they do not dare to touch it, because they have a repayment obligation afterwards. I'm asking that this KIRA system be as it is, forget it, go back to the old system, because it worked, so don't hurt it. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2016-02-22-222	State Secretary Bence Rétvári has the floor.
u2016-02-22-223	Thank you very much for the floor. We would, of course, like to apologize to everyone who was uncomfortable about this system shift, but obviously this was necessary for an otherwise modernization to convert the Treasury to this new system. But once again, we apologize to everyone who has had any problems or administration to add. The Treasury has informed us that they are now working with a lower rate of error than the previous system before the KIRA system. We hope that it will, and it will remain so, and everyone will feel the smoothness of this. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2016-02-22-224	Dear Parliament, The time for immediate questions is over. The next item will be the post-meeting speeches. First of all, Mr László Varju applied for an after-the-meet speech on the events of the last week. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2016-02-22-225	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I would like to draw your attention to and focus on an issue that, as a result of several cases, I feel, is becoming increasingly general in the country. Last week, I have also indicated to you that a number of projects - not only EU funds, but also many other things - are achieved by not actually achieving performance, a significant part of the content is not being achieved, and this results in significant damage on the one hand, and, on the other hand, in, let us say, money disappears to places that are untraceable. I would now like to draw your attention to a situation where I think it is a clear abuse of people's vulnerability. This vulnerability arises from living in a small settlement, where, as a result of this government's economic policy, there is neither a job nor an investor; therefore, in essence, vulnerability points in the same direction: if the municipality helps, then yes, or if there is a benefactor, then it may help. Such a benefactor has recently appeared Fidesz MPs, who have found a small settlement group trying to sell a programme they have invented there and bring it as a savior. [[16.00]] This, of course, started in an election period and then suddenly ended after the election period. I would like to say to you here a specific case where you have lived back in the peaceful region of Békés County, and I stress that you are playing with the lives of those people and creating a situation where you lose all hope of being vulnerable to one of these opportunities every day or not. I say this also as a person, and there are many people in Parliament who have come from small settlements, have such experience, see their lives, and experience every day how it happens. With the active support of the Ministry of the Interior, György Simonka, Member of Parliament arrived in the peaceful region with a bag full of money for a billion forints. He has hacked through 19 settlements and promised that he would actually like to recall and create the conditions of the old, formerly well-equipped farmhouses and well-functioning farmhouses. Of these one billion forints promised animals, feeders, and promised much more, which was accompanied by the fact that the implementation of this had also begun at some level. I quote from the minutes of the council meeting of the mayor or municipality of Canánadanácsa that 15 pigs should have been transported here today, and these piglets should have been at least 25 kilos, but they were hardly heavier than 6.5 kilos, and therefore unfulfilled what was promised to them in the framework of this project. And we can look at these records one by one. Ladies and gentlemen, It is unacceptable that the Fidesz Member of Parliament creates a situation in a small settlement where, with his promise and then ten months later, he leaves people in complete hopelessness with a closed and terminated project. The promises made at that time have now vanished. Fidesz's word isn't worth anything in that environment either. In ten months, not only the Member of Parliament, but also the Ministry official, who says that the project has been completed and closed, has already sent this message in writing. In these matters, ladies and gentlemen, when will an investigation start, which has countless lines? Thank you very much for your attention. [[Sallai R. Benedek applauds.]]
u2016-02-22-226	Mr Sallai R. Benedek came forward to speak after the next agenda, with more than 40,000 signatures for animal protection. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2016-02-22-227	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, Obviously, it seems to many that the issue of animal protection may seem to be incidental to Hungary's current social and political problems, but it should be noted that in the last hundred years, especially in recent decades, livestock farming has changed a great deal, and in addition to livestock farming, the type of emotional relationship has appeared in many cases when very many people consider animals as virtually partners and as one of the most important links. Accordingly, the emotional relationship with domestic animals is very often much more than what Hungarian society had previously experienced, and perhaps this is the explanation for the many thousands protested on the Saturday of this week in order to make possible changes in animal protection rules. Today, it is well known that there has been a dog murder in Detek that has shaken the Hungarian public, and as a result more than 40,000 signatures have been gathered as petitions, in which petitioners ask that the government, by amending the Criminal Code, create a background for increasing the limits of criminality of such and similar cruel cases and for increasing the level of criminality. Obviously, this case shows what social expectations are on this subject, but the issue of animal protection goes far beyond this. Approximately a year ago, as Chairman of the Committee on Sustainable Development, I wanted a comprehensive reform of the animal protection rules, but unfortunately, the Vice-President of the Government did not comment on the request for expert assistance in this matter, so we had no choice but to find a solution from the Group's own resources. As a result of his one-year work, in consultation with a number of green and animal protection organisations, a substance has finally been produced which, if possible, tries to approach the issue of animal protection in a broader sense beyond the above mentioned Btk. amendment. In this, practically from the living bee families, the current amendment of Btk., which specifically applies to vertebrate animals, until the treatment, registration of captured, orphaned or stray dogs, to the operation of animal shelters, to the extended regulation of pyrotechnic articles relating to the animal protection product fee. This week, I will be able to invite animal welfare organisations to review and comment on this material before entering the series of subjects, so that there is as much professional consensus on animal protection as possible in the submission of this. However, given the government's operation, that the most theoretical possibility for an opposition representative to be included in the series is the possibility, I would ask the representatives of the government and the representatives of the government interested in the subject to respect this animal protection round table with their participation, and I would be delighted if any of these parties could take up and represent as much as possible. Obviously, these issues, the expectations expressed by animal welfare organisations, are in many cases widely affected by legislative amendments, since, in addition to the criminal code, they would include a number of regulations concerning agriculture, but even civil society organisations or, as I said, municipal rules and powers. Nevertheless, I believe that the introduction of this type of animal protection salad law before this House would be timely and could greatly alleviate the outraged voices that would call for increasing and increasing government action in the field of animal protection. I ask with respect the representatives of the government and the members of the governing party to help these efforts to be as effective as possible, and the more than 40,000 signatures that have expressed concern in petitions merely in terms of tightening up this Btk. amendment on animals and animal protection will be widely heard. I ask you to help me do this and to enable this House to discuss in Parliament the amendments that animal protection organisations are asking for as soon as possible. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2016-02-22-228	I'll ask the Secretary of State if he wants to answer. Yes, Mr. Secretary of State, Mr. Bitay.
u2016-02-22-229	Thank you for the floor. Honourable Congressman, Thank you very much for pointing out in your speech after this agenda that, unfortunately, there are such deviants when animals are tortured or killed senselessly or commit a similar crime. I would like to say that the removal of this phenomenon, so that it is not possible to do so, we are working on it, and not just us, but we have been working on it for quite some time now. Since 2004, there has been a passage in the Criminal Code on this, and if I have paid close attention to the weekend protests in this regard, the main problem has been that, although there may already be some criminal option, the courts do not apply these rules sufficiently strongly. So you have to see what you can do about animal cruelty. First of all, we need an approach, so we would also be thinking of such a step-by-step structure. Obviously, it is necessary to prevent and tighten up these sentences or the rule system itself, or to make the persecution of this even more realistic in order to achieve even greater results, but it is important that we proceed step by step and have a close cooperation with the organisations, be a close cooperation through the Nébih institutional system, be an approach. [[16.10]] In terms of dogs and stray dogs, the mandatory chirping of dogs may be a step forward here, but the situation can still be detected. In stray dogs there was a spaying program, which may have some effect on the further growth of stray dogs, or at least in a beneficial direction, and there are also government decrees that the Ministry of Agriculture is working on or amending to present them. So, overall, I would like to say that the idea is absolutely legitimate, unfortunately, there are some problems, and the government is also working to keep these deviant behaviours down as much as possible. If this requires dialogue with opposition or social organisations, we are open to this. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2016-02-22-230	Mr László György Lukács applied for a speech after the next agenda:.The Day of the Hungarian Nurses is also entitled The Day of Empty Government Promises. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2016-02-22-231	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, From 19 February 2014, the birthday of Zsuzsanna Kossuth is the birthday of the Hungarian nurses, which has now been celebrated for two years by the profession and has been celebrated for two years by those who are truly responsible for the Hungarian care. During today's event, which I had the pleasure of attending, the honorary annual awards that are, if you will, the highest professional medals in the care business were awarded during the morning. In this case, the Batthyány-Strattmann Prize, in which one person was awarded, and which migrated to Zala County, was also awarded the Pro Sanitate Prize for decades of nursing work and its award. May I mention Anna Katainé Jakl, to whom I congratulate you, who has been doing his sacrificial work at the hospital in Karcag for decades now. Let me mention that three Kossuth Zsuzsanna Prize winners were awarded by the Hungarian Nursing Association, and an honorary nurse's fee was also issued. But not everyone can be congratulated with complete joy - congratulations are, of course, due to the honoured ones - because this day of the nurses drew attention to the fact that the matter of care continues to stand still, and the day of the nurses' day is also a day of empty government promises against care. On what basis we base these promises of care provision are empty, it shows the state of the profession at present, where the question of nurses stands in 2016. It is worth noting that 90 percent of nurses, 90 percent of workers are women, and their average age is 40-45 years, the profession is getting older, and we can safely say that they represent a layer of 50-52 thousand people in the Hungarian health profession, so if you like, the backseat for health workers. Well, these workers are those who do their day-to-day activities among wages, often in a serious shift position, tired, tired, burned out, and with a lack of numbers, who, for example, take home a simple example: a nurse with 40 years of work experience, which now brings home a total net of HUF 109 thousand, or perhaps before retirement, but also a nurse with 30 years of work experience will bring home only HUF 120,000 net. These are also at the bottom of the list at the national level after the social sphere, in terms of purchasing power, they are not only in the European, but also in the last-to-last position of the OECD, which brings together developed countries, and Hungarian nurses can afford as little as possible from everyday consumer goods. But not only is there a problem with wages; working conditions that also weigh on their shoulders, which cover general health problems, which are institutional infrastructure problems, the condition of hospitals, the condition of a sickroom where daily activities are to be carried out, and also the tensions arising from the fact that in these wards, which are often inhabited, are poorly equipped with equipment, patients who are also in a mood as bad as the institution itself is. The Secretary of State has also acknowledged in several forums now, Mr Ónodi-Szűcs, that there is an abundant lack of supplies from this profession, as well as the current workforce's vitality. Overall, it is also important to note on the day of the nurses that 27 thousand people are missing in the profession, so the safe functioning of health care requires 27 thousand more nurses, which raises not only the issue of emigration, but also the problem of after-schooling, so the training of replacements, since the training places where high-quality, well-educated and skilled nurses were trained have ceased to exist, and now there is little school left to teach nurses or care professionals. But we could also say the institutional anomaly, which has always been the promise of an independent ministry, and which, by the way, has often been recognised by the government, that he himself wants a self-ministerial ministry, and then it has never been established, instead other ministries have grown from government ideas. But the issue of the national chief nurse is one that the profession has long asked for, and you have also done so, but no apparatus has been added to this post, it seems that there is neither a function nor an apparatus of this office, and they have made one of these out of ornaments, even though it could perform more important professional tasks than that person is sitting somewhere in a secretary of state structure. It is therefore absolutely necessary to review the health problems in the current situation. That is why Jobbik launched the real national consultation in 2016, in which it will also assess the situation of caregivers, in which, based on the consultation of professional organisations, it will send the questions to the public, and their response will determine what the government should do in 2016 on the matter of care. Thank you very much for your patience. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-02-22-232	Member Gergely Kulcsár applied for a speech after the next agenda:. Corruption and Fidesz go hand in hand with the title Hajdú-Bihar County. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2016-02-22-233	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Recently, the Prime Minister called Jobbik a party of criminals among the walls of the House, of course the Prime Minister said this only when the President of Jobbik had no way to react, and of course, Viktor Orbán did not support his accusations with any real data, in fact, and since then it is not about the largest opposition party, Jobbik, the criminal news. Let's see which party there are criminals in. The left, the reds, should rather be ignored in this comparison, as their prison fraction is hitting Europe's peaks, not to mention those on parole due to a lack of fidesz accountability, Ferenc Gyurcsány in the lead. If we're looking at the political criminal news of the past few weeks, we'll find almost exclusively orange cases. The Fidelitas' wellness pig slaughter in Fidelitas ended in riots and strangulations. Looks like there are young orange guys with criminal tendencies outside of the counterfeit president of Fidelitas. Whatever the Fidesz representative in Pécsaba claimed, he sentenced the Gyula Tribunal to seven years in prison for illegal trafficking in Viagra. Viktor V was, by the way, the Chairman of the Legal and Order Committee in the municipality at the time of the crime committed in the criminal organisation. And next comes the Fidesz representative, suspected of murder, who decorated the police in Dunaújváros,' said the headline. Congressman Roland Gál, who was also a public security councilman of the municipality, was arrested on suspicion of murder the other day. The foam on the cake, at the next board meeting, the fidesz majority did not deprive the suspected killer of their positions. These were only the most important news of the past two weeks, and I did not even say a word about Flórian Farkas, who had a long past, and at that time we had not even talked about the illegal political crime, the cases that were not illegal, but which were unfair, so to speak, filled the pockets of Fidesz politicians with impolite methods. This category includes the reward scandal in Debrecen a few years ago. At the end of 2011, thanks to Jobbik's representatives in Debrecen, local government representatives, the list of funds that the leaders of the municipality of Debrecen had put in their pockets revealed a huge public upheaval. Between 2002 and 2011, the amount amounted to over 1 billion HUF 700 million. In this period, the Fidesz leaders of the city gave themselves rewards of between HUF 5.2 million and HUF 35.7 million per person, while Debrecent was thrown into debt of HUF 40 billion. This is a typical case of criminal law enforcement. And the latest, pure corruption, is a case related to the Fidesz city leaders in Balmasújváros, which has caused a great public uproar recently and has entered court at the end of last year. It started in 2013, and the prosecution started investigating administrative abuse and bribery in Balmazújváros. Since then, it has been revealed that the defendant, Margit Veres, was a former notary, current mayor, who became mayor with the joint support of Fidesz and MSZP in 2014, and is known to be a member of the trust of former mayor and Fidesz MP István Tiba. [[16.20]] In court, it turned out that Margit Veres, as a Balmazújvárosi metropolitan notary, took five million forints in cash in private in a dark evening class from an entrepreneur whose company, as a coincidence, received 180 million from the local government on the same day. The notary gave the money to the mayor of István Tiba in private the next day, and according to the phone records, István Tiba told Margaret Veres to keep 400 thousand forints of money and to receive a car as a gift from the contractor. The interesting thing is that István Tiba was not even heard as a witness in the investigation, although it is quite clear that the Fidesz representative is involved in the crime, because according to the prosecution, the money from the crime ended up with Tiba. We don't know, I'm just asking what happened to this money, whether this Fidesz representative, István Tiba, bought a car, or if Fidesz has a black cassock that we've already learned at MSZP over the past few years. It's also a question of why Tiba doesn't sit on the defendant's bench next to Margit Veres, why the Attorney General didn't ask for his immunity waiver. This case also proves that Fidesz and corruption are hand in hand, and in recent minutes, perhaps it has become clear to everyone which political formation is full of criminals. Thank you so much for listening. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-02-22-234	I'm asking you... [[For signal:]] You don't wish to answer, Mr. Secretary. Mr Gergely Farkas asked to speak after the next agenda. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2016-02-22-235	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, During the weekend held the Jobbik Youth Department of the III. His national convention, in which we adopted the manifesto for young Hungarians, and because of its important content, and from the point of view of getting this message to as many people as possible, is why I would like to share this manifesto with you in the National Assembly. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. In the decades following the change of regime, nearly one million Hungarians were forced abroad. Not for adventure, but as a result of socialist and fidesz government rampage. Loss not only occurs at individual and family level, but can also have disastrous consequences for the future of our country. However, we members of Jobbik's Youth Group do not settle for the situation in which young people do not count, in which they do not care about our problems. We are committed to creating a country that honors our young people and provides them with an opportunity to thrive at home! The need and the way to solve this challenge is obvious and self-evident to Jobbik Youth. As the most popular party among young people, we consider this task a duty. This consciousness and this trust can be considered to be one credible party with a real programme is not a overwhelming burden, but an infinitely honorable and encouraging force for us. Our generation's problems have been resolved in the focus of our diverse activities, and that is why we will continue to work. Above all, we must create a country that gives us a chance to thrive in Hungary and, in itself, a guarantee of emigration. We are well aware that the driving force behind emigration is not primarily about world vision, but about ensuring real well-being instead of everyday survival and insecurity. You can clearly see what today's youth needs: high-quality education, decent job opportunities, affordable housing opportunities, in short, predictable futures. Jobbik has a programme that does not distract resources in terms of return to education, but allocates extra funds to this area and carries out the necessary reforms. A key part of our programme is the creation of real value-creating jobs so that young people can choose not only from public work and vulnerability to multinationals. In addition to broadening the support for housing so far, the housing programme would ensure affordable housing. Jobbik offers a predictable vision in which knowledge, diligence and work are important, not government relations. The Jobbik Youth Group is convinced that Hungary's hidden resources are our temporarily broken-down countrymen. We want to make it clear that we don't give up on them for a moment and that they're just as important to us as the ones who stayed home. We do not condemn our countrymen who are forced to emigrate, but sympathize with them and wish to help them, because we know that they have gone abroad as economic refugees, not out of their own will, but in the hope of a better life, from the corrupt, unpredictable system in Hungary. Instead of being insecure, we want a predictable future, creating an environment suitable for prosperity at home. Before that, and at the same time, we must do everything we can to ensure that the people living outside preserve their Hungarian identity, culture and spirit. Therefore, they should be able to protect and cultivate their Hungarianness for themselves and their children in all possible ways. Jobbik will support the mother tongue education of emigrants, the life of Hungarian communities, where they are free to live their Hungarians, practice their customs, and have access to the values of Hungarian culture, the products and services of Hungarian agriculture and industry. We see not an enemy but a brother, an opportunity, and an ally in those wandering abroad: valuable members of a community who can return home and use their accumulated knowledge and experience to our country's advantage. As the strongest political youth organisation in our country, this is our responsibility, our duty and our vocation. For us, this is not a party policy issue, but a whole national and strategic fate issue, which needs to be resolved urgently and meaningfully. We believe in achieving the goals because we have the strength, the determination and the real agenda. However, unity is the key to success, because only together can we overcome obstacles and fully meet the interests of Hungarian youth. In the social and economic recovery of the country, even the least selfless act has an invaluable value, so we invite everyone to join our work, the program of raising Hungarian youth. Let us bring to life the predictable vision in which it is really worth staying home and returning home. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-02-22-236	In response to the next agenda, Mr President Novák asked for a speech:. The victims of communism are turning in their graves with the title of the Government's omissions. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2016-02-22-237	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, According to Jobbik, it is not possible to remember with dignity the Memorial Day of the victims of communism until the past of state security has taken place, including the discovery of currently encrypted agent lists until 2060, the accountability and banning of party state leaders from public life, and the withdrawal of communist luxury pensions from the Fidesz government, among others, the prosecutor, György Mátsik, asking for a death sentence on Péter Mansfeld. The victims of communism are spinning in their graves after all these cases have been smeared. For the past 24 years, it's a common shame of the MSZP and Fidesz governments. The three most important anti-communist programs of Jobbik will be implemented immediately upon their entry into government. But in the 10th year after the uprising in 2006, in the commemoration of the 60th anniversary of the Revolutionary of 56 I must also draw attention to a shameful monument, and this time I am not even referring to the communist authoritarian obelisk of Liberty Square, but to the monument of the Gyurcsányek's 56 or rather the 2006 iron brush. It was a government promise to remove it, not even one, after many criticisms were received mainly by the 56th. According to them, the wedge represents the Soviet troops or the labour force set up after 4 November and marching in the form of a wedge. Ten years after it was set up, it became a rust cemetery in the area of the 56s, and remained in place according to the government plans of the museum quarter, even though it should be in the sculpture park instead. Therefore, on the memorial day of the victims of communism, we are holding a demonstration there, and I also asked the Mayor of István Tarlós to speak, who said so before his election in 2010, and I quote: "It is probably necessary to replace this with the function of the beeyard, calling something a monument in the area of the '56s in the City Park. I don't think the 56's want to be commemorated by a pile of rusty junk. Even with the most liberal thinking and taste, it is difficult to accept anything that that rusty piece of junk has some kind of artistic value on Dózsa György Road. István Tarlós put it this way. Géza Szőcs, Minister of State for Culture in the museum district, in 2011 he worked on the demolition of the Iron Brush monument, which, I quote, was implemented in an unfortunate place and in formation. Szőcs would have moved the statue among the monuments of the dictatorship to the statue park or to the former Soviet barracks in Tököl, but it didn't. So we have to make a move. The '56s and the likes of us prefer a lovable statue rather than the present one, which is so similar to the Holocaust Memorial in Berlin that even the accusation of the plagiarism was raised. According to IKSZ, the 1956 monument was knocked off the monument built in memory of the Jewish victims of the Holocaust in Berlin. Before anyone yells Jewish, face the fact that this was said by Bence Rétvári, president of the Christian Democratic Association of Youth, according to a news report from October 2006. [[16.30]] The politician accused the creators of plagiarism, according to him the statue group in Budapest was an unimaginable imitation of the concept of the Berlin monument built in memory of the Jewish victims of the Holocaust. According to the President of IKSZ, the public square monument has nothing to do with Hungarian history, especially 1956. He resented the fact that there was no national idea in the monument, whose designers he thought meant nothing to them 1956. What a pity that Bence Rétvári, as an influential secretary of state today, left quickly rather than urging the removal of this monument. Mária Wittner told Magyar Nemzet earlier that the 1956 monument is not about 1956, but about 2006 - the low point of Hungarian history after the change of regime. He also said that the Gyurcsány government thought that he had erected a monument for himself. And indeed, Ferenc Gyurcsány inaugurated the Iron Brush Monument of the 2006 metal column ten years ago. In October 2006, Mária Wittner stated that against the construction of the monument, they act with the means of civil disobedience and take every opportunity to protest. After ten years of inaction, this is the opportunity, for the Memorial Day of the victims of communism is organized by Jobbik. On 25 February, this Thursday, at 5:30 p.m., István Mészáros, chief captain of the New Hungarian Guard, Levente Murányi, 56 freedom fighter, director of the.56 Pest Guys Institute, Sándor Pörzse, editor-in-chief of Barikad and Tokody Marcell. The question is only István Tarlós. In fact, I told András Pongráz that we would cut it with love, wait for it; and so let's cut it - we will take care of the torch again, which I reported to him. He cut the Stalin statue's leg right here, so the boys in Pest can take it down. Huh, what an extreme act, honourable government representatives, Secretary of State! I'm gonna need you to distance yourself. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-02-22-238	To speak after the next agenda, Mr László Kiss asked for a speech: How do we deal with those who are associated with us? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2016-02-22-239	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. It is very good that the second post on the agenda is the one dealing with the protest on Saturday, and by the way, what is the situation with the torture of animals in Hungary today, so that people who torture animals and kill animals will receive their punishment. In contrast to the answer we have heard about my fellow Member Sallai, the situation is not quite as rosy. According to statistical data, 26 people have been sentenced to prison on the basis of such facts during the period between 2013 and the end of 2015, i.e. roughly since the new, stricter law has been in existence. However, less than 5 percent of the 26 persons who have been judged on this issue. So it can be said that for a crime that is usually carried out with considerable cruelty, there is less than 5% of the number of people who are sentenced to prison. Of course, we are not talking about the fact that roughly two thirds of them are not convicted, or are being convicted of a very mild sentence for those accused of such an act. In this way, it can be said that a person who kills animals or tortures animals today can be expected not to receive imprisonment. What's the reason? One of the reasons is that, at the moment, the sentence of this act is low, from zero to three years, while a person can be convicted of animal cruelty, animal murder, and the 26 who have been convicted, most of them have been sentenced to less than two years in prison. These two years are important because we know that prison sentences can no longer be suspended over two years, and this can be done in two years. Almost all 26 were given less than two years, the judge so to speak by favor or animal friendship, or by the goodwill and animal friend of the court, had been sentenced to prison, even though the prison was less than two years old. The whole system's practically in its infancy. Here, one of my suggestions about World Animal Day is that the Ministry boasted that about a thousand free neuterizations are being performed on dogs in this country in the framework of the spaying program. It can be said that the Hungarian people hold a little more than a thousand dogs. From this point on, it can be seen that the program is in its infancy that those who cannot do it or would be very burdensome for them to neuterize their favorites can do it with public help. This kind of program, it's practically possible to say that there's no or hardly any. Responsible livestock farming is not part of the school curriculum today, while for example, many people talk about how hunting should be a part of it. Responsible livestock farming is not part of this today. In many European countries, however, the situation is different. The intolerantness of power to livestock farming is well illustrated in the article III. district, the case of a child's doctor in my constituency, where the therapy dog was banned from the doctor's office just this week, to be precise, at the beginning of the previous week, because it is said that it does not belong there, while otherwise there was no complaint from the patients. This is precisely why I first put forward a bill in October 2015 in order to ensure that those who torture animals will receive a guaranteed prison sentence. This was, of course, rejected with great haste by the Fidesz majority of Parliament's Justice Committee. Basically, two arguments were used. One of the things is that you can get the same amount for killing an animal - they said - is that someone, let's say, is making financial payments made by you, a lot more often by the fidesz majority. And the other is that the system is very good, because everyone who deserves it is in prison. We can see how far this doesn't go. We see that it is also very important to protect animal life, which is why I repeated my proposal in January 2016 and that there will again be a way to vote either for this or for any other committee to decide whether they really want animal killers to go to jail. The Hungarian Socialist Party and I would like to, which is why we stand by our proposal, and that is why we are pleased that there can be such demonstrations in Hungary, in which tens of thousands of people have called attention to the same problem this Saturday. I want the government to change their position and send those who kill animals to prison, torture animals. Thank you for listening. [[A rare applause in the ranks of the MSZP.]]
u2016-02-22-240	Member Gábor Staudt applied for a final statement after the agenda: what can Hungary show on the occasion of the Day of Victims of Crime? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2016-02-22-241	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, In 1990, the Council of Europe, on a proposal from the European Forum on Victim Protection, declared today a day for victims of crime, and this is a good opportunity to briefly review how Hungary stands in this area. It's been a long time since 1990, and now it's 26 years, and I think, apart from one or two steps, there's a lot of catching up to do with victim protection. We need to replace it, and Parliament as the legislator is the best forum for implementing these proposals, because although we know that in procedures it is very good to help victims or provide them with technical assistance, or if there are child-friendly interview rooms, say, for the protection of victims, they are very important, and they should have been done a long time ago, but another area in Hungarian legislation is, in fact, completely unregulated, and this is the case of compensation. What we need to see is that anyone who is today the victim of a crime, or even a close relative, dies in a crime, say, taking his life, can expect compensation, but in the least case, he will get it. Why is that? In general, if a victim, victim, or relative also sues and obviously wins these damages in a civil suit - another question is why in most cases they are not judged in criminal proceedings, but I would not go into that right now - so even if he wins a lawsuit, technically the perpetrator or has no assets, or if he does, the state will primarily take them to criminal costs. And there is no derogation from that, so in cases such as the Cozma case - to give an example - serious property and motor vehicles were seized by the police, but the state took them all for very significant criminal costs, and there was nothing left for the surviving family members, despite the court's judgment. We have proposed that at least in these cases the order of satisfaction can be reversed, so the state waits its turn, the seized, high-value goods are primarily used to satisfy the victims of crime. Unfortunately, before the Parliament, it was rejected to put this proposal on the agenda. [[16.40]] And, by the way, I would also remind you that under the laws in force, only the perpetrators can request the remission of criminal costs, and the victim can't even request the release of criminal costs from the State, so that if they release it to the perpetrator, then the satisfaction fund can open up. He can't ask for that, just the perp. We also made a motion to amend the law, and you also refused to do so. And it can happen, as I have already mentioned the Cozma case, but it is also true for the Szögi case that despite the final compensation, they see nothing of the victims or their families. And it hurts even more that you make a difference between sacrifice and sacrifice. Back in the day, in the case of Gypsy murders, without waiting for a civil decision, a civil judgment, you paid the victims and their families in a government decision. And they're not the ones who make me feel sorry for the money, so make no mistake. But how is it that, in one case, the state immediately pays on the basis of a separate government decision, and in the other case, on the basis of a final judgment, the victims cannot obtain their money because the State is taking these amounts to the cost of crime? We also had a proposal for last year's budget to create a hundred million-dollar fund, which, in these cases, I know, is not a large sum in the first round, but even this was rejected in order to obtain satisfaction in these cases, or at least a part of them could be satisfied. And I have to say to you, and I see that Mr Secretary of State would like to respond - I am very pleased to him - that the state is responsible for the damage to these people, because you here in Parliament have always taken the right to rule the government and the state alone in self-defense, and the state has a monopoly on violence and a monopoly on law enforcement. If, on the other hand, you do not do this and you cannot protect your citizens, the minimum is that you should stand up to their or their surviving relatives, and we want the right laws to be passed in the future. We will continue to present these, and I hope that Mr Secretary of State will also help to bring these laws before Parliament and to adopt them. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2016-02-22-242	I now give the floor to State Secretary Pál Völner.
u2016-02-22-243	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Since 1999, we have been commemorating the victims of crime in Hungary every year on 22 February. The protection and assistance of victims were first embraced in our country by civil society organisations, and then the government also set the target of protecting victims, resulting in a process of serious assistance and serious action to join the established institutions in Europe. Caring for victims of crime, enforcing their rights is a fundamental social interest, and it is the priority of all law enforcement bodies to help those who are affected by personal, property and rights in terms of their competence. Legal standards have also been established as a result of the Ministry's codification work. The gradual strengthening of the legislator's action is well demonstrated in the case of legislative amendments made in the last decade, such as the introduction of a substitute for private ownership or the introduction of a mediation procedure or the imposition of an obligation to deal with civil claims. On 1 November 2015, the Hungarian legal system came to an important milestone by transposing the EU Victim Protection Directive. Several improvements have been made in the institutional context; the five-year free-of-charge victim support telephone line is also a major achievement this year. However, it is true that there is still a great deal of work to be done. In addition to the primary function of criminal proceedings in the prosecution of offenders, the agreed and increasingly supported direction of broader criminal law law law is determined by the increasing protection of victims' interests. The new Code of Criminal Procedure should therefore give particular emphasis to the development of victims' rights; more effective enforcement of victims' aspects should be an important objective. According to the terminology currently in force, any citizen whose person or rights or legitimate interests have been directly violated or threatened by the offence committed may be injured. Compared to this, the category of victims has a wider spectrum, which includes those directly affected by the crime, such as close relatives. It is planned that the new code will treat all those who have suffered any kind of disadvantage, physical or psychological injury, emotional shock or property damage as a result of the crime. This means that the concept of the victim and the victim will be the same in criminal proceedings. We want to significantly strengthen victims' rights and their procedural guarantees. It is our plan that, contrary to current legislation, victims will always be able to decide whether they wish to take part in the proceedings as victims. The victim may be present in all procedural acts affecting him, view the documents concerning him, contrary to the status of former victim. We intend to require prior notice of victims for each crime if the perpetrator is released or released from prison. We want to give victims the opportunity at trial to express their will to ask for the punishment of the perpetrator, and in addition to that, victims will be entitled to the right of appeal. Special attention will be paid to those in a vulnerable group, who will receive all the help in the future, regardless of their procedural position, which can promote the exercise of their rights: for example, the use of a supporter. It is our vision that interviews with persons under the age of 14 should always take place only before an investigative judge in a children's study room and, if necessary, in the presence of an expert. It would be forbidden to confront children. People in vulnerable groups and victims of specific crimes such as rape, should be confronted with their consent. Victim protection, rehabilitation of the fallen is a complex task that cannot be achieved through legislation. It is very important that legal changes that highlight the victim's role and enhance its procedural possibilities be followed by changes in the daily practice of law enforcement. However, success also requires a wide range of social cooperation, which is why we continue to count on NGOs, churches, and the network of volunteers to help victims. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2016-02-22-244	Ladies and gentlemen of the Council, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Messenger! The next meeting is scheduled to take place on 29 February. I'll close the meeting with this. Thank you for your work. [[The meeting ended at 4:48 p.m.]]
