u2016-11-07-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] Ladies and gentlemen, The 17th day of the autumn session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that you will be able to assist me in the chair of this meeting, notary Lajos Szűcs and István Ikotity. Welcome to our guests and to all those who monitor our work. Dear Parliament, Ákos Hadházy, deputy leader of the LMP faction, applied for a pre-meeting speech with the title of the Eastern oligarchs. The congressman has the floor.
u2016-11-07-1	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, The political horror called the opening of the East has allowed a lot of filth into this country, and the internationally wanted Saudi businessman has been so easily allowed. It's incomprehensible, but there's a much bigger problem with the eastern opening. The Russians are not only in the pantry, but also in our living room, on our computers. Russia's economy has been weakened by low oil prices and bad economic policies. It's quite weakened, Russian GDP and Italian GDP are virtually identical. They have only one chance at competition between world orders: if Europe's peoples are instigated against each other and against Europe, they will be able to create fear and uncertainty in people. This is a fatally dangerous process, and it is therefore fatally dangerous to maintain any contact with propaganda sites maintained or close to them by Russian secret services, such as bridgefo.net. This is the bridgehead, this propaganda site may be the bridgehead of the Russian secret services, and we will wave and protect all parliamentary parties from it. In the second part of my speech, I ask for the help of a journalist again, compared to the last week. This journalist has a temper, and sometimes it's hard to understand his word, but it's a good name for a journalist. He says: We do not have much to say: we understand the Hungarian Athens Forum, we hear the scythian steeds prying. So they went again against Europe, Hungarian horsemen? You laugh at time, why it should be different than after Svatopluk: you will advance in the name of holy Asia. However, we, the snarky irics - they are singers - we cry to you one more time. We will make our blood to fall to the heavens: what have you done to us? Frogland, Frogland, Frogland: in its most capable dreams, it wandered between two shores: from East to West, but rather back. Why they lied about the ferry bridge... Idealists and villains collaborating, turning false airstones into castles, cheering the world over that Europe had been built under the Carpathians. The great Humbug did not harm Europe, the lie was believed at home. Why have they lied to our fathers, and why have they passed on the lie? We've been told that Europe is here, that we've been preparing for culture and that we've been dragging ourselves forward with strained nerves. We were chased forward, we weren't supposed to look back, see where we were going. To see that some Pharaoh owns this country, to keep millions of animals alive in dirty laundry. The pharaohs wanted us to have gulags and pyramids. The blood and nerves of a few blind fools will show off. Turuls circling in the air, shooting arrows towards the sun, Hungarians preparing to attack. What grade, since the letter-teaching Italian priests? Morituri te salutant: a new Hungarian society, the deluded, the deceived, the eluded, the eluded, the overdeveloped Hungarian souls, the chosen Hungarians for martyrdom. Everyone solves their big problem the way they can. You can't live a hundred years ahead, you can't roam space. Ferryland goes east, ask for the weak. And I see the new victim for Warlord, the new Gellért priests. At the head of the new Hungarian society, the táltos stand. They're moving sad people away. On whose forehead the Thought is careless. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Dear Parliament, [[Intercom from the pro-government benches.]] Yeah. They're telling me to tell you what I'm talking about. Some people understand that, but you may find it difficult to understand Endre Ady. Some people have written this very simply, what I'm talking about. In the revolution of 56 there was a password consisting of two sentences. He sent the Russian conquerors home. I think it's a way to describe what this journalist wrote. I think that Europe needs reforms, but anyone who demonizes Europe actually wants to lose Hungary. People who have relations with propaganda solutions like hidfo.net are not worthy of respect. Thank you very much.
u2016-11-07-2	I don't know if Mr. Secretary of State is competent in literary matters, but I'll give you the floor. Here you go. [[Dr. Gábor Staudt: Something about Endra Ady!]]
u2016-11-07-3	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I think that this was a speech before a specific agenda. It is good that the speeches come together in some form and have something to say. [[Zoltán Haughty: It does!]] We have been able to collect few elements in this regard, but let us try a few things in which we can say a few things. One of the things he referred to twice in his speech is the emergence of, contact with, and attention to, extremist organisations. Yes, this is indeed an important problem for the country. Indeed, it is important that if extremist organisations appear, we always monitor them, whether they come from the right or from the left, but if they threaten national security, if they endanger the safety of people, we must pay attention to this. However, attention should be paid not only to a government, but also to political parties, and it should not happen in a country that a political party or its representative has regular contact with these organisations, although this may be the case from the past of a political organisation. In no way is it recommended, nor is it good, nor is it fair. It is not fair to the Hungarian people either, especially if this is indeed a national security risk. In his speech he also referred to Eastern relations, the country's eastern relations, Western relations and economic relations. It is important to know that Hungary is located on the basis of its geographical location in a place where good links must also be established to the east, to the north, to the south and to the west. Based on Hungary's situation, it must also build economic relations, build economic relations to the east, to the west, to the north and to the south. We ourselves, Hungary, are members of the European Union, and it is good that we are members of this Union. Our economic relations have developed and continue to develop largely in this direction. But that does not mean forgetting what would mean our relations to the north, to the south, or to the east. [[13.10]] It is therefore important to maintain these relations and to strengthen EU relations within the European Union. But strengthening does not mean turning the European Union upside down; it does not mean, my dear fellow Member, that when decisions are taken in Brussels, these decisions must be adopted; the European Union works the other way around: the nations make decisions and the bureaucrats in Brussels have an executive role in this respect. This is also the case in the case of forced resettlement, when European political decision-makers make a decision, and this decision is about the absence of forced resettlement, and yet administration, the Commission is preparing proposals to the contrary. We cannot tolerate this, this cannot go on, so it is important to have a referendum in Hungary, its result, that 3 million 360 thousand people, and therefore it is also important to amend tomorrow's basic law. Hungary must be protected. It must also be protected at the highest level, also at the level of constitutionalisation, because it is this level that guarantees the protection of Hungary in general and in the long term. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-11-07-4	Mr Bence Rétvári, on behalf of the KDNP, also applied for a speech before the agenda. Here you go.
u2016-11-07-5	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, It seems that the presidents of the Hungarian Socialist Party sometimes have a fit of honesty. We have seen this in the case of a former President, Ferenc Gyurcsány, who in the autumn speech explained certain aspects of the truth which he had not previously shared with the public. But this weekend we heard two interesting suggestions from Gyula Molnár, president of the MSZP; this is his little autumn speech, I think. He expressed his position at the Free University of Societas Kiss Péter. He also thought back to the Hungarian Communist Party and the Hungarian Workers' Party, but that is not the important thing for us, but analysed the mistakes of the Hungarian Socialist Party after 2006. This was the bad economic policy, the taxed economy, and therefore the difficult situation of foreign capital, but also of Hungarian capital, as well as the restriction of freedom of the press. He listed these errors after 2006, from the period of socialist-liberal government, Gyula Molnár, obviously with the rhetorical intention of trying to project them on the Fidesz-KDNP administration, but I think this could also sound as a confession that the president of the Hungarian Socialist Party himself admitted to their own bad economic policy, overtaxation and difficult position. It is particularly exciting that he has recognised the restriction of freedom of the press from his own time period, and he has only decapitated it with the sentence of the president of the MSZP that the MSZP may end after 2018 if they lose in the election in spring 2018. It's a pretty big vision. We can see that the socialists are working on this, but I think it will be worth watching the Presidents of the Socialist Party, because from time to time this fit of honesty seems to admit them, but Gyula Molnár's speech in the autumn is already there after this weekend. [[Zoltán Grimlock: What does this have to do with a wage increase?]] Let me also say a few words about the policy taken by the Fidesz-KDNP government after 2010, which helped to make as much money as possible. If we look at the reasons why it is worth working better now than it was 6 years ago, then we see that there are more jobs, more job opportunities, higher salaries and less taxes for those who work and have children; both of them are tax reduction reasons and, together, they are exemplary high discounts in Europe. If we look at the pay conditions of the smallest earners and compare them to the pre-2010 period, then we need to take minimum wage data into account. In the case of the minimum wage, the average annual increase in the socialist period was HUF 2937, while in the Fidesz-KDNP period it was much higher, around HUF 6270. Thus, after 2010, the lowest salaries, the minimum wage, have increased more than twice as much as before. Therefore, those who earned the least were more progress in the Fidesz-KDNP era than in the past. This is also important because this work, employment, rising wages can break the spiral of poverty, and in this we can now share very nice data with everyone after six years. [[A voice from the opposition benches: What are you talking about? Dr. László Varga: Look around the country.]] While in 2010 the average gross wage was 202,000 forints a month, now it is 257 thousand forints, more than 25 percent more. Net wages also increased enormously, especially compared to the previous period, from 132 thousand to 171 thousand forints. But I stress that the family tax allowance is not included in net values, so for those who raise 2-3 children, this HUF 257 thousand is gross net. The average net earnings for the recipients of the family discount thus increased by 33-34 percent, and by discounting small inflation, it also represents a 20% increase in value and real earnings. Not only in general, but in some cases we can look at how wages have increased, and how wages rise by sector. If I look at it in the social sphere, a child inspector with a professional degree who has been on the field for 37 years now receives 36 thousand forints more, and a college graduate family carer starts with 43 700 forints more favourable than he started, say, 4 years ago, and a career-starting social advisor's salary is 52 thousand forints higher than 5 years ago. In higher education, the gross salary of a teacher in grade III is increased from HUF 437 300 to HUF 528,000. We know that the wages of teachers have increased by one and a half times [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] for doctors, a HUF 207,000 health wage increase was launched. They all create the honour of work and the meaning of work in Hungary. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-11-07-6	On behalf of the Government, the floor is for Secretary of State Péter Cseresnyés.
u2016-11-07-7	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, I do not want to deal with MSZP declarations, because life denies their reality every day, the truth of their employment, economic development, economic development, economic indicators or the rise in wages. But it is important to talk about the subject that you referred to, because you spoke about the increase in wages, but before I say a few words about it, I would also like to address employment in a few words. In addition to the significant increase in wages both nominally and in net terms and in real terms in Hungary, there has also been significant employment growth over the past period, thanks to the economic environment that surrounds us and, of course, the government measures that the government has taken over the past period with either a parliamentary or a government decision. This means that employment has increased significantly compared to 2010, employment has increased by more than 670-680 thousand, and most of them, about two thirds of them, have been able to work in the competitive sphere. [[13.20]] This really shows the effective economic policy that the government has taken in recent years. This means that the number of people employed has exceeded 4 million people in 32 months, so there has been a significant increase in employment in recent years. This means, from 2010 onwards, that the employment rate has improved from 59.1 per cent to 72 per cent, if you look at the 20-64 age group, so we are very close to the European Union's goal of 75 per cent of the employment that the European Union has set itself. At the same time, wages have been steadily rising for more than three years, as you have said, thanks to the fact that the minimum wage and the guaranteed minimum wage, in consultation with the competition sphere and employees' organisations of interest, have been constantly raised by the government every year, so that the minimum wage has increased significantly not only in net and nominal terms, but also in real terms. This meant an increase of nearly 50 percent in gross terms, and more than 10 percent in real value increases in the minimum wage of 15 percent. In addition, the real value of wages has increased significantly in the competitive sector. This means that by the end of last year there was nearly a 15% increase in real value, and this year, based on the statements of the first eight months, we were able to achieve an increase in real wages of between 7.5 and 7.6 percent, as you said in your speech. This means that the real wage increase has been above 20 per cent since 2010 for Hungarian workers, which is expected to continue, as there has been significant competition in the labour market, a significant interest in well-trained professionals and skills has been shown, which is reflected in both employment and wage increases. But not only in the competitive sector, wages have increased significantly, but also in the public sector, because it has to be said that the competition sector is only indirectly affected by government measures and that there can only be incentives for wage increases. Public sector workers are directly affected by all kinds of government measures. I would like to list the impact of the direct measures, the employment levels, the employment sectors affected by the wage increase. The teacher's career model was launched in 2013, which increases the salary of 165,000 teachers by about 50 percent in five years. For law enforcement and defence employees, the career was launched in 2015. A career model for employees of the National Tax and Customs Office was launched in 2016, which represents a 30% wage increase overall. Of course, what I'm saying is in a wage. Since 2012, there have been constant wage increases in the various employment sectors in the healthcare sector. In the area of justice, about 16,000 people have already raised their salary base in 2012, and we will continue to increase it in 2016 and the following years. In the social sector, higher education and public administration, or there will be wage-raising measures, so these employment sectors will also receive wage increases. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-11-07-8	It is now to be followed by Mr Bertalan Tóth on behalf of the MSZP: A common future, common goals, joint tasks.
u2016-11-07-9	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Let's talk about reality. While the governing parties have been busy in the last few months with false and false campaigning and in the last five weeks with a fundamental law amendment based on an invalid referendum, in the reality outside the Habony world, the facts have constantly struck us in the face. It turns out that since the eviction moratorium ended in March, more than 2 000 people had lost their homes by the end of September. It turns out that even though the price of imported natural gas has been halved in the last two and a half years, despite the fact that the natural gas supplier was in the hands of the state, the heating will not be cheaper before this winter, even though if at some point, now is the time to cut energy prices. Fidesz wouldn't even discuss the subject, he wiped out our proposals. It turns out that because of the government's transformation of public education, 43,000 children have already fallen out of the education system, and their lives have already come to a dead end before they have reached adulthood. These young people will only have the chance to do community service, from which 85 percent there is no way out. That is why we have proposed to restore the age limit for compulsory education. It turns out that more than 4 million people continue to live below the minimum living standards in Hungary, hospitals are still swimming in debt, emigration among doctors is immeasurable, and patients suffer as a result. That's why we're saying we need a raise. It turned out that even though we had reached the level of credit rating five years ago, Hungary has fallen to an unprecedented low point on the competitiveness ranking, largely due to the corruption situation in Hungary, because we also know that the public funds are being looted by Voldemorts,.Lőrincek Cashier, Matolcsy relatives and other stromes with the consent of powerful wizards, if not in their direct direction. [[Lajos Kósa: Gábor Simon!]] And it has also turned out that based on the criteria of freedom of the press, we have gone down 48 places on an international list that is unprecedented among the Member States of the European Union. Ladies and gentlemen, It's time to face reality and deal with the lies. End the unscrupulous theft and corruption under the pretext of government. Stop pretending to be a politician! Our joint task is to create the necessary conditions for a decent living for citizens, efficient and sustainable investment, competitive quality education for all and European quality health. A Hungarian Prime Minister once said that prosperity can be created not with enemies, but with common goals. We want a country where wages can be paid fairly, and women are not discriminated against when they are paid, where their opinion prevents sneaky attacks, where the government does not pursue civil society, where corruption offenders are closed, and not the newspaper about where the Prime Minister's family doesn't deal with a person wanted by the FBI and Interpol, and where ministers leave the possibility of helicoptering to the reality show. Ladies and gentlemen, While Fidesz and Jobbik are arm wrestling, they're thinking about a false answer to a false question, and we socialists are looking for a solution to people's problems and problems. [[Defiance on the pro-government side.]] We believe that every sober-thinking, honest and honest fellow countryman, every worker, every young man, every elderly, individual and community is needed by the country, everyone who is an enemy of lies and corruption, everyone who believes in performance and the honour of work, who believes in the power of knowledge and ability; everyone who believes in a renewable Hungary. We deal with them, we have a future with them, we want to work for them. We need to look for real solutions to real problems and find solutions for our common future, Hungary. Thank you very much.
u2016-11-07-10	I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Here you go.
u2016-11-07-11	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Chief of Staff, Dear House, I believe that the speeches before the agenda will become more and more valuable from week to week in the benches of the MSZP, because if the party president's prediction works and the MSZP ceases after 2018 and there will be no speeches before the agenda, then it must be taken advantage of by whom to speak. [[Zoltán Grimlock: We will not give you this joy!]] Unfortunately, we have not heard an answer to what has already been said in Parliament today, to Gyula Molnár's confession of how the economy was destroyed after 2006 and how freedom of the press was repressed. Compared to this, we have heard the opposite of everything that was done by the then socialist government between 2002 and 2010. If we hear from the benches in which János Zuschlag, Miklós Hagyó or György Hunvald, that someone is concerned about the corruption situation in Hungary, I believe that this is more of a smiley, but not a serious one for many people. They would have taken steps in relation to their own partymates during that period, but that was not the case at that time. They remained as members of the MSZP as Snowy Sofia, they did not act against those who were caught in corruption as against Snowy Sofia, but remained on the sinking ship of the MSZP. [[13.30]] If I can say a few facts - and this does not interfere with the speechwriters of the Hungarian Socialist Party and the textwriters of the group - as opposed to what you say about children falling out or being included in the public education system: you know, honourable Member, only by taking the measure that the number of unauthorized absences should not exceed 50 hours in the case of a student if the parents then want to take up the schooling allowance, formerly known as family allowances, we have cut the number of missing children from 29 thousand to 13 thousand. Only with this measure we were able to invite 16,000 students back into the school benches, give their parents more attention and give them the opportunity to gain knowledge and break out of poverty in many cases. You know, honourable Member, we are also paying attention to the fact that children are fed properly, several times a day at school and during school holidays. This was the first fall break in Hungary's history, when the people in need, with a total of 208 thousand people, could ask for their children to eat during the fall break. [[An intervention from the ranks of the MSZP: This is the terrible one.]] It didn't happen in your time, not during the fall break, not during spring break, not during winter break. We introduced it, and from this year on, we've made it a system. We could do this because we spend a lot more on the poorest children, their food. Compared to you, who spent 29 billion forints on this, we spend 72 billion forints this year and 74 billion forints next year. These surpluses have never been voted here in Parliament. And we also tried to pay attention to the fact that family support should be part of the textbook for as many as possible so that parents would not have to buy it. We did that, and now in the first four years, the second half of the year, and from September the first five years, the textbook is free for all children. And when we talk about the cost of living, we can see that as a result of the reduction in the rent, it has fallen exactly to those in difficulty that you have failed. For them the price of electricity and gas has been doubled and tripled, in each case the profit appetite of multi-company companies has been satisfied rather than creating better living conditions for people. This reduced the amount of debts in Hungary by half. And if you look at the increase in housing permits, from 2014 to 2015 24 percent more people have submitted such permits, and this has increased even more this year, because now, thanks to the CSOK, the number of such requests has increased much higher and multipled. This shows that people trust their future and trust their future in Hungary, because they want to build a home, a family nest, an apartment for themselves and their loved ones, as opposed to the socialist period, when in any case we could only talk about debts and enforcement procedures for foreign exchange loans. Because there is a very lower number of enforcement procedures than in the previous period, especially for real estate enforcement. This process started in 2013, it decreased by 17 percent, and since then the number of real estate auctions has decreased even more, and the number of successful auctions has dropped by a quarter to a fifth if we look at the data of several years of law enforcement. So fewer people live in the horror of eviction. The views of the people about the socialists have already been said in the 2014 elections. And what the party president is afraid of, he said this weekend, that they won't have so many votes in the next election. So there's a panic in the socialist faction for a reason. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-11-07-12	Dear Parliament, I welcome Mrs Beata Mazurek, Chairman of the Social and Family Committee of Poland, and members of the delegation of the Committee on Social and Family Affairs of the Polish Seym At the invitation of the People's Welfare Committee, they are invited to attend an official visit to Budapest. I wish you good luck and a pleasant stay for your meetings in Hungary. It is now time for Mr Lajos Kósa, leader of the Group, on the part of Fidesz: Hungary must be protected by the mandatory resettlement quota. Congressman's got the floor.
u2016-11-07-13	Mr. President. Dear House, As has been known since then, the European Council has put the compulsory resettlement quota back on the agenda and will discuss it in December. So there was no reduction in the intensity and momentum of the intention to install aliens on the basis of the Brussels decision. That is why, quite rightly, the Hungarian Parliament has issued a referendum, where 3 million 360 thousand people have clearly expressed their will. Never before have so many people voted in one direction and said that we do not ask for the resettlement quota and we do not ask for Brussels' asylum policy and migration policy. In this connection, the President of the Socialists said in the election campaign that, although the referendum is not supported, the anti-quota law will be voted in Parliament. [[Zoltán Grimlock: He didn't say that. You're lying, Lali.]] They tricked people, but it's not surprising from the socialists, but they continue the old tradition that Ferenc Gyurcsány used to say: "We lied this morning, we lied at night, we lied at night. [[Zoltán Grimlock: Now you're lying.]] They still can't get away from this tradition. But to be deceived by the socialists, we are used to being deceived by the Hungarian people, and there is nothing extraordinary about that. On 12 April, Jobbik's President stated in the Hungarian Parliament, here in the House, in the minutes that although they disagree with the anti-quota referendum, the amendment of the Fundamental Law against quota was voted in favour. Gábor Vona has declared that those who do not vote for him are traitors. There were no conditions, no additional circumstances, very rightly. [[György Szilágyi: Not now.]] I mean, patriotism is a must. The protection of Hungary is absolute. Taking into account the opinion of Hungarian people is an absolute question, it is not customary to impose conditions. Those who impose conditions are indeed mercenaries, traitors, those who only care about power and money, nothing else. They do not know the word patriotism, they do not understand that Hungary must be protected. [[There's a lot of noise, there's interruptions in Jobbik's ranks. The president's ringing the bell.]] I think that making the amendment of the Fundamental Law subject to any other condition is indeed equivalent to treason. I'm telling the truth to Gábor Vona, who betrayed everyone who otherwise doesn't vote for the fundamental law amendment. [[Dóra Dúró: Settlement policy!]] The situation with regard to the settlement policy is clear. Already in May, János Lázár said that the government would review this. Of course, what opposition representatives have said about the settlement obligation is almost nothing true, because the difference between the settlement bond holder and the illegal border crossing is the difference between the lodger and the burglar. The Jobbik can't tell the difference between the tenant and the burglar, but let's make it their problem, just don't run a household, because it could be a serious problem. One without a doubt. The settlement policy holder only buys five-year stays, you can terminate the contract with him at any time, as with a tenant, and, moreover, people who purchase bonds are strictly subject to national security checks. Several Hungarian authorities use European databases to investigate whether they pose a risk or not. [[There are constant interruptions from Jobbik's ranks.]] Those whom Jobbik likes to mention come with a European passport, have nothing to do with the settlement policy. I would therefore like to ask my fellow Members to be patriots once in a while. [[It's grumpy.]] For once, show that you are interested not only in money and power, but also in the protection of the country, the new unity that was created in the referendum, the will of 3 million 360 thousand people, Hungarian people. There's never been a unit like this that told us to protect the country, we don't ask for the settlement policy... [[Noise, interruptions.]] We don't want the mandatory quota, we don't want anything. Mixing the settlement policy here is completely unnecessary. [[Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks. Delight and applause in the ranks of Jobbik and MSZP.]] I think that Hungary's defence is worth much more than that. Therefore, I hope, although it may be unfounded that Jobbik will once become a patriot and vote in favour of the fundamental law amendment. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-11-07-14	Again, I give the floor to Secretary of State Tuzson Bence. No member of the Jobbik Group has been given the floor in the last five minutes. Here you go, Secretary of State. [[13.40]]
u2016-11-07-15	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Chief of Staff, Yes, it is a fundamental national issue. There are very rarely any questions on the agenda of the Parliament, which determine the country's fate, not for a year or two, not for 5-10 years, but for 50-100 years, even 200 years. This is what the Hungarian referendum was about, with whom we will live in Hungary in the next period, and so that we Hungarians can decide on this fundamental issue, and that no one can tell us that there is a foreign population in Hungary and that others can be installed here. That's what 3 million 360,000 people decided to do. A new unit was created for Hungary at that time, and this new unity is a national unity; a unit that is not fidesz, not KDNP, not Jobbikos or MSZP, these people are Hungarian people who stood up for Hungary. And if these people, so many people, and so many people who are not behind any party, have decided in one way, then this places an obligation on us, it places an obligation on the Hungarian Parliament. This obligation is to include this decision in the legislation, to include it in the Fundamental Law, because it is the Fundamental Law that can ensure the protection of Hungary at the highest level. There are, of course, other instruments at the highest level, and there are practical instruments at the southern border, whether by police force, military force or physical force, with the fence itself or with a lower level of legislation to guarantee this defence system. But in the long run, the highest defense force is a fundamental law amendment. For a reason, the Prime Minister initiated that this amendment to the basic law, which clearly states that no foreign population can be deployed in Hungary, should be placed on the Parliament's table, and that Parliament should decide on this fundamental issue. There has been a discussion, a textual consultation, and several suggestions from Jobbik's representatives have been incorporated into this text. The fundamental question for a Fundamental Law is whether parties can agree on the text of the amendment of the Fundamental Law, as is the case with all legislation. And here's a fundamental amendment to the law that Jobbik will literally agree with. [[Dr. Csaba Gyüre: Yes, for national reasons.]] However, in the interest of day-to-day political interest, he does not wish to vote in favour of this amendment to the basic law, the text of which, you said, of course, he agrees. You're confusing two fundamental questions. There is a long-term issue of 50 to 100 years that determines the country's fate, and there is an economic issue, a country financing issue. Do not forget that in 2012, when this bond facility was created, it was very difficult to finance the Hungarian economy, and basically premium government bonds and settlement bonds involved capital with which Hungary could be financed in the long term. If the economic environment changes, then, of course, the country's financing needs to be reviewed. This must be monitored by a government, which is happening now. Of course, the country, the government, is reviewing this issue, watching how the country can be financed, and accordingly changing conditions for the sake of the country. But this is a short-term issue compared to the amendment of the Fundamental Law, a completely different segment, a completely different sphere. It is not possible to compare the financingability of the country, which includes a temporary residence bond, such a matter, with the fundamental functioning of the Fundamental Law and the ability of the Fundamental Law to ensure an adequate level of protection in Hungary. So I'm asking the better Members not to confuse the season with the guy. A fundamental issue, such as the amendment of the Fundamental Law, which determines the country's interests in the long term, is not to be confused with the issue that is fundamentally related to the financing of the country, but to support the amendment of the Fundamental Law. Their soul on it will be your responsibility to ensure that Hungary's defence can be achieved at this level, at the highest level of protection. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2016-11-07-16	The last among the speeches before the agenda will be Mr Gábor Vona, the leader of the Jobbik Group:. Do not endanger the safety of Hungarian people. It's an address. Here you go.
u2016-11-07-17	Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, my fellow Members from KDNP! Speaking of patriotism, I think it's worth clarifying a few things. Who of the two of us who concluded the Paks Nuclear Power Plant contract at the time without asking people and then encrypting their financials? You or us? You. Which of us, who, as the Prime Minister said, is not only doing business, but also neighboring, even luxurious yachts? What are you? It's you again. Who of us promised to release the settlement policy, but not only didn't get it out, but they even opened a new office in Iraq, the citadel of ISIS? It's you again! You really have a mind, I don't know if you feel exactly what responsibility you have on this whole issue, and I don't know if you know that only 9 percent of your own voting base agrees with the settlement obligation. Recently, Mr. Group Leader was a little out of focus, and he was already telling the truth, didn't he, when he said that 3.3 million people said no to the settlement policy? I understand that this whole situation has been very painful for you for two weeks, when Jobbik has made it clear that it supports the amendment of the basic law only if it is not a half-solution; that neither a rich migrant, poor migrant, rich terrorist, or poor terrorist can come to Hungary. How much it hurts you, by the way, the events of the last two weeks are proving the most, because you have, both through your revelations and through your press, a Jobbik syndrome has come back. They're always messing with us. One day we're Russian agents, the next day we're Turkish terrorists. One day we're Hungarian terrorists and then we're agents in Brussels - and only because we got into this dirty business. One day, they're digging into our private lives, and then they're sending provocators to the protest. And then we're extremists, and then we're cute party puppies, and all because we got into this dirty business. I say to you, fellow Members of the KDNP, that you should do so. Do it calmly, because by making us dirty on a daily basis now, it is essentially recognised to Hungary, even if indirectly, that they are afraid of us; that we are considered to be the power to change the government, which will replace you in 2018. By the way, I would like to add that in 2009 your former mother party, SZDSZ, continued to spend its time with this, and is no longer in Hungarian political life. On the other hand, I am asking you to continue this filth, because you will certainly tell us a lot about us in your press, but one thing - and now, listen very carefully, please - will never be proved to us, ever. That Jobbik would set up a criminal organization or an alliance to steal the country's money, that you will never be able to prove to us, because there is no such thing, there is no such thing, and there will be no such thing. But we'll be able to prove it to you. Sooner or later, this moment will come. Oops! [[Defiance from the ranks of the ruling parties.]] The third part-- it's not gonna be so funny, and now you're gonna have to make fun of yourselves, and now you're gonna have to make fun of yourselves. The third part, for which I also ask you to attack us calmly, to defile us - because you know that what you are doing now is what it seems to be like? It's exactly like that, and it looks exactly like that, and it's like that when a power to fail panics at losing its power, and it starts scratching, biting, scratching, yelling, cursing. That's exactly what's happening right now. A leader who failed in his myth and the staff, shaking behind him as a leaf of summer, are trying to save the cone - that is what it seems, and so is this. [[György Balla: This is going to end badly, Gábor!]] But you can threaten me, believe me, you will never admit it in your life, you will never admit it in your life, but I know that you feel it in your heart, and you feel that this is going to end badly, because it always ends badly. This can't be different. Let me also add that you can buy up the entire Hungarian press, buy up the latest village news anchor, but what you are doing to this country cannot be covered with the media. And the most annoying thing for you is that we're going to break the biggest pepper in your world by saying that while, before we replace you in 2018, we're going to have you accounted for, the most unpleasant thing for you is that we're not going to get down to your level. As long as you're in the panic you're feeling about losing power, you're going down and down, more and more into dogs, we're gonna stay elegant, and we're not gonna get in the swamp with you. At best, we're gonna touch you with the end of our umbrella. Maximum! This is not our style, we want to build Hungary not on fear, on an atmosphere of fear like you, but on hope. We don't gather political community around lies and stealing like you, we gather around our program. We're not trying to prove how bad you are. You're doing us a favor on a daily basis. We want to prove that our programme is better and that our programme can create a fairer, more democratic and freer country in Hungary. [[13.50]] You would have had the opportunity and the authority to do so, but you didn't; you didn't, because the money was more important to you. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2016-11-07-18	I give the floor to Secretary of State Tuzson Bence. Elegantly, Mr. Secretary. [[Deterioration in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-11-07-19	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr. Party President, I'd like to suggest to you that you calm down first. Because I understand that you are concerned about the past, the present and the future of your party, but we are talking about a completely different issue, the future of the country, and I would like to ask you to stand up for the Hungarian people. [[Gábor Vona: That's what we do.]] Stand up tomorrow for the benefit of the Hungarian people and adopt the constitutional amendment text, which you have already adopted, because it is a matter of guaranteeing the protection of Hungary at the highest level by an amendment to the basic law. I understand that you have other political problems. I understand the problem that may be your relationship with extremist organizations with Jobbik, and I understand that you are washing yourself in this Parliament. But put this aside, please, Mr President, and let us deal with the problem of this country, that tomorrow we are still facing a fundamental amendment to the basic law on which the Hungarian people have decided, and there are 3 million 360,000 people behind this question. But what is equally important is that this Hungarian unity has stood up for Hungary in order for Hungary, the Hungarian Parliament and the Hungarian government to be able to stand up for Hungary in Brussels. Accordingly, the instruments that have been available so far are the political instrument that follows from a referendum. However, there is a need for a strong public instrument, but there is a need for the Hungarian Fundamental Law to guarantee the protection of Hungarian people in Hungary and within the European Union, as otherwise guaranteed by the constitution of another country. [[Zoltán Grimlock: Coward in the Orban, or what?]] And once again, I would like to ask you to reconsider your position, to return to your previous position, which is still in favour of supporting the amendment of the basic law and to vote for the amendment of the Fundamental Law tomorrow, and not to try to involve other issues. It is up to you, on your soul, and on your will, whether Hungary will be protected tomorrow or not, on a constitutional and fundamental level. Please think about this one more time. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2016-11-07-20	Dear House, I respectfully welcome Mr Ismail Aydin, president and escort of the Hungarian Group of Friends of the Great Turkish National Assembly, who have come to Hungary for an official visit. I wish Mr President and his delegation successful negotiations and a pleasant stay. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches before the agenda. I would like to ask Mr István Ikotity to present the speakers who are not on the agenda.
u2016-11-07-21	Dear Parliament, Zoltán Magyar, Jobbik; Gergely Farkas, Jobbik; István Szávay, Jobbik; Dániel Z. Kárpát, Jobbik. On Tuesday, the following representatives applied for the speech before the agenda: Erzsébet Schmuck, LMP; Péter Harrach, KDNP; Lajos Korózs, MSZP; István Németh Szilárd, Fidesz; Ádám Mirkóczki, Jobbik. On Tuesday, Mihály Witzmann, Fidesz, applied for a speech after the agenda. On Wednesday, Zoltán Magyar, Jobbik, Z. Kárpát Dániel, Jobbik applied for a speech after the agenda. On Thursday, Dániel Z. Kárpát, Jobbik applied for a speech after the agenda. No one came forward to speak after the agenda on Friday.
u2016-11-07-22	Dear Parliament, The agenda for our meeting starting today is coming up. We shall decide on the agenda, the duration of the meeting, the speaking time limits on the basis of a proposal put forward by the President. We are now deciding on the proposals to amend the agenda. The Fidesz Group has proposed that the 2015 CXLIII on public procurement. Act T/12738 amending Act T/12738 and certain related laws The general discussion of the legislative proposal No 1 shall take place on Tuesday, immediately after the decisions have been taken, until the closure. Anyone who agrees with that, please vote by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] Thank you. I find that the visible majority of this House has accepted the proposal. The Fidesz Group also proposed that T/12733 amending certain laws relating to electronic communications and consumer protection T/12737 on national tourism development. Following a general discussion of the legislative proposal No. Anyone who agrees with that, please indicate by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] Thank you. I note that the visible majority of this House has also adopted this proposal. The Fidesz Group also proposed that T/12742 on the amendment of certain transport-related laws T/12698 on the publication of the Air Transport Agreement between the Government of Hungary and the Government of Australia until the closure of the general debate of the bill No. Following a general discussion of the legislative proposal No. Please vote by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] Thank you. I note that the visible majority of this House has also adopted this proposal. Dear Parliament, We are now deciding on a proposal on the agenda put forward by the President. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts the recommendation on the agenda with the amendments adopted above. Please vote by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] Thank you. I declare that the visible majority of Parliament has adopted the agenda. The election of committee members will follow. I would like to ask Mr Lajos Szűcs to present the S/12797 tabled by the President. The content of the personal proposal.
u2016-11-07-23	Dear Parliament, 13/2014 on the establishment of parliamentary committees, the election of its officials and members. Section 1 of the parliamentary decision is amended as follows: Parliament elects István Tukacs, MSZP, instead of István Legény, István Legény, instead of MSZP, Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, MSZP, instead of József Tóbias, MSZP, member of the committee. 2. Point 2 of the parliamentary decision is amended as follows: Parliament elects István Tukacs, MSZP, instead of Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, MSZP, member of the committee.3. This Decision shall enter into force on the date of its adoption.
u2016-11-07-24	Dear House, Now it's time for the decision. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts S/12797. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Please vote by clicking the button. [[Vote.]] I note that the House adopted the proposal with 159 unanimous votes in favour. Dear Parliament, Now, at 1:58 p.m., we move on to interpellation and immediate questions. Zoltán Gőgös, representative of the MSZP, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of the Interior:. Are you willing to issue an expert opinion during the investigation in Nagyesztergár? It's an address. Congressman's got the floor.
u2016-11-07-25	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, On 20 January 2016, I filed a criminal complaint against a suspicious sale of state land in Nagyesztergár, which caused the State millions in damage. The main point of the case was that a non-resident entrepreneur bought an area worth about 10 hectares in 2008 for HUF 3 million, and after the sale moratorium expired, he posted the same area with a sales contract with a lawyer in Budapest for HUF 11 million. And let's see, the state has decided to take back its land sold four or five years earlier at a price of three. But this is not the end of the story, because six months later he rented it to the same contractor. I am convinced, Mr Secretary, that this business can never be repaid to the state, and I also declare that anyone who makes such a deal is either stupid or corrupt. I'm guessing the second, and that's why I filed the complaint, because there's no such thing - to be more precise: it's on a grandstand. The police, my problem - and for that reason I have several written questions - do not share this view, after about a few months of investigation, claiming that NFA had an internal valuation and valued this land to HUF 11 million, decided that NFA had made a good deal and that it had no damage to the state. But after I lived in that county, I knew exactly that he was a seconded technical expert in forensics, and so I asked him what the expert material contained, and I wanted to ask the Minister for it. [[14.00]] Luckily, I sent the same request to the Attorney General, because they supervised the investigation, because that's where I put the report. The Minister sent me loosely, saying that I had nothing to do with what was in this expert opinion. Fortunately, the Attorney General was not so secretive or knows better about the law on the status of Members. He wrote to me that, during the investigation, a judicial, technical and real estate expert was seconded, that at the time of the expert's opinion, on 1 July 2016, the area was crooked and had not been cultivated for years, so the expert opinion was based primarily on comparative data. The expert determined the traffic value of 4 million 900 thousand forints, which I believe was 6 million forints damage to the state. I don't understand it, Mr. Secretary, and I don't understand it because you also said that the area is neglected and weedy, this is a state area, after which you have taken up a lot of support - I have looked at this - why, for example, the police didn't deal with this. They may not know how to do this, but the reason I asked you for an expert opinion is if I could help you with your investigation. Once again, Mr. Secretary of State, and not the last time, when will you be willing to help me with my work, when do you intend to give me this expert opinion? I don't care what level I'm involved in the report, who they're protecting and why they're keeping secrets. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2016-11-07-26	In response, Secretary of State Károly Kontra has the floor.
u2016-11-07-27	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, We're protecting the law, Congressman. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: The law is not to be protected. The law protects people.]] I predict that the police will do everything in their power to prevent and detect crimes, in any case the Hungarian authorities will act professionally and in accordance with the law. We have informed you on several occasions that the opinion of the expert seconded in criminal proceedings is part of the investigative documents and does not constitute data of public interest. According to the law, in the event of termination of the investigation, only the suspect and the defendant will have access to the file, not to any other procedural participant, Congressman. In the case, the investigating authority acted in compliance with the law, carried out the necessary and justified investigative activities and thus reached the decision to terminate the investigation. If it is really important for you that the investigating authorities do their job effectively, then I ask you to stop supporting the police. [[Interventions from the lines of the MSZP: Support?]] I also hope that if you feel that way, you will accept my answer. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. Interjection from the lines of the MSZP: And what was the answer to that?]]
u2016-11-07-28	I'll give the congressman the floor for a rejoinder.
u2016-11-07-29	I don't really know what the answer is. I can't accept anything because it wasn't an answer, Mr. Secretary. There was no answer because the law doesn't have to be protected - it's one of them. Two, I've asked for an official document in my capacity, which clearly says why there was a crime. I don't care how the police mix this up, the Attorney General, once again, has done me the favor of subpoenaing it for me. And after I wrote to the Minister of the Interior once again that I had found other crimes, since there was budgetary fraud, fortunately the Attorney General said and indicated that the investigation would be re-ordered, now for other crimes. Mr. Secretary. As a congressman, I want to look into an official document. It's a coincidence that I'm the criminal now. On what grounds do they refuse to release this? You didn't answer that. Obviously, I won't be able to accept the answer.
u2016-11-07-30	I ask the House whether it accepts the Secretary of State's reply. [[Vote.]] The House adopted the answer by 115 votes to 40, with no abstentions. Now, Lajos Rig, representative of Jobbik, who submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Human Resources, is the Hungarian health care that was trapped in the 20th century. Some problems involving rescue workers. It's an address. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-11-07-31	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, During my years in health care, especially in ambulances, I was able to learn from close to body what problems make it difficult for workers to work every day. Even if positive changes have recently been made in this area, there is still much to be done to improve the working conditions of rescue workers. The National Rescue Service is still moaning about the frequent rotation of previous directors and their unprofessional actions, which are largely responsible for elamorating the rescue service. As early as November 2014, Béla Burány announced the so-called integrated rescue management project, within which ambulances would have been equipped with modern IT tools, thus reaching a maximum of 15 minutes from the emergency call. Despite the HUF 5 billion EU support, the system could not be sharpened and put into daily use. The tablets on which the project is based have been dusting and avulging in a warehouse for over three years. There were IT problems with data transmission, it didn't work, and the purchased tablets couldn't handle the load. Cleaning and washing work clothes is a daily problem for paramedics, which is still not properly solved. Yet, it is clear how important it is to create the possibility of central cleaning of work clothes. Paramedics' clothes are often contaminated with blood and other secretions, causing serious infections in their family members, since rescue workers wash their work clothes at home. I would like to address one more very important issue, Mr Secretary of State. The early retirement age should be introduced as soon as possible as evidence of the moral appreciation of rescue workers. This profession requires strength, good performance and high tolerance. It is not expected for a nearly 65-year-old person to have to take a 120-pound patient from the fourth floor to the car. Because of the known circumstances, we owe it to the paramedics to have someone still doing this job. That way, at least they deserve it when they're fighting for people's lives every day. With regard to the problems I have outlined, I would like to ask Mr Secretary of State how it is possible that, despite billions of EU funds, the assets acquired will be dusted for years. When and how do you intend to clean the work clothes of rescue workers? Is the government willing to reduce the retirement age of paramedics, thereby increasing their moral appreciation? I'm looking forward to your reply. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-11-07-32	I give the floor to Secretary Bence Rétvári.
u2016-11-07-33	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, First of all, I thank you for your words of appreciation for the measures you have taken in recent years at the beginning of your speech. Indeed, we have provided the rescue service with a much larger budget than before. Before that, there was a 5.2 percent reduction in the rescue service budget, but since 2010 the amount for rescue increased by 31 percent, from HUF 22.8 billion to HUF 32.7 billion. So almost a third of the amount that could be spent on rescue went up. In addition, it is important to say that 27 new rescue stations have been built from EU sources and domestic sources, 85 new ones have been renovated, precisely so that ambulances can reach all over the country in 15 minutes. We didn't buy much from an ambulance, 467 new ambulances arrived, and 130 more arriving by the end of next year. This was also necessary, since in the last years before 2010, almost no ambulances were needed every year. The title and content of your speech are a bit contradictory. He asked why health care is not modern, Mr XXI. He would like to expect a 100th-century performance from health care, while criticising the purchase of tablets. However, this development would ensure that the exact diagnosis or the data from the ambulance were sent electronically to the emergency care department, and that by the time the patient arrives, the doctors and nurses there would already be aware of its main data. So I think this is a very modern development, and it is incomprehensible why Jobbik is attacking this as a criticism of modernity. Of the 776 rescue units, 442 already use this digital platform for their work in several regions. By spring 2017, we would like to introduce these tablets on all vehicles so that, as I said, these data are not transmitted on paper, but digitally. The first day of November 25 this year will be the first day when the data will be sent on paper for the first time in the Southern Great Plain region. From then on, the transmission of data will be fully digital, so it will be much faster and more error-free. We expect that rescue can be much more effective, since they are better able to organize the teams, better able to prepare blood products and medicines. [[14.10]] Even in the past, this new management system has already passed a good test, as aid seekers can contact a qualified and qualified rescue director much sooner than before, in about 20 seconds. That's how they can be more specific about their problems. However, it is obvious that in order to be able to operate these machines across the country and to introduce them in other regions, a sufficient bandwidth is required. You can also experience during your travels that not everywhere is the right coverage in Hungary. Therefore, we can only introduce it where we have seen during the tests that we are able to transmit these data without problems. You have also mentioned the issue of clothing, which we have repeatedly raised here in Parliament. You know that a major rescue development plan has been specifically requested by Minister Zoltán Balog. This will obviously include the precise insurance of paramedics' clothing. Three shifts - summer, transitional and winter - with a unique identifier, with high quality, uniform and protective features - would also like to provide clothes and shoes for everyone. But what we would like to give to the paramedics from this increased amount, in addition to the overall increase in medical and nursing wages for additional resources and additional benefits, is soon to be completed with this special development plan, as you said, to have a special appreciation for the work of the paramedics. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-11-07-34	I'll give the floor to the congressman in return.
u2016-11-07-35	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr. Secretary, the first part of your response was not about what the interpellation was about. These IFTs have only been put on trial in Vas and Zala County. It's pretty amazing how they got to this level in two years. Do you think it's normal for them to be there since 2014? In private life, it's like buying a cell phone and using it in two years. It's probably out of date, and the battery's broken, so you can go to the dumpster. But you didn't answer the other question. You think it's the 21st. Does the medical care system of the century include washing bloody and contaminated clothing at home? If you think it's normal, then maybe this is your 21st. 100th-century health care; ours doesn't, so I can't accept the answer. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2016-11-07-36	I ask the House whether it accepts the reply of the Secretary of State. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The House adopted the answer by 113 votes to 29, with no abstentions. Dear Parliament, István Ikotity and Ákos Hadházy, representatives of the LMP, have submitted an interpellation to the Minister of National Economy with the title "The Emerging People." The interpellation will be answered on behalf of the Prime Minister by the Secretary of State of the Ministry of Human Resources with responsibility and competence according to the subject. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-11-07-37	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Mr. Secretary. More and more evidence emerges on a regular basis when Fidesz-near companies, members of a network of companies, receive huge amounts of EU money while not complying with the basic rules on public procurement. Another example is the programme launched in May 2012 and completed in August 2014 aimed at improving living conditions for people living in the deep edge of Sajóhíd. In the tender consortium, the experienced candidate is Fresh Europe Nonprofit Kft. He won it. They didn't have too much trouble informing the public, because this little mystery program doesn't have a website. One or two such reports available on the Internet essentially do not carry any information, meeting with the usual cliché. However, it is clear that from ten settlements, 78 families were dealt with by 30 professionals, and 15 self-help networks were established, meaning that these families formed networks per 5 families, and, whatever that means, they achieved positive results in 30 percent of the families, 30 percent of them, or 26 out of HUF 164 million of the 78 families had some positive results. We don't know what that means. This would be an exaggeration as a success story, since 78 families could have received 2 million HUF of financial assistance from this money. Of these, 78 families could have helped children to continue their studies. There is a website, Amiszegenyseg.hu, which lists 25 similar saddening projects. In all cases 78-78-78 families were involved in this project. Fresh Europe Ltd. And he's doing some very incomprehensible things here, like giving these people communications advice. These cases are particularly outrageous, because those who earn money here in the order of tens and hundreds of millions will profit at the expense of the poorest, the lowest, and they will take away from them the chance of a decent life to rise. The questions - because they find it difficult to understand - were the results of 30 percent of the 78 families. Do you think this project is correct? Did this project use anything? If not, are you ashamed of it, or what are you doing to make sure that the Public Procurement Notice is not filled with such projects?
u2016-11-07-38	Once again, Secretary of State Bence Rétvári has the floor. Here you go.
u2016-11-07-39	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, The aim of this project was to help as many disadvantaged communities as possible. Most of them have been involved in this catching-up programme, which is really aimed at integrating families living in extreme poverty and increasing their employability. In these cases, among other things, an agricultural programme was implemented, a family cash register programme, which sought to help manage revenue and expenditure, the development of learning competences, so that everyone in school could perform better as a child, community development, mentoring programme, which obviously sought to help with previous problems, and learning job-seeking programmes and life-management skills were among the elements that were realized. As you said, 48.3% of people living in extreme poverty have been involved, so much more than 30 percent have been involved. So I think there is a need for such programmes to help those living in extreme poverty. Hungary must devote resources to this. People who may have access to learning or work with outside help, because they themselves cannot find this way or even speak the official language that can help them to continue learning, or help them to work, so let us help these people. We can't give up on them. I don't think the LMP is serious, at least 80 percent of the faction is far away. [[Deterioration from the pro-government benches.]] I don't think you think these people should be left alone, and we shouldn't be helping them there as often as possible, in as many ways as possible, and we certainly don't have to be sorry about the resources for that. I believe that when Hungary was the President-in-Office of the European Union, a truly intensive programme was launched to help people in this situation. Unfortunately, in the last two years, we have seen that the attention to people living in difficult situations in Central and Eastern Europe has fallen from Brussels, rather than dealing with immigrants and forgetting people who should be helped here, locally, to study, to work or to acquire marketable skills. We believe that these resources should be used for the purpose of catching up, and not like many pro-immigration politicians, and we see that the LMP has also lined up in Brussels to take these funds away from poor people and to give them to migration and immigration purposes. In this case, the most unfair scenario is that the European Union would have the poorest people pay the price of immigration. We hope that the LMP will not take this policy seriously in the long term. And in local public procurement cases, you know as well as I do, honourable Member, that the local body of representatives will take a decision. These are public, read for everyone on the Internet. If you need data and information from local authorities, you need to ask the local authorities, not the government, so contact them if you need more information on the Internet and in addition to public information. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-11-07-40	Returning your answer to Ákos Hadházy again.
u2016-11-07-41	Thank you very much. Of course, I cannot accept the answer. You're idly watching corporate networks steal money for the poor. I'm so glad you're having such a good time, Secretary of State. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Where's your faction? Where is he?]] In this particular case, the Public Sector Kft., which may be associated with Mengyi Mr., was asked for an offer from Fresh Europe and IBS Hungary Kft., in Sajóhídvég. received the offer from Public Sector and IBS. Obviously, it's nothing but fraud, controlled public procurement, obviously nothing happened. You didn't answer what that positive change was. You know very well, there was no positive change, the money for people living in extreme poverty was simply stolen. The fact that we want it not to go there is a ridiculous and, of course, unsuitable opinion. [[14.20]]
u2016-11-07-42	I ask the House whether it accepts the reply of the Secretary of State. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The answer was adopted by 111 votes to 27, with no abstentions. Dear Parliament, Béla Dankó, representative of Fidesz, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Agriculture:. What is the real cause of opposition criticism regarding the closure of the land programme? It's an address. Congressman's got the floor.
u2016-11-07-43	Dear Secretary of State, We have recently voted for the land for farmers! The closure of a land sale programme under a programme. As a result of the high interest in agricultural land sales across the country, the competitiveness and economic weight of the Hungarian economy have further increased, which is in any event in the long term interests and stability of our country. Despite the fading of opposition parties, it became clear, at the end of the process, that the opposition's criticism of the state's asset management and property policy measures over the past period was motivated by mood swing rather than by the intention of co-thinking together for the cause of domestic agriculture. Rarely seen opposition clashes called for unconstitutionality and demanded a two-thirds vote on a bill that amends half provisions. They also now run to the Constitutional Court after they have previously submitted their legislative proposals of concern for the Fundamental Law in a series. However, it is now clear here that these proposals were not a means of professionalism, but of unconditional criticism of the government. After that, it was no longer surprising that no amendments were received from our fellow Members in opposition trenches, who could have actually taken part in the legislative work, to the proposals for land management put forward by the Government. During the programme, the state sold some 195 thousand hectares of land at an average price of 1.4 million forints/hectare, which is nearly twice the average of 850 thousand forints/hectare of agricultural land in 2015. I think it is also important to add that the revenue generated by this is being used by the government to reduce the public debt, so the consideration of the Community's assets again strengthens the community and the population of Hungary by reducing the credit burden. During the sale of land under 3 hectares in the auction, about 30,000 farmers acquired land, almost a third of the Hungarian farmers. With the exclusion of corruption, open auctions in public allowed farmers who lived locally to bid for farmers who were farmers. After the auction, the sale was made if the right to pre-empt the land concerned was not enforced. A successful land for farmers! The closing of a programme is one of the key elements of an important series of steps, with local farmers with land at the end, growing local economies, and a growing Hungarian agriculture that is worthy of its agricultural tradition. All these important steps [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] the constructive participation of the farming community and, unfortunately, the opposition was accompanied by a loud expression of themselves. I ask you, Mr Secretary of State, how much land will remain in state ownership after the closure of the land programme? How many farmers have exercised their pre-emptive rights? How will the state manage its remaining areas? Thank you very much for your reply. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-11-07-44	I now give the floor to Secretary of State István Nagy. Here you go.
u2016-11-07-45	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, My dear fellow Member, If I were to answer your question with one sentence, I would say that it is because the opposition does not understand that there is a matter that falls within the competence of the national minimum and not within the competence of the everyday political battlefield. The land for the farmers! An excellent example of the programme is that nothing the government is doing is good for opposition parties, even if it is doing so for the benefit of the Hungarian economy. First, the government was attacked because it wanted to sell part of the state land to Hungarian farmers. When defining the legal framework for the land sale programme, the opposition immediately rushed to the Constitutional Court and, together, demanded that foreigners be able to land in the auctions on the same terms as Hungarian farmers. A true host-friendly attitude! - I'd say it's an explicit betrayal. In the context of the closure of the programme, two legislative proposals have been submitted which declare the success and closure of the programme and provide for the use of the resulting public revenue. The opposition also challenged these proposals, but of course they did not have any substantive counter-proposals. With these billings, Parliament complied with the resolution of the Constitutional Court, which was imposed by the opposition, when the law provided for the use of the proceeds from the sale of land. Because, my dear fellow Member, the Constitutional Court did not say that it was a fundamental law, but that it was necessary to have the land for farmers in law! The use of the revenues of the programme. This is therefore a good example of the opposition's unconventional resistance to all government measures to assist the agricultural-small-owner and agricultural-medium-holders. The land for the farmers! By means of a programme, every third Hungarian farmer could acquire land, many of them using loans with a much higher rate than the market price. Ninety-nine percent of the customers bought land of less than 150 hectares. According to the opposition, these oligarchs are the major owners. According to the government, however, the programme was successful because it supported small and medium-sized estates and contributed greatly to raising the proportion of small estates to 80% compared to large estates. Out of the nearly 8 thousand sales contracts for land of over 3 hectares concluded so far and which has also been subject to mandatory 60-day postings, about 2,500 pre-emptive rights have been declared by farmers not participating in the auctions. About 30 percent of those who made the pre-emptive statements were able to overtake the original buyer. In the case of land of less than 3 hectares, this ratio is similar according to our data so far. The nearly 196 thousand hectares of state land sold means that 11 percent of the total state land was sold. The National Land Fund therefore has 1.6 million hectares of land, of which 1 million hectares are the size of state forests, and about 300 thousand hectares of protected natural land are the managers of the 10 national parks. Further areas will be used in the future, as required by the National Land Fund Act, mainly through leasing and asset management. In addition, the sale of land of less than 3 hectares will continue in the future due to extraordinary interest. In keeping with the practice of the last six years, the NFA will continue to issue proposals to local authorities each year, which will allow them to acquire the trust rights of public land free of charge for 15 years, with a view to launching public employment programmes. In recent years, hundreds of municipalities have thus reached a state area of more than 100 hectares. Finally, it should be borne in mind that the size of the state's land assets is constantly changing in a positive direction, since NFA buys land worth billions each year [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] , for HUF 2.5 billion in 2016, which will also be used by Hungarian farmers. Please accept my reply, my dear fellow Member. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-11-07-46	Congressman Danko has the floor again.
u2016-11-07-47	Dear Secretary of State, How many have used their pre-emptive rights to me means that the legislation was adequate to really get to the local farmers who live on the ground and what they said from the remaining part of the state's land fortune, it is to me that the state provides the land that is left with them as a good farmer. Therefore, I respectfully accept your answer. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. Dr. István Józsa applauds.]]
u2016-11-07-48	Dear Parliament, Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, a representative of the MSZP, has submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Human Resources: a saltless reform of the Ministry of Saltless? When does the regulation of the Mensa reform change so that food is not only healthy but also edible? It's an address. Congresswoman's got the floor.
u2016-11-07-49	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, A year ago, the Menza reform came into force, and this is the result of the saltless, tasteless, often inedible food in the food supply. It is worth mentioning that the Government first decided to put the changes into effect in September 2014 and then pushed it into January 2015 and finally introduced the regulation in September last year. Everyone agrees that a healthy meal is very important. [[14.30]] We support greater attention to the proper nutritional intake of children of different ages, and to ensure that children feed as modern and healthier as possible. But this regulation was clearly flawed, in any case in terms of execution. Today, the pro-government press also describes the mensa reform as a necessary step, but the exaggeration of the regulation must be changed. We've come a long way to admit that there's something wrong with this. We indicated last year that some of the elements of the regulation were unacceptable and therefore unrespectable. And it's quite cynical that members of the government go to festivals every week that are clearly headed for an unhealthy, greasy meal. Don't you think it's cynical that they pose at sausage festivals, stew festivals, and then when they come into the House, they talk about a healthy meal? [[Deterioration from the benches of the MSZP. Németh Szilárd István: There is no lower!]] In fact, the government had leaflets made for children at the address of the children, which was printed out in 760,000 copies for HUF 2.5 million. Because of the mensa reform, many parents complained about the quality of food and the children going home hungry from kindergarten and school. When we drew attention to all this, you laughed at their problems. You, Secretary of State, last year in response to one of my speeches called the problem a steak dispute, making a joke about the whole question. This concerns not only children, but also full catering, all the meals in social and health institutions and transports there. Unfortunately, we have not learned much about the details of this, no matter what question we have addressed to the government in recent months. To date, we do not know how this regulation is intended to be amended or whether it is intended to be amended at all. From the answers received in the summer, we know that 103 kitchens have so far received insufficient certification, which provides for more than 30,000 people. So these tens of thousands of people have so far received food that, even by the government's authority, is inedible. Dear Secretary of State, Will Mensa Reform Change? Can children, parents, and all other people hear criticism? Why did you have to [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Waiting a year to realize that you have to do something about this question? I look forward to your reply, Mr. Secretary.
u2016-11-07-50	Once again, I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2016-11-07-51	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, Today we learned that according to the MSZP, anyone who attends Mangalica Festival is an enemy of the people. [[Interviews from the benches of the MSZP, among other things: Oh! He's very weak.]] Even his own fellow Members smiled behind his back. But allow me to draw your attention to a few things, which are serious. According to previous surveys, for Hungarian children, if you look at, say, the age group of 7-year-old children, according to the WHO survey, one in four 7-year-old girls and one in five 7-year-old boys were overweight or obese in Hungary. This is a problem that is obviously being carried on in their lives and may later be the cause of illness. [[Bangóné Borbély Ildikó's intervention.]] At a slightly older age, 15-19 years, the ratio is better, but it is still significant. There's a 15.9 plus 4.1 overweight and obese ratio for boys, 7.9 and 1.9 for girls. If you look at how much school food contributes to their fruit and vegetables or other intakes, you can see that it is very large, because they eat very little compared to what would be ideal. In the case of schoolchildren, according to WHO, according to experts, only 60% of the necessary consumption of milk and dairy products was consumed by Hungarian children, only 28 percent of the intake of vegetables, as would be healthy, 55 percent of the consumption of fruit as would be healthy. On the other hand, half of the children ate candy drinks, chocolates, and sugar every day, and a third of the salt snacks also ate on a daily basis. That is why we have said that these rates need to be improved in the system of feeding, we need more fresh vegetables, we need more fresh fruit, we need more fish food, we need less fat, less sugar, less salt and less amenities, less soup made from soup powder, and no soup made from soup powder, and no mashed potatoes made from mashed potatoes. Therefore, we tried to prevent these, and also to stop the typical sugary menus from getting on the tables, to keep them healthier products in the buffets, and to use the potato tax to talk everyone out of eating such unhealthy foods. These regulations are not made in secret, Madam honourable Member. You know that long negotiations preceded them, and we have delayed the entry into force for years, precisely so that everyone has enough time to prepare for them. You know, in other cases, it's because someone approximates to such a fitness recipe. [[It's constant noise. The president's gonna ring the bell.]] food prepared according to a prescription, willing to pay more. We also tried to guarantee this to children in schools. As you said, we carried out inspections. During the inspections, we experienced a problem of 3.9 percent of the kitchens, in 1701 places, and indeed the photos or stories that were heard in the media probably come from these kitchens. In other places, healthy food could be cooked very gently. However, during our discussions over the last year, a 25-point package of proposals was presented by the representative organisations and professional organisations of the public organisations. Of these 25 points, 13 of us have been accepted and incorporated into a regulation amendment, which may appear in the course of this year and even in the autumn, so that the gradual process is much more focused on achieving it by 2021. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] the targets required for a healthy meal. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2016-11-07-52	I'll ask the congresswoman if she'll accept the answer.
u2016-11-07-53	Mr President, I do not accept the answer. Let me quote from the answer to the written question that you wrote: 124 cooking kitchens from the certified 1701 kitchens, 529 kitchens, have received a good rating. This means that 793 kitchens, which have been tested, are rated medium or lower for inspection, and 103 kitchens are insufficient. Mr. Secretary. We still don't know what they want to amend on the regulation, because we shouldn't have created the regulation by involving the kitchens, children, teachers and those working in the social care system and asking them in advance. Mr. Secretary. Do you know how much more salt the children are bringing in now in connection with the follow-up because the food is unsalted by the kitchens? How much more salt do adults and children bring into their bodies, and what risk does that entail? ♪ 'Cause they're salty ♪ [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] I need food so they can eat it at all. Mr. Secretary. It is not necessary to amend a regulation ex post, but to do it in such a way that it is good.
u2016-11-07-54	I ask the House whether it accepts the Secretary of State's reply. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the House adopted the answer by 113 votes to 30, with no abstentions. Dear Parliament, Dóra Dúró, representative of Jobbik, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Human Resources:.The Hungarian health care stuck in the 20th century. When will health training finally be managed in its place? It's an address. Congresswoman's got the floor.
u2016-11-07-55	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, In health care, too, there is an increasing shortage of professionals, which would require special treatment. As a result, every year, more and less people are working in public health. According to KSH data, until the turn of the millennium, the number of people working in healthcare was 144,000, only 120,000 in 2014. In particular, in the first half of 2016, 419 doctors, 108 dentists, 23 pharmacists and 359 workers, most of them women, a total of 909 people announced their intention to work abroad to the competent agency. [[István Szilárd Németh's intervention.]] Providing replacements would be the task of university training and vocational training, but changes in recent years seem to have been unable to provide the sector with a suitable young workforce. The main cause of the shortage is migration. Workers find much better conditions and salaries abroad, and they also go to work in other market sectors in Hungary. Vocational training, as in almost every field, is bleeding from a thousand wounds in health care. There's been a steady change throughout the system. It is not uncommon for government decisions to be delayed, putting the institutions in an almost impossible position. [[14.40]] The regulation needed for this year's school year, which included, for example, framework curricula, was published only a few days before the start of the school year. In addition, this degree of demotion of science subjects makes it difficult, for example, for a student going to a health school to have further education in higher education, not to encourage it to move on, but to make it almost impossible for him. No wonder this unpredictability, uncertainty - what the instructors consider to be one of the biggest problems - also weighs on education. But there is a shortage not only of professionals, but also of trainers, which may be even more serious, because it makes replacement impossible: if there are no suitable people to pass on knowledge, there is no way to offer high-quality vocational training to interested young people. In addition, it would also be the task of the otherwise burdened nurses in practice hospitals to provide education, for which, in many cases, neither personal nor material conditions are available. On this basis, I ask the Secretary of State: when will medical training be carried out in place? What will be done to ensure adequate training and professional replacement? I look forward to your substantive answer. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-11-07-56	Once again, I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Here you go.
u2016-11-07-57	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, If you want to ask about medical emigration, you do not need to submit an interpellation, it is enough to look over your left shoulder and ask your fellow Member what the mechanism of this is, who benefit from it, how one can get more than half a hundred Hungarian doctors and nurses to Ireland in six months. I think Jobbik has a lot of experience in the house, perhaps no other faction has such experience in promoting medical emigration, nursing migration as the Jobbik faction. It is true that neither Jobbik nor the MSZP, when drawing up their electoral lists, paid attention to the possibility of getting a doctor in the group, so doctors sit on the government side of the parliament, there are no doctors on the opposition side, but it seems that their concern for health will turn up, although this did not happen when drawing up electoral lists. [[Lajos Korózs: You don't have to be a doctor to see what's in health care!]] However, I would like to draw your attention to the joyful development - if you have already talked about medical emigration - that, thanks to the residency support programme and the young doctor's scholarship and the increase in medical wages, while in 2010 there were more than a thousand graduates who had applied for a foreign work permit, this number has now fallen to far below 500, so far less people are asking for first foreign work permit than before. [[Interview in the ranks of the MSZP: Everyone is gone!]] I think that this process will be further strengthened by the wage increase that we are going to continue, because first, the wage increase was in the area of residents; the greater salary seemed to mean a greater perspective - in a completely natural way - among residents. But the increase in doctors' salaries from September 1st this year by HUF 107 thousand will increase by another HUF 100,000 from November 1st, I think it will bring a positive development; just like the fact that in the case of nurses you were most concerned about, we can talk about a double wage between 2012 and 2019; this can also open your perspective for much more people to choose this career if they feel compelled to do so. We would like to promote this at the moment of the election, at the moment of the decision. For this reason, a number of EU applications have been launched for the nursing staff in order to ensure replacement, one of which is the catching-up health care training programme, which will give OKJ professional qualifications to nurses in the coming years for HUF 1.9 billion; I think many people can get their qualifications free of charge in this context. But it is also important that we also announced a scholarship program supporting career selection for nurses, worth 4.4 billion HUF, precisely to increase this motivation in career choice. You should know and know that we have already announced the Szabóky Adolf Vocational Training Scholarship, of which health training is a key part. We also tried to help those who chose this course by raising the training age from 21 to 25 years, and making the second qualification free. We also hope that this will encourage many to acquire health qualifications. With the introduction of dual vocational training and the amendment of the VET Contribution Act, the conditions have improved significantly, as the conclusion of a study contract has also been made available to healthcare providers, which represents a significant additional resource, representing between HUF 500 and 600 thousand per training venue per person and per year, which can be used for training. And if you need tools for training, let me draw your attention to an 8 billion-dollar EFOP project, the development of clinical skill labs, which is an additional opportunity for the development, installation and exercise of demonstration units. So if we are not dealing with the export of doctors and nurses, but with their training at home, then I think we can achieve results, but in this the Hungarian electorate can count on Fidesz-KDNP not on Jobbik, but on Fidesz-KDNP. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-11-07-58	Thank you. Once again, Mrs. Congresswoman will have the floor. Here you go.
u2016-11-07-59	Mr. Secretary, what you're talking about is practically as if we're giving Algopyrin to the dying man. He did not mention at all what was one of the most important areas of my question, how they would ensure the replacement of specialist trainers in medical training. The Secretary of State has not wasted one word on this in his reply. He talked about all kinds of health issues, but what I just asked him, he didn't talk about it at all. Personal and material conditions remain lacking, and the investments and EU proposals launched in these areas will obviously be supported but will not be addressed at systemic level. As I have said, the reduction in the proportion of natural sciences in vocational training, precisely, let us say, in the field of health, puts young people who want to learn more at a particular disadvantage and prevents them from entering higher education. I don't accept the answers for all of this. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-11-07-60	I ask the House whether it accepts the reply of the Secretary of State. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The House adopted the answer by 114 votes to 32, with no abstentions. Dear Parliament, Rózsa Hoffmann, a representative of KDNP, has submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Human Resources:, Will it succeed in balancing women's employment and encouraging childbearing? It's an address. Congresswoman's got the floor.
u2016-11-07-61	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, As a result of the political and economic decisions of the last period, women can now work in Hungary under significantly better conditions and in greater numbers than in the late 1990s or even in the first year of the Fidesz-KDNP government. With family policy measures, the government created the possibility of expanding female employment by keeping the freedom of choice, bearing in mind the importance of family life, the priority of child rearing. The data of the Statistical Office is well known, which shows what we have achieved so far. While in 1998 the number of economically active women in Hungary was 1 million 800 thousand, in 2010 it was 1 million 950 thousand and last year it was over 2 million. General economic results can also be shown or shown from these figures, as increasing female employment results in unemployment, increasing family economic strength and strengthening families. Let us now look at closer family policy measures. It is also difficult to list the number of such family policy measures. I will mention just a few: the introduction of family tax relief, then the extension of the ged extra, the first married discount, the CSOK, and so on. In 2015, 91,700 children were born, unfortunately only 0.2 percent more than in the previous year, but more and the decrease stopped. Therefore, the previous decrease was stopped by increasing the fertility rate from 1,25 in 2010 to 1,44 in 2015. It is also worth mentioning that there has been a welcome increase in the number of marriages. And since we can all agree that Hungary's most important social issue is the improvement of demographic processes, I therefore ask the honourable Secretary of State: what goals has the government set for further improvement of female employment in the future? Is there a balance between increasing women's employment and encouraging childbearing? Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[14.50]]
u2016-11-07-62	Surprisingly, once again, Secretary of State, Bence Rétvári.
u2016-11-07-63	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, Women's employment has reached a record in Hungary, as since the change of regime, as many women have not had jobs as they do now. If we look at the last six years, between 2010 and 2016, we see that employment growth is 10 percent in the 15-64-year-old population, employment growth has increased from 50.6 percent to 60.8 percent. But even more so for mothers with children with families, the rate of employment for women with children under three years of age, aged between 25 and 49, increased by 20 percent, i.e. twice as much as the overall average. Obviously, this was not a coincidence, but a number of government measures, such as the introduction of a job protection action. In this we offer a very large contribution allowance and a public benefit to employers who take back and employ a returning mother from child rearing. After 40,000 women with small children returning from childbirth, we were able to help so many families get their mother back to work sooner. If I look at the ged extra, one of the measures of which is that after the child's six months of age, it is possible to carry out a job by paying the benefit, so the family has an income on both sides, 20 000 people have lived with it. This also helped to increase the 20 percent we talked about. And then there's the Women's 40, which so far has been used by 175 thousand people, so after forty years of employment and child-rearing, someone can be in a situation where, in addition to his pension, he only has the responsibilities of his grandmother and helps his child, daughter and son to care for their grandchildren. And for those who do not have a grandmother or a grandpa or can not help regularly, the nursery is very helpful. Over the past six years, we have increased the number of crèches - a huge improvement in day care - by 12,000, and this will increase, as we are also investing in huge amounts and legislative changes. By 2018, we want 60,000 seats. You said that about 91,000 children were born, compared to this we would like to create 60,000 cradle seats, not only in the now-known, but also in the mini cradle, family cradle and work cradle, which was created from 1 January. 100 billion HUF is available in the coming years for the development of these, kindergarten and kindergarten development projects. In order to encourage family-friendly employment, we have also tried to help and raise awareness and support through a family-friendly job application and in other ways. This support also represents a significant increase on the budgetary scale, as it is a sum of more than 4 per cent in Hungary compared to the average family support costs of the OECD countries in relation to 2.5 per cent of GDP. Hungary is spending much more on families from the central budget in proportion to the total national product than it is on average in the most developed countries. The biggest measure of this is obviously the family tax reduction, which can be seen year after year, even because in several years we will double the tax relief for two children, for example, but if I compare the data for 2014 and two years ago with this year, it can be seen that a family used an average of HUF 222 thousand from the family tax benefit, now 244. This type of discount goes to families, 95-96 percent of families can use it and use it, which is why it is a successful, well-targeted measure, and they are increasingly able to use it, as every year the value of the money that remains with families increases by tens of thousands. We hope that we can encourage childbearing and family formation. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-11-07-64	Once again, I give the floor to a congresswoman. Here you go.
u2016-11-07-65	Thank you very much for your reply, Mr Secretary of State. It is a pleasure to hear these numbers, and it is good to see that the trend is improving. Hungary's family policy and its results are worthy of follow-up to others, and today young married people who are having children can look to the future with much greater security than in previous decades. The enormous merit of this family policy is that it leaves the choice for families and women, it does not force the woman to join the wooden spoon or to work. Everyone is free to choose whether they want to work or raise a child. But I cannot hide that it is the increase in the number of children, the birth of children, that truly crowns human life and family life. It is no coincidence that when a young person has a child, it is a testament to an unprecedented happiness. The answer is accepted. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-11-07-66	Congresswoman accepted the answer. Dear Parliament, István Ikotity and Ákos Hadházy, representatives of LMP, have submitted an interpellation to the Prime Minister's Office:. When do they stop negotiating with employers about public sector employees? It's an address. The word belongs to Ákos Hadházy.
u2016-11-07-67	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Dear Minister, Your deputy, Nándor Csepreghy, said in a forum last month that the lack of skilled labour could be partly solved if tens of thousands or even hundreds of thousands of employees were dismissed in the public sector in the coming years and then filled with them the jobs left in the competitive sphere. Later, in an opinion article, he explained the great burden of bureaucracy in Hungary, which is probably true, and that the state would be competitive if the number of state employees were reduced by half. According to his calculations, 1.1 million of the 4.2 million employees currently work for the state, but it would be optimal if the bureaucracy apparatus represented 10-15 percent of the employees, in Hungarian between 500 and 600 thousand redundant people in the public sector. The Secretary of State for Disarmament doesn't throw real numbers, the number of state employees is not 1 million, but 870 thousand. This includes 150,000 to 180,000 public workers, 230 thousand in education according to 2015 data, 306 thousand in the human health and social sphere, 70,000 in the law enforcement and 140,000 in the bureaucracy, 78 thousand government officials, 35 thousand civil servants and 26 thousand law enforcement and prosecutorial staff, so it is not true that 1 million people are working for the state and that we are talking about 25 percent bureaucracy. If 100,000 to 150,000 people were actually fired in bureaucracy, as they were supposed to be, there would be no one left in the administration of 140,000 people, and you know that there are many places where there is a shortage of staff, because anyone who could have done so has long gone to the better-paying competitive sphere or went abroad, who has not had the opportunity to change it, has worked for the same wages for eight years often ten hours a day. [[Dr. János Latorcai, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]] It is therefore not possible to further reduce the number of public administrations, especially in the same way as the government did in the background institutions. Without background calculations, lawnmower-style institution closures and the planned 20 percent downsizing are all but unthought-out reforms. Instead of considering the tasks of the state, it was only after that that that would require a large number of people, the coat was sewn to the button. And here comes the shortage of workers. Employers need a job, the government would get rid of government employees, but it is difficult to understand how officials can replace skilled workers, carpenters, welders, electricians, manufacturing skilled workers. These fired workers would only increase the number of unemployed, and many of them would surely end up abroad instead of joining a minimum wage assembly line at home. How long would you like to continue this process of cutting red tape, and when will you stop negotiating with employers about public sector workers? Thank you.
u2016-11-07-68	Thank you very much, Congressman. I would like to welcome my fellow Members. The answer will be given by Minister János Lázár. Here you go, Minister. You have the floor.
u2016-11-07-69	Thank you very much. Your Honour, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, On several occasions, in several parliamentary debates, interpellation and immediate questions, the Government has informed Parliament that the most important challenge of the coming year is to increase Hungary's competitiveness. I will be happy to provide you with the Hungarian studies and comparative studies which analyse Hungarian processes and which bring together international investigations. A process and trend can be drawn from them, even if Hungary's competitiveness is assessed on the basis of a number of subjective elements. Despite economic consolidation since 2010, Hungary's competitiveness has not increased at the right pace in the V4 countries or Central Europe. If we are thinking of a lack of competitiveness or a low level of competitiveness, not only the international rating agencies and not only the institutions that deal with competitiveness comparisons, but also the actors of the Hungarian economy set out the reasons. [[15.00]] The bureaucracy is identified in three points as an obstacle to competitiveness; this is already said by Hungarian businesses. The first is tax bureaucracy. How much time a Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprise has to spend to prepare its tax return and pay the tax imposed by the State. If you talk to employers and entrepreneurs in Hungary, they say that there is a disproportionate amount of time and energy to be spent on the rules of procedure. These reductions are a priority objective for the next year and a half. Businesses are talking about similar bureaucracy when it comes to the allocation of EU funds, but the framework is set by the European Union in cooperation with Hungary, where we have limited room for manoeuvre. And they talk about bureaucracy with regard to central administration and public administration. Last year we asked 400,000 people, this year 270 000 people responded to the question of how they think bureaucracy should be reduced in government windows. In it there were entrepreneurs and there were individuals. They said two things anyway. One is that the administration of the Hungarian state is slow and the other is that it costs too much. That is why we have come before Parliament once before to amend 100 laws, and now to amend 47 laws to speed up procedural deadlines. I can also describe those numbers to my fellow Members, and I will also send you the number of cases that have succeeded in achieving results. However, these cases together do not contribute to a substantial reduction in bureaucracy, because in Hungary, I am also giving you only international comparisons, about 20 percent of all Hungarian workers are paid by the state. This includes, of course, communities that are local governments, public companies, public workers. Bottom line: 3 million 400 thousand taxpayers pay the salaries of 1 million people from the state. This 20% is too high for all European countries. In Poland, 15 percent, in Slovakia 13 percent, in the Czech Republic 10 percent, in Germany 8 percent, only the number of people supported by the taxpayer in the competition. We can start from anywhere and watch this song, there's obviously something wrong here. And, of course, it is not a self-serving downsizing, restructuring or restructuring. The aim is to increase competitiveness and reduce red tape by reducing the number of bureaucrats. I am convinced that taxpayers pay taxes to deal with their affairs cheaply, quickly, efficiently and possibly in the minimum number of people they need. I believe that this is why the National Association of Entrepreneurs has turned to the government, that now is the time to retrain and reorganize workers from the public interest to the competitive sphere when there is a demand for labour. There is nothing more than a thorough and thoughtful implementation of this by helping the workers with the Career Bridge and the possibility of crossing it. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-11-07-70	Thank you very much, Minister. I will ask the Member if he will accept the Minister's reply. Here you go.
u2016-11-07-71	Thank you very much. I don't accept the answer. By the way, the Minister put it very gently when he said that our competitiveness did not increase too much. This has rather decreased, a lot of data shows that it has decreased significantly, not because of bureaucracy, but because of another foreign word, corruption. That's what they complain about the most. In the fact that bureaucracy needs to be reduced, we do not have a debate on this, otherwise, we have a debate in numbers. When you say you're state employees, you include employees of state-owned state-owned companies here, technically, if the civil servants themselves are replaced, replaced, retrained, they won't stay. These numbers are not right, and this programme alone is going to buy the missing electrical workers and the missing manufacturing workers from public employees, which I think is nonsense. Thank you. [[Sallai R. Benedek applauds.]]
u2016-11-07-72	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Congressman did not accept the Minister's reply. So I'm asking you if you'll accept it. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the ministerial response by 108 votes in favour, 35 against and 1 abstention. Dear Parliament, Member Nándor Gúr, representative of the MSZP, notary of the National Assembly, has submitted an interpellation to the Minister of National Economy:. The government's wage increase is false and false! It's an address. Congressman Nándor Gúr has the floor. Here you go.
u2016-11-07-73	Thank you very much, Mr. President. For years, the Fidesz government has been doing not only now, for years, raising taxes or introducing a new tax, introducing a new tax. The scale of these is similar in many of them. In the meantime, if nothing else, let's just say the minimum wage is based on the minimum wage, then you can see how and how they act in terms of contributions or tax charges. Well, not differently, but by increasing it in its process. People don't get more money in their hands, but they themselves, themselves and employers pay more taxes and contributions for a minimum wage. In 2010, it was 32 thousand forints overall, and now 69 thousand forints, more than double. If these funds, these contributions and tax surplus had been forinted or allowed to be forinted and paid, then, in net forints, the country would now have a minimum wage of 100 thousand forints, so that it would not be a burden on anyone, the employer, forints. In addition, you are not on this path, but, where appropriate, that part of the cafeteria is allowed to forint in so-called wages, so that the statistics look good. But in fact, they are creating a situation where, by the way, people will have fewer resources within the cafeteria, and only in paychecks - not in cheques, but in items - they will seem to make more money. No, this process actually eats the salaries. And, you know, it's most of all, most of all, affecting the regions and the people in those areas who live in the disadvantaged areas, so to speak. It's a very simple story. Unfortunately, they have to think about the end of the month on the 15th or the 22nd of that month, because of this income you provide, you cannot make a living. In fact, the task would not be to try to raise wages beyond the cafeteria through a sham reduction, but to allow tangible net-handed forints to rise. Why? Why are workers really being tricked? Why are you trying to fool them with false promises of raises? Why do they want to put forints in their hands only because of or as a result of the reduction of contributions, not as a direct consideration for the work they have worked for? Why don't you actually negotiate with the trade union aspirations and bodies, or with the Hungarian Trade Union Confederation, who ask for and envisage an increase in the minimum wage of more than 10 per cent? Mr. President, thank you very much.
u2016-11-07-74	Thank you very much, Congressman. The answer will be heard from Secretary of State Péter Cseresnyés. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2016-11-07-75	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Based on what you have said, it seems that you have not observed the events of the past few weeks; in fact, you can say that you have not listened to the events of the past few months, and you have not listened to the statements made. I am referring to the declarations concerning wage increases, tax reductions or employment increases in Hungary. If you hadn't given me your speech, I would simply have to answer the question, but on that basis I might be able to put a question, which I know I have no right to. But I can say what I would not like to do, but I will do why you are trying to fool the Hungarian people when you ask with such an introduction. Indeed, the facts are that there has been a tax reduction in the past period, employment has increased over the past period and very significant wage increases, not only nominally, not only in terms of gross value, but also in real terms, there has been significant wage increases in recent years. The fact that there are no negotiations between the government and the employers' and employee's organisations does not go through with the trial, and this statement does not stand the test of the truth, as this is happening all the time. If you hadn't listened to anything else, it was only in the last few days that Mihály Varga, Minister for Economic Affairs, spoke at a press conference, where he announced that the government was planning to develop and adopt a multi-annual programme, which, combined with a strong improvement in economic competitiveness, intends to continue the wage convergence that has already started. The programme is proposed by the economic portfolio to the government to include employees' and employers' organisations as widely as possible. Trade unions have repeatedly taken similar initiatives, which we have heard. It will therefore be possible to re-examine and discuss their proposals, which, by the way, happens every year during minimum wage negotiations. Unlike the Member's suggestion, the government cannot promise a salary increase in the economic competition sector, as it is essentially a matter of bargaining between employers and workers. The government can only promise a wage increase where it sets wages, it is practically the public sector, and today, if I remember correctly, it has been said twice or three times that there have been significant increases in wages in the public sector in recent years, and in recent months, what kind of wage increases are taking place. So we have taken significant steps in this area. [[15.10]] However, we are talking about negotiating with the actors in the real sphere of the economy, where we intend to negotiate in connection with the competitiveness of wages and the Hungarian economy and the improvement of the structure of the economy and employment. Thus, we can talk about a series of negotiations on a complex programme, one of which is indeed to continue the dynamic growth of Hungarian wages, the strong catch-up of wages, to which the government, in cooperation with the social partners, is seeking the opportunity to create a more stimulating, more favourable economic environment for businesses. These negotiations are taking place these days. Your informants didn't inform you properly. In the framework of the VKF, we discuss this every day, and the parties meet every two or three weeks to reach an agreement. I would like to mention that the increase in wages, contrary to what you have suggested, has been significant in recent years. As has already been said today, there has been more than 20 percent real wage increases from 2010 to today. This is why it seems that the negotiations are under way, that the government does not want to keep away from the negotiations at all, and that, as I referred to the planned programme, it intends to agree on it in a broader context and in a longer term, including the issue of raising the minimum wage and the guaranteed minimum wage, with confidence that we can reach an agreement with the social partners. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2016-11-07-76	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I ask, Member, notary, whether you will accept the Secretary of State's answer. Here you go.
u2016-11-07-77	Mr President, there should be fewer slides, and then it might be possible to get there. I mean, we shouldn't have had to charge double contributions to the minimum wage, and then the government would have to collect it and scatter it among the buddies. So you don't have to lie, you don't have to steal people, especially the most needy ones, you have to create a situation where they can earn decent income. You know, I don't hear much of the Secretary of State talking about the five million forints monthly wages and the large cafetherias that supplement it. There's no need to talk about the growth of real wages, as more and more people in this country suffer! You have to look at the NAV statements: one and a half million people earn a minimum wage. More than half of the employees, 2.2 million people don't earn the living minimum per capita. You have to give people decent wages. It's not for the helicopter party baron friends to make a good world, no. [[Moore from the pro-government benches.]] It's for the working people. Mr. President, thank you very much.
u2016-11-07-78	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The congressman didn't accept the Secretary of State's answer. I'm asking you if you'll accept it. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 109 votes in favour, 35 votes against and no abstentions. Dear Parliament, Member Sebestyén Csító, representative of Jobbik, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Human Resources:. The Hungarian health system, which was trapped in the 20th century. How do patients in hospitals end up in social homes? It's an address. Congressman Sebestyén has the floor. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-11-07-79	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, You have decided that chronic internal medicine departments, commonly known as bed-and-breakers, will be out of hospitals and will be part of the social care system. As a reason, professional arguments were made, and the stars were also promised from the sky in respect of the source assigned. Professional arguments are weak, and promises are full of attic. Thus, as behind any transformation, savings are the only thing in the background, especially as the cost of care is planned to be imposed on the beneficiaries or their relatives. You were talking about 10 to 11,000 beds, of which 25,000 would be transferred this year. They either gave up their plan - I might add, this would be the lucky one - or they are slipping, because they have not even started the necessary legislative changes. They may have realized that it would be worth consulting with professionals, because as they planned the transformation, it contains a lot of contradictions and uncertainty. So far, they have not been able to respond to the form in which they intend to replace the normativeity of hospitals, as without it health institutions will become unsustainable. We have also received no answer as to whether the supply units remain within the hospital area or are trying to integrate them into existing social institutions. Of course, this is almost physically impossible, given the 100% utilisation of buildings. It is also unclear whether staff serving in these departments will have the right to choose whether to remain a healthcare worker or to go to the social sphere. Of course, I know that it is planned that the transfer will not change their wages, but it is also a question of how long this can last. Don't you think the conversion will cause the highest wage voltage in the profession so far? We know that, unfortunately, social workers are the worst earners in the country. Only public workers make worse money than they do. Have you considered the consequences of earning a 20-25 percent difference depending on the number of years worked, depending on the place of duty, whether within an institution or within a building? Dear Secretary of State, My questions, without the need for completeness, are only looking for answers to the main problems, but the substantive answers that have already been given to them can also reduce uncertainty. The most important question, of course, is whether their plans are being maintained, i.e. this year they will start outsourcing hospital beds. I look forward to your substantive answer. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2016-11-07-80	Thank you very much, Congressman. The answer will be given by Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Here you go, Secretary of State. You have the floor.
u2016-11-07-81	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, What we cannot conclude from your speech, honourable Member, is whether Jobbik would support Mr. We care for those who need health and social care in the long term or who do not support it; Jobbik can agree or cannot agree with this. We say that we create a new form that includes both health and social elements, because there is an increasing population who needs it, who needs it; who is no longer hospitalized because they are not acute patients, they no longer require the chronic care that is in hospitals, and they also require something else - physical, mental, social care that they cannot receive at the hospital. They therefore receive medical care under hospital conditions, but not additional care; they would have an increased level of medical, medical and enhanced social care compared to social institutions. Whether Jobbik supports this or not, this hasn't come to light. Obviously, this requires a lot of guarantees. For this reason, the government has decided to set up 3-4-5 such institutions in Hungary for the first time, and, as a new institution, we will present on a new basis exactly what this specialised care centre is, what those who need such care and care can expect, and then, obviously, a systemic transformation can be made, in which everyone can win this. It will win, because it will be in better circumstances, where not only doctors and hospital nurses, but also social caregivers, care for their social needs, as I have said, are more likely to know mental care as part of their everyday lives. And in hospitals, patients who are lying there, but who do not really need acute care, or even need chronic care, will not be in hospitals, because that condition is not ideal for them. It's not worth talking about, as you know, that the government has made decisions on hospital development, bed modernisation over the last few years. Overall, we also spent HUF 500 billion on this from EU funds, of which only HUF 104 billion was spent on the purchase of new machines and equipment. The program is also about improvements; complex, multi-professional centres for emergency care, which can help patients at a site every day of the year in every profession. At the same time, there are those who need not only health care but also social care, increased care, care appropriate to their condition, and care appropriate to their condition. [[15.20]] For them, the creation of centres of care can be a solution, which is part of a joint section between the health and social sphere. Obviously, in addition to the guarantees, we also need to list the fact that, of course, when you are transferred to a nursing home at some point, you can use this public service free of charge, and obviously in wages - no one can earn less. In fact, as you may experience, there has been wage growth in the social sphere, but it is clear that there has been higher wage growth in the health sector than in the social sphere. And even more spectacular and even higher wage increases have been and will continue to be made for healthcare workers. We can guarantee that to everyone. So what will be created in the coming years, I think is a very important development, XXI. 100th century development: creating new, high-quality centres of care better adapted to the needs of patients. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-11-07-82	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I will ask Congressman Sebestyén Vágó if he will accept the Secretary of State's reply. Here you go.
u2016-11-07-83	I can't accept the answer, partly because I didn't get a 100% answer to my questions. By the way, it looks like there's a halt on the part of the government. They may have realized that the design they imagined was not practical, and it will not produce results, and it will have negative results. I cannot understand why if you would like to provide better and more modern service to people who are lying in or staying in these departments, why you would not do so by developing these classes within the hospital, it would be more favourable and better in all respects, even if you would stay in health care and the system could react faster than an emerging health problem. I say again, I see only the saving, because if they operate within the social care system or even in a new established intersection, then the cost can be charged to relatives and grooms, if they stay in health care, then they can't. I cannot accept your answer. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2016-11-07-84	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, As we have heard, the congressman did not accept the Secretary of State's reply. I therefore ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts it. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 108 votes in favour, 34 votes against and no abstentions. Dear Parliament, István Ikotity and Róbert Sallai Benedek, representatives of the LMP, have submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Agriculture:, Why doesn't the Orbán government use its own strategy to raise the Hungarian countryside? It's an address. Congressman Sallai R. Benedek will present the question of interpellation. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2016-11-07-85	Thank you for the floor. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, As can be seen from the interpellation, I would like to ask specifically why the national rural strategy named as the constitution of the Hungarian countryside, which is an excellent document of Fidesz governance, is not realized. Why is there no meaningful progress? After all, we are about halfway through the specific indicators for 2012-2020, and this strategy aims not only to improve the ecological status of Hungarian landscapes in the Hungarian countryside, but also to create opportunities for greater employment and greater agricultural income. The indicators of this, which are defined in the strategy, have clearly not started, are not met. The important elements of the strategy have not been published throughout the legislative process, such as the demographic land programme, the settlement of the situation of local cooperatives, development policy, capital, the conditions for organic farming, and the lack of folk colleges, instead of protecting natural values. Of course, the land of national parks has not increased, and even the amount of public land has decreased. Instead of setting up model farms, landscape centres and developing intellectual infrastructure, the government gave Sándor Csányi the title of model economy, and it was considered that this could be the future of the Hungarian countryside, which the said entrepreneur will accomplish. The government has opened its doors to food from Canada recently, and with the adoption of CETA it has given another slap to Hungarian agriculture and Hungarian food production. A large part of rural development money is built on pointless investments in billions of dollars. We can talk about the biker-lookout in Tiszafüred, last week we talked about the Rakamaz Trail in several cases in the media. Meanwhile, the rural road network has completely deteriorated, schools, as the previous speakers have mentioned, the state of health has collapsed, and after Greece, Hungary has the largest dwindling social population camp throughout the country. As a result, more and more rurals migrate from the country and leave the country not only to the capital but also to other countries in Europe. And obviously this is not only about it, but also about the fact that the settlement image, the housing houses of the settlements, becomes orphan, neglected, and in Hungary there are nearly 800-1000 settlements, which show clear signs of atrophy. According to the LMP, this should not result in a huge loss of wealth, but all of this together will achieve this, since devalued housing, residential housing, homes that have become unsold, clearly contribute to strengthening the process. It seems that the country's affairs are not specifically to be brought between Parliament's walls by the government. My question, Mr Secretary of State, is whether you would support the Government Party and you would like to organise a parliamentary debate day on the problems of the countryside and confirm with your signatures that we are bringing these problems to the House. In this I ask your answer if you will help me. Thank you for the floor.
u2016-11-07-86	Thank you very much, Congressman. The answer to the Member's question will be from István Nagy State Secretary. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2016-11-07-87	Thank you very much. Mr. President. Dear House, My dear fellow Member, I must say that we also deal with rural affairs in Parliament every day. Every day we look at the questions that we can use to improve people's lives and improve their living conditions. The rural strategy sets out the main strategic direction for the government's rural development, a document containing non-operational programmes. As a long-term concept, the implementation of its programmes is ongoing. Due to the complex and comprehensive nature of the rural strategy, several sectors are affected. Several of the 51 national strategic programmes set out in the objectives shall act as budget appropriations or in the form of Union support. The objectives of the national rural strategy are met by a number of domestic-funded programmes such as the Farm Development Programme, the State Gene Conservation Programme, the Social Land Programme and the Closed Garden Revitalisation Programme. They aim at employment, agricultural income and the cultivation of uncared areas. The continuation and further development of these programmes will continue to be planned in the future. In addition to the above, a number of strategies, concepts and comprehensive documents have been developed in line with the objectives of the national rural strategy, which in the long term could lead to the development of areas of intervention for the national rural strategy: the initial support for young farmers, the added value of agricultural products, the village renewal and development, the Gazdanet programme, the compensatory support for farmers in the less-favoured area or the land for farmers! A program. Several national strategic programmes and the development of Hungarian agriculture are also supported by calls for proposals announced within the framework of the rural development programme and will be launched in the future. For example: the transition to organic farming; the maintenance of organic farming, the development of the gardening sector, the development of food processing and the youth farmers' programme. Some 942 billion calls for farmers and people living in rural small towns were made available from the EUR 1350 billion framework of the rural development programme until October 2016. In the case of the 2015 agricultural-environmental call, the total amount of HUF 190 billion was committed to applicants and 88 percent of the amount was used by farmers in the area of less than 300 hectares. From now on, a number of resources provided by GINOP and CHEP will also help achieve the objectives. State land policy and the strengthening of Community land use will help to strengthen the small and medium-sized ownership layer. One of these measures is the state pre-emptive right, which aims to protect domestic farmers from capitalised foreigners, to prevent unjustified concentration of land and to give Hungarian farmers access to land on favourable terms. No formal proposal or draft regulation has yet been published on the future of the common agricultural policy after 2020. Therefore, information on the cessation of agricultural subsidies is only speculation and theoretical possibilities. According to preliminary information, the Commission is expected to present its ideas for the post-2020 CAP in autumn 2017. [[15.30]] It is in our country's interest to maintain the current structure and budget of the CAP, at the most, to fine-tune it. EU and domestic funds, programmes, monitoring and reporting systems for achieving the objectives of the national rural strategy are available and the country-wide agricultural report is published annually. On this basis, I do not think it is appropriate and necessary for the Parliament to hold a political debate on what is necessary to lift up the Hungarian countryside, since, by the way, we deal with these issues every day of the Parliament. Thank you for your question, and I ask for my answer to be accepted. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2016-11-07-88	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I will ask Congressman Sallai R. Benedek if he will accept the State Secretary's answer. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-11-07-89	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, You asked me to accept your answer, but how can you accept it when you're talking about small farms while you're turning Csányi into a model economy? How can you accept it while giving the state land to farmers and billionaires, and you bring the land to farmers as a positive event! It's a program. This is unacceptable. A small percentage of the beneficiaries will continue to take up support for public land. Well, you've become supporters of the great estate against small and large owners, and that's what's bleeding the country out. It talks about a long-term and continuous programme that started in 2012 and runs until 2020. We're over halfway there, and there's no meaningful progress, but all their efforts are against it. And what you did at the end of the day was to strengthen the small and medium-sized economies of the state, forgive me, Mr. Secretary of State, I respectfully say, but that's pretty much the circumstantial lie. So I can't accept it. Thank you very much.
u2016-11-07-90	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, As we have heard, Congressman did not accept the State Secretary's reply, so I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts it. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply 110 yes, 29 votes not, without abstention. Member Sándor Burány, a representative of the MSZP, has submitted an interpellation to the Minister of National Economy. It's an address. Mr Sándor Burány has the floor. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-11-07-91	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, According to the EU statistical office, Eurostat's communication of 21 October, the Hungarian government's debt is higher than the Hungarian government's or the Statistical Office's admission to believe. In their view, Eximbank is part of the public finances and its debt should be reflected in the number of sovereign debt, the number of deficits. In principle, Eximbank was created to support foreign trade, but in practice it helps Fidesz's buddies' businesses and increases their pockets. For example, Eximbank gave money to Andy Vajna to buy TV2, and Eximbank also gave money to István Garancsi to buy the Kopasi dam. Eximbank's debts would increase Hungarian government debt by about 2 percentage points, and this is a very serious difference. In addition, there is a reasonable suspicion that the Hungarian National Bank directly finances the budget, thereby violating EU rules. The Foundations of the Central Bank finance activities such as education, publishing, buying art, which are essentially not central banks, but public tasks. The inclusion of this would also increase the deficit. In addition, the European Central Bank has been investigating the spending of the central bank's foundations for quite a long time. Recently, this was confirmed by a letter from the ECB. The rules are absolutely clear at home and in the EU, the central banks cannot finance the budget, and the European Central Bank has made an eye out that the foundations of the Hungarian National Bank are buying sovereign debt on a large scale. The ECB has promised that it will act rigorously and, where appropriate, an infringement procedure may be opened against Hungary. So the stakes are not small. In addition, it is clear from a document sued by the MSZP that one of the foundations of the Hungarian National Bank, namely Pallas Athene Domus Concordiae, buys sovereign debt directly from the State Debt Management Centre in February 2015 for more than EUR 9 million. Dear Minister, Then I have two questions: when are you going to stop playing tricks on numbers? And please also respond to when they will complete the irregular funding of the budget. I'm waiting for your answer.
u2016-11-07-92	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr András Tállai, State Secretary, will answer your interpellation question. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2016-11-07-93	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, First of all, I would like to remind you that it is not the current Fidesz-KDNP government, who is famous for the trick of budget figures, but your left-wing MSZP government. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: They admitted it! Zoltán Pride: We didn't give it to the Garan-csi, nor did we give it to anyone else!]] It wasn't someone else who admitted it. It was the then prime minister of the government, Ferenc Gyurcsány. He said it took hundreds of tricks to make the budget financeable. Moreover, it was only with your government that the European Union amended the approved figures of the budget. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: If you ever answered the question, if we were ripe, we'd be amazed.]] But this is not unique, because it is no coincidence that you, for example, insist on a greater budget deficit. I mean, let's just remember that at your time, they were able to reach a budget deficit of 6-8-10 percent or to look at the government debt. Now you insist that Hungary should indeed raise its public debt compared to GDP, since, at the time of your governance, the level of public debt was above 80 per cent compared to GDP. At the end of the year, during the current government, it will fall below 75%. So you have an emotional relationship with the big government deficit and high government debt. As far as your specific question is concerned, I would like to say to you, although it is unknown to you that there is a dispute between a country with the European Union, an organisation of the European Union, currently with the Statistical Office of the European Union, namely a technical and methodological debate. This is about the fact that the Central Statistical Office and the Hungarian National Bank do not believe that the correct approach is what Eurostat says about Hungary. So this is a debate in the statistical sense, not that Hungary has provided poor quality data or deliberately, knowingly distorted something. It's about who interprets it as a conflict of opinion. I know for you that the position of a nation, a country, cannot differ from that of the European Union. Well, let's look at your position on the settlement quota. You've closed your eyes. [[Zoltán Pride: Did you give money to Garchi or not?]] adopted the position of the European Union. That's exactly what's happening here. This is a professional, methodological debate, which is not yet over, and Eurostat itself has acknowledged that the debate is taking place, and no one knows whether the Hungarian position will be acceptable in this debate or whether a compromise will be reached. One thing is certain that the Hungarian authorities, the Hungarian office, the National Bank have acted legally and legally on both issues. It is also a professional approach to the question if the foundations of the Hungarian National Bank finance tasks instead of public institutional tasks. According to the Hungarian Government and the Hungarian National Bank, this is not the case, as they basically provide various sources of research and supply-providing services, as the respective national banks do in other countries. I can assure you that both the operation of Eximbank and the functioning of the foundations of the Hungarian National Bank are legal and legal. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]] [[15.40]]
u2016-11-07-94	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I ask Mr Sándor Burány if he will accept the Secretary of State's reply. Here you go.
u2016-11-07-95	Mr President, That answer is unacceptable. The only reason I can't say it's been a long time since I've heard such bullshit from week to week. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: At a meeting or something?]] Dear Secretary of State, You should have talked about Andy Vajna, though, since I asked you. You should have talked about István Garancsi, since I asked you. I understand that there is progress in your character, and you can see that there are things, there are people that you are ashamed of. If I've already submitted the interpellation, it was worth finding out in itself that even you don't want to do everything, and there are things that you're ashamed of. But given the fact that he spoke of cases of 10 years ago, otherwise controversial, he did not make any specific comments. Eurostat has put Hungary on a bench of shame. It is not a debate, it is simply said that the Hungarian government debt figures do not correspond to reality. The ECB does not argue with the National Bank of Hungary, but examines it. Mr Secretary, that answer is unacceptable. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: He cheats in English.]] Thank you very much.
u2016-11-07-96	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, As we have heard, Congressman did not accept the Secretary of State's reply. I therefore ask whether the Honourable Parliament will accept it. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 109 votes in favour, 32 against and without abstentions. Dear Parliament, Member Márton Gyöngyösi, representative of Jobbik, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Human Resources:. The Hungarian health system, which was trapped in the 20th century. What will be the fate of St. John's Hospital? It's an address. Congressman Márton Gyöngyösi has the floor. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-11-07-97	Thank you for the floor. Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, I have followed with concern the news of the last few weeks and months regarding the relocation of hospitals in Budapest, which in many cases not only show negligence, but also the complete negligeation of the interests of the people and health workers in Budapest. It is clear to all of us that the problem posed by the hospital situation in Budapest is acute, and action cannot be lost, among the reasons for which it should be mentioned that while health infrastructure has been renewed in the countryside for 500 billion forints, healing is still taking place in old hospitals in the capital, which have not been renewed for decades. Unfortunately, the government has started to outline a system of prestige investments based not on the planning of the renovation of the current hospitals, but on superhospitals, rather than taking into account patients' interests. These plans lack the ability to replace the current hospitals, but they have not even been able to clarify exactly where the new healthcare facilities would be built. Despite this, several hospitals currently operating, including St. John's Hospital in my constituency, have already been mentioned. [[Moore in the pro-government benches.]] According to the news reports, only outpatient care would remain in St. John's Hospital, but it would lose one of the main functions of the hospital, which would provide a basis for further decommissioning and termination of the institution. I consider this to be a serious mistake, since the relocation of inpatient care to a more remote location is not suitable for the needs of those currently at the János Hospital. The news of radical bed reductions is also a cause for concern. As long as there are 744 active beds at the János Hospital, we know that only 812 beds are planned in the single institution, with which more hospitals would be replaced. There is also a question of what would happen to health workers after the merger. The news of the restructuring has led to disagreement among the general public of the Buda districts, which is well illustrated by the actions launched to rescue St. John's Hospital, including the collection of signatures initiated by Jobbik. In the campaign that has been going on since this summer, thousands of citizens have already expressed their desire to replace the planned superhospitals with the current hospitals, which are still functioning and of high professional quality, despite the stepdaughter conditions. Dear Secretary of State, Now, please, clear the air: will you put an end to drawing up concepts that do not lead anywhere, and will you begin to address the medical problem in Budapest? Will the institutions known and customary by citizens, St. John and Sándor Péterfy, remain? What will happen to the workers? Where and when are you planning to execute the superhospitals, and where will you get the resources you need? I look forward to your substantive answer. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2016-11-07-98	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Mr Márton Gyöngyösi responds to the question of interpellation by Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2016-11-07-99	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, You can get answers to all your questions from the Hungarian Gazette. There have been two government decisions, which are guiding on this issue, one of which is 1333/2016, which is still VII. It appeared on the 4th, and the other 1592/2016, that's X. The 27th. In this, everything that was said by the Member of Parliament as a rumor is rebutted, and everything that is real and related to development is recorded in these resolutions. Honourable Congressman, You're talking about the news of the restructuring. They didn't base the communication they had in these districts on the news of the restructuring, but on the good news of the rumors. Scaring people who are worried about their illness with untruths, organizing signatures and turning it into political capital is not fair. In the government's decisions, which I have presented to you, we are talking about improvements, only and only about what new developments will take place at which locations, how it will be more modern, indeed XXI. 100th century health care in Budapest. The government's only decided on improvements, nothing else. On the other hand, anyone who claims anything else is claiming to be false and spreading only rumors, because there is no basis for this. And a good part of these petitions, which is concerned about these hospitals, can be signed in peace by anyone, should not all be considered better, since no one has planned anything negatively for the future of these hospitals, but it is the government's decision to make improvements. Obviously, the investment of the Kútvölgyi Clinical Block must be completed in the first place. This can mean a surplus for patients in Central Buda. The two supply profiles must obviously be coordinated here, but this also means improvement. Then after the development of the center of South Buda, the center of South Pest, the center of North Pest, and after the designation of the location of the center of North Buda, the development of North Buda. As you said, it was 500 billion forints that the government has been able to devote to the development of rural hospitals in the past one and a half cycles, and there is therefore a much greater need for improvements in Budapest in the coming years. From what, honourable Member, you should have known, since you voted on the budget during the spring session: the budget includes HUF 40 billion for the establishment of hospital development in Budapest. We can also use 10 billion forints of EU funds, which can also be used for hospital development in Budapest. 15 million outpatients and 612,000 inpatients are treated annually by the health care system in Budapest; obviously, there are 15 million patients here. 45 percent of inpatients are not from the capital, but from the country. The turnover of the 28 institutions represents one third of the total Hungarian health performance. Therefore, this hospital development in Budapest goes far beyond the residents of Budapest, and it will raise one third of the country's overall health performance to a more modern level. We hope that the fragmentation of hospitals in the capital will be eliminated by the establishment of these superhospitals, the centers, and the high-value technologies that we acquire in hospitals will be much more optimal, they will be able to serve a lot more patients. For this reason, it is the higher level of XXI for 4.3 million inhabitants, in addition to 1.8 million inhabitants in Budapest. You can guarantee your 100th-century supply. As I said, first funds are included in next year's budget, which will be decided by 31 March. And we hope that this can also mean more attractive working conditions for those working there. So I'm asking you to support the development. Don't try to build political capital by spreading rumors, but be brave once and support up to 40 billion in Budapest development! [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] Speaking of fictitious constituencies and saying that you were elected in a district: [[Dr. László Kács: Can you say it as long as you like? Interviews from Jobbik: Time!]] there János Fónagy was elected, under the heading XII. In the district, not you. But at least once try to vote for these people here in Parliament. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2016-11-07-100	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I ask Congressman Márton Gyöngyösi if he will accept the State Secretary's reply. Here you go, Congressman. [[15.50]]
u2016-11-07-101	Secretary of State, I cannot accept your answer, and I cannot accept it because government communication is so confusing that in May of last year, Zoltán Pokorni, Zoltán XII. Mayor of the District and Zsolt Láng, II. It was the district mayor of Fidesz who first signed the citizens' initiative to keep St. John's Hospital as a regional health institution there, the XII. in a district which provides not only for the XII. but also patients of the surrounding districts and the settlements around Buda. So please contact your own Fidesz representatives and mayors, who also stood up for St. John's Hospital at a given time, but then someone could work them to support other plans and move a hospital to the southern Buda region, which is almost unattainable to the residents of the district and to the majority of the residents of Buda, and it will cost health workers their work because of the restructuring. So I can't accept your answer, Mr. Secretary. Thank you. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-11-07-102	Thank you very much, Congressman. As we have heard, the Member did not accept the Secretary of State's reply, so I ask you if you will accept it. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 107 votes in favour, 35 against and without abstentions. Ladies and gentlemen, The leadership of the group of the MSZP faction has asked me to delete the interpellation of MEPs Zoltán Lukács and István Tukacs. Accordingly, we have now reached the end of the interpellations at 15:52 p.m. [[A rare applause in the ranks of Fidesz. Intercom from the lines of the MSZP.]] However, in order for the immediate questions to continue without delay and for all Members and respondents to be able to take their seats, I am now ordering a two-minute technical break; and my fellow Members who leave the Chamber for their urgent duties, I ask that they do so as quickly, disciplinedly and with the least amount of noise as possible. Thank you. [[It's a short break.]] Ladies and gentlemen, It's 15:54. We'll get back to work. Congressman Gergely Bárándy, representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the President of the Hungarian National Bank an immediate question entitled "Friends, friends and others." Mr President has appointed Vice-President Márton Nagy as a response to an urgent public task. I respectfully ask the Member whether he accepts Mr Nagy or personally asks Mr President for an answer. Here you go.
u2016-11-07-103	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Although I may be able to do better with Mr. Vice President, it would seem, but I would still like to wait for Mr. President. Thank you very much.
u2016-11-07-104	Thank you very much. I would like to inform you and this House that Mr President will have to answer at the hour of the third immediate question. Member László Varga, representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: the title "Hungarian Reality" is not visible from Helikopter. The Prime Minister appointed Mr János Lázár, Minister of the Prime Minister's Office, as a response to the urgent public task. I respectfully ask you whether you accept the person of the responding person or wait for the Prime Minister to be present with your question.
u2016-11-07-105	Thank you, Mr. President. I'd like to wait for Prime Minister.
u2016-11-07-106	Thank you very much. I would like to inform you and this House that the Prime Minister must answer at the hour of the third immediate question. Member László Szakács, representative of the MSZP, wants to ask the Minister of National Economy an immediate question: . What was this? Mr. Minister has appointed Mr. András Tállai Secretary of State to respond to an urgent public mission. I respectfully ask the Member whether he accepts the person who is responding or waits for the Minister's presence to be answered. Here you go.
u2016-11-07-107	Mr President, Dear House, I'll wait for Minister. Thank you very much.
u2016-11-07-108	Thank you very much. I would like to inform you, honourable Member, and this House that the Minister must answer at the hour of the third immediate question. Now, if you'll excuse me, I'm gonna have to find the next one... Mr László Szakács is next again. Member László Szakács, representative of the MSZP, wants to ask the Minister for National Development an immediate question:. Now would be the time, wouldn't it? It's an address. Minister János Fónagy has appointed Secretary of State to respond to the urgent public task. I respectfully ask the Member whether he accepts the person of the responding person or asks the Minister himself for an answer.
u2016-11-07-109	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Of course, I accept the identity of Secretary of State.
u2016-11-07-110	Thank you very much. Congressman László Cook has the floor. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-11-07-111	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Oil prices have decreased, oil prices have decreased by 60-70 percent since August 2014. Right now, there's about $40 to $50 in the price of a barrel of oil. This is what your government believes, as it has calculated the 2017 budget at exactly $42,6 oil price per barrel. Gas prices have also decreased since 2014. The main stock exchange prices in Western Europe are continuously 40-50 percent lower than they were in February 2015. According to the report of the Regional Energy Research Centre, Russian import prices will decrease by more than 40% by June and will be cheaper than the Dutch stock exchange price. The positive effects of a reduction in gas prices would, of course, be expected to be included in households and reduce households' budgets and budgets. However, we see that the price of gas last changed in Hungary in April 2014 and that the price of district heating last changed only two years, even though it is produced from the same gas, Mr Secretary of State. Thus the question arises, why is it that if gas has been bought much cheaper since spring 2014 and the entire Hungarian gas and energy sector has been nationalised, then why does the Hungarian government take gas more expensive than the seller buys gas on the market. To whom does this benefit? Certainly not for Hungarian households. Where'd that profit go? And I ask Mr. Secretary: why does the government pay much more for gas and oil than they ask for in the market? I'm looking forward to your reply.
u2016-11-07-112	Thank you very much, Congressman. The answer will be given by Secretary of State János Fónagy. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2016-11-07-113	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Thank you for giving me the opportunity to clarify this very eclectic question you have asked. [[16.00]] It is clear that the government has helped all people in a tangible way by reducing the consumer prices of electricity, natural gas and district heating in a uniform manner, without any band boundaries, in several stages. The need for this measure has been justified, as you know, by the fact that the overhead costs for families under the MSZP governments have also become extremely high in European comparison. This is why the government has decided to significantly reduce the level of household energy prices. The Hungarian Energy and Utility Service Office's statement in October 2016 shows that the average electricity prices of consumers in Hungary are the fifth lowest in euros, while the average gas prices are the second lowest. On the basis of the Office's data, due to the reductions in overhead costs, retail consumers saved about HUF 577 billion in gas, electricity and district heating accounts between 1 January 2013 and 31 December 2015. If we also take into account reductions in water, sewer, LPG and waste charges, then the total household savings are HUF 642 billion. Based on the 2015 savings data, projected at the end of October, the Hungarian families between 1 January 2013 and 31 October 2016 [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] They saved 865 billion forints. [[Dr. István Józsa: Not enough! It's not enough!]] If you don't mind, I'll keep going. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-11-07-114	Thank you very much. In return, Congressman László Szakács has the floor. Here you go.
u2016-11-07-115	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, That's just not true what you're saying. In 16 European capitals, an average two-seek family with average consumption spends less on energy than in Budapest. I say some of them where I am sure they use heating more than we do: Tallinn, Brussels, Amsterdam, Copenhagen, Stockholm, Dublin, Berlin, London, Luxembourg. These are the countries you, if you will, consider a crisis zone. And you gave the Hungarians an opportunity to save the more they consume. The man who fires wood in a one-bedroom house didn't get anything from you, and he has a huge house of hundreds of square meters, with a sauna, a pool, and you helped them. You simply leave the poor people alone, and when we suggested that this should not be the case, that the price of gas and heating should be reduced, you voted against it. That was this month, Mr. Secretary.
u2016-11-07-116	Thank you very much, Congressman. János Fónagy, Secretary of State, has the floor for a one-minute rejoinder. Here you go.
u2016-11-07-117	Thank you, Mr. President. Congressman, that's an old story, and you know it. Support for wood burning has been resolved since 2011 and social wood supply is significant [[Dr. László Kács: Three cubic meters of wood per plot! Zoltán Grimlock: This year it's not even three cubic meters!]] and state support for this. [[Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] Congressman, you are very conscious and misguided against the population of the capital and the country. The cost savings apply to all residents of the country and to all settlements, and this is, as I mentioned earlier, 865 billion over three years, in black and white, on paper. Thank you very much, Mr President, for the opportunity. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-11-07-118	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the noise is very strong and very difficult to understand. Everyone has to yell at each other too much. Please be aware that both the questioners and the responders can speak under human conditions. Congressman János Volner, representative of Jobbik, the leader of the group, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: why does the Government oppose the increase in the wages of Hungarian people? It's an address. Dear Chief of Staff, Minister János Lázár has appointed Minister to respond to the urgent public task. I respectfully ask you whether you accept the person of the responding person or ask the Prime Minister for an answer personally.
u2016-11-07-119	I'll wait for the Prime Minister. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2016-11-07-120	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. Prime Minister will have to answer at the hour of the second immediate question. Congressman Márton Gyöngyösi, the representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question:, Is dirty money more important than the security of the Hungarian people? - Professional dilettantism in services or sabotage with the Prime Minister? It's an address. Honourable Congressman, The Prime Minister has appointed Minister János Lázár to respond to an urgent public task. [[For signal:]] I do not have to say the text any more, because the Member indicates to me that he accepts the person who is responding. Congressman Márton Gyöngyösi has the floor. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-11-07-121	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Minister, Over the last few weeks and months, a number of cases have arisen that raise sensitive questions as to whether our country and our country are safe in the hands of the Hungarian government. While there was a spectacular campaign of patriotic slogans against the migration wave, and we often heard the government speak about the protection of our national sovereignty, Minister Rogán presented a law on the basis of a 2012 law that allowed him to purchase settlement bonds for all sorts of suspicious persons in Hungary. While you explained this with an economic necessity and referred to all kinds of European examples, you can see now that this settlement government bond has served no purpose other than to bring a hundred billion forints of profit to a government minister and to his circle of friends. In addition, we have been discussing the Ghaith Pharaon case for many weeks, which has since been proven - whose name was not even heard by the Minister when his name first came up - and the Embassy of the United States of America has found that Ghaith Pharaon is the Ghaith Pharaon, who has been wanted by the FBI, who has been accused of terrorist financing, who has operated terrorist financing, havala, and who has also been associated with the name of various bank frauds, who are buying dozens of historic buildings here in Hungary, including Viktor Orbán's son-in-law, Péter Szijjjártó and has moved into the neighbourhood of Viktor Orbán. Dear Minister, In this situation, there are two options. The services either don't work, and then there is a question of responsibility; or they either work, they do their job, they report, only Prime Minister or his environment invests in this information. Minister, help us with clarity. What's going on? [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2016-11-07-122	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Minister János Lázár. Here you go, Minister.
u2016-11-07-123	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, although the time for this is short, to reassure my fellow Member and, through him, Parliament that the country is safe, as far as the operation of the secret services is concerned. Both the Ministry of the Interior, the Prime Minister's Office and the secret services supervised by the Minister for Defence will do everything in their power to represent the interests of the country and to protect the interests of the country. On this morning, the National Security Committee held a meeting in the Information Office building, where detailed information was provided by the Director-General of the Information Office, the Head of the Military Secret Service, the Director-General of the Constitutional Protection Office, the Head and Deputy Head of the TEK, the State Secretary of the Ministry of Interior, the Head of Immigration and Nationality Office, the National Police Commissioner and myself about how the relevant Saudi-Arabian citizen got into Hungary and carried out his activities in Hungary. Jobbik's representative didn't show up at this committee meeting, so to replace the knowledge that the seven Secret Service leaders said there would be difficult for the rest of one minute. One thing I can tell you is that it has been clarified beyond any doubt, and the chairman of the committee acknowledged that the relevant citizen of Saudi Arabia entered Hungary legally, and was in Hungary under legal conditions. The visa application was lodged on 1 October 2014. The application for a visa in the Schengen system has not been excluded by any document or knowledge that would have been available at the time of the verification. I would also like to tell you that in 2016, the competent body of the Hungarian government, such as the secret services, turned to the FBI that initiated the United States of America's Interpol search to confirm or deny the documents and data contained in the Interpol wanted. [[16.10]] To date, we have not received any information and data from the FBI that would enable the person concerned to be identified beyond reasonable doubt. I don't know what kind of co-worker you are at the U.S. embassy. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] I can only refer to the position of the FBI and the Hungarian secret services. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-11-07-124	Thank you very much, Minister. Congressman Márton Gyöngyösi has the floor for a one-minute rejoinder. Here you go.
u2016-11-07-125	Dear Minister, The bigger the problem is that if this man entered Hungary legally, because the fact that he did not appear in Hungary because of or as a result of your government bond business, but with a visa, which, in the same way, depends on the Immigration Office in the Schengen system, is not at all reassuring. So let us not take this as a comfort to say that this figure may have appeared here in Hungary with a visa issued in Hungary, while on a luxury yacht, Viktor Orbán's stróman, anchored himself in a marina and talked about it, which we also do not know anything about. The information received from the FBI in Hungary is exactly what we know from a letter from the Minister of Interior that he sent to the Saudi embassy, in which he sent the FBI's fingerprints to Hungary, which tells us that Pharaon is the Pharaon wanted by the FBI. It's a question of who missed you, Minister. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-11-07-126	Thank you very much, Congressman. A one-minute rejoinder is also due to Minister János Lázár. Here you go, Minister.
u2016-11-07-127	Once again, I would like to stress that, at the meeting of the National Security Committee, we have clearly clarified the consequences of entry, which I believe was an important and important issue for the security of the country. I would like to say here that the documents submitted for the visa application do not assume the same identity as the person in the Interpol wanted. There's a difference between the identity of the two persons. We asked the authorities of the United States of America to place the date of birth indicated by the person concerned in his visa application in the wanted form, and immediately arrest him if this is the man. The United States government did not do so, so it was beyond doubt that this man could not be identified. Which gave us fingerprints, and according to today's briefing, the head of the Secret Service said that this came in an unidentified capacity. In May, we requested new data from the Americans, and they still haven't responded. I don't suppose this U.S. procedure has anything to do with this man being wanted by the FBI for 25 years, and he hasn't been caught yet. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-11-07-128	Thank you very much, Minister. Dear Parliament, Congresswoman Erzsébet Schmuck, the leader of the LMP Group, wants to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question:. When does the government realize that the direction is wrong? It's called the "I." The Prime Minister has appointed Minister János Lázár to respond to an urgent public task. I respectfully ask the congresswoman, as the head of the group, whether she accepts the person of the response or waits for the Prime Minister to be present in the Chamber. Here you go.
u2016-11-07-129	Thank you very much. I'll wait for Prime Minister. Thank you.
u2016-11-07-130	Thank you very much. I would like to inform the Head of the Group and the House that the Prime Minister must answer at the hour of the next immediate questions. Member Ákos Hadházy, representative of the LMP, wishes to ask the Prime Minister, together with Mrs Bernadett Szél, an immediate question, who represents the employees? It's an address. Honourable Congressman, The Prime Minister has appointed Minister János Lázár to answer for an urgent public task, and I respectfully ask whether he accepts the person of the responder...
u2016-11-07-131	I'll wait for the Prime Minister.
u2016-11-07-132	Wait a minute, I'll tell you all about it, if you don't mind. ...or wait for Prime Minister to be present in Parliament's meeting room. Congressman, tell me now. I just gave you the floor.
u2016-11-07-133	We'll wait for the Prime Minister.
u2016-11-07-134	Thank you very much. I would like to inform you that the Prime Minister will have to answer at the hour of the third immediate question. It's your turn again, Congressman. Congressman Ákos Hadházy, representative of the LMP, wishes to ask the Attorney General an immediate question: It's an address. Before I give the floor, I would very much like to welcome Mr Péter Polt to the Chamber. Congressman Ákos Hadházy, please.
u2016-11-07-135	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Dear Attorney General, My request is not entirely up-to-date, but it is very important because your office is concerned with an important subject. I got a document a few months ago that you signed to close the traffic investigation. I think this document is going to go into the legal history, but it's probably a negative example there. A number of objective things could have been examined if you wanted them to, which would have proved the abuse, the series of abuse, but I would like to highlight an argument. You accepted the defense of Mayor István Horváth that, when the then Fidesz colleagues decided who would be the traff winner, it wasn't actually a decision-making faction meeting, it was just a spontaneous corridor rendezvous, a spontaneous conversation in the corridor, and there somehow came up with this thing, and they didn't want to decide anything. In this document, a few lines away, it says that Ákos Hadházy arrived 40 minutes late from this meeting; he arrived 40 minutes late. So my question is, do you not feel a slight contradiction in this matter? I think it's big. How do you arrive 40 minutes late from a spontaneous corridor collision? If you don't feel a contradiction, then explain why you don't. Thank you very much.
u2016-11-07-136	Thank you very much, Congressman. I now give the floor to Attorney General Péter Polt. Here you go, Attorney General, two minutes.
u2016-11-07-137	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr President, Dear House, Honourable Congressman, If I didn't take this House seriously, I'd be able to answer your question by helping you. As in previous cases, you have once again failed to indicate how you are asking for help, what your question is about at all. I would like to inform you that I do not handle these matters at my desk; in order to be able to answer anything, I need to look into it, ask for a report, and I need to read it and study it. I don't think it's a legitimate expectation that I'm going to answer you right now that this statement on the Ipsilon side of the investigative documents contradicts this statement. We'd be in about the same position as in the known joke, where the question is how much, and the answer is 20, and then we'd be 20 - and you could just say what's what. Congressman, if you'd like to ask me in writing what you'd like to know [[Dóra Dúró: Cannot interpellet!]] Then you'll get a fair answer to that. For the record, we will answer your question in writing. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-11-07-138	Thank you very much. One-minute rejoinder from Congressman Ákos Hadházy. Here you go.
u2016-11-07-139	Thank you very much. An Attorney General may be expected to think enough to explain a very simple contradiction. So, once again, what happened, in one row, is that you signed it - so you signed it, obviously you had to read it, and it was a very important case, it was very important to the public, they talked about it a lot - so you accepted that István Horváth explained this thing by saying that it was only a corridor meeting, that it was not possible to decide a matter, it was a very important thing, and I think they must have thought a lot about whether they would accept this defense; and then, with a few lines, he writes that I was 40 minutes late. It's a very simple question, so think about it now, and just say that you think it's controversial or not controversial. Thank you.
u2016-11-07-140	Thank you very much. A one-minute rejoinder for the Attorney General, please.
u2016-11-07-141	Please, Congressman, I cannot say anything other than what I have just explained; you will receive the answer in writing. I think it will satisfy all needs, perhaps not yours, but it will satisfy an objective reader. I am sure that the decision complies with the laws and the facts. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-11-07-142	Thank you very much, Mr. Attorney General. Dear Parliament, Congressman Erik Bánki, representative of Fidesz, wants to ask the Minister of National Economy an immediate question:. The new ranking indicates that the Hungarian economy is strong and has outgrown the socialist heritage! It's an address. Mr. Minister has appointed Mr. András Tállai Secretary of State to respond to an urgent public mission. [[Erik Bánki nodds.]] I don't have to tell you any more, because Congressman is signaling me that he accepts the person who is responding. So the respondents will be Mr András Tállai, State Secretary, and Mr Erik Bánki will have the floor. Here you go, Congressman. [[16.20]]
u2016-11-07-143	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, We all know that when the government took over the country in 2010, what legacy we had to face, what the period of the Gyurcsány-Bajnai government left us. In the Bajnai period, we managed to bring together a 9.3 percent budget deficit when there was no war or financial crisis in the country. [[Why are you lying? Where were you, where were you then?!]] It started in 2008, my fellow Members, I'm just saying to you. So when neighbouring countries were already on their way out, and they found a solution to the need to take measures during the financial crisis in order to maintain the country's public deficit, while still putting the national economy in a positive performance zone and on a rising path, the Bajnai government's attempt to keep the country's economy alive was unsuccessful and even with IMF loans. The result of irresponsible fiscal policy was not only indebtedness, but also the continued downgrading of the country. In practice, the perception of the Hungarian economy has fallen to a level that has not attracted investors, but rather alerted them from the country. In the last six years, the Hungarian government, together with the Hungarian people, has managed to achieve an economic policy turnaround that is now visible to everyone. Both opposition representatives and European organisations have tried to degrade the successes that the Hungarian economy has continuously achieved since 2011, but today we have reached the point that large international credit rating agencies have recognised and rated the performance of the Hungarian economy in a series. Today, the last of the rating groups Hungary in the investment category. If we look back at the figures, we can see that we have achieved meaningful results, thus strengthening the stability of the Hungarian economy. I would like to ask the Secretary of State how the government can see the direct results of these successes for the Hungarian people. I'm looking forward to your reply. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-11-07-144	Thank you very much, Congressman. The answer is given by Secretary of State András Tállai. Here you go.
u2016-11-07-145	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, This year is really about how international organisations, the European Union or the IMF recognise the success of the Hungarian economy and the Hungarian government. If I may, I would like to express and comment on the path to success. In my opinion, the government has made very consistent, very tough decisions over the past six years, but also very brave and innovative, but also by international standards, in order to bring the country out of the trouble that socialist governments have caused Hungarian people. I would like to highlight an example of this, the elimination of foreign exchange exposure. On the one hand, Hungarian citizens and, on the other hand, the majority of the government were indebted to the left-wing governments in foreign currency, which was adjusted by the Hungarian government bond programme. But the same unique decision was the job protection action plan, which started as an action plan at the time, but now it's a real program. According to this, employers pay less contributions after mothers, those in need and those close to retirement, thus encouraging work. Similarly, the growth loan programme of the Hungarian National Bank was based on such a unique decision, which is also unique in Europe. Since banks in Hungary did not finance the Hungarian economy, the Hungarian National Bank helped the economy. Finally, the decision concerning Hungarian people - but it was the Hungarian budget that gained it to do so - was also a question of reducing the rent, which was positive for millions of people, but at the same time it was able to put the Hungarian economy on a new path. Overall, it took very serious and consistent decisions to get to this point, and we can now talk about the global focus on Hungary's economic policy achievements. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-11-07-146	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. A one-minute rejoinder from Congressman Erik Bánki. Here you go.
u2016-11-07-147	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Thank you very much for the data and information that has been confirmed, Mr State Secretary, which shows that the Hungarian economic policy model implemented by the government of national cooperation since 2010 has brought unique successes and results in Europe. I would like to add one more important thing to the list of the Secretary of State, and this is the decline in the CDS premium over the past period. Let us remember that during the Bajnai government, the CDS premium of 500-600 hit the loans, which has now fallen to 120 basis points. This also shows that Hungary's international perception and investor confidence in Hungary are unbroken. And I would like to say one more thing in closing about how brave and committed the Hungarian government was. The growth loan programme launched by the National Bank and strengthened the SME sector amounted to EUR 7 billion. The Commission's proposal, the seven-year development programme, amounted to €4 billion to strengthen the SME sector. It shows who's serious and who's doing something for their own citizens and businesses. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-11-07-148	Thank you very much, Congressman. A one-minute rejoinder, Mr. András Tállai, Secretary of State. Here you go.
u2016-11-07-149	Honourable Congressman, I would like to continue with the consequences of this recognition for the Hungarian economy, for the Hungarian people. Firstly, it has a positive impact on the budget, because we can finance public finances with even cheaper interest rates; this can be measured in ten billion. This is also an important result, but it is much more important that investors look at Hungary with a completely different eye. Let's see: Hungary has a stable domestic political situation, a stable parliamentary majority. There is security in Hungary, and it can be seen that the government has only given one opinion on the resettlement quota for years and has respected it. Interest rates are low, taxes are constantly falling, and in order to improve competitiveness, the results of the Hungarian economy will certainly allow us to talk about the reduction of contributions now, so that wages can be caught up in Hungary. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-11-07-150	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Congresswoman Márta Demeter, representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question:. Now do you realize that you have destroyed the Hungarian Defence Forces? It's an address. The Prime Minister has appointed Minister János Lázár to respond to an urgent public task. I respectfully ask the congresswoman whether she accepts the person of the response or asks the Prime Minister for the answer in person. Here you go.
u2016-11-07-151	Mr President, Viktor Orbán's decisions have brought the Hungarian Defence Office to the limit of its inability to function, so I would like to wait for him to answer my questions personally. Thank you very much.
u2016-11-07-152	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, Prime Minister will have to answer at the hour of the third immediate question. Congresswoman Márta Demeter, representative of the MSZP, would also like to ask the Foreign Minister of Foreign Affairs and Trade an immediate question:, Have you sent out a Russian military intelligence officer working in diplomatic cover-ups from Hungary? It's an address. Minister has appointed Mr László Szabó Secretary of State to respond to an urgent public task. I respectfully ask the congresswoman... - but I do not have to go through it, because Congresswoman indicates that she accepts the person who is responding. Congresswoman Márta Demeter has the floor. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2016-11-07-153	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, The whole country was shocked when they attacked policemen with guns in Bőny. Once again, we would like to express our condolences to the family members of the police who lost their lives in the line of duty and to the entire police force. This tragedy painfully draws attention to the grave danger it may pose if members of extremist militant organizations can get weapons. Several independent sources of security have now confirmed to the press that the Bőnyi police killer's paramilitary organization has been associated with Russian diplomats, with whom they have participated in several joint programs and exercises. So Russian military intelligence was connected to the National Frontline led by István Győrkös, supposedly also by the GRU. These contacts also appear on a particular website, where even Tibor Navracsics, then Minister of Foreign Affairs, said that it is bizarre that news will be published on a minor website, to which Russian Foreign Affairs responds on their official website. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. [[16.30]] In recent days, we have also seen strong questions raised about the active activity of Russian secret services in our southern neighbourhood. Mr. Secretary. It is assumed that the Hungarian authorities were also aware of the relationship between Russian diplomats, Russian military intelligence and the Hungarian National Arcline. And the Hungarian State Department, I think, has an unquestioned agenda to deal with the situation. On this basis, I would like to ask Mr Secretary of State whether a GRU colleague working in diplomatic cover-up has been expelled from Hungary and whether he has been expelled from Hungary since the tragic murder of Bőnyi. In addition, were there any other steps taken by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to resolve the situation? I look forward to your reply.
u2016-11-07-154	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. I give the floor to Secretary of State László Szabó. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2016-11-07-155	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and There was no such expulsion, as far as we know, and, of course, if it had happened, we wouldn't be able to respond publicly, because that's probably... [[It's an intervention from Jobbik's ranks.]] Yeah.
u2016-11-07-156	Mr. Secretary. For the record, please do not tell the neighbours what you have to say, because this is the parliamentary order. So now I'm inconvenient to warn you. Here you go.
u2016-11-07-157	Thank you very much. So there was no such expulsion. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-11-07-158	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. A one-minute rejoinder from Congresswoman Márta Demeter. Here you go.
u2016-11-07-159	Thank you, Mr. President. It is perfectly natural that I was not interested in classified information, but we can see quite simply that there has been some demonstrational political action in neighbouring and regional countries in order to draw attention to situations of a similar nature and to show that so far and no longer. So I think that if the Ministry of Foreign Affairs did not use either this tool or any other means, that is bad enough in itself, because this could mean that Hungary could be completely vulnerable to Russian intelligence activities, disinformation and Russian propaganda, the only purpose of which, unfortunately, is to disrupt NATO and the European Union. As I said, several countries in the region recognise this situation, take action to resolve it, until then, it seems that the Hungarian State Department does not consider the situation to be problematic, nor does it take any action to resolve this. I maintain my question, and I would like to add whether Péter Szijjártó will raise this serious issue concerning the security of Hungary, NATO and the EU at his meeting with Foreign Minister Lavrov. Thank you very much.
u2016-11-07-160	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Mr László Szabó State Secretary is also entitled to a one-minute rejoinder. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2016-11-07-161	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Of course, if we have evidence of anything that requires action, we will do so. And I assure you that, in our bilateral and multilateral negotiations, we also deal with security issues. I'm going to the NATO 9 meeting in Bucharest tonight, where, of course, we're going to talk about security issues. I assure you that, of course, with evidence, we will respond, and we will take the appropriate steps. Thank you very much.
u2016-11-07-162	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Mr. Dániel Z. Kárpát, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: "Does dirty money matter more than the security of the Hungarian people? - Why are more people from the third world settled than Brussels wanted in total? It's an address. The Prime Minister has appointed Minister János Lázár to respond to an urgent public task. Congressman indicates that he accepts the person to whom he is responding. So Minister János Lázár will answer, and Mr Dániel Z. Kárpat will have the floor. Here you go.
u2016-11-07-163	Last week, the particular situation was that, while the Minister of National Economy held a press conference on the possibility of a revision of the residency bond business where appropriate, they would not lead it out, but they could review it, a two-page paper was thrown before the Economic Commission a minute before the vote, where the majority of the Fidesz-KDNP deserved to extend the activities of the intermediary company registered in Cyprus to Seychelles. Thus, the government is characterized by incredible double speech and double communication. While they have suspended the review or, where appropriate, the introduction of dirty money, we see that there will be an office opening in Iraq, we see that some of these bonds will be available by February and by the end of December. So the question would be why, if the government is really serious about whether it is a review or a discharge, it does not create clean relations. At today's meeting of the Economic Committee, it was proposed by almost the entire opposition to suspend the activities of all the companies concerned until this particular reflection has taken place. So we do not want to hear about Hungarian settlement bonds sold in Iraqi malls. We don't want to tolerate your channels of dirty money. We want to see how it works. A clear and clear situation should therefore be created. If we want to ensure the safety of citizens fully in Hungary, neither the poor nor the rich migrants have room. So don't just deal with fence cutters, but also with the rich migrants who want to buy themselves into Hungary. They can do it thanks to your system, because it seems that dirty money is more important in your mouth. The question is therefore whether they are willing to suspend the activities of these companies or to lead the entire residency bond business according to their better request and claim. Otherwise, it is not possible to achieve full security for Hungarian citizens. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-11-07-164	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Minister János Lázár. Here you go, Minister.
u2016-11-07-165	Thank you very much. Honourable Congressman, I mean, Mr. President. The Member's speech was exaggerating with exaggerations worthy of opposition representatives. Therefore, I would prefer to reflect on its content, and I do not understand emotions, because it is a very simple and very easy-to-understand case. I believe that in 2011-2012, when Hungary had financing problems and the sale of Hungarian government bonds hit concrete walls, partly because Hungary was constantly downgraded, partly because there was a high risk of liquidation of bankruptcy in Hungary after 2010, it was necessary for the Hungarian State to use special instruments for funding. One billion euros has been lent to the people whom, without knowing them, I don't know them, and you've taken me on. I'm only talking about this because who took a real risk here? The Hungarian State took a risk, which received a billion euros over the long term? What risk did the Hungarian State take when it did not grant these people citizenship, but only a residence permit for five years? In European Union countries where money is borrowed, in exchange for entry rights, citizenship is offered in many cases, Member. So I think that being an opposition is not yet capable of losing calmness and losing common sense. I've come to know you by being a calm man and thinking straight. You've been thinking that these people have lent their own money or the money of their companies to a country whose government bonds have been considered as cavalier, and otherwise the risk premium that Erik Bánki mentioned earlier was much higher than it is now. There was also a risk in the markets that Hungary could go bankrupt. Therefore, the Hungarian State will, of course, try to pay interest with favourable conditions, but if Hungary had not been in such a bad state in 2010, this type of funding would not have been necessary. The Hungarian public authorities had to guarantee that persons presenting a national security risk would not be able to purchase such bonds or stay in Hungary. I think you've met Sándor Pintér and the Ministry of the Interior, and they've given you the right guarantee. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-11-07-166	Thank you very much, Minister. A one-minute rejoinder from Congressman Dániel Z. Kárpát. Here you go.
u2016-11-07-167	Mr President, Dear House, There would be a question of how the services would guarantee this, which would be part of another discussion. But we must say that December 2014 was the turning point, Minister, when the yield environment changed to such a level that it would have been cheaper to finance in Hungary what you wanted to finance with your residency bond business. Since then, you've caused damage to the national economy, and you've tolerated it. Since December 2014, this business has been paying for Hungary because of the change in the yield environment, and we are not getting anything here. We are, of course, talking about loans, sums to be recovered, and risk factors under which, let's say, now the Islamic State's runaways with the money, their escaped criminals, if any, can buy bonds from an Iraqi mall. We're talking about an extreme incident, but in your filter four, I'm sorry, I don't trust you, which may have prevented four of the people involved. At the moment, you have installed several times as many people in Hungary as Brussels has wanted in total. So set up a system of getting dirty money, because it's unsustainable, pointless and simply unworthy of this country. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]] [[16.40]]
u2016-11-07-168	Thank you very much, Congressman. A one-minute rejoinder is also due to Minister János Lázár. Here you go, Minister.
u2016-11-07-169	Thank you very much. Honourable Congressman, Firstly, the intermediary fee was not paid by the Hungarian State. I'm talking about this because these people have written me down. [[Interventions from the benches of opposition parties, including: Z. Kárpát Dániel: I did not say that! Dr. István Apáti: I'd still miss that.]] One billion euros of government bonds and then another brokerage fee was paid. Gentlemen and honourable Members [[The president's ringing the bell.]] "I have listened to you; please do me a favor, that's all I ask, nothing more. These people have recorded EUR 1 billion of sovereign debt and paid a brokerage fee for it, while Hungary has had funding problems. How much what's worth? Honourable Congressman, If you look at it this way, we are financing the entire Hungarian government debt at a price, because today, at this hour, we get a loan cheaper than we got a year ago, two years, three years, four years and five years. So if we took out a loan today, it would be cheaper than all of our current loans, because today, as András Tállai said, we get credit under more favourable conditions than anything else. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: The difference is four times...]] Therefore, I am convinced that this is the one point in which we agree that, under these circumstances, there is no need for a settlement policy as an instrument. That doesn't mean that, of course. [[Interview from the benches of the MSZP: Rotate...]] There should be no misunderstanding that Hungary, Budapest, would otherwise not have rich investors [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] If you have any further I believe that the country needs them. [[Applause from the benches of the governing parties. Z. Carpathian Daniel: Why don't we put an end to it?]]
u2016-11-07-170	Thank you very much, Minister. Dear Parliament, Member László Szászfalvi, representative of the KDNP, wants to ask the Minister for National Development an immediate question: It's an address. Honourable Congressman, The Minister has appointed Mr László Tasó Secretary of State to respond to an urgent public task. The congressman indicates that he accepts Secretary of State Tasó as a response. Congressman László Szászfalvi has the floor. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-11-07-171	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Minister János Lázár announced in September 2016 that the government approved a HUF 2500 billion road development programme, which will build a thousand kilometres of new four-track motorways and highways by 2022. Besides the development, renovation and maintenance are also of paramount importance. This year's complex road renovation programme has been completed, with a HUF 69 billion budget of HUF 568 km of road network being renewed. According to the various studies, nearly 44 percent of the domestic road network with a total of more than 32,000 kilometres would need to be renovated to some extent, and especially in the case of lower roads, there is still a very significant lag. When the electronic toll was introduced, it was noted that part of the amount received should be dedicated to road renovation, so I trust we can trust that the renovation envelope will increase in the coming years. I would also like to mention another important topic in relation to the road network, namely bicycle roads, which are not currently centrally managed to maintain and renovate. As far as I know, it will be possible to decide within weeks that next year Magyar Közút Nonprofit Zrt. will take over the maintenance of biking routes in the outskirts, which will remove the obstacle from the creation of a complex development or renovation program. On the basis of the above, I ask the Honourable Secretary of State what resources Magyar Közút Zrt. can manage in the near future, i.e. how much money will be made in the coming years for the renovation of roads and bicycle roads. I look forward to the Secretary of State's reply. [[Applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2016-11-07-172	Thank you very much, Congressman. The answer, as I said, will be heard from Secretary of State László Tasó. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2016-11-07-173	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, As you mentioned, investments under the HUF 2500 billion road development programme will result in a huge growth in the fast-track area, building some 946 kilometers of roads. The length of the motorways will be 2092 km by 2022, making our network density about 22.5 km. I hope that we will also exceed Europe's average. What is very important is that it is absolutely necessary for us to make this large investment programme possible from the domestic budget; it will be HUF 1279 billion from the Hungarian budget that the Hungarian government needs to put next to it, and the Hungarian people will be able to do so. As you said, our 69 billion-dollar program is about to end. In 2014-2015 we completed the 34 billion-dollar programme and plan to renovate our roads and side roads with HUF 100 billion in 2017 next year. In this context, 850 kilometres of roads will be renewed. What is important is that at the beginning of the next year, the renovation of the TOP programme will be worth HUF 44 billion. I'm sure it'll show up on the road network. What was mentioned in the case of bicycle roads is indeed an important area, since there is no consolidation and organisation of the bicycle road network, which brings together a total of 2100 kilometres. It is absolutely important that you have an owner, and this Hungarian road operator will be our hope. With this, we will be able to manage the processes today, and we will need at least 100 kilometers of renovation next year. We trust in the government's support. It seems that this will help us to move on to another dimension in the world of cycling roads. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2016-11-07-174	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. A one-minute rejoinder from Congressman László Szászfalvi. Here you go.
u2016-11-07-175	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Thank you very much for your reply. I think that we agree that in the coming years we must clearly focus on the renovation of the lower roads, because there are huge bridges there, but at the same time we must acknowledge that we have been able to move forward in recent years. This is mainly about financing from domestic sources, as for many years the state has not spent a penny from domestic budgetary resources to renovate and maintain the lower roads. For the past three years, this has started, thank God. In Somogy County, where I live, the maintenance and renovation framework for the road operator has increased by HUF 400-400 million in the last two years. The renovations have increased significantly, which in my constituency in the last year and a half has been an additional 1.5 billion sources of road renovation. I think that this is a good way, a good way, and that we should continue this in the coming years in a predictable and decisive way. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2016-11-07-176	Thank you very much, Congressman. A one-minute rejoinder will be given to Secretary of State László Tasó. Here you go.
u2016-11-07-177	Thank you very much for the floor. Honourable Congressman, It is very important to mention that the public benefit contract concluded in spring makes it clear and clear for the Hungarian Road to set up a predictable model. With this, you can spend 400 billion forints on maintenance, operation and maintenance. By the way, mention of the programs, road 6819 on the Berzence-Csurgó-Iharosberény section in two lots, from TOP source and from the 100 billion-dollar programme, will be implemented in its entirety. In many places and in many areas they are pleased with the opportunity provided by the Hungarian Government, but it should always be added that this is possible because the Hungarian economy is stronger and the performance of Hungarian people is constantly improving. We are interested in this everywhere in Hungary, and we can clearly implement the programmes in time. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2016-11-07-178	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Member István Ikotity, representative of the LMP, notary of the National Assembly, wishes to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question:. Will the schools be saved? Title II. The Minister appointed Mr Bence Rétvári Secretary of State to respond to an urgent public task. The congressman, Mr notary, indicates that he accepts the person who is responding. Congressman István Ikotity, notary, has the floor. Here you go. [[In the notary seat, Dr. Lajos Szűcs is replaced by László Földi.]]
u2016-11-07-179	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, The LMP strives to make every effort to resolve the situation of the schools in Hungary as soon as possible. These institutions play a role as a substitute for shortages and are a huge help to disadvantaged areas and to children living in poverty there. The expansion of the school network and the stable funding of the institutions, I think, is in the best interests of all of us. Schools should be given a reliable source, but the problems of late announced applications have already been addressed in my last speech. The Secretary of State has answered these questions, although many questions have been raised since then. I would like to put these on now, in summary on three issues. My first question is that one of the biggest flaws in these applications was that they appeared with a huge delay, but at the same time we find that, at the moment, in the central region, Central Hungary, these applications are still not announced, while these applications have already been submitted in the summer. It will soon be the middle of November, the same problem will arise. [[16.50]] My second question, Mr. Secretary, is this. The government has not provided resources to many schools, and has not provided them with adequate resources that have worked well in recent years. Now he's putting out a spare frame, that's very good. However, when will this supplementary framework be available, and what will it be enough for, Secretary of State? [[He's consulting with Dr. Bence Tállai András Rétvári.]] Will you be able to answer? He's not listening. My third question: we would like to make it clear whether the EMMI is willing to disclose these materials and, in particular, their assessments. I think that would help us find out the truth. My fourth and last questions are: does the EMMI support the school's proposals and the LMP's proposal that these institutions should provide normative funding in the long term? I look forward to Mr Secretary of State's reply.
u2016-11-07-180	Thank you very much, Congressman. The answer will be given by Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2016-11-07-181	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Just to clarify, first of all, who is on the school's side and who is not: 60 schools were operating in Hungary in 2010, the number of schools increased to 178 by 2015, so we tripled the number of schools in five years, so I think that no one has any right to question the government's commitment to schools, as there were three times as many schools in five years as there were in 2010 when the government changed. If you look at the number of schools that could be supported and how many schools have submitted their request, you can see that we have been able to support 171 schools out of these 5 billion forints - about as many as there were schools - but this is about 170-180 places that have received 1077 applications, and 1077 people wanted to take a school. Obviously, some of these were formally defective, but a good part of them met the formal requirements, and therefore a substantive-content rating was carried out, which is why the rating procedure took so long. But it could be coded that there would be schools here that had worked before, and yet they would fall out of the tender support group. For this reason, the government, I think, acted immediately, because in two weeks, it made the call for your laugh, but it was important for a lot of schooling; I regret that this topic was only suitable for fun for the LMP. Well, so many schools were looking forward to this, which is why it was important for them when this proposal came to the EMMI website for social consultation, and we were obviously looking forward to everyone's comments. In general, everyone was happy that the government opened another HUF 2 billion, and in December it was possible to apply for it. Overall, we can say that while between 2012 and 2015, 5.3 billion forints are now available to support the schools. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-11-07-182	Thank you very much. A one-minute rejoinder from Congressman István Ikotity, notary.
u2016-11-07-183	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, What was I laughing at? I was laughing at him putting on the disk that you told me the other day, if you look back at the report. These are not the questions I've asked you. That's what I did a few weeks ago. That's the same answer the Secretary of State said. My question is that 178 is more or 171. Last time you mentioned, you supported 178 schools, and now you've supported 171. You told me that you had more support; apparently that's less. The Secretary of State did not answer my question, which concerned when this supplementary framework - which we consider to be good, but not enough - would reach the parties concerned. I remind you that nine months at the time of the last application were not enough to obtain this amount, and even to be notified of it in the first place. Mr. Secretary, these schools need time to process this, so that they can now prepare for it, start working. What you have just decided - quite quickly, by the way - when you will reach them, is one of my questions. The other is whether those evaluations are public. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] which you say are invalid applications; we do not think it is invalid, in most cases it has been proven that it is not.
u2016-11-07-184	Thank you very much. The Secretary of State is also entitled to a one-minute rejoinder. Here you go.
u2016-11-07-185	Thank you very much. I've answered your questions, Congressman. I said the new application will be launched in December, that's what we're hoping for. I think it is clear that 7.3 is larger than 7,35, so the scope of support is increasing. In the last six years, we have tripled the number of schools, and now we are increasing the amount of money that can be spent on schools. So I think it's comforting for a lot of people. And it is perfectly natural, Congressman, that if we can support 1077, and 171 schools, then there will be applications that obviously meet formal criteria, but because they are ranked back in the scoring system, they will not win, so those who have advanced in the scoring system have won. But on the whole, if you were not looking at the aspects of some applicants or applicants, but if you were talking about the children in your speeches, you would see that this would give much more children the opportunity to prepare in better conditions with the help of appropriate professionals even in the afternoons. Thank you very much.
u2016-11-07-186	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Congresswoman Anita Heringes, representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Minister for National Development an immediate question: "What can we expect? It's an address. The Minister has appointed Mr János Fónagy Secretary of State to respond to an urgent public task. Congresswoman indicates that she accepts Secretary János Fónagy as a replyer. Congresswoman Anita Heringes has the floor. Here you go.
u2016-11-07-187	Thank you for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, I'll stand here again and ask questions for the sake of my region. I'm guessing at the Parliamentary Secretariat of the Ministry of Development, if you see my name on the list of immediate questions, you know what's gonna happen. Unfortunately, the viewers may feel like a slowly continuing telephonic, which could simply be a positive conclusion and a solution; it is up to you, honourable Secretary of State. Without modesty, we can say that without the support of Paks Nuclear Power Plant employees and the Paks population, MVM Zrt., which you are supervising, would not do well today. Still, we're starting to feel like stepmothers around Paks. For decades, the Paks Nuclear Power Plant's support policy worked well, one of the objectives of which was to provide a good environment for the workers, family members and residents of the power plant. As long as the decisions were made on Paks, everything was fine. Since you changed the name and logo of the Paks Nuclear Power Plant due to centralization, it hasn't contained any trace of the individuality of the power plant. Only since then, his support policy has become centralized, and somewhere in closed rooms, somewhere in Pest, the great people decide who the Paks Nuclear Power Plant can and cannot support. We've lost the area, the population, which is why we, the congressmen, are here, and that's why the government should work. Each year from the beginning of the cycle, we are only believed that there will be medium- and long-term solutions for information support, support for sports associations, support for regional development foundations. Compared to this, there are not long-term but medium-term solutions either. Everyone lives and plans day by day, but in the long run, it doesn't work. Dear Secretary of State, How many times do you have to ask, ask, so that things can go well, so that they can be solved? When can we expect a reassuring, long-term solution for sports clubs, the region, foundations and information money? I'm waiting for your answer.
u2016-11-07-188	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. The answer will be given by Secretary of State János Fónagy. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2016-11-07-189	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and We are always very happy to hear your questions, all the more so because I can give you concrete answers. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and On 2 May 2016, we entered into 100 million sponsorship contracts and on 23 September 2016 another 30 million sponsorship contracts with the Nuclear Power Plant SE. In response to your previous speech to Parliament, Minister Lazarus promised to call a meeting. This meeting has taken place, and you, the Fidesz Member of Parliament and Mayor of the city of Paks, and Minister Lázár and Seszták attended. Here, at the request of the Paks Nuclear Power Plant Sports Association and the mayor, there was an additional demand of 70 million, which met a demand of 70 million. So according to the documents in my hand, the Nuclear Power Plant SE has so far received 200 million forints for competitive sports and has received more than 76 million for other mass sports. The state has spent significantly more money on information. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and I think you're aware of what's happened so far, and you've had a lot of questions about the future. Madam President, during the coming period of this year, Brussels will decide on the issue of the Paks Nuclear Power Plant. As soon as we have the Brussels decision in our hands, and we can be sure of what we have already been sure about, we are once again ready to discuss the future and to meet the Paks' needs in this direction in full. Thank you very much. [[17.00]]
u2016-11-07-190	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Congresswoman Anita Heringes has the floor for a one-minute rejoinder. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2016-11-07-191	Dear Secretary of State, The problem with thinking is that the Paks Nuclear Power Plant is functioning for decades and decades. The existence of aid amounts does not depend on enlargement; we are talking about the nuclear power plant now in operation. He's been doing his support policy normally ever since they've been centralized, and that's not how it's been. Minister Seszták was given the honour of combing these strands in April to resolve the issues of support policy. Compared to this, by the end of June we were promised that the amount of money for the basketball department of the Atomic Power Plant Sports Association would be paid to sustain itself. If I hadn't asked a question at the end of September and many people hadn't pulled serious strings, this organization would have gone bankrupt. It's so irresponsible that it's unbelievable. The problem is, there's promises in the attic. We don't see the information money, we don't see the money in the regional development foundation. This system used to work. Why are they ruining everything? Why does everyone have to live every day in Hungary? Thank you.
u2016-11-07-192	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. János Fónagy, Secretary of State, has the floor for a one-minute rejoinder. Here you go.
u2016-11-07-193	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Look around that attic because it's $276 million in that attic. If this transfer is delayed for any reason, I am willing to offer my assistance, whether in another meeting or if you trust me, to transfer these questions. To the best of my knowledge, these recipients, the right holders, have received them. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2016-11-07-194	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, It's 5:02 p.m., and we're done with Question Time. I thank you for your cooperation, your patience, your work, and your chairmanship to Vice-President István Jakab. Here you go. [[István Jakab, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]]
u2016-11-07-195	Welcome, fellow Members. Dear Parliament, It is now time for a series of proposals to be discussed. The MSZP Group has proposed that the Parliament decide on the reduction of the gender pay gap H/11718. Proposal for a decision on inclusion in the scope of this Regulation. The series of articles was rejected by the Committee on Enterprise Development. Dear Parliament, First I give the floor to the author, within a five-minute time frame. It's time for Congressman Lajos Korózs. Here you go.
u2016-11-07-196	Thank you for the opportunity. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the Socialist Group, my fellow Member, Mr Nándor Gúr, submitted a proposal for a resolution to the Parliament in order to eliminate the gender pay gap. It is certainly well known to my fellow Members that almost all of the European Union documents address the issue of equal opportunities, and many of the employment aspects point to equal pay for women and men in the same occupation and in the same time of service. I would like to draw the attention of my fellow Members to the fact that, in addition to the basic documents of the European Union, the Commission of the European Union has a recommendation, which was born on 7 March 2014 on women's day, which makes it clear to the Member States that Member States should review the causes of the gender pay gap, identify these shortcomings and take effective measures to eliminate differences. I would like to draw the attention of my fellow Members to the fact that there has been a recent sociological research and it makes it clear that, in the case of beginners, there is actually no difference between a woman and a beginner, but after two age groups, the gender pay gap becomes clear for the third age group. Of course, our motion is to put an end to pay differentials at the expense of women on the agenda. I would like to draw your attention to another finding of research, which makes it clear that according to school education over the age of 40, differences are extremely large, unfortunately to the disadvantage of women with a degree in leadership in Hungary. While an average wage difference of roughly 20 percent is perceived as a national average, in the case of graduates there is the highest wage difference, above 27 percent, and even 24 percent of university graduates. Of course, in both cases, I am also talking about the fact that this is at the expense of women. As a result, our proposal covers, among other things, the government's review of the structural problems that cause this wage difference and, on the other hand, the creation of a national database involving the public, where large, serious companies make their own wage formation public in order to ensure that everyone is informed of it as best as possible. My fellow Members, I should like to mention that, in addition to the fact that this parliamentary decision has been reached, I would like to give you a very simple statistical information in the explanatory memorandum. There are occupations typically performed by women, such as education, such as health care, such as certain segments of the public sector. Looking only at health care, I collected three statistics - and I do not want to burden you with this - and looked at the average earnings in the field of health in Szabolcs County, Győr-Moson-Sopron County and Budapest. The average wage in the county of Szabolcs in the healthcare sector - I stress, the average wage, the statistical data are from the website of the HCSO - HUF 73 444; the net wages of the health workers working for the physical work are HUF 55 545. I could ask how the hell that could be, because these people don't even get the minimum wage net. Typically, and we are talking about an infirmary or a hospital boiler heater because they do not employ these people for eight hours, so that the net wage of 55,000 forints can come out for those who do physical work. The situation is significantly better in Győr county, there the average exceeds 124 thousand forints, but the average price of the physicals in Győr county is only 82 977 forints. The average in Budapest is 152 thousand forints and 106 for physicals. This clearly shows that there are terrible regional differences. I would like to emphasise that there are always regional differences, but I cannot believe that such blatant differences would exist anywhere in the countries of the European Union. That is why I call on my fellow Members to support this series of articles. Thank you very much.
u2016-11-07-197	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, A representative may now present his position in a two-minute time frame for each group of representatives and the first independent representative to speak. First I give the floor to the Members who have applied in writing. A speech will be made by Mrs Dóra Dúró, Member of the Jobbik Group. You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2016-11-07-198	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, A real problem is what this proposal for a decision is trying to address, although the package of measures that we, the bettermen, would consider sufficient and necessary to really remedy this problem is incomplete. Indeed, the proportion of wage differences between men and women in Hungary is very high, above 15 percent based on the latest research, and it can be seen that in the last 20-25 years there has been no government that has been able to significantly reduce this or take substantial measures to narrow down this scissor or to close it down, because this would be the desired one. He also had a number of proposals for Jobbik that would have encouraged mothers and women to work in family-friendly jobs, which would have been encouraged by companies, but our initiatives were rejected by the majority of governments. It is also necessary for women to be able to work under better conditions and pay better because women's employment and employment are linked to demographics. [[17.10]] The demographic emergency age is Hungary's biggest problem, and we must therefore do so in every sector where we can reduce this, where we can reduce it. Today, the relationship between female employment and childbearing has been reversed. 30 years ago, we saw that if the government encouraged women to stay home with their children as long as possible, they had more children. Demographic decline has now been eliminated or halted, reduced where women are encouraged to return to the labour market and provide them with adequate jobs. This is, therefore, a priority which is why we support the inclusion of this proposal for a decision in the subject series. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2016-11-07-199	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, A speech will be made by Congresswoman Zsuzsanna Szelényi, an independent Member. You have the floor.
u2016-11-07-200	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear fellow Members, Today, women in Hungary are not equal to men. They don't have the same licenses, and they don't have equal chances in many, many other areas of life. Among other things, this is shown by the wage difference between the wages and wages of women and men. In fact, this is the most tangible element of how less respected women are in this country than men. Women in Hungary work more than men, however, if we look at a 60-year-old man and a 60-year-old woman, the 60-year-old woman who worked her whole life, she is much poorer than her male partner. However, Hungarian women do as good a job as men, but they are much cheaper. They are cheaper, although in most cases they are better trained than their fellow men. In addition, the more they learn, the cheaper they will be, because as the age progresses, the career career path progresses, the wage gap between women and men is increasing. Plus, this country is being carried by underpaid women. Our lives are in the hands of underpaid women in childhood, adulthood, old age. Often women do not even know that they receive less money for the same job than men, because there are many secrets surrounding salaries in Hungary, and this is totally unacceptable. I therefore think that this proposal is very worthy of this House's attention. Let us do it, let us look at the causes of wage differences; by the way, we know that it is basically that we value women's work less than men's. This is insufferable! [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] It is about time that Hungary's parliament changed. Thank you very much.
u2016-11-07-201	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, Mr Schmuck Erzsébet, the LMP Group, has made a statement. You have the floor.
u2016-11-07-202	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, The May Other supports the Socialist MEPs' initiative to reduce the gender pay gap. I would like to point out here that the LMP will, for the longest time, present its equal pay programme to reduce the pay gap as well. Last week was the European Day of Equal Pay. On November 3, this year, women work for free for the rest of the year, they are not paid compared to their fellow men. According to recent data, the average gross wage of European women is 16.7 percent lower than that of men. In Hungary, this gap has increased to over 20 percent under Fidesz-KDNP governance, now it is 15.1 percent. At the same time, we see that this decline was not because women's work would have been better recognised by the government in recent years, but rather that public work has increased and the proportion of men among public workers has increased and the men seeking higher wages have gone abroad to work. It also increases the pay gap by women earning less for the same job and having a significant disadvantage in the labour market. The salary of women in senior positions is 30 percent lower than that of men. This is why LMP has put a package on the table, which has also focused on wage transparency, but unfortunately these proposals have been voted off by the government. The LMP is convinced that with the recognition of women's work, everyone wins. Increased employment, higher wages, and higher family income. A national action plan on equal pay should therefore be established to reduce the pay gap. Thank you for your attention. We support the initiative.
u2016-11-07-203	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, I'm asking if anyone else from any of the factions would like to comment. [[For signal:]] Yeah. I give the floor to Congressman Nándor Gúr. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-11-07-204	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, In my view, the durability of the pay gap is not in question for either of us, so looking back for decades, it can be seen that there have been no significant positive changes in this respect. Unfortunately, therefore, a comprehensive impact assessment should take place, and we have therefore proposed the adoption of the draft parliamentary resolution, because the government can start it if it has not started these processes on its own, and can look at the legal or social or economic limitations of all that this process cannot start from the zero point. Look, there are also social expectations in this, naturally, and expectations that have been set on their flag by interest organisations, so I would suggest to you in this sense too, because if they see it this way and we are thinking not only on the political stage in this respect, then I think that this is a story with wider support, so it would be worth moving around. It would be worth it just because it is really unfair to work for the same job, for the same performance, practically more than 70 days in a given year for free. In this process change demand, therefore, justice is manifested as such. Pay the same wage for the same job, the same performance. Once the reasons have been identified, you will also see clearly and clearly what we often talk about, especially in the areas of health, education, social affairs, where women work most of the time, where this is even more specific. That needs to be changed, so I need your support. Mr. President, thank you very much.
u2016-11-07-205	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I'm asking if anyone else wants to speak. [[No one's reporting.]] I don't see any contact. I will ask Mr Lajos Korózs, as rapporteur, if he wishes to reply. [[For signal:]] Do this in two minutes, please. You have the floor.
u2016-11-07-206	Thank you very much for the floor again, Mr President. My fellow Members, allow me to say that we would like to explore the economic, structural and social causes of the gender difference in wages from the proposal for a parliamentary decision. I think we can all agree on that. That's what I took out of the commentary's opinion. We ask the government to look at the causes that are objective and which arise from differences in age, education or experience gained. If all of these were revealed by the government, it would be possible to come up with a plan of measures that would be able to eliminate these differences at a later stage. Our proposal also states that we should look at the legal implications of this whole process after its discovery, because if it is necessary to legislate, the government will bring the draft laws here. Moreover, if we do not see this ensured, I would like to say to my fellow Members now that we will exercise our Members' rights and we will submit draft laws in the near future, all the more so because we want to comply with the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union. Article 4a, which clarifies the role of governments in this regard. Thank you so much for listening.
u2016-11-07-207	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The decision will take place on our meeting tomorrow. Dear Parliament, The LMP Group has proposed that the Parliament decide on the T/1110 on the amendment of individual laws to address the serious labour shortage. Bill No. 1 on inclusion in the series of articles. The series of articles was rejected by the Economic Committee. Dear Parliament, First, I give the floor to the rapporteur, Mrs Schmuck Erzsébet, within a five-minute timeframe. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2016-11-07-208	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, There is a consensus here in Parliament that one of Hungary's most pressing problems is the emigration that has lasted for years and the labour shortage that has led to this. [[17.20]] Trade, catering, manufacturing, IT are severely understaffed, and I could tell you more. The shortage of labour reached its peak this summer and extended to the country's territory, west, east, skilled, unskilled workforce. But what we see is that the government doesn't really know how to solve this problem. It has also been said that if there is a shortage of skilled workers, it must be imported from abroad. In order to supply cheap labour, the government also acted under the influence of the corporate lobby. It adopted a law and regulation that facilitated imports of workers from neighbouring countries outside the EU, Ukraine and Serbia. Moreover, special care was provided to priority employers, such as strategic partners. Other times, they want to release hundreds of thousands of people from the public sector to solve the shortage of workers. According to the LMP, the causes of labour shortages and emigration should be addressed, namely the wage crisis, in order to halt labour migration. It is not the cheap labour supply that needs to be resolved, but the economic policy based on cheap labour must be put to an end. The result is that Hungarian wages have been permanently and definitively cut off from wages in Western Europe. Two thirds of the employees earn below the average net wage of 160,000 forints, which corresponds to the level of one or two Western European income tenths in purchasing power parities. The LMP's submitted bill therefore focused on wage increases. The first point of our five-point proposal is an immediate and significant wage increase. A large, two-digit wage increase is only possible with a tax and contribution reduction. To do so, it is necessary to reduce labour withdrawals, not employers' contributions, but employee contributions, which would immediately appear in net wages. With our tax system, the net value of the minimum wage would automatically increase by 32 percent in one step, by 23 thousand forints, and the net of the average wage would be 37,000 forints more. The other part of our wage increase proposal concerns the public sector wage increase. The LMP would provide additional resources to raise wages for teachers, workers in higher education, nurses, social workers and daycare workers, people working in public administration and municipalities. Our further proposal is to strengthen vocational training. A qualitative reform of professional training is needed to increase the skills of the workforce. In vocational training, training is needed for flexible skilled workers capable of adapting rather than serving multinationals with cheap trained workers. It is therefore necessary to increase public knowledge, language and IT education, to introduce a mentoring system to reduce early school leaving, and to provide practical training conditions by setting up school workshops and supporting small businesses to create practical training places. Fourthly, targeted vocational and adult training programmes for disadvantaged people should be launched in order to acquire skills and improve basic skills and employee competences. Public work must also provide a way out to the labour market. The unemployed must receive personalised help. It is clear that training and employment aid should be increased. We consider it very important to launch a public housing programme. In many cases, the lack of affordable and affordable rentals is an obstacle to working today. The development of a social housing sector is essential for labour mobility and the access of young start-ups to housing. However, this is not enough. We need a 180-degree turnaround in economic policy, based on competitiveness based on knowledge rather than on labour. That's what needs to be done. Please support our proposal. Thank you very much. [[R. R. Robert Sallai and the right representatives applaud.]]
u2016-11-07-209	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, A representative may now present his position in a two-minute time frame for each group of representatives and in two minutes for the first independent Member to speak. First, I will give the floor to the Member who has applied in writing. Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát, Member of the Jobbik Group, will now take the floor. You have the floor.
u2016-11-07-210	Mr President, Dear House, The importance of the proposal before us is supported by the fact that the failed economic policy of the Fidesz-KDNP government has resulted in hundreds of thousands of people being forced to find their calculation and prosperity abroad, and the amazing labour shortage at home appears in almost every sector, and we can now say that regional disparities within the country are still present, but this phenomenon is still everywhere. It can be seen that while the government's strategic partners are primarily foreign multinationals, they are kindly favored by the Cabinet discounts, there could be a system of support between small and medium-sized enterprises in Hungary that could be grouped together with a production support tax system to create additional elements of quality Hungarian jobs, added value, and with a comprehensive reduction in contributions, where we think of a minimum of 30%, there could already be some increases and some facilitations in terms of wages in Hungary. Obviously, it would be easier for this whole system if the EU record rate of 27 percent of VAT was finally released by this government if it wished to pursue a fair economic policy instead of building and expanding a assembly plant, but we can see that there are still no signs of this. There is a painful lack of a production support tax system, a third foot from the reduction of contributions, a home creation programme that would be able to address the housing crisis that has now become systemic. For example, the category of jokes and jokes is the rent that Hungarians have to pay in the capital or in large cities. The government is in debt to the answers. This proposal, although not fully covering the solution package, obviously affects a large and large proportion of it. At the very least, it would be worth discussing the House, but the fact is that with real solutions, you cannot be indebted not only to this government but also to its successors. So these issues will have to be discussed sooner or later, so the Jobbik faction clearly supports this negotiation. Thank you. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2016-11-07-211	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Mr Róbert Sallai Benedek, the LMP Group, has submitted a speech. I'll give you the floor in a two-minute time frame.
u2016-11-07-212	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Mr President, The May Other Group of Politics naturally supports the presentation and agrees with the situation that seeks to reflect on the problems in the labour market. I must say that, in addition to the position of our group leader and the presentation of the legislative proposal, it is essentially a structural problem that is very difficult for them to pass the past eight years and very difficult to pass on responsibility. The public work policy of the past period shows a very, very colourful picture in the country. There are very successful programs in the Start community, where small plants producing valuable local products have been created, and there are the same public works, where their daily performance is required for every public job to save two cents per day. But the biggest problem is not that they finance such a pointless programme to improve statistics, but that the demand for a public work programme and the need for a primary labour market in many places are parallel. The possibility of seasonal work in agriculture has ceased because fixed, permanent public work triggers this possibility. In Jászberény, at Samsung, Jász-Plastik, Ukrainian workers appeared, and practically many of these human resources rental companies appeared throughout the country with advertisements who would bring in cheaper workers than Hungarians. There is clearly only one direction: as much money as possible should be given to as many workers as possible, and this requires a change in social security and tax rules, a structural change in employment policy, which this motion for an amendment gives rise to. There is the opportunity for my fellow members of the Government to improve this by incorporating amendments to their own ideas if they disagree with something, but the need to talk about the problem itself and to address it is a fact, and we therefore ask for the vote on the inclusion in the series of subjects. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2016-11-07-213	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Mr Nándor Gúr, MSZP Group, has applied for a speech. You have the floor.
u2016-11-07-214	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The result of Fidesz's economic policy, backed up by quotes, is that over 600,000 people have left this country in six years. [[Mátyás Firtl intervenes.]] But this process, one, must be braked, two, if there is a way and opportunity, it must be reversed. We are no longer talking about you not being able to do this, so this is what seems to be happening over the past period, so let's talk about why the proposal itself and previous initiatives have been rejected. for you. On 20 July 2016 we presented another draft parliamentary resolution on behalf of the Hungarian Socialist Party [[Intercom from the pro-government benches: János Háry!]] , for which we have identified the increase and increase in low employment wages - minimum wage, minimum wage guarantee - as one of the solutions, obviously also by reducing and reducing high labour costs; and by calling for the increase of the workforce in vocational training at the level of education, even by granting and assessing a form of support equivalent to the minimum wage, in addition to appropriate learning outcomes during the training period. And, of course, in order to facilitate the mobilization of the country, we have also included in the draft parliamentary resolution a programme of housing, or, as you might say, housing or insurance, or the need for it. You, my fellow Members, have all been ignored, hated from guts. [[17 .30]] The draft Parliamentary resolution is similar, which is now on the table, and we very much support this, and I ask you to be able to cross your own limits and support these proposals in the interests of the country as a result of further consideration. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2016-11-07-215	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Mr Jenő Manninger, Fidesz Group, has made a statement. You have the floor, Congressman. [[Interview from the ranks of the MSZP: Hear, hear!]]
u2016-11-07-216	Ladies and gentlemen, Of course, we can have an important debate on these issues, obviously not in the demagogic way we have heard here. To say that hundreds of thousands of people are going abroad as a result of a government's economic policy, everyone knows that it is a complete deception, because all the countries that were joining - or you could call them - were a former socialist country - have similar problems. So there is no doubt a serious problem with labour migration, but this is also a problem for the whole European Union. So it is possible to talk about the causes of these, but with such a demagogical approach it is not even worth starting the debate, even though the subject is very important. I must also say that there is a shortage of skilled labour and there is a shortage of labour in Hungary, so let us not forget that the most important reason is the development of the economy and, indeed, the reduction of unemployment. It is possible to talk about making the public work programme more successful, it is very important to create a skilled workforce, the government has many programmes - and this deals with the transformation of vocational training - that aim to achieve this. But I think there have been plenty of opportunities to talk about it and to talk about it in the following areas. Thank you very much.
u2016-11-07-217	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I'm asking if anyone else wants to speak. [[There's no signal.]] I don't see any contact. I will ask the rapporteur, Mrs Schmuck Erzsébet, if she wishes to respond to what was said in the debate. [[For signal:]] Yeah. I'll give you the floor in a two-minute time frame.
u2016-11-07-218	Thank you very much. I would just like to say that I would like to thank my fellow Members, who support the proposal and the inclusion of this series of things, even because if this were to be on the agenda, there could really be substantive debates here on how to solve labour shortages, how to change the wage issue and the wage crisis. And I also think that the majority of pro-government representatives could vote in confidence in the series of issues. Thank you very much.
u2016-11-07-219	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, The decision will take place on our meeting tomorrow. Dear Parliament, The LMP Group has proposed that the Parliament decide on the T/11321 amendment of the laws necessary for the protection of urban public parks and urban green areas. Bill No. 1 on inclusion in the series of articles. The series of articles was rejected by the Committee for Sustainable Development. Dear Parliament, First, I will give the floor to Mr Róbert Sallai as rapporteur in a five-minute time frame. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-11-07-220	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, I must immediately draw attention to the fact that, where appropriate, the Committee for Sustainable Development has made a big mistake, and you have the opportunity to clear and correct this mistake, because obviously, quality of life and good quality of life, the fundamental right of Hungarian citizens to a healthy environment is essentially made up of a lot of factors. Obviously, there are important issues, such as health, education, income, but at the same time it is also a clear question of what environment we live in and what our living environment is all about. In recent years, the Fidesz-KDNP government, with extremely anti-life-related efforts, has practically ordered a multitude of public parks and trees to be cut down, thus putting urban green spaces at risk of habitability and vitality only in order to create space with new technical developments, EU funds draining and government investments to open up new spaces to steal some money. One of the biggest losers of this development policy has already been seen in terms of green surfaces in the capital city, since, if you look at it, in the Városliget, the museum grove project, we are talking about more than 600 trees, we are talking about 150-year-old trees, and the past of which stretches back to XVI-XVII. Until the end of the century, and today's picture of the 19th century. From the end of the century to the Fidesz administration. In the Orczy Garden, the Ludovika Campus investment in 2013, 130 trees were cut, 1500 trees were cut in the mobile barrier system on the coast of Rome, practically all trees in the underground garage at József Rádor Square would be cut, practically all trees in Széll Kálmán Square would be cut down, over 200 trees in the construction of the underground garage at Kossuth Square, and about 100 trees would be cut in connection with the Dagály swimming pool. Unfortunately, we can say that this is not only a problem in the capital, but it is increasingly apparent that in rural cities, if they see any green surface, one of the Fidesz city leaders immediately dreams of concrete, what can be put there and what can be produced. In order to prevent this, I ask for the help of the Parliament. 20 years ago, the Nature Conservation Act introduced the concept of ex lege protection, which creates an opportunity protected by the power of the law for our very many natural values, and the basis for my proposal is that coherent areas of over 500 square meters of landscaped wood species should be protected by lex lege, and this should be the basis for us to try to prevent them from being cut down. And obviously it is not only because you have to love trees, and it improves the living environment of the living environments, but also that according to the concept of Budapest capital, the per capita green space in the capital should be 5.4 square meters. This is very, very little, as the recommendation of the World Health Organization defines a minimum of 9 square meters per city area. According to the surface cover data, there is now 2.7 percent green surface in Budapest, while Prague is 5.8, Vienna is 4.4 percent, Berlin is 5.5 percent. This means that there are twice as many green surfaces everywhere as there are in the capital of our country. The proportion of green areas in the capital is therefore very, very small in European comparison, and apparently, according to the model calculations of the World Health Organization, by the end of November last year some 1,700 people in Budapest, 230 people in Debrecen and 200 people in Miskolc, caused the premature death of the concentration of particulate matter that appeared in air pollution. Green surfaces reduce noise, reduce local climate, bind dust, and substantially improve air purity, while ensuring the possibility of life for recreational purposes and rest purposes. This is where grandchildren can learn to ride their bikes, where they can walk as much as possible, relax after work, sit in the park for pensioners, and the sacrifice of all these green surfaces endangers the image of our country in an extraordinary way. In Hungary, 13 thousand people are lost every year as a result of air pollution, and with such simple measures as the protection of green surfaces, this could be done against. I call on my fellow Members and, above all, the pro-government factions, which did not support the inclusion in the Commission's proposal, to consider their fate and try once to represent national, Christian values and to support the green surfaces hiding in the built environment of our country. I ask your support for this. Thank you for the floor, Mr President.
u2016-11-07-221	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, A representative from each group of representatives can now speak within a two-minute time frame and the first independent representative to speak, also within a two-minute time frame. First, I will give the floor to the Members who have applied in writing. A statement will be made by Mrs Loránt Hegedűs, Member of the Jobbik Group. You have the floor.
u2016-11-07-222	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Dear tableds, The bill before us will be supported and supported by Jobbik's faction. [[László Kucsák: What is the condition?]] [[17.40]] However, if, and if, the House has a series of subjects and will have a general debate, we would have further amendments to this bill, because, in addition to our view, it is extremely important to protect the existing public parks, we consider it at least as important to preserve the protection of public parks themselves and of the green areas in the settlements. What do I mean? That it should indeed be considered, where appropriate, to restrict the freedom of municipalities to establish regulations in this respect, that is to say, that it is not possible to transfer such areas into their property regulations from the limited marketable or unfit stock to business assets and to grant them, in their construction regulations, in their regulatory plans, a construction zone classification that qualifies them as built-in areas. Because unfortunately, let us say that we are now seeing a number of such cases in Hungary. There have been some pretty amazing and scandalous cases, and some of them we know will eventually, but they will follow us. Besides the City Park, we should mention the fate of Népliget, which we know is that they will likewise want to build it into a residential park when it is also a very important and valuable green surface for the capital. We would therefore like to prevent such and similar cases, in addition to the fact that the authors are right in the numerous cases where, unfortunately, there were no better opportunities to spend EU money, some local leaders found, and the existing green parks were cemented. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-11-07-223	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Mr Zoltán Gőgös, MSZP Group, has applied for a speech. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2016-11-07-224	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to point out that we are in favour of inclusion in the series of things; like our fellow Member before me, we would also have amendments to it, but this does not change the point. What we do see is that this government really only likes green in stadiums, and it is absurd that the Committee on Sustainable Development will not allow such a proposal to be presented to Parliament, which is exactly what it would have to do to ensure that the areas protected are as large and widely as possible. There have been attempts here with protected areas, we know that the Constitutional Court has had to be consulted to prevent certain rights from being transferred to unauthorized hands. This should be changed, and that is my firm position, and it is true that they are trying, of course, to find all sorts of reasons here, that, say, the green area will grow for a project in the City Park, but it doesn't matter that instead of the area with 150-200-year-old trees, there will be grass in square meters, because the two are not exactly the same over underground garages. So I would ask the fellow Members to think about this until tomorrow because there is a very bad message that now, in the middle of Europe, such proposals will be rejected from the hip instead of having a meaningful discussion about them in Parliament. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2016-11-07-225	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Mr Schmuck Erzsébet, the LMP Group, has made a statement. You have the floor.
u2016-11-07-226	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would also ask you to support Robert Sallai's proposal. I think that my fellow Member has explained in quite detail in the five-minute presentation why it is important to adopt this law. This is not only about the fact that in Hungary the proportion of green surfaces in cities has decreased significantly or is smaller than in other European countries, because it is vital for people living in cities to have a green surface around them. This is the basic condition of the right to a healthy life. I would like to draw your attention to another point that has not yet been mentioned. The Paris agreement came into force a few days ago, signed by 55 countries. In a few days, the climate negotiations will begin in Marrakesh. With regard to climate negotiations, we know that the issue of adaptation is a very important issue. Of course, we can talk about reducing CO2 and greenhouse gases, we can talk about financing issues, but we know that adaptation issues have become a key issue. The size of the green surface determines how we can, so the size of the swallows, so the green surface is essential if we want to reduce the effects of climate change. Consider, for example, that in a city with a large green surface, summer hot canicula days are much more bearable than not, such as small settlements, where there is still an environment close to nature. I would very much ask my fellow Members, if it is not for those who live only in the city, in settlements where the green surface is small, it is better not to be supported only for this reason, but in any case to support action to promote climate change. Thank you for your attention.
u2016-11-07-227	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Jenő Manninger, Fidesz Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-11-07-228	Ladies and gentlemen, I think that local governments have a lot of opportunities to enforce and increase green spaces in the legislative framework. A green area development obviously spans a decade, and here it was said that there is so little green space in the capital. Indeed, it can be said that in the ninety and two thousand years, these green areas could not be increased not only, but the quality of the green areas themselves has also become very poor, for example, the Népliget quoted here or even the City Park. However, it is a good thing that there are positive initiatives in the capital - although you have obviously forgotten this, at least the previous speakers - that the office building that captured the location of the free air flow and that it was built as an obstacle in one of the most air-polluted locations of the capital during the current government, on Margaret Boulevard. It was very important that this was gone. It is also a good news that it has appeared here in the current newspapers, so my fellow Members have read that 160 new trees have been installed on Margaret Boulevard. Of course, further development is also very important, there is a capital plan for this. Obviously, this could be like a wage increase, so there's always more to say. I think it is very important that we talk about up to 1,600 trees or 10,000 trees, so that we know how much area this applies, so that these plans can be implemented, and it really is worth a lot more than the maintenance of current green surfaces if new green surfaces are opened and this multi-thousand tree planting programme is achieved in the first place. Thank you very much.
u2016-11-07-229	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I'm asking if anyone else wants to speak. I have indicated, ladies and gentlemen, that a faction can only be one speaker. Please understand - house rules. Dear Parliament, So is it from another faction? [[No one's reporting.]] No. So I will now ask the rapporteur, Mr Róbert Sallai, if he wishes to reply. [[For signal:]] Yeah. You have the floor in a two-minute time frame.
u2016-11-07-230	I'd like to answer a few things. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Thank you very much for your comments. I'd like to start with my colleague, Jenő Manninger. Thank you very much for your thoughts. Obviously, what has happened for the sake of air purity is not a substitute for what has happened to green surfaces, because we are talking about the existence of green surfaces, which is basically also a key habitat for urban ecology. However, as a member of the committee, my fellow Member Manninger should be aware that a 100-150-180-year-old oak needs exactly 100-150-180 years to fulfil its ecological and welfare functions, and that this function cannot now be achieved by planting grasslands and planting 5-6-year-olds. We're talking about two lifetimes. For this reason, it would be very important for development policy to turn to brownfield investments and respect the preservation of green surfaces everywhere, because this can contribute to a better quality of life for our citizens. I also thank you for your support from the benches of opposition representatives. I say to Jobbik, of course, that we can open this debate without further ado, we are open to these amendments, everything that contributes to a better proposal, of course we welcome it and welcome it. We have also considered the priority area of government investment in the proposal as they even override local provisions and local protection measures in rural areas, taking the powers completely away from it, so it is also very important that it is managed. [[17.50]] Accordingly, we are open to such amendments. Thank you for the words of Zoltán Haughty. I am pleased that the Hungarian Socialist Party also supports these initiatives. It is very, very important to say that we are talking not only about the capital, but about Győr because of the watery Olympics, and then about Villányköves, because of the hotel construction, about Balatonfenyves, about Szolnok, and now also about Tiszaliget. Unfortunately, this is not only a capital curse in the activities of government, but also everywhere in the countryside, and it is necessary to manage it uniformly. I request your support for this tomorrow. Thank you for the floor, Mr President.
u2016-11-07-231	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The decision will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, The Jobbik Group has proposed that the Parliament decide on the compulsory acquisition of wealth by Members of Parliament, Members of the Government and State Secretarys and, by tightening the procedure for the declaration of assets, T/12465. Bill No. 1 on inclusion in the series of articles. The series of articles was rejected by the Judicial Committee. Dear Parliament, First, I give the floor to the rapporteur, Mrs Dóra Dúró, within a five-minute timeframe.
u2016-11-07-232	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Jobbik has presented a comprehensive set of laws on asset declarations, supported not only by the need for transparency in the treatment of public funds, but also by the political events of recent years and decades. One of the most important initiatives of this bill, which may not need to be justified at all in 2016 is the creation of an electronic, accessible database of searchable data on property declarations. I cannot make an argument in 2016 that would justify maintaining the manually completed declaration of assets system and not changing to the Parliament or any person obliged to make a declaration of assets to the electronic system. If you can make such an argument, I would like to thank you for presenting it to us in the debate, but I also think that Parliament should set a good example in this regard; as Jobbik does. From this year on, each of our parliamentary representatives will use the electronic declaration system, so that each member of the Jobbik faction will submit their own declaration of property in this way. On the other hand, we need to talk about the fact that family members, close relatives in a household, also have a public declaration of property. The representatives of Jobbik have already done this, and on the party's website we have also published the property statements of all our close relatives living in a household, but neither the MSZP nor Fidesz has followed the example of Jobbik in this respect. However, we have seen in recent years that this is indeed necessary, as several pro-government politicians have found that a very large amount of property is listed in their close relatives' names. On the other hand, we would like to expand the staff in other ways, not only to extend it to relatives, but also to require government commissioners and ministerial commissioners to make public declarations of assets. This is because there are government commissioners, such as Andy Vajna, who, under the leadership of the Hungarian National Film Fund alone, disposses almost HUF 8 billion of public money each year, and we have seen that one part of the production of the film has been outsourced to a company owned by Andy Vajna's wife. That is why it would be necessary to publish the property declarations of the relatives and the government commissioner's declaration of property. In vain, I turned to the Hungarian National Film Fund for information in the public interest, and they did not issue the contract or the amount that the government commissioner, who led this organization, paid to his own wife in connection with the movie, which was made with more than HUF 1 billion state aid. In December 2014, Antal Rogán promised to announce in the press that the Fidesz faction will review the practices on the international declaration of assets and present to the House a proposal that will resolve these issues. At that time, Antal Rogán said that the Parliament would switch to an electronic system, that he did not rule out the disclosure of the family's property declarations, and he also talked about the need to expand the personal circle. So the proposals that we have now put forward have been announced by Antal Rogán as faction leader, and he promised that the Fidesz fraction would present it to the House. That didn't happen. It seems that you have entrusted the cabbage to the goat, because it was the Minister whose declaration of property has been changed several times. But at least he showed me the changes. They have a fellow Member who has modified or wanted to modify his declaration of assets because he forgot a HUF 500 000 item a month - he did not mention this amendment. In his view, the current legislation is not clear that the change between the dates for the two declarations of assets should be indicated, and we would therefore like to include this in the proposal and make it clear that the changes should be indicated. So I'm asking you to try to raise objections, why it's not good for us to move to the electronic declaration of assets, why it doesn't serve transparency, if we're going to make the family public, and why it doesn't serve transparency if we're expanding the personal circle. Thank you so much for listening. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-11-07-233	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, A representative may now present his position in a two-minute time frame for each group of representatives and in a two-minute time frame for the first independent Member to speak. No one came forward in writing. I'll ask if the factions have any opposition. I give the floor to Congressman Robert Benedek Sallai, the LMP Group.
u2016-11-07-234	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and The May Other is the political faction that supports the proposal. I would like to say, as your speech has shown, that all five members of the Group of Possibly Other Politics have published the declaration of property for their spouses and children on the party's website. I also made my area payment application public. Having a number of farmers among us, it is also good to see the transparency of this and the need for it. The May Other Politics has therefore done so and is willing to take the step to continue to do so in the way Jobbik proposed in order to protect from subsequent amendments, but we fear that the Fidesz government will not have any ambition to do so. Antal Rogán, Minister Szijjártó, Mr Andy Vajna or the Prime Minister and his family, the question arises whether these have been done fairly, in accordance with good morals. But however we turn these questions, however we continue to consider them, we always end up in the same place: at the moment, a well-organized criminal group has acquired the Government of Hungary and the majority of the Parliament, and with the efforts to circumvent public wealth, they make the legislation so that it is possible to obtain the largest possible public wealth. Some take fishing waters, some carry state land, some move in sports associations, some are built into the film industry, the point is that everyone should have something from public property, everyone should be there as presidents to control resources. And how can this be hidden in the secret property declarations of family members, while all their representatives or at least most of them view Hungarian society as stupid, but see that they are actually a decent-working, simple income gain. Obviously, that's not true. This requires change, and every effort can only bring positive change in Hungarian democracy. Accordingly, we support the proposal.
u2016-11-07-235	Thank you. I give the floor to Congressman Árpád Velez, MSZP. Here you go.
u2016-11-07-236	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, The Socialist Party supports this series of articles. Thank you.
u2016-11-07-237	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Congressman Gábor Staudt, Jobbik Group.
u2016-11-07-238	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Before the Committee on Justice, this proposal had already been turned around, and then we could get explanations from the present pro-government representatives that the Hungarian system in Europe was particularly strict. If that is the case, although I am not sure, but let us accept the arguments of the Fidesz-KDNP representatives, then Hungarian politicians steal more in a very mean and fraudulent way than in other European countries, because the corruption ranking of European countries shows this, and if we accept that there is also a strict system of declaration of assets in Hungary, then it is not in line and we need to tighten this system further. [[18.00]] And if the stricter system cannot achieve any changes, then even double penalties should be imposed for criminal offences committed by politicians. One thing is certain, corruption must be prevented in Hungary. Nor can it go on that virtually ministers or pro-government representatives only have more than 10-15 years of legal income. There's no such thing. This can't be happening. By the way, at the meetings of the immunity committee, you can hear the news, there are explanations that are quite simply freaky. And you know what you need? It's a majority vote, and it's accepted every explanation of where the wealth came from. And why, for example, should children's and relatives' declarations of property be made public? It's simple. The practice is to put these amounts on the kids, and if, let's say, the investigative press finds out, then the magical expression is family cooperation. Do you know how much the electorate hates that expression? And, of course, you believe your fellow Members that, by the way, you can buy another hundred million-dollar property for a small child from a family collaboration. And the immunity committee, of course, nods a lot, you raise your hands, and it's taken care of. Believe me, this exercise needs to be changed for everyone, including you. Thank you. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-11-07-239	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Vas Imre, Fidesz Group.
u2016-11-07-240	Thank you for the floor. Unfortunately, this bill does not meet the requirements of the law on legislation. Here, too, it has been shown that the authors are not familiar with their own proposal. The author said that the government commissioner, the Prime Minister's Commissioner and the Minister's Commissioner would be required to make a public declaration of assets. And they're trying to put it in a law after the bailiff, the prosecutor, and the notary, which, by the way, is about non-public declarations of assets. It is clear that this is a legal and political job. [[Dr. Gábor Staudt: You haven't solved it yet.]] Obviously, the authors aim to continue the political campaign. Especially when, for example, it is written in Article 5. In paragraph 3, the law will enter into force on the day following its publication, not considering at all the fact that who, let's say, is a government commissioner already, then how should I make a declaration of assets and list them further. They don't care at all about whether the technical conditions are in place. On the other hand, it is indeed as we said at the Justice Committee meeting that we have a study comparing the obligation of 17 countries to make declarations of property together with Hungary. This includes the obligation of the United States, the old EU Member States and the new EU Member States to make declarations of assets, and Hungary is practically the third most stringent of these 17 countries. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-11-07-241	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Independent Congressman Szabó Szabolcs has applied for a speech. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2016-11-07-242	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. We must certainly do something, my fellow Members, with the system of wealth returns. This is one of the fundamental problems in my view of the fact that the perception of Members in Hungary is quite negative. Because what does an ordinary person see? I'm not saying that all politicians are, but that there are also politicians who, apparently, couldn't afford the standard of living they live with their income and wealth. So something's wrong there. And since that's what an ordinary person sees, unfortunately, they're projecting this on all of us. Me, you, everyone. That's why they say to you, to me on a daily basis, that you're corrupt, cheating, and all that. We know what you get on a daily basis. Which is why we have to do something about it. According to Együttt, what Jobbik is writing in its presentation and civil rights organisations have been saying for a very long time that this reporting system must be made electronic. This is a very important debate, and I think it would be worth discussing how and how it should be extended to the public of family members. And we also believe that there is a very important element, and that we have also made an amendment, and that it has not been passed through the Justice Committee, as is the proposal that, by the way, we should confess to the network that is owned by everyone. 'Cause right now, we're all gonna have to sign in a company that owns it, but not the company that owns it, and not the network that's building it. That's the best way to do it. Thank you very much.
u2016-11-07-243	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I will ask Mrs Dóra Dúró, as rapporteur, if she wishes to reply. [[For signal:]] Yeah. I'll give you the floor in a two-minute time frame.
u2016-11-07-244	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I admit, I didn't expect anyone or anyone to respond from the pro-government benches. So thank you very much, Congressman Vas Imre, for doing this. With regard to your concerns about the entry into force, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that you have 30 days to make a declaration of assets for everyone, so that if it enters into force on the day following the announcement, it can be technically resolved. Neither you nor any of your fellow Members can ever give a meaningful answer to any of my questions about why a manually completed asset declaration system is better than an electronic one in 2016. The electronic declaration would make the declarations of assets verifiable, comparable, searchable and create a multi-annual retrospective database on this, which would greatly facilitate transparency. If you are too strict to make a public declaration of assets to the government commissioners, prime ministers, ministers, we may as well take this part out of this proposal if you can support any part of it. But the arguments you have made do not prevent the majority of governments from taking this proposal into consideration. You can see that you want to keep sneaking about this system and believe that people believe that Peter Szijjártó is being held by his parents as a minister. 'Cause according to your statement of assets, you didn't come out of math, and you had to tell the press this insolence as an explanation. Or if, in the case of Antal Rogán, we compare his expenses and his legal income in his declaration of assets, Antal Rogán does not spend any money, for example, on food and rent. [[György Szilágyi constantly intervenes.]] So if this system is what you want to maintain, then your soul is on it, but it is not a system that creates a decent political culture. Thank you.
u2016-11-07-245	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, The decision will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Fellow Members! My dear fellow Member, If you do not mind, the chair of the meeting shall present the position on the decision. So the decision will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Thank you for your understanding. Dear Parliament, The Commission's reports on the implementation of Act C of 2014 on Hungary's central budget for 2015 and the discussion of the summarised amendment follow. The government referral T/12284. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. I declare that the presentation will be discussed as an EU and national agenda item by the Parliament. First, the position of the Committee on Budgets and the opinion expressed by the minority will be presented in a 60-minute time frame. I give the floor to Congressman Lajos Szűcs, rapporteur of the committee.
u2016-11-07-246	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Your Honour, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, Dear fellow Members, We have a draft law on the closure of the 2015 central budget, the general debate of which took place on 14 October. The Committee on Budgets, as designated committee, held and concluded a detailed discussion at its meeting on 19 October. Of course, as the House Rule requires, the other standing committees of Parliament and the Committee of Hungarian Nationalities discussed it. In my recent speech, I will also present his views. The negotiating committees have determined that the bill complies with the resolution house rule 44. The requirements of paragraph 1 of paragraph 1 of this Article shall apply. [[18.10]] the bill complies with the substantive and formal requirements of the Fundamental Law. No amendment was tabled by the Member, and only the Committee on Budgets tabled an amendment, which was unanimously supported by the members of the Committee. The essence of this is that the State grants to the Greek Catholic Church XIV. district property, which is still used for cultural and artistic purposes. I believe that the 25 000 Greek Catholic communities in Budapest will be the good owner of the property. In addition, our committee, acting as a legislative committee, has also submitted another so-called TAB amendment, which aims to ensure that church institutions performing public education tasks receive similar amounts of support to institutions with state and municipal reservations. They were therefore granted one-off additional aid for the year 2015. The following are the opinions of the negotiating committees. Opinion of the Committee on Budgets. The government was also committed to a low government deficit in 2015 and to falling public debt, and has not stopped increasing the number of employees. The country's total national product increased by 3.1 percent in 2015, which increased by more than half a percentage point compared to planned. This has been achieved, not only by deterioration but also by further improvement in the balance indicators. It is important to point out that the year 2015 was the year when one of the major international credit rating agencies recognized - I say already because since then all the others - what the performance of the Hungarian economy was, and therefore it classified Hungary. As we know, this year's second, and a few days ago, the third, too. For households, the Curia's decision regarding banks' foreign exchange lending practices was very important, according to which the exchange rate gap used and the continuous interest rate adjustments were unfair. In the context of bank settlement, credit institutions had to return their profits to customers, so nearly HUF 1000 billion was repaid at the beginning of 2015. The growth rate is clearly indicated by the fact that domestic demand has also increased faster than expected, as household consumption has increased by 3.4 percent in excess of the growth of the national total product. In 2015, the debt ratio, calculated according to the European Union methodology, decreased to 74,7 per cent from 75,7 per cent of the previous year, resulting in a further reduction in government debt in 2015. In terms of the budget deficit, the deficit became more favourable than expected last year, since it was achieved by 1.6 percent instead of 2.4 percent. The smaller deficit was due to the positive macroeconomic developments and additional revenues from the whitening of the economy. The stability of the budget is well demonstrated by the fact that only two budget changes were needed in the previous year: one due to the debt transfer of BKV and the acquisition of Erste Bank; the second because of the additional costs incurred in connection with the migrant crisis and the debt transfer of MTVA and the . Modern Cities programme. Opinion of the Cultural Committee. The committee, examining the bill, found that it complied with the House Rule 44. The requirements of paragraph 1 of paragraph 1 of this Article shall apply. Opinion of the Committee on Foreign Affairs. For Hungary to succeed, it is essential to maintain good relations with our foreign partners, to contribute to the work of the European Union and the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation, and to the continuous development of our external economy, and to create conditions for sustainable economic growth. The latter may be implemented in part through the external economic attaché network, the trading houses and the National Investment Agency. At the same time, foreign affairs recognised the importance and potential of cultural diplomacy, as well as science diplomacy. These have increased the role of mediators and the objectives have also become more pronounced in recent years. This is also the goal of the Balassi institutions operating abroad with great success. The Balassi Institute received 4 billion HUF 427 million from the budget. At the same time, the cultural activity and activity of foreign representations are increasing as compared to previous years, and can help the foreign economic recovery. All these institutions contribute to the success of Hungary and to the achievement of national interests. Opinion of the Committee on Sustainable Development. In 2015, the expenditure of the institutional and sectoral objectives of environmental protection increased by HUF 390 billion compared to the previous year's performance by around 70.5 percent. The expenditure of the institutions, the National Institute for Environmental Health, national park directorates, environmental, nature conservation and water authorities, water boards in 2015 amounted to HUF 208 billion. The increase in the sector's expenditure was mainly influenced by increased expenditure on KEOP projects, as well as by the settlement and increase of interim income and expenditure of water directorates in KEOP and border projects. Significant progress has been made in the area of transport development. In the years 2014 and 2015, fast-track road developments were delivered in some 100 km long, with several main roads being reinforced at 300 km to 11.5 tonnes axle load. The implementation of roads avoiding settlements, such as Győr, Nyíregyháza, Mórahalom, Kecskemét, was also a significant achievement in the development of railway tracks and stations. In the context of the development of urban community transport, green urban buses have been put into operation in several cities. Thanks to the program "Home Gay" programme, more than 85 thousand households can improve their energy efficiency. With the replacement of obsolete household appliances, Hungarian families could save up to HUF 150,000 on their annual rents by modernising residential buildings. Opinion of the Economic Committee. The accounts for the implementation of the 2015 budget, the closure accounts, clearly show that the targets set in 2010 have been met and that the desired economic policy direction has been maintained. In 2015, while maintaining a framework in previous years, tax policy focused on improving the entrepreneurial environment, whitening the economy, reducing the administrative burden in the practical areas of taxation and improving the focus of tax incentives. The success of the measures is shown by the dynamic increase in revenues from the three main tax categories, personal income tax, VAT and corporate tax, in which, in addition to economic growth, the whitening of the economy played a role. The number of employees increased significantly by 2.7 percent in 2015. The number of people employed in the competitive sector increased by 2.9 percent. Last year Hungary's external balance improved further as a result of the surplus in foreign trade and the inflow of EU transfers. This was also reflected in the current payment account, after a 2.1 percent surplus in 2014, it showed 3.4 percent activity in 2015. In 2015, the debt ratio calculated according to the European Union methodology decreased to 74,7 per cent from 75,7 per cent in the previous year. Thus, the government debt decreased in 2015. Interest expenditure and, indirectly, debt levels were mitigated by the core interest rate reduction sequence of the Hungarian National Bank started in 2012. Overall, it can be concluded that the implementation of the 2015 budget was in line with the legal requirements; the discharge bill is well-founded and that the data contained therein are reliable. Opinion of the National Security Committee. According to the majority opinion of the National Security Committee of the National Assembly, the appropriations of the 2015 Budget Act for civil and military services ensured the full fulfilment of the duties of the secret services set out in the Act. Minor changes have been made to the organisation of the Information Office. The Office's budget had a budget of HUF 735.2 million more appropriations for professional tasks and development. [[18.20]] The introduction of the police career model and the improvement of human capabilities were also appropriate and resources were available. With regard to the Constitutional Protection Office, there was also the resources needed for its operation, including the resources for the development of salaries and other improvements in the law enforcement career. The Office prioritises the personal control of refugees recognised as refugees, so the migration crisis was an additional task in 2015. In 2015, tackling migratory pressures and military engagement against the Islamic State required greater military engagement, which, of course, meant extra expenditure for specialised services. Opinion of the Defence and Police Committee. In line with the budgetary options of the Ministry of Defence, maintaining the functioning of the force, strengthening its professional nature and fulfilling the tasks of the HM chapter arising from Hungary's international engagements and federal obligations were a priority in the budget of the 2015 chapter. Among other things, the aim was to increase the efficiency of the management and management system and to improve the sustainability of the Hungarian Defence Forces. In 2015, the establishment of a temporary border closure to strengthen border protection and the management of the crisis caused by extreme mass immigration, as well as ensuring Hungarian involvement in the fight against the Islamic State as part of international engagement, have already played a key role. As regards the management of the migration situation, the military took part in the Serbian and Croatian sections with significant numbers and technical insurance. At the centre of the chapter in 2015, the government decided to introduce a new military career, with an average salary improvement of 30 per cent with effect from 1 July 2015. The Ministry of Defence maintained the operationality of the defence in 2015 and further strengthened its professional character. The budget provided the resources needed for international and NATO commitments. The Ministry of Interior also highlighted the introduction of a law enforcement career, and the extraordinary immigration and migration pressure required additional resources, which was also provided by the Government to the Ministry of Interior. During 2015, monitoring the activities of organised crime and terrorism that induce national security risks and cooperation between national security and law enforcement bodies were a priority. The necessary budgetary resources were provided to both ministries. Opinion of the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary. The committee, examining the bill, found that it complied with the House Rule 44. The requirements of paragraph 1 of paragraph 1 of this Article shall apply. The opinion of the Committee on Agriculture: it can be concluded that the agricultural sector's emissions increased further compared to the previous year and reached HUF 2457 billion in 2015. This growth is only 0.3 percent, but thanks to the not-so-favorable weather, it is still a good performance, as 2015 has brought the third hottest summer in the last hundred years. As a result, compared to the 2014 record crop, only 6.5 million tonnes of maize and 1.7 million tonnes of sunflower were produced. The results of livestock production also demonstrate the appropriateness of the VAT reduction and allocation measures, as the sector's emissions increased by 3.6 percent compared to 2014 and this increase was mainly realised in the pig, cattle and poultry sectors. It can be said that the growth in livestock production has boosted the results of agriculture in 2015, which suggests that the increase in the sector's weight against crop production is a compliment to the good work of the government. At the beginning of the year, like the general sales tax on live and half-carcases, the products of the bovine, ovine and caprine sectors have now been included in the reduced VAT range of 5%, which has clearly led to the whitening of those sectors. At the end of 2015 the land began for farmers! A program. The aim of the public land sale programme under this programme is to bring Hungarian farmers to land and to strengthen the position of small and family farms. Opinion of the People's Welfare Committee. The committee, examining the bill, found that it complied with the house rules. Opinion of the Judicial Committee. In 2015, the expenditure of the bodies in the judicial functions and the appropriations managed by the chapter amounted to HUF 131,3 billion, more than the previous year's performance by HUF 8.6 billion. In the revenue and expenditure of the institutions of constitutional chapters, the audit of the State Audit Office did not reveal any reliability errors, and the revenue and expenditure data are reliable. In 2015, local authorities managed to generate a total revenue of HUF 3305.8 billion together with financing operations, which is 5.9 percent higher than the 2014 performance. The central financing of local authorities was carried out in 2015 under the task-based support scheme established in 2013. Since then, the aim has been to consolidate the structure. In 2015, the main task of local authorities was to strengthen the fiscal conditions for management without operational deficits, to create further opportunities for small settlements to catch up and to increase the quality of public tasks and public services provided by local authorities. The support of the 2015 appropriations in the function group of faith activities was totalled HUF 53.5 billion and the expenditure was HUF 59.6 billion. The bulk of these grants was the provision of 1 percent of the offers and additions to each year, the real estate allowance paid in connection with the settlement of the property ownership of the church property, the support of religious education, the income supplement of the Hungarian small settlement and foreign ecclesiastical persons. Opinion of the Committee on National Inclusion. The objective of the Committee on National Inclusion is to support the well-being of Hungarians living outside the borders of the mother country, to promote the preservation of Hungarian language and culture, and to promote the care and development of relations between Hungarians abroad and Hungary. The Bethlen Gábor Fund supports initiatives, programmes and institutions whose aims coincide with our national political interests. By 2015, HUF 4 billion 820 million was earmarked to cover education and training grants to help minors studying Hungarian or Hungarian culture or students studying higher education. The House of Hungarians received HUF 216 million in support, whose events serve to strengthen national identity and strengthen the solidarity of Hungarian communities. The funding of national institutions and programmes amounted to about HUF 4 billion and HUF 126 million from last year's budget. Opinion of the Enterprise Development Committee. On the basis of the presentation, the Committee concluded that the government was on track to achieve the economic policy objectives it announced at the beginning of the government cycle. Since the turn of growth in 2013, we can say that Hungary is on the right track, since the growth structure of the economy is sustainable in the long term. As regards the 2015 budget, it is particularly important to mention that the budget deficit has become much more favourable than expected, since it has been achieved by 1.6 per cent rather than 2.4 per cent. [[18.30]] There was more tax revenue than expected. For example, corporate income, eva revenue, but energy tax revenues were more favourable than planned. Opinion of the Committee on European Affairs. During its implementation, the budget met the main conditions of Maastricht criteria in 2015, the general government deficit below 3 per cent and the government debt declining in proportion to GDP. With regard to the use of EU funds, it should be pointed out that last year EU funding received HUF 1165.9 billion from the central budget. Dear House, Dear Mr. President, Mr. Secretary. On the basis of the summarised opinions expressed, I would ask this House to support the bill. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-11-07-247	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Three speakers presented the minority opinion in the committee, with a total duration of 30 minutes. I give the floor first to Congressman Árpád Velez. Here you go.
u2016-11-07-248	[[Without sound:]] Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, This year, Parliament has amended it to a government proposal on numerous occasions. [[Intercoms: Time has not begun.]] the Public Finance Act. [[With a loudspeaker:]] The aim of this was to minimise the control of Parliament over the budget. The government can now redistribute resources as it wishes, and even the necessary resources are not required to make a commitment. The House is discussing a proposal for a closing account in such a way that the implementation of the budget is becoming increasingly less transparent and verifiable. The budget of the Orbán government in 2015 maintained a failed unorthodox economic policy, resulting in a thousand billion HUF withdrawal in healthcare, education, pension and social care. While the weight of welfare expenditure has decreased significantly, the state spends a lot more on itself. Despite the constant reduction in red tape, the number of employees in the public sector has increased by hundreds of thousands since 2010, as has the state's economic engagement increased many times. Doubtful bank purchases, empty gas reservoirs bought for hundreds of billions unnecessarily, unjustified prestige investments, government moving to Castle on one side of government, until 8 years ago there was a changing public service salary base, debt-choking health care, misguided and misguided education policy failures on the other side. This was 2015.As far as the policy rationale of the proposal is concerned, as highlighted by the State Audit Office, there is a significant risk in the implementation of the 2015 budget that more than half of the appropriations were open from above. This risk-bearing practice was maintained by the government in the case of future budgets. Although this has not caused any major problems last year, its application means recklessness. The MSZP Group does not support the adoption of the bill on the implementation of the 2015 budget in view of the dangerous level of the top-up appropriations of the 2015 central budget, the reduction of Parliament's control over the budget to a minimum level, the misplaced order of public financial priorities. Thank you.
u2016-11-07-249	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congresswoman Loránt Hegedűs. Here you go.
u2016-11-07-250	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, Since the change of regime, Parliament has adopted the government's financial report by means of legislation, giving the government an exemption from the responsibility of management. That is why, it would have been particularly important for us to be able to act carefully on this issue, and that is why the SAO's opinion would have been important, which could have been the basis for our decision. It is essential that such a report should be reliable and give a real picture of the farmer's assets, its composition, its financial position and the outcome of its activities. However, this shuttering bill before us is not like this. In the absence of this, Parliament and its opposition cannot meet one of its most important obligations, i.e. the accountability of the government. This means that, unfortunately, there is no development in Hungary in terms of accounting and accounting, as has been the practice of the last few decades. It is also extremely difficult, and it is also extremely condemnable by the government that, while the base for closing accounts, the adoption of next year's budget should be based on the closing accounts of the previous year, but unorthodoxly, all professional logic and tradition aside, the House has already adopted next summer's budget law, and therefore cannot be justified either. It is regrettable that the government did not account for the spending of public funds in reasonable detail. This is also an example of what I said at the committee meeting that the Prime Minister's Office established its initial expenditure budget at HUF 28 billion in accordance with the Budget Act, but this changed to HUF 56 billion during the year, but the delivery totaled 42 billion, so that only 75 percent of the expenditure was achieved. There is no concrete justification for this either in the proposed bill or in the SAO report. There are such things as a significant item spent on certain things. However, what a significant item means does not be defined either by the government or by the SAO. However, it is not only the Prime Minister's Office that should be set as an example in this sense, although it is particularly interesting that staff expenditure has increased from 10 billion to 13 billion, from 2.3 billion to 3.7 billion. However, we can also safely mention the KEKKH, which is currently to be abolished, which increased its expenditure from HUF 3 to HUF 3.5 billion in personal expenditure and its expenditure in rem from EUR 23 billion to HUF 27 billion. However, the Ministry of National Economy has also increased its expenditure from 15 billion to 18 billion for personal expenditure, and even more drastically for real expenditure, as for the NAV, where personal expenditure has increased from 90 billion to 115 billion. It is very interesting for us that, for example, in connection with sport investment in Kisvárda, we can see that expenditures have increased to 1.5 billion instead of the originally planned HUF 800 million, and in addition, there is an item of HUF 1 billion previously unplanned. And so on, I could mention a number of other examples of this kind; perhaps one or two more, if I may. In the case of the Liget project, there was also a significant increase of HUF 1.2 billion compared to the originally presented one. If we go to the Liget, there's obviously no sign of that. At the same time, in addition to the government's reporting of increasing tax revenues, only 32 billion instead of the originally planned 39,7 billion in the toy tax area were realised in the case of a single item. This reduction of 7 billion is indeed interesting and clearly due to the lack of control. With regard to the SAO report, I have to say that there is no mention of the shortcomings that we have listed and which are further detailed in the general debate, neither accountability nor auditing. Instead of auditing the SAO, he's covering for the government. A decade and a half ago, the English experts concluded their cooperation with the SAO by stating that the culture of accountability with public funds is underdeveloped in Hungary, and the SAO report states that the SAO cannot and does not intend to change this situation. [[18.40]] Thus, about two years ago, some 100 institutions carried out the audit of the accounts, the management of the appropriations managed by the chapter, as well as dozens of central management revenue and expenditure, but now only compliance checks are carried out, as can be found on page 14 of this report. This is all the more regrettable, because the SAO could play a meaningful role in the fight against corruption if it finally understood that it could carry out an audit-type audit in bulk, which, in our understanding, would be very necessary. On this basis, and because we see that in 2015 the government has failed to make substantial progress in solving our national fate issues, so it has not been able to influence its fiscal policy or mobilise it in a sense that, for example, it will do anything about the catastrophic demographic situation or mass emigration, but we could also say about the situation in education and health, all these problems remain unresolved, so we cannot accept the closing account in this form. Thank you so much for listening. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-11-07-251	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mrs Erzsébet Schmuck, the third representative of the Commission's minority opinion. Here you go.
u2016-11-07-252	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Overall, it can be concluded from the 2015 budget that it was a budget of decoupling in a number of respects. On the one hand, we are moving away from countries in similar situations in Central and Eastern Europe, both in terms of financial indicators and social development indicators. On the other hand, the split-up of Hungarian society and the split-off of a major part and half of it continued. The deteriorating educational indicators, the growing grotesque state of health, the increase in the proportion of people living below the minimum level, coupled with the generous distribution of small circles and the tax system for perverse redistribution, cause society to break up. To these phenomena, the government has responded to little or no of the problems. In 2015, it became apparent to everyone that emigration had become the number one obstacle to economic development. There's a shortage of professions today, not just skilled workers. This has been highlighted by the LMP for a long time, and it has also identified the instruments that affect it: a general wage increase with the reorganization of the budget, wage increases in the public sector and the strengthening of public services. On the other hand, the 2015 budget included the inclusion of restrictions after 2010. Health and pension systems, environmental protection and education institutions have reduced expenditure on GDP. Investment in a sustainable economy has also been lagging behind, so we are moving away from an economy that can guarantee prosperity and well-being for all on a permanent basis. Losses due to unnecessary or harmful expenditure and corruption are increasing. This was particularly large in 2015, given the size of the EU's spending. These resources, which are now going to the wrong place, are missing elsewhere, for example, from the very resource-intensive recovery of health care, and will be missed even more if EU funds are lost. In the context of the implementation of the budget, it is clear how macro indicators have evolved. By 2015, a 2.5 percent increase in GDP was planned. Although this increased to a lesser extent, 2.9 percent, the black soup came in in the first quarter of 2016, GDP fell in, 0.8 percent below the last quarter of 2015. In the second quarter of 2016 there was a 1 percent increase compared to this, i.e. in mid-2016 we are at the point that GDP is not substantially higher than at the end of 2015. This roller coaster shows precisely the drawbacks of fidesz management of EU funds. The government debt in HUF has never been so high, 25 250 billion. That's 150 billion more than what you're planning. Although the ratio to GDP has decreased due to slightly higher GDP growth and the known debt reduction techniques at the end of the year. As far as wasteful and unnecessary expenditure is concerned, these also amounted to hundreds of billions in 2015, not to mention overpriced or even stolen EU and domestic projects. In 2015, public money flowed into private pockets in the same amount as never before. In the budget, the investment in Paks can finally be identified as 14 billion, the start of moving to the Castle, the Liget project, 50 billion stadiums, 52 billion to Eximbank, and more. But unnecessary and wasteful spending includes a large part of the 70 billion allocated to the public media, the 50 billion tao for sport purposes. There are hundreds of examples of wasting and draining EU funds, which LMP presents from week to week in the context of corruption information. These hundreds of billions of people will be very much missed when EU money runs out. I will miss them, because in order for everyone to have a living job, health, housing and a natural and human environment, it would be necessary to do so and to do so would require significantly more resources than at present. Therefore, LMP cannot support the adoption of the accounts. Thank you very much. [[Sallai R. Benedek applauds.]]
u2016-11-07-253	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, I will ask Mr Péter Benő Banai, State Secretary, whether he wishes to speak on behalf of the government now or later. [[For signal:]] Thank you. Later, the Secretary of State will have a ten-minute timeframe. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Imre Ritter, rapporteur of the Committee on Nationalities, within a five-minute timeframe.
u2016-11-07-254	Sehr geehrter Herr Vorsitzender, sehr geehrtes Parliament! Erlauben Sie mir bitte, dass ich im Namen des Ausschusses der in Ungarn lebenden Nationalitäten unsere Meinung äußere. Es betrifft die Gesetzvorlage über die Ausführung des Gesetzes Nr. C. vom 2014, was von dem Bericht des ungarischen Staatshaushalt für 2015 mit der Nummer T/12284. Handed. Mr President, Dear House, Allow me, on behalf of the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary, to express the Committee's opinion on the subject of the T/12284. on the draft law implementing Act C of 2014 on Hungary's central budget for 2015. The Committee of Nationalities of Hungary is responsible for the implementation of Article 10/2014 on certain house rules. Parliamentary resolution 44-55. It held a detailed discussion of the bill on the basis of Article 5 of the Act. Our committee for the bill is the resolution house rule 92. Having examined its structural units indicated in its notification pursuant to paragraph 4 of Article 44 of the Rules of Procedure, it concluded that they were the rules of the House of Decisions. § 1 shall comply with the requirements laid down in paragraph 1 of this Article. No amendments were tabled to the bill, the Committee did not intend to make any further amendments, and therefore the Committee did not submit a Commission amendment closing a detailed debate. The Committee on Nationalities in Hungary closed the detailed discussion of the bill on 19 October 2016. At the same time, we would like to thank you once again for the unanimous adoption by the Hungarian Parliament of our proposal to amend the law submitted to the 2015 Central Budget Act, with which the support of less than HUF 4 billion had been increased by more than 50 percent and by around HUF 2 billion. On behalf of the 13 nationalities living in Hungary, we thank you very much. By doing so, the 2015 Central Budget Act was a clear breakthrough, a meaningful, positive shift, and launched a new chapter in the relationship between Hungarian ethnicities and Hungarian politics. [[18.50]] Having examined its structural units indicated in its notification pursuant to Article 44 of the Rules of Procedure, it concluded that they were to be subject to the rules laid down in Article 44 of the Rules of Procedure. § 1 shall comply with the requirements laid down in paragraph 1 of this Article. No amendments were tabled to the bill, the Committee did not intend to make any further amendments, and therefore the Committee did not submit a Commission amendment closing a detailed debate. The Committee on Nationalities in Hungary closed the detailed discussion of the bill on 19 October 2016. At the same time, we would like to thank you once again for the unanimous adoption by the Hungarian Parliament of our proposal to amend the law submitted to the 2015 Central Budget Act, with which the support of less than HUF 4 billion had been increased by more than 50 percent and by around HUF 2 billion. On behalf of the 13 nationalities living in Hungary, we thank you very much. By doing so, the 2015 Central Budget Act was a clear breakthrough, a meaningful, positive shift, and launched a new chapter in the relationship between Hungarian ethnicities and Hungarian politics.(18.50) While we had almost nothing to do with the central budgets, preparation and adoption of previous years, and even decades, we had nothing to do with the draft law on the central budget of 2015, however, we were able to put together our amendment on our own, we could agree with the professional wallets and the factions, and in the political decision on the total amount of it, our opinion was taken in substance, and in the light of the total, in particular, the priorities of each ethnic area, the size and internal proportions of the subtotals, we, the nationalities living in Hungary, decided on our own merits. For the first time in the last 25 years, the central budget bill and its amendments have been decided before the Hungarian Parliament, not without us and above our heads, but the opinions of the nationalities in Hungary have been heard and taken into account. On behalf of the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary, we therefore propose to this House the T/12284. on the implementation of Act C of 2014 on Hungary's central budget for 2015 Approval and adoption of bill No 1. Thank you for listening. Danke für Ihre Aufmerksamkeit. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2016-11-07-255	Thank you very much, Mr Speaker. Dear Parliament, It is now up to Members to take part in the time-frame on which they are to be put on the agenda. There is no possibility of a two-minute speech during the debate. I give the floor to Mr István Józsa, MSZP Group.
u2016-11-07-256	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, The bill on the closure of the 2015 budget cannot be supported by the MSZP, nor does it propose its adoption, because the government considers its first priority in this draft law to be its own praise. In principle, in the 20-minute majority opinion on the amendments, Dr Szűcs, who is unfortunately no longer present in the Chamber, therefore unable to accept my recognition, also focused on the government's polishing, which was his most important task. [[Dr. Vas Imre: The polish was right!]] At the same time, the fundamental problem is that a budget must be transparent and consistent at least before Parliament, comparable to similar data from the previous year, but in this respect, transparency of the budget in the European Union and in the OECD is unfortunately one of the worst assessments in Hungary. The 2015 budget has consistently reflected the austerity economic policy of the Orbán government, since it was only thanks to EU funds that the economy was able to grow. The speakers on the majority side did not say that in 2015 EU money equivalent to 6 percent of GDP came into the country. From this you have managed to produce 3 to 3.1 percent of structurally unfavorable economic growth. I'm not sure you should be as proud of that as you are of the restrictions you've explained. The fact that in 2015 the State was increasingly relocating to the economy cannot be justified by the fact that it has acquired an interest in sectors which neither have the economy nor the justification. At the same time, it would be essential for the State to ensure welfare expenditure, to finance health and education, but it will spend less and less both in its proportions and in its amounts, and these sectors, which would be the basic public functions, will be increasingly crushed. The structural problems were not much concerned with government economic policy, and the low level of investment is already threatening the near future, while domestic education and health care, as I said, is being kept alive only by the commitment and vocation of those working in it. Finland will celebrate the 100th anniversary of its independent statehood next year. When they became an independent state in 1917, they were one of the poorest countries in Europe. Today, it is true that they are facing serious economic problems in the last one or two years, essentially Finland is one of the most balanced and richest countries in the European Union, essentially thanks to a consistent and balanced education policy and educational outcomes. So in Hungary there was a political turn in education between the two wars, marked by the name of Baron Kunó Klebelsberg, which, of course, he was able to get the Parliament to accept on such a cultural chauvinist basis, but it did result in the education and basic training of a wide range of people. This is the reverse of which today's government also covers with the better memory of Kuno Klebelsberg. Thus, while Hungary's scarce financial resources are wasted by the government for its own personal purposes, while spending on lasting economic growth is not born, it cannot put the economy on a dynamic path. A good example of this is the appropriation of so-called extraordinary government measures, which is also included in the accounts. The government spent 160 billion forints in 2015 and had a minimum parliamentary control over 160 billion. They told me in hindsight what they spent it on, practically without press coverage, because they didn't give me any information on the way. This is one of the major items that is most opaque in terms of the budget, and even the OECD itself has noted this. The amount available was spent on something like the First National Public Service Company. The Hungarian National Film Fund, supervised by Andy Vajna, received nearly HUF 4 billion from the Orbán government. The truth is that in the case of a rich country where welfare spending is not saved, so where the value of welfare expenditure is not reduced year after year, at least in real terms, it would be understandable that the government is thinking about construction. The problem is, however, that is not the case in Hungary. You are hiding behind the average earnings, and you are putting it first, but behind this is the gross downfall of more than half of the Hungarian population. So the average results in the highest earning 20 percent, which is why the income-demand averages show a good picture, but a very significant part of the population, 40 percent of the population, do not achieve the minimum wage. So the fact that the report on the 2015 budget shows that you saved on pensions, saved on education and health is not acceptable to the Socialist Party, because there is a different social expectation. I'm not even talking about what you promised in the 2010 and 2014 elections. They promised to save health care, they promised to get education back on its feet, but the opposite can be seen here, factually in the case of budgetary accounts. So it's not just the subjective feeling, it's also objective in numbers. [[19.00]] Another serious problem that needs to be addressed in a budget closure - we have already debated this in the general debate here in plenary - is the deterioration of competitiveness. Thus, while the budgetary indicators appear to be improving, the subjective assessment of competitiveness, which really determines the decision of investors, is deteriorating. So, unfortunately, faith in legal certainty, predictability, asset security, economic development, market security has not recovered. Your policy, with unpredictable special taxes, the mood of changing legislation overnight, does not help investment, and unfortunately, it is feared that it will avenge itself later. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2016-11-07-257	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Statement will be made by Mr István Ikotity, Member of the LMP Group. Before I give the floor, I will give the chair to Vice President István Hiller. Thank you for your cooperation. I wish you good work.
u2016-11-07-258	Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Dear Lords of the President, The LMP has already stated that the budget for 2015 was a budget for the break-down in several respects. We are moving away from countries in similar situations in Central and Eastern Europe, both in terms of financial indicators such as GDP growth and social development indicators. The break-up of Hungarian society and the break-up of a significant part of it continued. The reasons for this can be found in deteriorating school indicators, in the increasingly serious health situation, in the increase in the proportion of people living below the minimum level, in the generosity of casino and helicopter buddies and in the tax system implementing perverse redistribution. [[Dr. István Hiller, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]] During 2015, there were tens of thousands of young people leaving. This is now the number one obstacle to economic development, as many professions have developed labour shortages. The LMP has long drawn attention to and identified solutions: general wage increases and budget restructuring, wage increases in the public sector and strengthening public services. On the other hand, the 2015 budget included the inclusion of restrictions after 2010. Health and pension systems, environmental protection and education institutions have reduced expenditure on GDP. Investments in a sustainable economy have also been lagging behind. So we are moving away from an economy that could provide lasting prosperity for everyone. Unnecessary or harmful expenses and losses due to corruption are increasing. This was particularly large in 2015, given the large size of EU spending. These resources, which are now going to the wrong place, are missing elsewhere; for example, health care is very resource-intensive and will be missed even more if EU funds are lost. Dear House, The summary amendment submitted for the closing accounts contains two ecclesiastical, educational points. On the one hand, a 31 billion-dollar transfer, which relates to the last month of this year, and on the other hand a transfer of property rights. We do not know why they were included in the summary amendment to the closing account. Church schools receive HUF 31 billion, but where has this HUF 31 billion been? Why wasn't he in the original proposal? Why did you suddenly come in here as an amendment? It's just as weird about the real estate transfer. However, it is worth looking at the educational area as a whole, if the amendments are already included in the proposal. Let's take a look at the big picture. In public education, the KLIK was designed to operate 532 billion, and eventually it became 518, so we can see a decrease. No wonder last year the CLIK went bankrupt, partly because of them. The situation has, in our opinion, only seemed to have improved since then. State support for higher education has finally increased to HUF 190 billion compared to the planned HUF 152 billion. This is indeed a substantial increase, and the area also needs this resource, but it is still only around 2010. It's been five years since then. Unfortunately, however, not everyone has benefited from this increase. Think of the shamefully low education wage and the alibi wage increase. However, there are also those against whom the government has been generous. There's the University of Lajos Mocsai. Instead of more wage increases and more general operating grants, only a few selected areas have more resources. It is also worth mentioning briefly the Hungarian Academy of Arts, as the player of the Hungarian cultural life, who is money-sucking, as a little ballerina. The hunger of György Fekete's institute does not calm down. According to last year's amended budget, they received HUF 5256 million. The final amount compared to this: the aid increased to HUF 5400 million. The growth mainly meant an increase in the resources allocated to the secretariat and administration, i.e. an increase in the water head of the MMA. According to the LMP, all the money thrown out of the HUF window translated into MMA should be closed immediately. Overall, we're not doing well. If we look back on the period since 2010, we'll see [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] that the cost of education has increased just as much as inflation, that is, we are in the same place where we were at the end of the government of Gordon Bajnai: the dark dead end. The LMP does not support this closing account. [[Sallai R. Benedict clapping in the box: "That's right!]]
u2016-11-07-259	Thank you very much. He used 18 seconds of our lives in an unacceptable way in a closing debate, but we will credit that next year. Dear Parliament, I will ask if anyone else wishes to make use of the opportunity to speak in the remaining time frame. [[No one's reporting. Interviews from the benches of Fidesz: After this? Dr. Bence Rétvári: With such a strict president?]] I'm gonna say no. The debate is closed. I will ask Mr Secretary of State, Mr Banai, as rapporteur, if you wish to reflect. [[For signal:]] Here you go.
u2016-11-07-260	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Before voting on the amendments tabled to the 2015 discharge bill, I would like to ask you to allow me once again to highlight the most important macroeconomic developments affecting last year. I am also doing this because, in today's debate, there have been opinions from the opposition side which were also mentioned by Members at the beginning of the general debate and which I thought had already been clarified in the context of the general debate. Dear House, The Hungarian economy showed outstanding performance in 2015 and increased beyond expectations. This is indicated, among other things, by the fact that the gross domestic product increased faster than the assumed 2.5 per cent of the budget when it was submitted, by 3.1 per cent; therefore, not by 2.9 per cent, as was said by Ms Erzsébet Schmuck. I have to say here that the head of the group mentioned walking locally during the 2016 expansion, although if we look at the calculations of international organisations, everyone is forecasting an increase of more than 2 percent. The government's calculation of this year's growth is 2.5 percent. Returning to 2015 we see that in the growth of last year, in addition to exports, the role of consumption has also become decisive. In 2015, household consumption expenditure increased faster by 3.4 percent than predicted, thanks to the improved income situation of households. There were several factors behind this. On the one hand, the dynamic growth in employment continued, while on the other hand real wages increased due to the low inflation environment. If we look at growth and real wages, I cannot interpret the word "disrupted" that has just been said. The real convergence of the Hungarian economy, which has been visible since the turn of growth in 2013, continued in 2015, i.e. the growth of the Hungarian economy more than the average of the European Union. I can't even interpret the break-off in terms of the individual social classes, as not only the average real wages have increased, but also the income of the lowest income groups. The minimum wage rose by 3.4 percent, there was no inflation, prices dropped by 0.1 percent. [[19.10]] Thus, real wages have grown beyond gross wage growth and substantially above economic growth. In 2015, the government also took measures to save former foreign exchange taxpayers in order to strengthen consumption, and it should be mentioned that, thanks to the family tax relief to encourage children and support child rearing, more money remained in the pocket of families in 2015 compared to 2014. Since 2010, the number of employees has increased by over 660,000, the employment rate is now above 70 percent, and the unemployment rate is at an historic low point of 4.9 percent. This year, therefore, the positive employment process that marked 2015 has continued. The government's budget management made the government sector's balance more favourable in 2015 than the projected 2.4 percent deficit target, representing 1.6 percent. The debt ratio according to the EU methodology decreased to 74,7 per cent. On the basis of the above, it can be said that the government continued to achieve its economic policy objectives announced at the beginning of the cycle in 2015, to keep the budget deficit low, to reduce public debt, to further increase employment and to increase the country's growth potential. I think that all of these goals have been achieved, that the country has been able to go on to the goals by making statements that have already been made, such as reducing spending on education or health, that do not actually correspond to reality. If we look at the proposal for a discharge to the Honourable Parliament, we see that expenditure on education and health has not only increased nominally, but also in real understanding. It has been said that appropriations opened from above can allow irresponsible management. If we look at the closing figures, we see that the appropriations opened from above were not a threat, as the government not only held the position of the budget, but also achieved a much better balance, and in several cases it has given us the opportunity, for example, to make over-bend commitments for beneficiaries in the context of EU grants, despite discussions with the European Commission, and to pay all the subsidies to beneficiaries up to the last cent. More than HUF 500 billion has been advanced by the Hungarian government despite the above-mentioned debates and under EU law. Why could he do that? Because he had the opportunity to open appropriations from above as determined by the Parliament. Therefore, in 2015, I think that the appropriations opened from above were not a threat, but a chance for the government to achieve these growth targets in addition to the responsible public finances. As I mentioned, the accounts show in detail how expenditure on education, health or pensions has evolved. In the case of welfare expenditure, I draw attention to the fact that only unemployment-related expenditure, such as unemployment aid, has been reduced because the number of people employed has increased in this way. I think that the closing report of 15 shows in much more detail the implementation of the budget in a transparent manner compared to hundreds of pages, such as Finland, when already mentioned in the debate. I would like to mention to Mr Józsa that I do not know the OECD and European Union statistics that the Hungarian budget is one of the most opaque. If there is such factual information, please provide them to us. Of course, the government is doing everything it can to ensure that all information is available, to improve the structure of the budget, for example, the 2017 budget therefore includes operational and investment expenditure separately in a new structure. The recommendations of the State Audit Office, drawn up in relation to the 2015 budget, and already the decisions of the new Parliament elected after 2010, must always be drawn up in accordance with the SAO Act. There are therefore no problems identified without consequences, and this is true not only in 2015 but also in 2016. Finally, let me talk about the amendments tabled to the discharge proposal. As said by Lajos Szűcs, Vice-President of the Committee on Budgets, the Government supports the two amendments. One of these is the sum of the balance settlement of 2015 for church public education institutions. I must remind Mr Ikotity here that there is nothing new about the fact that the closing account includes the amount of the balance settlement, and this was the practice in previous years, because according to the facts, institutions with church reservations will receive extra support and additional support after their duties if the state has spent more on the institutions than previously assumed. And if he had spent less, then institutions with church reservations would also have to pay back. This sum of HUF 31 billion shows that in 2015 the state spent substantially more resources on public education institutions than in the previous period. This is why, in the framework of the so-called balance settlement, the said HUF 31 billion additional funds will be paid. I also draw attention to the fact that in 2015 there was a significant change in the system of public education, that vocational training institutions were transferred from EMMI to NGM, so that an apparent reduction in expenditure could have occurred during the EMMI. As a whole, public education has increased significantly the resources allocated by the State for the purpose; as I said, the closing accounts show this item. The other amendment also provided the Metropolitan Church of Hajdúdorogi with a state-owned property they use now, free of charge. Why is this happening in the accounts? On the one hand, because other free transfers to the church are included in the closing proposal and, on the other hand, because all free transfers of ownership can only be made by law. In this respect, the government supported the proposal that the Greek Catholic community of around 25 thousand people in Budapest and its surroundings can use a property that can be used for educational, training and religious purposes. Dear House, Finally, I would also like to thank the State Audit Office for its work, which I think could improve the budgetary implementation of the coming years, and with respect I would ask the Honourable Parliament, together with the amendments, to adopt the 2015 discharge bill. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2016-11-07-261	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that the decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, The Commission's reports on the Memorial Day of the Hungarian Navy and the death of a hero will follow and the discussion of the summary amendment proposal will follow. The representatives of Mr György Rubovszky, Imre Vejkey, Mr KDNP and Mr Zsolt Nyitrai, Mr Fidesz, submitted H/11348. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. Dear Parliament, The debate will be the first to present the position of the Legislative Committee within a maximum period of 15 minutes. I give the floor to Congressman Vas Imre, rapporteur of the committee. Here.
u2016-11-07-262	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, I would like to inform you that, at its meeting on 3 November 2016, the Legislative Committee discussed the H/11348 on the Memorial Day of Hungarian Navy Marines and their heroic deaths. A proposal for a decision. The draft amendment was adopted by 35 votes in favour, no votes against and no abstentions. During the committee meeting, the members discussed the Commission's proposal for an amendment to the background document, which closed the detailed debate by the Defence and Police Committee, which included language-placed, text-focused amendments. Ladies and gentlemen, With the adoption of the proposal for a decision, Hungary will now celebrate the day of the Hungarian Navy on 10 June. In addition, it was another noble purpose in the proposal to erect a monument in memory of our heroes who died. Please vote in favour of the adoption of the proposal for a decision. Thank you for listening. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]] [[19.20]]
u2016-11-07-263	Thank you very much, Congressman. Now I'm going to ask the author if he wants to speak. [[Dr. Imre Vejkey: Yes.]] Here you go.
u2016-11-07-264	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, H/11348 on the Memorial Day of Hungarian Marines and Hungarian Marines who died heroically. With regard to the proposal for a decision, the overall amendment proposed by the TAB contains in essence only technical and grammatical amendments, and no substantive changes have been made to the decision. I therefore ask you to support the resolution proposal that the Parliament declare 10 June to be a memorial day for the Hungarian Navy and the Hungarian Marines who died heroically, and ask the government to commemorate the heroic dead of the First World War in the naval port of Pula, Croatia, so that on the first memorial day of June 10, 2017, we can pay tribute to our heroes before the memorial. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-11-07-265	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I'll ask if anyone on the government's side wants to speak. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: No.]] Secretary of State says no. In this case, the rapporteur for the designated Defence and Police Committee, Mr Mátyás Firtl, is the next speaker. Here you go.
u2016-11-07-266	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, The parliamentary decision on the Memorial Day of the Hungarian Navy and the heroic death of Hungarian Marines is the House Rule 44-45 of the Hungarian Defence and Police Committee. Done at Brussels, 19 October 2016. The Committee, examining the proposal for a decision, concluded that it complied with the House Rule 44. The requirements of paragraph 1 of paragraph 1 of this Article shall apply. During the in-depth discussion, the Committee discussed the amendment contained in the annex to the report, examining that it complied with the House Rule 42 of the Decision. the requirements laid down in Section 2 of this Annex. The supported representatives of the Defence and Police Committee submitted a proposal for an amendment and a proposal for an amendment by the Commission which closed the in-depth debate. The committee closed the detailed debate on the proposal for a decision on 19 October 2016. I would like to ask my fellow Members to support the parliamentary resolution and thus help us to celebrate the establishment of the Pula Memorial in a worthy manner. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-11-07-267	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Representatives will now take part in the time-frames on the agenda. I would like to inform you that there is no possibility of a two-minute comment during this debate. First of all, the speaker announced, Mr Simon Miklós, representative of Fidesz. Here you go.
u2016-11-07-268	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, Dear Parliament, The great world burn of 100 years ago, the victims of World War I, we commemorate throughout Europe. It is the honor and duty of our generation, the duty of conscience, the care of memory and the memory of our heroic dead. The independent memorial day of the Hungarian Navy gives us the opportunity to remember in a worthy way the marines who died heroically for their country, but we can also remember the marines who joined the service of culture, science and art. The Fidesz-Hungarian Civic Association supports the proposal for a resolution initiated by my fellow Members. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-11-07-269	Thank you very much. István Ikotity, representative of the LMP, notary of the Parliament, may take the floor as a representative requesting a normal word. Here you go.
u2016-11-07-270	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear tableds, The Possibly Other is in favour of this proposal. It is a proposal that is worthy and absolutely necessary to achieve this. If not in official form, but surely you know that there have been, there have been memorials in this port and in this memorial place near the port. We certainly support it, but allow me to draw attention to a few things. I didn't see if the errors that have been in it since the beginning of summer and the material had been fixed in the final summary amendment. I just want to point out a few things. For example, the Monarchy purchased that area in Pula in 1862. There are only two mistakes in this sentence. At that time, this settlement was called Pola, and in 1862 there was no Monarchy, and in June 1867 this dual state was established. In addition, there is a mistake that was sunk by an Italian torpedo. This MAS class motorboat is not torpedoed, it's a 9-ton vehicle, it doesn't belong in the snack class. It's a significantly smaller piece of equipment, practically an open-end motorboat. Its name and abbreviation indicate that it's an anti-submarine motorboat. I am not so educated in history, but I grew up on the books of András Dékány, and I think that my fellow Members are the same. I remember these things. And I would like to draw attention to one more thing. To tell you the truth, I stumbled on the fact that it is a KDNP proposal, which is to say that Hungarian soldiers sleep their eternal sleep in foreign land and alien sea. Dear fellow Members of the KDNPs, Did you write that you are sleeping your eternal sleep? ! Since 381 in the Nicea-Constantinople creed, we have been waiting for the resurrection of the dead. Gentlemen, how would these soldiers sleep their eternal sleep? ! I ask you to be consistent with your own political family, and I respectfully ask you to improve this, if possible. Thank you for the floor, Mr President.
u2016-11-07-271	We were pleased to hear Mr President's speech from Nice to Pola. I wouldn't want to give anyone any pleasure if he hasn't asked for a word so far, but it is my duty to ask if anyone wishes to speak in the remaining timeframe. [[There's no candidate.]] I'm gonna say no. Dear Parliament, The debate is closed. I will ask Congressman Vejkey, as rapporteur, if he wishes to reflect. [[Dr. Imre Vejkey: Yes.]] Here you go.
u2016-11-07-272	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Thank you very much for supporting the bill. I would like to thank my colleague István Ikotity for the proposals for correction. I'm sorry you didn't say that in the general debate. Furthermore, I would also like to say that it has been corrected on several points, and that the summer submission is not in progress at the moment, but that it is another submission and it is a modification of it. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-11-07-273	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that the decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, The Commission's report on the implementation of the 2015 single budget of the National Media and Infocommunications Authority is now under discussion. T/10903 submitted by the Committee on Budgets The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. Dear Parliament, I will ask the rapporteur, Mr Attila Szabolcs, if he wishes to speak. [[Attila Szabolcs: Yes.]] Here you go.
u2016-11-07-274	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, The 2010 CLXXXV on media services and mass communication. Law 134. Pursuant to Article 2 (2) of the Act, the National Media and Infocommunication Authority shall submit its accounts for the previous year by 31 May each year, which shall be adopted by the National Assembly in an independent law. The authority has sent it in response to this task, and the Committee on Budgets has discussed it and submitted it to this House at its meeting on 30 May. [[19.30]] I stress that there was no debate at the committee's meeting on closing accounts and that the committee adopted it by 10 votes in favour and 3 votes against. T/10903 on the closure of NMHH in 2015 I presented the legislative proposal No.3 during the general debate, so I will overlook that. My colleague László Kucsák will report on the opinion of the Committee on Culture. I call on the fellow Members to support the adoption of this proposal. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-11-07-275	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I'll ask if anyone on the government's side wants to speak. [[No signal.]] Undoubtedly, the only way to answer that question is to have the government present. [[Dr. László Varga: The government has failed. It's over!]] Since the government is not the author, the national sentences have been spoken, but this question must be answered by the government. I can't answer that question, and you can't answer the question whether the government wants to speak on this matter. So until the government is represented, I'm ordering a technical break. Then, when the government deigns to represent you, you will be able to answer the question that I am obliged to ask. [[It's a short break.]] Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that the Government has indicated in writing and orally at the House Committee's meeting that on this agenda, when it comes to the accounts of the National Media and Infocommunications Authority, it does not wish to speak and be represented. It is my duty to make this announcement. So the technical break is over. The government's response was therefore indirectly heard from me. Since the Committee on Culture has not presented a rapporteur, no one has applied for a speech, so I will not describe it in detail, since no one has applied for a speech, it is not possible to comment for two minutes. I would like to ask, however, if anyone would like to make use of the opportunity to speak in the remaining time frame. [[There's no candidate.]] I'm gonna say no. As no one wishes to comment, the debate is closed. I will ask the rapporteur, Mr Szabolcs, if he wishes to speak. [[For signal:]] That's understandable, unless you wanted to give yourself some opinion. So we took note that you do not wish to comment as rapporteur. So there is nothing more than to inform you, Honourable Parliament, that the decisions will take place on tomorrow's sitting. Dear Parliament, The debate on the Commission's report on the single budget of the National Media and Infocommunications Authority for 2017. T/12348 submitted by the Committee on Budgets The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. Dear Parliament, I will ask the rapporteur if, in this case, Mr Attila Szabolcs wishes to speak here again. Yeah. Here you go.
u2016-11-07-276	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, The T/12348. The draft law on the 2017 single budget of the National Media and Infocommunications Authority is in front of us. In view of the fact that, according to the house rules, the authority cannot submit a law, this task has been entrusted to the Committee on Budgets. The Authority sent its report by deadline, which arrived at the Committee on Budgets on 9 September. The committee discussed the bill at its meeting on 3 October and supported it by 10 votes in favour and 3 votes against, following the oral amendment of the representatives of the authority present and the answers to the questions of the Members. During the general debate, I also described in detail the essence of the four budgets before us, which I would not repeat. I would ask the fellow Members to vote in favour of the adoption of this proposal. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-11-07-277	Thank you for the rapporteur's speech. In this case, the government makes the same reflection as the last time, in Hungarian, does not participate in this debate. I would like to inform you that the designated Cultural Committee has not presented a rapporteur. We now have representatives' speeches. I will ask if any of the Members and Members wish to speak. Yes, Congressman Ikotity's signal. Here you go.
u2016-11-07-278	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, Dear Parliament, The LMP will not support the adoption of the bill on the 2017 budget of the National Media and Infocommunications Authority. According to the bill, the NMHH can manage from HUF 35 billion next year, which includes a 5% increase in labour costs and a HUF 5 billion increase in stockpiling costs due to rather vague investments. All of this clearly shows that next year, huge money will continue to flow into the operation of the state media empire. However, the problem of LMP is greater and I would like to draw attention to some of the points that we believe that public media policy cannot go on as it has in recent years. The task of the public media and the media authorities would be to operate and supervise the essential institutions of information for the benefit of all citizens of Hungary. This is certainly not going to happen today. Obviously, it does not prevail in the media called public service and it is clearly not possible for the media authority to do so. Let me give you some examples of how these questions are linked. I am forced to set an example that should not normally be discussed between the walls of this House, but the problem is that elsewhere, this opportunity is being deprived of. At the end of August, I made a complaint to the National Media and Infocommunications Authority about the one-minute news blocks presented between the Rio Olympics and the programme stream regularly linked to this. Did you know that? In the case of campaign movies. At the end of October, the media authority had not yet issued any resolution, so I went to the public to see if I could get the media authority to respond through the media. After all, I could trust that at least they were watching what was happening in the media, which is why they received ten billion from the budget. I therefore issued a communication in which I demanded the response of the media authority on any merits of the public media in relation to its public service practices, and directly requested the action of Dr. Monika Karas, president of the media authority, on this matter. However, MTI refused to issue a communication on this issue, i.e. to make it absolutely clear what this is about, the state news agency refused to transmit news that had been requested to investigate the public media authority because of practices contrary to the task of public television. [[19.40]] The media authority does not fulfil its mission, does not investigate the proliferation of unilateral government propaganda on public television. In fact, the state news agency only expanded the justification of the investigation by refusing to publish the news. This is just an example, but it shows the problem of public service in Hungary. Don't let anyone think it's an isolated, unique case. It is not interesting that an LMP representative wanted the media authority to do its job, that is not what this is about; we are facing a systemic problem, which is that instead of serving Hungary, we can only talk about government propaganda. MTVA has lost its public service character. And the media authority seems to have lost its supervisory and controlling character when it comes to public service. According to LMP, maintaining such a public media system is completely unnecessary. In any case, it is a serious exaggeration to spend so much money on maintaining the state propaganda network, there would be plenty of room for this money elsewhere. Of course, anyone who gets information from the public service media doesn't know much about this. In its alternative budget proposal, the LMP proposed to reduce the public service contribution by HUF 50 billion. From this, an effective, truly public service tax could be implemented on community funds, there is no need for no one to look at, but there are many millions of programmes per episode, some decorated Fidesz-near buddies stuffed through overpriced contracts, while workers are otherwise working in low pay and constant insecurity. Until public service is restored, the LMP believes that there is no point in discussing such a bill. Thank you for your attention. [[Sallai R. Benedict: That's right! A round of applause from the LMP.]]
u2016-11-07-279	Thank you very much. The Fidesz representative, Congressman László Kucsák, asked for a word. Here you go.
u2016-11-07-280	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I thought I'd ask for a word, and if I'm honored, Congressman Ikotity, to listen to it, it'll be a very uplifting experience for me. [[István Ikotity leaves his seat.]] because they inspired me to briefly state that although it was not mentioned in the context of the 15th budget, [[István Ikotity takes over his notary seat.]] - Yeah, about the notary pulpit, so this is particularly uplifting - no comment here in Parliament, two committees discussed these two materials. Now, in connection with the budget for the year 17 Mr Ikotity has obviously said something politically motivated here, which is, of course, his right, because there is freedom of speech and opinion in our country. At the same time, I consider it important to... [[Dr. Laszlo Varga: Ah! Dr. László György Lukács: But MTI won't bring it down!]] If you'll just listen to me, fellow Members. Thank you. So I think it is important to say that, at the meeting of the Committee on Culture, where the lead woman and her colleagues were at our disposal, there have been so many questions. Among these were, if we recall, which were not in any way linked to the report of the 15th year, nor to the budget of 17th year, but on any other matter that concerned the professional operation, the guests present were readily available. I also have information that, at the meeting of the Committee on Budgets, Mrs Loránt Hegedűs, at the request of Mrs Loránt Hegedűs, in the manner she pushes, has received a written reply on a certain matter in addition to the questions she has not answered or thought to have answered. Therefore, with due respect, I would like to point out that Mr Ikotity has given a kind of interpretation, and has now raised certain points, which it is regrettable that he did not do otherwise at the meeting of the Committee on Culture, where he could have done so in the presence of the stakeholders and the head of the organisation, his senior staff, would have obviously hoped to have received a meaningful answer. But I would like to tell him that, as in the case of the better Member, and so in your case, that if he puts these questions in writing, then clearly the NMHH staff will be available and will provide you with a written reply. On the other hand, I would like to propose that, if we are dealing with such professional policy issues in the Committee on Culture, it may be appropriate to discuss them there, in order to see if there are any meaningful answers to the proposals. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2016-11-07-281	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I'll ask if anyone else would like to speak out of the remaining time frame. [[There's no signal.]] I'm gonna say no. The debate is closed. I will ask the author, Mr Szabolcs, if he wishes to reflect. [[On Attila Szabolcs' signal:]] It says no. So I will inform you, Honourable Parliament, that the decisions will take place on tomorrow's sitting. Dear Parliament, The Commission's reports on the amendment of Law I of 2004 on sport and the discussion of the summary amendment follow. The government referral T/12459. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. The debate will be the first to present the position of the Legislative Committee within a maximum period of 15 minutes. So I give the floor to Congressman Dénes Galambos, rapporteur of the committee. Here you go.
u2016-11-07-282	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, I hereby inform the Parliament that the Legislative Committee on 3 November 2016 is the House Rule 46. T/12459 on the amendment of Act I of 2004 on Sport The Committee presented a proposal for amendment and a summary report with 29 votes in favour and 5 abstentions. The summarised amendment includes, on the one hand, the motion of the Committee on Culture and the submission of the Committee on Legislative Affairs to the drafting of the text, which will also override the Committee's proposal in one point. The Committee did not support the proposal of the MSZP to reduce the number of persons involved in the life of public bodies managing sport life. I would like to point out from the points of the adopted amendment that the motion gives the Hungarian Paralympic Committee, which is formed as an independent public body, the supervisory powers to carry out the tasks defined by certain international organisations operating in the field of sport for disabled persons to umbrella organisations, so that conflicts of competence can be avoided in the future. On the other hand, the amendment clarifies the international responsibilities of the National Student and Leisure Sport Association for sports organisation and diplomacy. As regards university sport, it is necessary to record and record the implementation of the proposal, organisational tasks in relation to participation in sports events under the exclusive competence of the International University Sports Federation and the European University Sports Federation - Universiade, University World Championships, University Championships, University Ebs - and domestic organisation. I presented the position of the Legislative Committee in the context of a detailed discussion of the bill, and I trust that with the adoption of the proposal before us, sport governance and administration can be more effective in Hungary than at present. I request your support for this and the adoption of the bill. Thank you. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2016-11-07-283	Thank you very much. I'm going to ask the rapporteur, Madam Secretary of State, if she would like to speak now. [[Dr. Savolt-Szabó Tünde:]] It says no, then at the end. Dear Parliament, No rapporteur was presented by the designated Cultural Committee. We now have speeches from Members. I would like to inform you that a two-minute comment is not possible. Mr László Varga, representative of the MSZP, has applied for a speech. Here you go.
u2016-11-07-284	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, There was a general debate here in the National Assembly about this proposal, which was only slightly modified and in a technical sense, everyone said their position, it is unchanged, we are practically returning to where Hungarian sports management, Hungarian sports life, started about five years ago, did not come into play with the single channel funding under the MOB. We have heard a number of reports about this, which have been said, and the Prime Minister himself was dissatisfied with the role of the Olympics, for example. And it was also a question in the general debate whether, by the way, Zsolt Borkai is also a member of the MOB president, in fact, we see a new lex Borkai. I hoped that the amendments I had tabled would at least be considered in the Legislative Committee, but I saw that there were two groups immediately, obviously these proposals addressing technical and other codification problems and, by the way, tabled by MSZP members of the Committee. [[19.50]] So it's not enough that my proposals were voted off in the committee, obviously also on the TAB. I urge you to be braver and support the proposals on conflicts of interest that politicians should not be able to occupy professional associations, public bodies, that otherwise there should be tasks under the secretary of state responsible for sport where it actually has a professional background, not in the case of the NFM, but in the case of the NFM, to support our proposals to ensure that Hungarian sport is a more independent, stronger and not a political sphere. I don't have any serious illusions here, of course, not even a day before the vote. That is our position. I think that this is, in this form, a step, but it is not enough to ensure that Hungarian sport is properly managed and sufficiently independently from the legislative background. So we consider it, in effect, a good direction, but in this form we can only approach this proposal by abstaining because of the rejection of our amendments. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2016-11-07-285	Thank you very much. Congressman György Szilágyi, representative of Jobbik, please.
u2016-11-07-286	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. László Varga told us a lot about this law, and what we said during the general debate. One of the most important things was that we threw five years out of the window, because in vain we spoke five years ago, when the law was changed and the public body system at that time was abolished, instead of it, there was one, the MOB, that it would not be right, so you argued that, but this is the future of sport, this is the way of sport, you are sacrificing a lot for sport, so how well it will work. And then after five years, it turns out that we were right, because now they're restoring the original system. But we can change structures here continuously, if the so-called professional guard placed in the quotation mark will not change, because at the moment, I think it was because you considered it or not you, but Viktor Orbán considered that something was probably not working right here after the Olympics. But the fact that the same experts from the MOB may now be transferred to the State Secretariat and carry out these same tasks, the same people will perform the very, very important tasks they have done so far, does not change the system. Let me just give you an example. Because someone, let's say, did a bad job at the housing park in Ocsa, and this unprofessional, incompetent man, let's say, is employed by another ministry related to sports, even aside from his past - he is from a family with a very powerful communist connection - and they are now trying to use him for other priority construction projects, this man will still be unfit for the job. So just because we're restructuring something doesn't make it right, so unfortunately, we've wasted five years. This is why it is painful that when we make this amendment, for example, we express our support for this amendment, and the MSZP also expresses its support for this amendment, and they submit an amendment... - we did not submit it anyway, because Jobbik has already proposed that politicians be excluded from sports leadership, management of sports associations and management of associations, because the law was not fully opened anyway. So we also missed in the amendment of the MSZP that if we do this now, then the associations cannot have this. But when they give one of these with good intentions, and that would be very important, because I'm going to say it again, no one disputes that the second and third Orbán governments have spent serious money on sport. It just doesn't matter how we use these serious public funds. If we continue to use it this way, we can call it the money thrown out the window and feel free to call it that. And when there is such an amendment, then again you do not listen to the opposition, you do not listen to the warning words that we are saying, because you again feel that you are better at everything than the opposition is, by the way, just trying to mess with it. Just like five years ago, when all we wanted to do was try to avoid giving everything to the Hungarian Olympic Committee, but to keep the management of sports at state level, they said that we were unprofessional. I quoted here the other day, and I do not want to quote mainly Members who are no longer here in Parliament; they were still here in 2012, and they still had the sage stone. Our speeches were said to be completely unprofessional, and we did not know how to do it. I wonder if there were a certain Member here, who, by the way, is also the head of a sports union to this day, whether he would say what he would say now, how unprofessional we were if we were re-establishing all this right now. So what I'm saying is you should take it. I'll tell you why. If we spend public money on sport and set noble goals, with which Jobbik for Hungary Movement agrees, because support for sport is not the money thrown out of the window if it is used well. Support for sport affects a lot of areas, not only sports, but also health care, as well as the economy, because there are statements on how much economic growth has started based on a sports result, how much different the performance of workers, let's say, during a World Championship, if the team wins, and how much different if it doesn't win. Sport affects many areas of life, and indeed, the amount of money spent on sport is an important sum, according to some statements, a forint that is spent on sports is three forints, by the way, from a national economy point of view, and can be agreed. The only question is, when you turn a forint into a sport, does that one forint really appear in sports and is actually used professionally and normally. We say that as long as they do not select the leaders of the relevant sports associations on a professional basis, as long as they do not choose the leaders of the associations on a professional basis, but on a political basis, if politicians sit in, it is doubtful whether these funds will go there. I'll give you an example of that. If we count how much you've spent to build football stadiums in the last six years, we'll get a lot of money. In return, if we bought a single stadium, say, the Üllő Road Stadium - I think it was 22 thousand in the Üllő Road Stadium - we couldn't fill it again, there were only 13,000 people in the previous round. Yeah, no, there were 13 thousand people in total, 13 thousand in every NB I match in the previous round. The average number of viewers is between 10 and 13 thousand. So we wouldn't have been able to fill the Üllő Road Stadium again if we had gathered all the fans from all the fields and put them in the stadium. So you think it's worth spending that much money? 'Cause you know when it's worth it? It would be worth it if, say, at the head of these associations were people who, by the way, took advantage of a lucky situation like the European Championship, taking advantage of the enthusiasm, the soccer fever that was in Hungary, would have been concerned with bringing as many people to the stadiums as possible. But no, that is not what you're dealing with, because today, and I think you know exactly what people know, and everyone knows it, even the Hungarian Football Federation knows exactly that the cheerleader card and, where appropriate, the Veszkenner are a flawed decision, it just drives people away from the stadiums, and it's not for safety. There is one person in Hungary who thinks the only one is that the Venuskenner and the fan card are good things. And what happens? Because a man thinks - Gábor Kubatov - that he is called - that the venus kenner and the cheer card remain. It doesn't matter that there are 13,000 people in every match. It doesn't matter that 5 to 6,000 people visit the 22,000 stadium in Ferencváros. The goal is not to have 19 to 20,000 people out in a 22,000 stadium. No, I didn't. It's good for them to have 5 or 6,000 people. The fact that that stadium cost billions? Is it that the construction of each sports facility is counted as 30 percent of the construction costs and 70 percent of the operation, by the way? What do they care? Do you have state money? Of course there is. Can we keep filling these associations with government orders, can state companies advertise there and even receive some kind of benefits? Of course, that's when we live, because it's our kingdom! That's just not how a sport should work. A sport should operate in such a way that the state should spend a great deal of money on sport, but indeed these funds should be used in such a way as to benefit Hungarian sports both in replacements and in sport. And this has unfortunately not been the case in Hungary not only under your governance, but in the last 26 years. And then we won't go deeper into how much we need to transform the entire funding system, because we support the single channel support system. There's one thing we don't support. We don't support... [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] [[20.00]]
u2016-11-07-287	You're doing good, Congressman.
u2016-11-07-288	What? [[Intercom from Jobbik: Nine minutes, Gyuri!]]
u2016-11-07-289	The congressman's doing well to finish it.
u2016-11-07-290	Yeah. I'm sorry.
u2016-11-07-291	Finish the sentence.
u2016-11-07-292	So we don't support squandering public money. We are not in favour of treating these public funds only on a political basis. We want to be able to manage the public money on a professional basis and to use it on a professional basis for Hungarian sport. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-11-07-293	Thank you very much. It is all right, I simply need to draw attention to the fact that there is a time-frame debate and a trial, which is why I had to call the Member off. Now, Congressman Ikotity, representative of the LMP. Here you go.
u2016-11-07-294	Mr President, Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, The unhealthy eating habits associated with society's poverty and poor public health, the spread of smoking, alcoholism, drug abuse and mental health-related diseases, and the tragic health situation in our country are all causing the social health crisis. At the same time, a lack of mobility is one of many factors. The promotion of a sporty lifestyle is therefore a priority. Joint sporting experiences also have an important socialisation effect, strengthening the solidarity of small communities and national identity. The top sport is an integral part and value of Hungarian culture. The results of our athletes contribute to the aging of the country's reputation. According to LMP, sport management led by EMMI and centralised by the MOB failed. We either didn't make it out to the Olympics or we didn't bring the amount of resources we invested in. With the exception of our three success sports, swimming, fencing and kayak canoes, priority sports supported by billions also played in the five-ring games. The fact that the development of recreational port within the MOB has been treated as a step-brother in recent years gives us more heartache. The demotion of the Hungarian Olympic Committee is also a self-critic of the government, as EMMI and the government have always been responsible for handing out state resources for sport and controlling their use. In our opinion, the amendment of the law alone does not solve anything. If, in a highly supported area, managers fail to achieve the professional goals set, they cannot simply go away from responsibility or hide behind a law amendment. It is not possible to reform a malfunctioning system until we face its flaws and look at the responsibility of the leaders involved. These problems are not affected by the draft legislative amendment, which has been submitted to the bill. The amendment tabled in haste is only being corrected here and there. There are also important moral issues that should be clarified before restructuring the system, such as whether there is room for current or former senior government politicians in different decision-making positions or in Hungarian sports life. Can it be accepted that Minister Balog, for example, checks and requests the work of Fidesz party mates Szilárd Németh or Máté Kocsis? Isn't there a conflict of interest here? We should also focus on keeping things from happening in the future during the Olympics. The current government should not use the results of our athletes as a propaganda tool and, in particular, should not use them to make a hate campaign more effective. We should also talk about how we can put much more emphasis on the development of recreational recreation in both professional and financial terms before setting up a new sport management system. There is no guarantee in the proposed legislative amendment that anything will change in this area. Let's also talk about how we will create sports opportunities and sports communities for children from remote towns, such as Borsod County, instead of many stadiums built unnecessarily. Let us also talk about how to prevent the cost of big sports events organised by our country from skyrocketing, and that overspending has no legal or political consequences. Instead of encrypting Tao resources, the government should make Hungarian sport management and sport life transparent and thus truly develop. The LMP will support all sports policy ideas that focus on recreational sports, health preservation, the promotion of environmentally friendly and sporty lifestyles. The aim should be to create Hungarian sports life free of corruption, conflicts of interest and politicians, professionally and financially transparent to anyone. That's why we want to do it. At the moment, this amendment, which is in front of us, is not appropriate, and we will therefore abstain. [[Sallai R. Benedek applauds.]]
u2016-11-07-295	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I'm going to ask you if there's anyone else who wants to tell you about the remaining time frame. [[No signal.]] I'm gonna say no. The debate is closed. It is now up to Mrs Secretary of State as rapporteur. Here you go.
u2016-11-07-296	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen of the Council, During the debate on the amendment of Law I of 2004 on Sport, a number of people supported it in accordance with our government objectives, and we have heard speeches today, as well as general and detailed debates and committee meetings, which show that we are moving in the right direction. Several issues have been raised during the debates, which also show how important the sport sector plays a role in our daily lives, as it is an extremely fast and dynamically developing sector that has a positive impact on almost all spheres and areas. This is why, in recent years, a lot of new professional and sport development programmes have been launched, which have directly affected both public sport governance and sports funding systems, and will continue to develop new sports developments that will help to promote competition and top sport and healthy lifestyles. Therefore, the government considered it justified to examine the current system of state sport management, and I would add that it was not influenced by the Olympic performance, to which I also note that 8 gold, 3 silver and 4 bronze medals are a fantastic result, and we can show how strong our country is. Of course, if we look at what other results, say, lack of them, we are in the process of further development in the training of replacements, as it is well known that we will be able to help raise replacements with a new system. The fundamental reason for the amendment of the Sports Act is, in particular, the new public sport development programmes and systems, as well as the increased administrative tasks associated with them, and indeed the implementation of single channel funding. This has resulted in a review of the system of sport management following the Rio Olympics, changes and a future sport administration that is everyone's goal. On this basis, by amending the Sports Act, the tasks and powers of the aid will be changed and the planning, distribution, use, accounting and control of State aid for sport will be fully strengthened and returned to the State Secretary for Sport. With this, we can ensure that the task of the Hungarian Olympic Committee to carry out its work in the field of sports will become even more important, which will focus on the proposal and conception of sports. It has already been said in advance that, at the initiative of the MOB, the system of so far faculty is being amended, which will result in divisions acting as internal departments becoming an independent public body. [[20.10]] The Secretary of State responsible for sport is thus agreed with the representatives of all departments before the amendment of the Sports Act, and discussions are also ongoing with the management of the MOB on the taking-over of tasks. Our most important task is to help the new system of sport management and management to make financial funding more effective and to make professional, support and development programmes easier and faster and more flexible for all sports organisations, athletes and sports professionals. We are in the process of developing and developing sport, and that is why we are doing it. Our aim is to create a system under uniform public supervision, so that, in addition to the management of the aid, we will also establish the successful conditions for future competition sport in the area of control and training. With the adoption of the legislative amendment, the government and the management of sports can place greater emphasis on recreational sports, student, student, university sport, the field of sport for disabled people, and on the representation of non-Olympian sports, as well as on the work and support of small and medium-sized sports associations. The provision of tasks related to the operation of sports facilities has been raised. At present, 152/2014. This task is regulated by a government decree, so the supervision of state assets and the regulation of government property management fall within the competence of the Ministry of National Development. Several of our existing laws on conflict of interest rules for state leaders contain very strict rules. Accordingly, Members of Parliament, Members of the European Parliament or dignitaries of public law should not manage public funds for sport. In addition, it is well known that elections are democratically taking place in sports associations, but also within sports NGOs, and that applications must be made for offices both for the Presidency and for presidential elections. Political leadership does not or does not want to interfere with which sports organisation operates under whose authority. Political leadership has specific programmes to help professionals and athletes in sport, regardless of who manages the particular sports organisation. The aim is always to help achieve results and goals. On visual team sports, if I respond in a few sentences, it is well known that by promoting the participation of young generations and encouraging a sporty lifestyle, it will also increase the social base of recreational sport. View team sports are also of paramount importance from the point of view of support, as they contribute to the development of healthy lifestyle conditions and community values among growing generations, for example by supporting replacement training tasks and the development of sports facilities. So, Mr President, Honourable Parliament, on the basis of what has been said, the Government supports the summarizing amendment of the Legislative Committee, and I therefore ask that the T/12459 on the amendment of Act I of 2004 on Sport be amended. Please support bill No 1 in the final vote. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-11-07-297	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that the decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, The Commission's reports on the amendment of certain laws relating to tobacco control and the discussion of the summary amendment follow up. The government referral is T/12371. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. Dear Parliament, First, the position of the Legislative Committee and the formulated minority opinion will be presented in a maximum period of 15 minutes. First, I give the floor to Congressman Dénes Galambos, rapporteur of the committee. Here.
u2016-11-07-298	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, At the meeting of the Legislative Committee on 3 November 2016, the House Rules of Decision 46. The members discussed under Section T/12371. A bill amending certain laws relating to tobacco control has been tabled by the Committee with 23 votes in favour, 5 votes against and 5 abstentions and a summary report. During the committee meeting, the members discussed the amendment proposed by the Committee on Economic Affairs and the Legislative Committee, which included proposed additions and aimed at a substantive amendment. The adopted proposal removes the reference to electronic sales from the text of the bill and clarifies that the comparison should be made to cigarettes and not to any tobacco product when assessing the product with a modified effect. The proposal also makes it clear that the 2015 XCIV has ceased to exist. The general tax procedure rules shall apply to the reimbursement of amounts that may be recovered under law. In addition, the adopted proposal contains technical amendments and at some point amends the proposals proposed by the Economic Committee. A technical amendment to the delegation provision is necessary in this respect in view of the change in the legislative framework relating to excise duty. The amendment to the Tobacco Act is set out in the relevant 2014/40. the provisions of the European Directive justify it. On this basis, in view of what has been said in the general debate and in the detailed debate, I would like to ask you to continue working together in efforts to reduce smoking and to support the adoption of the bill. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-11-07-299	Thank you very much. A minority opinion will now be presented. Congressman László György Lukács, please.
u2016-11-07-300	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, The minority opinion formulated in the Legislative Committee during the negotiation of this law essentially concerned what ended with the last sentence of Dénes Galambos, who spoke before me, and it is contrary to that, i.e. the law itself does not seem to be an instrument of economic influence in the fight against smoking, but rather an economic policy instrument. It is more about what started last autumn's legislation, according to which not only consumer protection, but consumers themselves are also the biggest victims of this bill. It has been mentioned that the EMMI is pursuing a fact-denial ostrich policy, who, now, feeling the problem of the subject, has given this great task to the Prime Minister to represent legislation that is otherwise non-healthy and completely economical. It was also mentioned that the opinion of the Secretary of State about the 200-page study by István Szávay, which was handed over by the Royal College of Physicians, supported by facts, supported by research on the position that is in direct conflict with yours, and what is his view on the Eurobarometer survey, which, for example, supports, together with the previous survey, that these tools, e-cigarettes, are essentially helping people to quit. In the end, it could be said that we can agree that the Ministry's position is a little similar to what is quite common in the tabloid media today, and I suggest that you look for it, obviously, if the scientific articles are not shared or our opinion is not shared in this, find a better kind of posterical pseudo-scientific article, share it with Norbert Schobert, and then perhaps the whole public will accept that you are right. The facts are in stark contrast. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-11-07-301	Thank you very much. Now I'm going to ask the author, Mr. Secretary of State, if you would like to speak now. [[For signal:]] It says yes. Here you go.
u2016-11-07-302	Thank you, Mr. President. I would like to point out that the government will be in house rule 51 tomorrow. It will ask for a postponement of tomorrow's vote on the basis of paragraph 1 of Article 2 (1) of the Rules of Procedure, so I think that I no longer wish to comment on the debate, because it means that we are expecting further amendments to be received, so we are asking for a delay in the debate, apologies: a delay in the vote. Thank you. [[20.20]]
u2016-11-07-303	I thank you for correcting yourself, because it makes my life easier, because Parliament has an approved agenda, and we cannot postpone negotiations here. The way to postpone the vote is obviously decided until tomorrow. House rules provide an appropriate framework for this, but the trial must be held. Thus, Honourable Parliament, as the designated Economic Committee has not set up a rapporteur, we now have representatives speaking. I would like to inform you that a two-minute comment is not possible. Mr Szabolcs Szabó may speak as a pre-notified speaker. Here you go.
u2016-11-07-304	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. I signed up in advance because I specifically wanted to confirm once again what we would think is right on an amending proposal. It is an amendment that is absolutely not party-political. Obviously, it is clear to everyone what we think of the tramps, but this is not what I want to talk about, but there is one element of this whole law and the practice that we have to change, and this is foiling. I'm sure everyone's seen a trailer, and they're all sealed with the same foil. It doesn't have a taxativity in the law, it says that tobacco products can only be seen when you enter the business, but this is obviously the National Tobacco Trading Company. That's how he understands it, that's what he demands of the Trafiks. That's what these guys are telling us. I saw an on-site inspection report, where they were called upon to replace the wrong foil with a good foil. For example, they don't think it's even good anymore, just the film that's taped up. Why would it be important to change that? It's simply because it's not safe from the point of view of human life. There have been cases like this. There was a man who died, and there was a guy who was beaten to death, and he was lying there for half an hour, because there was no customer, and on the outside, the streetwalkers didn't see him get hurt. We think we should take that out of the law. Trust me, a tiny box can't be identified from a distance of 3-4 meters, you can't see the brand mark, and you'll also have a single box. Now only a single box can be placed on the market as a new product, and everything will soon be the same. There's definitely no point in foiling. For the sake of human life, we would ask you to consider this amendment. Thank you very much.
u2016-11-07-305	On behalf of the government, Secretary of State Csepreghy has applied for a statement.
u2016-11-07-306	Sorry for the not-so-conclusive yet speaking activity, but I would just like to say to the Member that there is no legislation in the law that needs to be resolved with foil. The regulation refers to the fact that it does not need to be visible from the outside. Single packaging will really help. However, if tobacco products are placed in such a way that they are not visible from the outside, there is no need for the foil. This was on the agenda for the tragic events in Kaposvár, but it was not part of the legislation as an obligation even then, despite the fact that it was actually used in many of the trucks as an appropriate tool to comply with the letter of the law, but there is no such obligation. There have been countless examples of these in transforms where they have been able to solve this. So I suggest that you spread this information to your acquaintances as well, that there is no obligation of this kind on the neck of tobacco shops operators. Thank you.
u2016-11-07-307	Thank you very much. We now return to the speeches by Members: Mr István Szávay, representative of Jobbik. Here.
u2016-11-07-308	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr Secretary, I was very pleased to hear the previous announcement, so I had to think a little quickly about what I wanted to say about this vote being postponed. I sincerely hope that this is not about what we have seen in the last six years, as we have seen in many cases, that some kind of background organisation or lobby does not like something in this law, but rather that perhaps the many criticisms that have been said here by Parliament or by professional organisations over the last six months about how we should actually reduce smoking, we may hope that a few of them have reached you in this regard, and, let us say, in this respect, we will get a better proposal back at some point. In principle, we agree perfectly with the objectives, Mr Secretary of State and I also say to my fellow Member, Mr Pigambos, that we have expressed our views on this for quite a long time. It is natural for Jobbik to support the reduction of smoking, to encourage as few people as possible to get used to it, as many as possible to quit. In this context, the issue of e-cigarette and its use, to which my fellow Member referred, is an important issue. I'm really glad we haven't ripped our mouths off over the past few years, but there's been some movement. My fellow Member said this, too, that according to the current proposal, new tobacco products should be treated in relation to cigarettes and not in relation to other tobacco products. At the same time, the government approach, since we are talking not only about government regulations for one law but also for several laws, continues to regard electric cigarettes as tobacco products, which is not right. In our view, electric cigarettes are a means of helping to quit smoking, a means of preventing smoking back. Therefore, if we can talk about this here, let me put our opinion on this in a slightly broader context. Once again, stressing that we are pleased that the proposal before us is already going in this direction, we still consider it to be little. We believe that this is one of the most effective means of quitting smoking. Research shows that it contains about 95 percent less harmful substances than smoking, and that the person who uses electric cigarettes is not a smoker in our understanding, so it is also entitled to the right to protect non-smokers. My fellow Member, Luke, has already spoken about the impact on health. I would also like to thank Mr State Secretary for his previous openness when I delivered these materials. We have not been able to talk about this since then, but then Mr Secretary of State said that this will be studied and that they will look at the results in it. We hope that this can also be behind the current reschedule of the proposal. These are two very serious studies, including the results of English research, which has shown that electric cigarettes are used only in small quantities by non-smokers, which means that they do not contribute to smoking. These researchers have also shown that this is the view of this British Royal College that individual states should indeed strengthen and encourage the spread of this instrument. Another very important factor is that the more people switch to this device besides smoking, the less they will need to use to cure them later, where appropriate, this much more money will be left in health care. I have this Eurobarometer research, which my fellow Member Luke referred to, and I would like to draw attention to two of its data. In 2014, about 6.1 million of the citizens of the European Union completely quit smoking with the help of e-cigi, and the European Union has 9.5 million double users, so it is a person who smokes and uses electric cigarettes at the same time. Obviously, if we reduce access to electric cigarettes and the necessary equipment, increase product prices and limit the scope of their use, then these people, who are using both, will, of course, be directed towards traditional smoking. In recent months, in recent years, there have been measures in this area, starting there, and I would like to point out first that this traffic, electric cigarettes and the distribution of related equipment have been forced into tobacco shops, eliminating specialised shops where otherwise competent staff have been able to serve customers. This is certainly something that we drew attention to in the past, and we criticized in the first place that this distribution was narrowed down at this level. Not to mention the effect that this has on the outside, people are connecting it, making it a sign of equality between cigarettes and electric cigarettes, which is obviously not right, because, as I said, we still do not consider electric cigarettes to be tobacco products. Not to mention the recovery of the black trade. Obviously, there has not been any data on this since these shops had to be shut down, but I am quite certain that this will strengthen the black trade, and therefore, when we are in health, obviously also the marketing of uncontrolled products. Another key issue is the financial burden involved. On the one hand, I would like to point out that, from 20 November, importers and manufacturers have to notify products without registration fees, and from 20 May 2017 only products for which the administrative service fee has been paid, which is HUF 475 thousand per product, variety and flavour. [[20.30]] This is quite clear that it will lead to a narrowing of the supply of products. So I would like to draw attention once again to the fact that this amount should either be reduced or not made such differences as to have to be paid for each product or flavour individually. On the other hand, it will obviously have a price-upper effect, it will increase consumption, it will be even closer to the cost of using electric cigarettes to cut tobacco, which will also result in a reduction in the impact on consumers. The other is excise duty. Originally, it was 55 forints per ml, here we were talking about 70 forints in the previous proposal. I think it's a lot, too. Of course, to be clear, Jobbik does not say that this is not necessary, but it is actually a pleasure product, if the government thinks that it is subject to excise duty, I think that it is not necessarily an objectionable direction, but we would certainly like to argue with the extent of that. There is another interesting thing that also works against this, and there is a government decree in conflict with an EMMI regulation. According to a previous government decree, the refiller of electric cigarettes should not contain flavouring substances, while the relevant EMMI regulation sets the necessary registration fee per flavour. I believe that if we do not change this government regulation, and indeed the aim - although this has not been fully established, I repeat, because there are contradictions here - is that we want to eliminate all flavours from the refilling fluids of electric cigarettes, it makes virtually the whole product pointless. I would like to draw your attention to this very much and ask Mr Secretary of State to reconsider this question, whether this is indeed the goal of the government, to eliminate all kinds of flavours at the liquids of electric cigarettes. This will make the use completely pointless, and we will only do so by redirecting this 150-200 thousand consumers back to the use of cut tobacco. One more thing about this is where the electric cigarettes can be used. By qualifying electric cigarettes as virtually tobacco products, they can only be used in the same places, including entertainment venues and catering facilities. Anyone who wants to smoke or want to use it must also go out in the cold and go to the designated smoking areas. Obviously, for example, a double consumer will not be pushed in the direction of preference for this product. So I think that, if we can talk about this issue and there is still room for rethinking this issue, it would be worth looking at the points that can really help consumers to use it instead of the cut tobacco product, whether it is the excise round, the amount of this, where this product can be sold and where it can be used. We consider these questions to be the most relevant in this regard. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-11-07-309	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I will ask if anyone else wishes to take the opportunity to speak. [[For signal:]] [[For signal:]] I'm gonna say no. The debate is closed. I'll ask the Secretary of State if he wants to reflect. (To be indicated:) It says no. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that the decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, The 1997 LXXVIII on the shaping and protection of the built environment follows. The Commission's reports on the amendment of the Act and the debate on the draft amendment. The government referral T/12365. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. The debate will be the first to present the position of the Legislative Committee within a maximum period of 15 minutes. Mr Dénes Galambos, rapporteur for the committee, shall have the floor. Here you go.
u2016-11-07-310	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr. President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, I hereby inform the Parliament that on 3 November 2016 the Legislative Committee discussed T/12365. LXXVIII of 1997 on the shaping and protection of the built environment. A bill amending the Act was tabled by the committee by 29 votes in favour, four against, without abstention, a proposal for amendment and a summary report. The summarised amendment contains the amendments of a linguistic and codification nature proposed by the Economic Committee, which have been supported by our committee. At the committee meeting, a question came up from my fellow Member, Haughty, who, in a simplified way, as he said, mentioned the example of screw six, about the problem with existing standards. I would like to say that, as Minister of State Nándor Csepreghy explained during the TAB meeting, the Government would like to reopen the whole regulation of the construction issue and would indeed define the parameters of the products in question, rather than give priority to each actor according to how, how, how, in the case of a given product, the industry can lobby. The part of the explanatory memorandum of the bill itself, according to which the technical directives on construction, which are introduced as a concept of the bill, are well suited to address the technical regulatory environment during the transitional period until the standards are adopted, and they also act as a separate, definitive technical regulatory tool. The technical directive on construction is not unknown in international or in the history of the Hungarian technical regulatory system. We would therefore like to adopt a directive which will reopen the whole standardisation process and indeed put on the agenda the technical parameters of the tools to be used in the construction process, where equivalence will be applied in the future, not by narrowing it down to one actor, but by interpreting the quality of the product. Ladies and gentlemen, I urge you to support the adoption of the bill, subject to what has been said. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-11-07-311	Thank you very much. I'll ask the author, Mr. Secretary of State, if you'd like to speak. [[For signal:]] Secretary Csepreghy, please.
u2016-11-07-312	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr President, Honourable Members, The proposal before you essentially fits into a large concept, which the government started with various amendments to the construction laws at the end of last year. There were two aspects in front of the government. On the one hand, we wanted a construction regulation that did not bind the hands of the builders and builders with the means of bureaucracy, so it sets out clear directions that can be determined in an exact manner whether it has been done or not; if it has been done, that building may remain standing, if not, and then there are very clear negative consequences for everything. We have already indicated that there is a need to amend a number of laws that reduce red tape on the one hand and guarantee the builders the cheapest possible buildings can be built or used after construction, so we have also reached a question that is the issue of standards. In recent months, it has been mentioned on numerous occasions that many industry lobbys in Hungarian construction regulations have achieved, through the issue of standards, that only their own products can be installed in a property, or that the product that is defined by an industrial lobby can be used. It was the most tangible example of this, when, after consulting architects, the government also faced the fact that, for example, the small brick that can be used for chimney construction has nothing better building properties than other bricks, yet the Hungarian standardisation system only allows this to be used. It was then that the need or justification for the government to re-open the whole standardisation issue, where it could establish definitive rules that allow it to be the technical properties of a product, rather than its manufacturer, that determine whether it can be used properly. Therefore, the current proposal, which lies before you, means nothing more than giving a very clear mandate to an organisation under government control, namely the AMI, to reopen the standardisation process. This is, in essence, also an answer to the question when Members criticized that this is a very quick proposal, that we are talking here only about the fact that a government actor is given a very clear mandate and task to start the standardisation system, taking into account today's opportunities, by establishing rules that take into account that a significant part of the standards in force today have been in place for several years or several decades and do not take into account the development of technology. So now we are giving a framework mandate, which, until the framework mandate is complete, is regulated by directives on the means to be used for construction. Thank you very much for your attention, Mr President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[20.40]]
u2016-11-07-313	Thank you very much. Speakers may now take part if there are Members who wish to speak on this subject. [[No one's reporting.]] [[No one's reporting.]] I don't see any contact. It is my duty to ask if you wish to speak out of the remaining time frame. (No one's reporting. ) I'm gonna say no. The debate is closed. I will ask the author from the office, but he does not wish to reflect on what he said, without changing his own opinion, as no one else spoke. So I will inform you that the decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, Act C of 2003 on electronic communications and XXII of 2013 on the Hungarian Energy and Utility Regulatory Office follow up. The Commission's reports on the amendment of the Act and the debate on the draft amendment. Government referral T/11762. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. The debate will be the first to present the position of the Legislative Committee within a maximum time frame of 15 minutes. I give the floor to Congressman Vas Imre, rapporteur of the committee. Here.
u2016-11-07-314	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I inform the Parliament that the Legislative Committee discussed T/11762 on 3 November 2016. Act C of 2003 on electronic communications and XXII of 2013 on the Hungarian Energy and Utility Regulatory Office. The Commission submitted a bill amending the Act and a report and a summary amendment containing 23 votes in favour, 5 negative votes against and 5 abstentions. The accepted summary amendment also includes proposals from the opposition parties, so everything has been incorporated into the proposal. This means that the MSZP has made technical amendments through Mr István Józsa, which have been translated. The Jobbik Group has also made substantive proposals, which have also been taken over. In addition, the Committee voted on an oral amendment, which was set out in Article 4. This applies to the amendment of Section 5 of the Rules of Procedure. This had to be done to ensure coherence, because the Act on the Hungarian Energy and Utility Regulatory Office does not contain the term e-közmű. It is therefore necessary not to use an abbreviation in the bill or in the amendment proposal, but a full name, i.e. a single electronic utility register; that is the exact term instead of an e-köz. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw my fellow Members' attention to the fact that if the proposal is not adopted, the infringement procedure could have serious consequences for the country. In view of all this, I ask that you support the adoption of the bill.
u2016-11-07-315	Thank you very much. Now I'm going to ask the author, Mr. Secretary of State, if you'd like to speak. [[Nándor Csepreghy: Yes.]] It says yes. Secretary Csepreghy, please.
u2016-11-07-316	Mr President, Thank you very much for the opportunity to speak again, and allow me first to say thank you to all the parliamentary groups who participated in the five-party debate, and constructively to this debate, which can end a relatively long-standing EU infringement procedure. The basic problem appears to be that in the case of electricity, hydrocarbon networks, communications, water utilities and district heating, Hungary's utility service providers have been obliged, since 2013, to share their network maps digitally with the competent public authorities, who are able to operate in the building authorisation process taking into account these network maps. We see that the different disciplines have met these obligations to varying degrees. The suppliers of hydrocarbon networks, of which there are numerically six in Hungary, met this obligation by 100%, the electricity suppliers by 75%, the water utility providers by 55%, but the district heating service providers by only 19%, and the communications service providers, from which there are numerically 700 in Hungary, only 3%. The purpose of the bill before you is to give two agencies, the National Media and Infocommunications Authority and the Hungarian Energy and Utility Regulatory Office, basically the powers that allow them to fulfil these obligations, and in the event that public utility providers fail to comply with this obligation, they should also use a sanctioning tool. As the Member said at the beginning of the debate, the amendment of the MSZP was essentially a technical amendment by Mr Józsa. It's been re-arranged. No substantive amendment was proposed by the LMP, while Jobbik also requested that two cardinal points be amended. One of these was that, following the imposition of any sanctions, utility service providers would not be able to pass on this sanction, this financial burden on users and consumers. The legal guarantees of this have been included in the relevant amendment proposal and are literally included in the material on which Parliament can vote tomorrow, which means that this transfer can be controlled and sanctioned by the relevant agencies. The other proposal also concerned the possibility for Parliament to control these bodies and to gain insight into their work, which is available to them under other laws. So I think that there is a bill before this House today, which, at this stage of the debate, I believe, cannot receive criticism or counter-opinion, as all critical comments are either answered or the critical proposal is incorporated into the text of the bill. Thank you, Mr. President. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2016-11-07-317	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that the designated Economic Committee has not presented a rapporteur. We now have representatives' speeches. I'm asking you if anyone would like to comment. [[No one's reporting.]] I don't see any contact. I note that there is no commentary, and the debate is closed. As there was no speech in the debate, I will not, of course, ask Mr State Secretary if he wishes to reflect. I would like to inform you that the decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, The Commission's reports for the seventh amendment of the Fundamental Law of Hungary and the discussion of the summary amendment follow. Government referral T/12458. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. I declare that the presentation will be discussed as an EU item on the agenda by the Parliament. The debate will be the first to present the position of the Legislative Committee within a maximum period of 15 minutes. I give the floor to Congressman Vas Imre, rapporteur of the committee. Here.
u2016-11-07-318	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, I would like to inform the Parliament that the Legislative Committee, at its meeting on 3 November, discussed the T/12458 tabled the seventh amendment of the Fundamental Law of Hungary. In the absence of MSZP representatives, the committee submitted a proposal for amendment and a summary report, which was unanimously summarised, with 30 votes in favour. It is no coincidence that all the members of the Committee voted in favour of the TAB, at least who were there, since the content of the proposed amendment was the result of several rounds of negotiations, and the parties were able to agree on the norm. Under the proposed amendment, the conditions for the submission and assessment of applications for third-country nationals and the basic rules for granting asylum may be provided for in future by a fundamental law. I use the conditional method because it requires the adoption of the seventh amendment of the Fundamental Law, on which I express my sincere hope. I would like to draw my fellow Members' attention to the fact that 3 million 360,000 people in the referendum said no to the compulsory resettlement of migrants, and 98 percent of those voting validly in the referendum gave a clear opinion on Brussels' migrant policy. We are used to abandoning people because of historical experiences from left-wing parties, and they do not stand up for the protection of Hungary, even if the need so requires. [[20.50]] However, it is highly unusual for a party on the national right to join the quota-friendly camp. There is no place here to impose different conditions. We have repeatedly stated that defending our country is not a party political matter, but a national matter. We are bound by the will of the electorate. I quote the President of the Jobbik Party: "It is a traitor who does not vote for the amendment of the Fundamental Law. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of Fidesz.]]
u2016-11-07-319	Thank you very much for the specific Commission position. I would like to ask the rapporteur, Mr Pál Völner, whether he wishes to speak in the name of the rapporteur. [[Dr. Pál Völner: No.]] It says it's not right now. I would like to inform you that the designated Justice Committee has not presented a rapporteur. We now have speeches from Members. I would like to inform you that a two-minute comment is not possible. Mr Répássy, representative of Fidesz, may speak as the first speaker to be announced. Here you go.
u2016-11-07-320	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, We are about to make a major constitutional amendment. Allow me to express my opinion that, either tomorrow, when this is on the agenda, or later, but I am convinced that the Parliament will amend the Fundamental Law of Hungary, and I therefore consider it important that I be able to explain in more detail all the points that are affected by the summarised amendment proposal. The summarised amendment concerns the sentence in the National Creed that we believe that defending our constitutional identity in the historical constitution is a fundamental duty of the state. This sentence would be added to the National Creed of the Fundamental Law. To be precise, the Legislative Committee is now proposing to amend this sentence, with some clarification, and we believe that the protection of our identity, which is rooted in our historic constitution, is a fundamental duty of the state. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. This is how the sentence inserted into the new preamble to the Fundamental Law would be said if this House accepted it tomorrow - or later. Why do I consider this sentence to be of paramount importance? For the first time, the concept of constitutional identity and constitutional identity appears in the Fundamental Law in a legally declared form, and for the first time this concept appears in the Hungarian legal system, although this concept of course exists, and I must say that this concept has long been part of the consciousness of the law. However, it would be right for Parliament to incorporate the wording of constitutional identity and constitutional identity into the Fundamental Law. The significance of this concept is that the Fundamental Law will thus indicate that every state, every nation, has a constitutional identity, a constitutional identity. And since the Hungarian state is basically based on a historical constitution, it is essentially a historical constitution that defines Hungarian statehood, so it is clear that the Hungarian constitutional identity is also rooted in this historic constitution. As you well know, the concept of constitutional identity - as those who have been monitoring or reading about the debates on constitutional identity in Western Europe - often appears in the arguments of the Western European Constitutional Courts and, indeed, more often than not in relation to the law of the European Union or the obligations of the European Union. Of course, constitutional identity stands in itself as a historical concept or as a concept of legal history, but in this way contrasting the constitutional identity with the law of the Union, not in Hungarian constitutional law, but, once again, in the practice of certain Western European Constitutional Courts means that it is now recognised in Western Europe that the constitutional identity of the European Union or its legal system, its law, cannot override the constitutional identity of the Member States of the Union. This sentence is of great importance if it is included in the Fundamental Law. Some might say that even if it does not enter the Fundamental Law, this sentence is true. But it's more than that. It is not only that constitutional identity is mentioned in the Fundamental Law, but also requires that the protection of this identity is a fundamental duty of the State. Those who believe that the Hungarian historical constitution has a message - what we should now call constitutional identity - should vote in favour of this fundamental law amendment tomorrow. All those Members who believe that the historic constitution has set out a path for Hungary should be courageous and should not be afraid to vote for the amendment of the Fundamental Law. The new text covered by point 2 of the summarised amendment proposal, which would replace Article E (2) of the Fundamental Law, is equally important. Here the relationship between the European Union and Hungary is provided for in the existing text of the Fundamental Law, but once again it is very important to underline how the Hungarian Fundamental Law understands the issue of sovereignty. The Hungarian Fundamental Law assumes from the theoretical basis that Hungary did not give up its sovereignty when it entered the European Union, but, as our Fundamental Law states, it can exercise some of its powers under the Fundamental Law, together with the other Member States, through the institutions of the European Union. So instead of giving up sovereignty, we are talking about common sovereignty or common competence. I think that this is also a way for a modern Member State with the idea of a Europe of nations, which does not conflict with the Treaties of the European Union, does not conflict with the law of the European Union, but is a sentence well defined by a sovereign Member State, a sentence that defines our relationship with the European Union. [[President Tamás Sneider, Vice-President of the National Assembly.]] The article covered by the third amendment is also of great importance, as it regulates the life of foreign citizens in Hungary, i.e. their establishment. It is well-known, as Imre Vas pointed out by the rapporteur, that Jobbik's proposal is to qualify the law as a fundamental law, so one of Jobbik's proposals has been taken over by the committee, and it is proposed by the Fundamental Law that, with the exception of persons with the right to free movement and residence, all those who wish to reside in Hungary on the basis of an individual application, these rules on the assessment and presentation of the application are now a fundamental law. Similarly, the fundamental rules for ensuring asylum would be laid down by a fundamental law. Dear House, Imre Vas referred to the political statements on the basis of which anyone in this country - not only the MPs sitting here but also any voter - could have believed - that, in accordance with the question raised in the referendum and the answers given to it, either the Socialist Party or Jobbik representatives would contribute to this amendment of the basic law. [[21.00]] In addition, I have tried to convince you that these are matters of importance which wish for the Fundamental Law and which comply with the will of more than 3 million voters, but I believe that they also meet the constitutional majority of the Parliament. I am convinced that there are a much greater number of Members in Parliament than the constitutional majority who agree with these proposals. Those who believe that our constitutional identity should be included in the Fundamental Law should, on the basis of our constitutional identity, impose the obligation of the State; those who believe that the wording of our relationship with the European Union in the Fundamental Law should be clarified; those who believe that both the issue of establishment in Hungary and the issue of granting asylum must be regulated by a fundamental law, these Members today represent more than two thirds of Parliament. What, then, is the problem, fellow Members? Well, the problem is, with a disgusting tying, some people think they won't vote for what they agree with. Their soul is on it; obviously, the better Members explain to their voters why they have not voted in favour of the amendment of the Constitution, which they otherwise agree with, which contains almost literally the ideas, the principles that they agree with. I believe that the responsible attitude in the Parliament is that what I agree with, I vote in favour of that which I disagree with, I vote in favour of that. If you vote no to this amendment of the Constitution, you will be forced to explain why you are rejecting a constitutional amendment with which you agree. But, I'll tell you one more time, your soul on it, that's your problem. However, Hungary's voters deserve more than trying to postpone the fate of this amendment with Jobbik's little game. I am convinced that at some point Jobbik will vote for this amendment of the Constitution, or even I do not believe that it will be voted by those who otherwise agree with these sentences. So, this House, once in a very different context, the wise sentence is that the Constitution is not a game. I also think that the Constitution is not a game. Those who use the constitutional amendment to blackmail play with fire. But since it wouldn't be the first time, there's nothing to be surprised about. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, So anyone who agrees with the amendments I have just made can vote for the amendment of the Fundamental Law tomorrow. There is nothing in it, honourable Members, that you should vote 'no' for. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-11-07-321	Welcome, fellow Members. I'm asking if anyone wants to comment. Yes, this is Congressman István Szávay. You have the floor.
u2016-11-07-322	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. I am sorry that you have so ruined the excellent curve and style of your speech, my fellow Member Répássy. We have heard two pro-government representatives one by one, Mr Vas Imre said in his usual demagogic way what he said. By the way, I think that President Hiller's observation, Mr President, was justified, and we have also noticed that we are not sure that the Commission's opinion or the Commission's position was certainly about what Gábor Vona said in this matter over the last few weeks; but let us now move on elegantly. This debate, which we have now agreed to once again, has been conducted several times, with representatives and leaders of Jobbik and Fidesz between the walls of this House. But if you now feel the need for my pro-government fellow Members to go into this once more, Mr Répássy felt the need to talk about it for a ten-minute, say, just 9.5 minutes in a very nice and elevated speech, then we are obviously obliged to respond. As you have all been able to say in this case, what has been said many times over the last few weeks, so I cannot undertake much more myself. Congressman! Everything you've told us, we agree. You know that. We agree on everything. They were very nice words in reference to our National Creed. I think the respect for our historic constitution also does not need to be held accountable to Jobbik's representatives. Everything you've told me is agreed by the representatives of the Jobbik. There's one problem. The fact that you have set a barrier to voting for this Fundamental Law. You make it a condition by leaving a loophole in this amendment of the Constitution. The opinion of 3.3 million Hungarians was referred to here by my fellow Member Imre Vas. That's right, 3.3 million Hungarians, and, of course, you can do magic here with the words, what was the question asked, the opinion and the position of the people were quite clear. If we look at in a broader perspective what this campaign has been about over the past six months, this campaign has been brief and concise, fellow Members, so that no migrants come to Hungary. No mandatory quotas, no other way. Not poor, not rich, not through the fence, not through their checkbooks. This is a question that you want to base on. And now don't let me go in that direction, because I don't want to have a long discussion about the size of the settlement policy. Everyone knows that. It is quite clear that you are defending a question that is indefensible from this point of view. They are defending a case that does belong to this issue, which is actually about resettlement. More people have settled in Hungary in the past one or two or three years by the settlement policy than the first proposals in Brussels have said about the number of persons to be settled. You are defending a proposal that is, in fact, the treachery of Hungary for money, and not only the betrayal of Hungary for money, because here in the European Union, people who buy this bond can also have free movement. Who will take responsibility for that, fellow Members? Why do we think that only those who are poor, who climb through the fence, who grow up in the ghetto in some black or Arabic ghetto in Western Europe can pose a security risk? Why do we think they're the only ones who can pose a security risk? Why doesn't someone with a lot of money come here and start setting up a network? In recent decades, the world's most famous terrorist was Osama bin Laden, who didn't do what he did to blow up himself, but used his incredible fortune to organize a network. You give these people the opportunity to leave the gate open to these people. Who takes responsibility for it? Do you, my fellow Members, or Viktor Orbán, take responsibility for the fact that either such a person who came here through a settlement policy, or even a person who, through him and his money, has been given the opportunity to stay here and stay, let's say he will, and he will blow himself up? The other one. The Hungarian people did not necessarily say no just to eliminate this security risk, which is what the settlement policy means, and what the whole referendum was about, that we do not want foreign immigrants here, but at least from our point of view, this referendum was also about wanting Hungary to remain a Hungarian country. We want to live in a Christian, Hungarian, European cultural circle, and we want to raise our children in such a country. We do not want to reach the fate of Western Europe, we do not want no-go zones in Hungary, we do not want our own culture, our own language and our own religion to be threatened in any way in Hungary. Obviously, this is also the direction of the rolled-up bond business. Mr Répássy is absolutely right, and it is up to you that sooner or later we will accept this amendment. Believe me, Congressman Répássy, we intend to do the same. We would be happy to vote in favour of this amendment of the Constitution, and we would be happy to conclude this whole question, to rest assured that the Hungarian Parliament has provided adequate legal guarantees that no foreign settlements and resettlements will occur in Hungary. [[21.10]] This, Congressman, my fellow Members, is not an obstacle, you are the obstacle, you are insisting on a clause, a loophole that contradicts all the fundamental aims and provisions of this law or amendment of law, a constitutional amendment. This isn't a brawl. Bartering is what you and those who profited billions from the sale of Hungarian country for money with government bonds. In addition, the sale of an economically bad construction. I think that the trade that takes tens and hundreds of billions while giving people who have undergone different security systems, but who have not been properly inspected, the opportunity to settle in Hungary and the European Union, to live here permanently and, where appropriate, to engage in activities that do pose a security risk. The ball is with you, my fellow Members of the Fidesz, not with us. Once again, in agreement with everything, even the principles and the specific content that Congressman Répássy has said, there is only one thing: do not support this condition in our direction. Do not ask Jobbik to vote for a constitutional amendment that will only provide a partial solution that will continue to create the opportunity and leave the back door open to Hungary if it is not poor, but even rich terrorists can enter and settle in. It is up to you, on our part, to have the intention, to think exactly the same thing as we said a year or two ago. Cancel the settlement bonds, cancel the bond business, don't support this impossible condition in our direction, and we'll be happy to vote in favour. In the meantime, however, we cannot do this, and I dare say to you, with all my responsibilities, that there will be no representative of Jobbik who will be able to give his name for this half-solution tomorrow. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2016-11-07-323	I now give the floor to Congressman Vas Imre.
u2016-11-07-324	Thank you very much for the floor. In the Legislative Committee, we could not avoid, for the sake of accurate interpretation of the text, what was the voter's opinion on 2 October so that we would not read the question. My fellow Member Hende did this in the Legislative Committee. The question on the ballot paper, which was rejected by 98 percent of the voters who voted validly, is:,, Do you want the European Union to require the compulsory admission of non-Hungarian citizens to Hungary without the consent of the Parliament??If, of course, my fellow Member can tell me where the settlement bonds are, where the decision of the European Union in respect of the settlement bonds is, and why would it be compulsory for consumers to enter the territory of the European Union at all - and of course, for that reason, but not for their compulsory part - then the argument would be acceptable. Only you, out of your own political interest, to encourage your party president, or should I say, to instigate him, have begun to fight for the interests of the nation. The ball is not with us, the ball is with you: tomorrow the leader will ask the question who will accept the T/12458 on the seventh amendment of the Fundamental Law of Hungary. a bill, and if the yes button is pressed, of course they will comply with the statement of their party president quoted earlier, so there will be no traitors. Anyone who does not vote for this fundamental law amendment is also a traitor, according to your party president. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the benches of Fidesz.]]
u2016-11-07-325	I now give the floor to Congressman Sallai R. Benedek.
u2016-11-07-326	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, I don't know if I can call this Parliament when there's some people in here. I feel really cheated. [[Dr. Pál Völner: Yes? Where's the LMP?]] My faction told me it was a serious matter. 40% of the faction is here. How's Fidesz doing with that? [[Dr. Imre Vas: Mathematics stake!]] How's the Fidesz coming along? There's two of them in there? There's two of them in there? ! Yeah, the one who's obligated to sit here because he's assigned as Secretary of State and his duty at work. That's pathetic. Are they taking this seriously? And tomorrow, they're gonna come in and push buttons and they don't even know what they're talking about? This is the debate of the seventh amendment to the Fundamental Law, which has been in the press for a month and a half, which is where they talk about changing the fate of the country, and two fidesz MEPs complicate the whole thing. [[Dr. Pál Völner: Five!]] It's frivolous! I am simply shocked that, overall - if you say that five people, I acknowledge it, but don't forget that the officials of Parliament and the government do not qualify in such a case, so you are sitting here on duty at work, so I am absolutely shocked that you are doing so. [[Dr. Vas Imre: The notary is sitting here on duty.]] I should have thought of how serious this was, and I should have thought that I had the last chance to attend the five-party meeting, and I should have thought how seriously they took it when they entrusted it to Lajos Kósa, so that alone qualified how important this subject was to you, but so that so many people came into this debate, it is completely unimportant. We can get in line with these things. We took part in the debate from the beginning. We went to the five-parties because all this time, the LMP was going to see if they really wanted to deal with the problem. See if they really want to deal with this problem and see if they can find a solution. But obviously not! It's simply that you're conducting public relations constitutions and accusing others of treason while using the Fundamental Law for party policy purposes and, in practice, for campaign purposes. They spent 15-20 billion on the campaign. After that, because their failed campaign couldn't bring together a valid referendum, they tried to push it another billion. All this for what? In order to confirm what has already been learned from one billion in the context of social consultation a year ago, what is the opinion of society. This fundamental law amendment should have been in the same place a year ago if you were serious about this and not used for PR purposes. I was very pleased to hear the first part of my fellow Member Répássy's speech, and it was a large speech for a lawyer. How seriously can you take this speech if the Fidesz fraction and the KDNP fraction take it so seriously that so many people came in to listen to you? And in Hungarian society, you refer to 3.3 million people, and the Fidesz-KDNP faction honors this 3.3 million people so much that they went to vote for the people, that three or four of them would come in here and try to act like this is the fateful issue of the nation. Basically, I can go quietly in my speech. My fellow Member Vas also said very interesting things, although he said most of all that it was a major constitutional amendment. It is so important that so many of those hundred and thirty Members have appeared, so important. And what I really liked is that Róbert Répássy used the word "disgusting." And that's what one of the opponents said. Isn't it the soul of those who push a constitutional amendment that doesn't change the current legal system in its virtually public function? Isn't it disgusting that a social problem, a global problem that's expected to grow over the next decade, and who knows if we have to deal with 30 million or 120 million refugees, is being used for simple power purposes to keep the party popular? Well, that's frivolous. You guys, if you wanted to do something, you would have made rainproofers for the soldiers on the border. Then they could have bought helicopters or thermal cameras, night vision equipment, to help the people working there. They could have strengthened his entire human background so that someone could be careful. Migration agencies, which were unable to carry out their duties a year ago and allowed people across the country without any administration, could have been strengthened. They could have done something. That's what power is for! That's what it's good for you to have the majority of them in Parliament. But that's not what you're doing! There's this government full of lawyers, and they're saying, "Oh, let's not do anything, let's make a legislative amendment," so I'm sure something will work out. Come on, tell me what's gonna come out of this. Will this result in water in the fields from which they flee, or will the soil grow? This isn't fit for anything! I would very much like to live in a country where the constitution is respected by the government and not amended as a political goal and a political product in accordance with its power goals and communication goals. It would be good if there was a change in this day tomorrow, not in the vote on the Fundamental Law. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]] [[21.20]]
u2016-11-07-327	Congressman Répássy Róbert has indicated that he wishes to comment. You have the floor.
u2016-11-07-328	Dear House, I only want to respond to one thing because there is, by the way, the State Secretary of the Ministry of the Interior, who has told us many times over the past year about Hungary's efforts - not the government, Hungary's efforts - so that we can protect our southern borders. So, my dear Congressman Sallai, you have now presented it as if this document before us, a bill, was the only thing the government has done in this matter. While he really, I don't know, slept through the last year, the kind of effort that they're working on down there in the south, which, unfortunately, would put our work in a pretty parentheses. Only this Parliament's job is to legislate, to establish constitutional and legal order, and in this we can count on the voters; all those who are willing to vote for tomorrow's amendment of the Constitution, but in the first place I told them not to create the picture that Congressman Sallai said there was nothing going on here, and we did nothing but put this amendment of the basic law on the table. This simply doesn't correspond to reality. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2016-11-07-329	Thank you. There are a lot of timeframes left, but I will ask if anyone else would like to comment on the debate. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see a candidate. The debate is therefore closed. And I will ask Mr. Secretary of State Pál Völner if he wishes to comment. Yes, the floor is yours.
u2016-11-07-330	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Only a few things would be affected in relation to the comments. My fellow Member Sallai was practically outraged at how we got here and what this amendment deserves. We, who have followed the course of this, know that there have been countless rounds, both in committee and in plenary. Practically everything everyone who thought on this issue, or indeed, I take it, Member Mr Sallai, also said that we do not know what the LMP was thinking, because he did not make one amendment in the debate. So this outrage about why such an amendment came before the House, I think, without a different proposal, it is highly questionable. As regards the basic problem here in the debate, it is not the text of the Fundamental Law itself, as it was a text found by an agreed, truncated five-party conciliation forum, as I mentioned, LMP did not object. The text of the amendment to the basic law itself was in line with Jobbik, so it was clarified during the negotiations, and the MSZP did not participate in the negotiations from the outset, so in this sense their position is not relevant. The Fidesz-KDNP accepted it in the same way, and with the help of the Commission's amendment, this amended text is in front of the House. What is the basic problem is that, indeed, if we study the referendum issue, we will look at whether the text of this amendment to the basic law is correct and it can be determined that it is also appropriate, because it is about not having any external impact on Hungary without consulting the Hungarian Parliament, and it serves this amendment. The fact that there are also proposals for amendments to other laws that do not fall within the framework of the referendum law is the essence of the debate with Jobbik. But the government maintains its position that if this topic was a topic of debate between the parties until practically the migrant issue arose, but it was not about terrorism, it was not about resettlement, it was about the objections that are being raised now, then why this would now be an acute part of the migrant issue. He didn't have it before, and he didn't have it now, and that's not what the amendment to the basic law is about. So I ask the representatives of the honourable parties to support the amendment of the basic law during tomorrow's vote. Thank you. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2016-11-07-331	Thank you. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. The 2012 CCV on the status of military fighters follows. Act XLII of 2015 on the service relationship of professional staff of law enforcement bodies. Discussion of the Commission's reports and summary amendment proposal for a proposal to amend law and other related laws. The government referral is T/12370. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. I give the floor to Imre Vas, rapporteur of the committee.
u2016-11-07-332	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, I inform the National Assembly that on 3 November 2016 the Legislative Committee discussed the 2012 CCV on the status of military fighters. Act XLII of 2015 on the service relationship of professional staff of law enforcement bodies. T/12370 on the amendment of law and other related laws. The Committee presented a proposal for amendment and a summary report with 28 votes in favour and 5 abstentions without voting against. The summarised amendment includes, on the one hand, the motion of the Defence and Police Committee and the text of the Legislative Committee, referred to in points 1 and 6, which overrides the proposal of the Defence and Police Committee on five points. Basically, the bill serves two main purposes. On the one hand, it aims to address the problem of health damage to law enforcement workers and military personnel in relation to their service relationship. Practical debate on the proposal was raised only on this issue, on the issue of the health-damage supplement and on the issue of health-damage benefits. I believe that with the text tabled, Parliament will have the opportunity to resolve this issue in a reassuring but in any case fair manner. Another main objective of the bill is that the previously launched salary development will start a new phase from 1 January 2017 and will mean a further 5% increase in wages for law enforcement workers. Therefore, I ask you to support the adoption of the bill. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2016-11-07-333	I will ask Károly Kontra if he wishes to comment as rapporteur. [[For signal:]] It says no. The speakers who have been announced are now coming, and I am giving the floor to Mr Simon Miklós.
u2016-11-07-334	Mr President, The Defence and Police Committee would also like to deliver an opinion.
u2016-11-07-335	Wait a minute, I don't see it in the script. Oh, yes, I'm sorry, yes, as rapporteur for the Defense and Police Committee, you will speak. Here.
u2016-11-07-336	Dear House, Dear Parliament, The Homeland Security and Police Committee is the house rules 44-45. It held a detailed discussion of the bill on the basis of Article 5 of the Act. The committee, examining the bill, found that it complied with house rules 44. The requirements of paragraph 1 of paragraph 1 of this Article shall apply. During the in-depth discussion, the Committee discussed the amendments tabled by its representatives, examining whether they were in compliance with the house rules 42. the requirements laid down in Section 2 of this Annex. The Committee presented a proposal for an amendment to the approved representatives, a proposal for an amendment to the changes and a proposal for an amendment by the Commission to close the in-depth debate. The committee closed the detailed discussion of the bill on 19 October 2016. Thank you for your kind attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2016-11-07-337	Thank you very much. I think that you will not speak as a pre-notified speaker, because it is also mentioned here in the table that the Member was twice on the table, so I think that the speech of the rapporteur of the Commission was the guiding principle. Thank you. I'll ask if anyone else would like to comment on the debate. But still, this is Miklós Simon. Then you have the floor again, Congressman. [[21.30]]
u2016-11-07-338	Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, On 1 July 2015, with the entry into force of the new Service Act, a serious salary increase was made to members of law enforcement and defence professional staff. This increase will take up to 2019, because a 5% increase in salaries has been included in the system each year. Shh. One of the main objectives of the current amendment is thus to define the rules for the development of salaries on 1 January 2017. Another aim of the bill is to create a new system of care to ensure that protection and police health care is used to effectively manage extraordinary events and life situations during professional careers. In addition, the supply system will strengthen the existential security of the stock until pension rights are reached. The development of a special care system is essentially justified by the fact that leaving the professional service without self-inflicted has caused significant existential uncertainty among staff since the early retirement. It is also important that the supply system also strengthens the existential security of the stock, thus increasing the prestige and recognition of the professional service. The aim of this area is to ensure further employment if the health status of the person concerned permits it. To this end, it is the duty of the law enforcement and defence body to find a suitable job for the person concerned. During the five-party consultation of the bill and the in-depth debate, several opposition proposals were incorporated, and a proposal for support was made in all respects. Ladies and gentlemen, The government's objective is clear: to stabilise the state of public law enforcement and defence personnel and to ensure their recognition by guaranteeing long-term and predictable careers. The Fidesz fraction is committed to improving the terms of service of law enforcement and defence personnel. We consider these changes important, because Hungary's security guarantees are the members of the stock. The Fidesz fraction therefore supports the proposal. Please support me. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2016-11-07-339	Thank you. I will ask Mr Károly Kontra, Secretary of State, if he wishes to respond to what has been said. [[Contra on Charles' signal:]] It says yes. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2016-11-07-340	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, Firstly, I would like to thank the Members who spoke in the debate for their support for this proposal. I would also like to thank the Legislative Committee and the Defence and Police Committee for discussing the amendments tabled to the bill. During the detailed debate and the five-party consultation, we have examined a number of opposition proposals. The following amendments are supported in relation to the draft regulation on the institutional system for health damage care to be introduced from 1 January 2017. We propose to increase the limit of health status for ministerial discharge to 50 per cent, so that it is possible to exempt from the obligation to continue employment if, in the light of the health status of the person concerned up to 1 to 50 per cent, he is granted an invalidity benefit. We also support the proposal that, if the person concerned undertakes to do so, the job to be provided by public transport from the place of residence at a place more than one hour away from the place of residence in the case of children under 10 years of age may also be offered. We support the possibility that the voluntary commitment of the person concerned will not require any restriction on travel time. It has been included in the text that, when examining the possibilities for further employment, efforts should be made to offer the data subject a post of employment corresponding to his qualifications, qualifications or non-professional employment. Dear Parliament, Thank you for your contributions and support both in the general debate and in the second round debate. The aim of the Ministry of Interior was to create the best possible regulation for Parliament, which is why the five-party briefing took place, before which consultation with the Hungarian Law Enforcement Faculty and other representative organisations and trade unions took place. With the bill, our strong aim is to strengthen the financial and moral respect of the personnel of the law enforcement bodies and to keep them on track, thereby further strengthening Hungary's public security. In view of this, I ask the Honourable Parliament to vote in favour of this proposal. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2016-11-07-341	Thank you. The debate is closed. The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the discussion of our agendas today. It is now time for the speeches after the agenda. For the first speech after the agenda, MEP Zoltán Magyar asked: Why does it not matter when it comes to their health? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2016-11-07-342	Thank you for the opportunity, Mr. President. Dear House, Fellow Members! In the context of the real national consultation, Jobbik devoted 2016 to highlighting the three most affected areas with the most serious problems. Such was education, corruption and health care, and, of course, in the autumn even more the issue of wage increases for workers. One of the main topics of today was health care, and it wasn't for nothing. I believe that health care is an area where the main problem has been that they have not started major structural reforms, and, indeed, they have not provided any additional resources to the area in relation to the various communication panels. I would like to focus on the Rábaköz, and there also on the two largest institutions, the hospitals in Csorna and Kápuvár, more precisely what is left of these institutions. No matter what government we're talking about, these two hospitals have been the losers of the conversions over the last decades, they've been the losers of the withdrawal of funds, and unfortunately, this affects them on several levels. The Rábaköz has become an area of the country, an area where, unfortunately, it is only possible to die, but not to be born, you have to travel all the way to Győr or Sopron if you want to be born from this region. And it doesn't matter which circle of stakeholders we're talking about, because I'd start with the broadest circle of potential patients, those who are in any way, either as patients or as relatives, as acquaintances, as friends, but can encounter the situation of the country's second worst network of roads in the region. In this way, access to the same health service is much worse for a resident living in a small settlement, a small village like Rábaköz, than for a larger settlement. Moreover, the frequency and quality of the various public transport services themselves are linked to this, and this also leaves a lot to be desired. And it may not seem like a health issue at first sight, but believe me, both on the part of patients and on the part of their relatives, this seriously hampers the chances of a successful recovery. Imagine, for an elderly patient, how important it is to be able to visit her every day to help her heal. Unfortunately, the various layoffs have been a serious problem for those already sick and affected. The quality and availability of care has also deteriorated a lot in recent decades. Workers have also been mentioned here today in the House walls, and unfortunately not everyone is affected by the various levels of wage development already promised. I have just received a letter from the region from which I would like to quote here, and on which we have also tabled a written question with my fellow Member, László Lukács, because we often hear it in various forums of the government, during parliamentary speeches, that health is finally reaching the age of wage development. The news has been very welcome, and the serious improvements are still waiting for you, but this can give a little hope to many health workers, if they can take a little more, because let's face it, Hungarian health workers need every single forint. [[21.40]] The problem with upcoming developments is that many have been left out, such as child and school dentists working as civil servants, as well as their assistants, because the system simply does not consider them professional. This discrimination is incomprehensible to us, and we can only hope that this is the result of a mistake, and if nothing else, Jobbik will soon remedy this problem as a result of raising awareness. I think that in a country that is suffering from such an outrageous dental situation at social level, the minimum is that we do not miss the school dentists involved, and we do consider them as professionals. So Csorna, Kapuvar and its region - I can say Beled, Bet, too, because they do not have separate hospitals through small towns - they have been very seriously affected by the withdrawal of the past decades, and it is particularly painful for the region, since most of the time they supported the current government side - over 60 percent of the Fidesz-KDNP government in the elections from this region - and therefore the frustration is much greater, as they hoped for much more. Such a small village region expected a great deal that the catching up of the countryside, the development of the countryside, would not only show up in loud voices in the future, but that the Fidesz-KDNP government would also do a lot of good for them, including in the field of health. I hope these changes will kick in, but we haven't been able to do a lot of positive things, so I'm not very optimistic. Thank you for the opportunity, Mr. President. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-11-07-343	Congressman Gergely Farkas has applied for a speech after the next agenda: Practice makes perfect. A national campaign will be launched by Jobbik's Youth Department to address the problems surrounding traineeships. You have the floor.
u2016-11-07-344	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Practice makes perfect, says the proverb, and we agree that real performance of compulsory traineeships for students in higher education could be a very serious advantage for young people when they have to get into employment when they are looking for jobs. This is not the case, however, because in most cases these traineeships cannot fulfil the objective they would be destined for. Recognizing this problem, and after having received a number of such complaints, the Jobbik Youth Department decided to launch a national campaign in order to draw the government's attention to this problem and hopefully bring this problem to the solution. It wasn't the campaign that was our primary goal, it wasn't happy for us that we had to start a campaign like this, it was always a kind of pressure. In the first round, we have raised this problem several years ago, actually since 2010 when Jobbik has been in Parliament. I myself have spoken several times, confronting the government with this problem, which is no exaggeration that it affects hundreds of thousands of young people. However, the government's response was not only to acknowledge errors, to recognise problems, and thus to draw up an action plan, but also, in all cases, to be misled and to deny problems. It is a good sign of the government's blundering that when I spoke about higher education traineeships, they always fought back with the correctness of dual training, with the absence of problems, which in itself is correct, because dual training works relatively well. It was just that the government had always forgotten, not forgotten, but, in this sense, thought that those who followed the speech were not aware that dual education was all about 2-3 percent of higher education students. So it's a few thousand students who study in a major where there's already dual training. The total number of students in higher education is about 300,000 young people, so it is noticeable that hundreds of thousands of young people have not been answered by the government, their problems are not addressed by the government. This is why we have been forced to launch this campaign, which, through a national campaign, includes more than 200 local sections of Jobbik's Youth Group, includes tens of thousands of similar flyers. [[He's showing it to me.]] We will distribute it to young people to raise awareness of the problem and to publish our proposals for solutions. Within the framework of the campaign, we would also like to use our Facebook site with nearly 100,000 followers, thus directing young people's attention to this problem, making them aware of our solutions and once again drawing the government's attention to this area of serious problems. After the launch press conference on Saturday, we will also hold a number of press conferences at the county seat, which will all bring the launch of this campaign to as many people as possible, and we would also like to make it clear to as many people as possible that we have created specifically for this purpose, this is available at www.bábikit.hu/professional practice, and here, too, I think we would like to provide a lot of useful and valuable things and to introduce visitors. A lot of people complain that an internship nowadays rather than talking about real professional knowledge, it is more about coffee-making, photocopying, pushing files and similar works, so it is not relevant at all, and it is not with the professional knowledge that students need, and from which point of view the whole few weeks or a few months of practice have been invented. In many cases, finding a practical place is a very serious problem. There is too much paperwork to mention just a few specific issues here. Control and evaluation of exercises is irregular. In many cases, it is not possible for a young person to give an opinion on the place where he was an intern. There are no incentives for employers, there are a number of violations against students. So we could list the problems here by the end of the day, but I would also like to introduce you to some of the solutions here. For example, we would introduce an online practical information system, reduce unnecessary papering, recognise professional places with quality professional experience, give employers tax and contribution reductions. So there would be a number of proposals for solutions that would clean up this area that would solve young people's problems. I trust that our package of solutions will also be an incentive for the government to address this issue. And I encourage young people to participate in our campaign, to visit our website, to read our flyers, and together to try to put pressure on the government to make something happen in this area. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-11-07-345	To speak after the next agenda, István Szávay, Member of the Council of the European Union, asked for the title of the Chief of Staff of Ferenc Szombathelyi, who was executed seventy years ago. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2016-11-07-346	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, It cannot be established that the international rules on war with regard to the treatment of the population of the occupied territories or the prisoners of war were seriously violated by him himself, or that he himself, abusing the power entrusted to him by the population of the rejoined territories, would have been cruel, says Ferenc Szombathelyi, the Hungarian People's Court of Justice of the Chief of the Honvéd General Faculty between 1941-44. After his illegal extradition, the Yugoslavs were sentenced to death in a conceptual trial for war crimes and executed on November 4, 1946, or seventy years ago. Ladies and gentlemen, Who I wish to speak about today was born as Ferenc Knausz in Győr on 17 May 1887, as a son of a Swedish industrialist father and Hungarian mother, and at 15 he was already a student of the Hungarian Royal Military School of Pécs. During the First World War, he served as Chief of Staff at the Transylvanian Warfield and the Ministry of Defence. It was not driven by the murderous red idea, but by the desire to save the country when he took on the task of the intelligence and counter-espionage department of the Red Army headquarters in 1919. The well-educated, art-interested, contemporaries believe that the Szombathely career, estimated by its fellow officers, has turned up nicely in the Horthy era. [[21.50]] He was involved in the recapture of the Highlands and Transcarpathia, but he saw precisely the tragic delay of the war, so he considered it his fundamental goal to develop the strength of the Hungarian army, which is weak even against its neighbours, and to preserve it after the war. During our discussion, his statement that he wanted an army of Hungarian spirit was striking, and Hungary needed a separate army to protect the country against all enemies. "I felt that he was obviously referring to the Germans here," said Gyula Illyés, testifying to his anti-Germanism in Szombathely and his principles in connection with the army in the People's Court case. After the German occupation, he was acquitted almost immediately, and after the Arrow Sprain, he was arrested and transported to Sopronkőhida and then to Bavaria. After the war, our country's new masters, who breathed revenge, sent him to the People's Court, but even at second instance, he could only be sentenced to life in prison. In his case, he was supported by such prominent personalities as Gyula Illyés, Imre Kovács, Secretary General of the National Peasant Party, writer Lajos Zilahy or Béla Dálnoki, Prime Minister of the Temporary National Government. Dear Parliament, However, on 9 July 1946, István Ries, Minister of Social Democratic Justice, released it to Yugoslavia, where he was sentenced to death in a completely illegal, conceptual trial for attacking the Soviet Union and for the Novi Sad raid in January 1942. Its remains are likely to be cemented into the foundations of the new Danube Bridge. It is a historical fact that Szombathely ordered increased military action in the South to eliminate the partisan activity there, but it is also a fact that after the action was automatically extended by local military commanders to the unarmed civilian population, that is, local Serbs and Jews, Szombathely stopped it almost immediately. In addition, in the war, he ordered an investigation into the military because of the atrocities committed against the civilian population. Although President János Áder apologized for the so-called cold days, some of the people responsible were then brought to justice, in the midst of the great Hungarian-Serbian friendship, we still do not know exactly who is responsible for the massacre in the south of 1944-45. The literature contains data on the number of victims between 20 and 40 thousand, with Hungarians fleeing the land of their ancestors in the order of tens of thousands. In 1994 the Hungarian Supreme Court, in the absence of a criminal offence, acquitted Szombathely of the referendum of 1946, but nothing happened from the Serbian part to this day. His memory is preserved only by a memorial plaque erected in 2002 at the Institute of Military History and Museum. The only thing to blame for Szombathely is that he did not immediately arrest the number one in charge of the Novi Sad raid, because he believed in their word of honor and that they would not escape responsibility. Dear Parliament, I therefore believe that Ferenc Szombathelyi does not now occupy his rightful place in the pantheon of our nation, because he must be completely rehabilitated in Serbia, and he must have a worthy memory. I therefore call on the Government to launch this process and to initiate a dialogue with the competent authorities on this matter. Gloria victis. Thank you for listening. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-11-07-347	Thank you. Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát is not here, so his agenda cannot be said. This brings us to the end of the speeches after the agenda. Thank you for your work. We will resume our meeting at 9:00 a.m. tomorrow morning. Meeting day's closed. [[Meeting ended at 9:53 p.m.]]
