u2016-10-25-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] Dear Parliament, I ask you to stand up and welcome President János Áder and his guests, as well as the national flag and historical flags. [[President János Áder and his guests enter the box of honor. The commanding officer shall enter through the entrance to the President's pulpit and request permission from the chairman of the Chamber to import historic flags and national flags from the centre of the Chamber, who shall grant the authorisation. In addition to the sound of the fanfares, the flags will march on both sides of the presidential pulpit, and then the people in the room will sit down.]] Dear Parliament, The official sitting of the Parliament on 25 October is hereby opened. Allow me to extend my compliments to President János Áder present witnesses of the events of 1956, freedom fighters, political persecuted, representatives of the 1956 organizations Mr Stanislaw Tillich, President of the Bundesrat Mr Marek Kuchciński, President of the Sejm Mr Matthias Rössler, President of the Saxon Provincial Parliament , Mr Stanislaw Tillich, President of the Bundesrat (Applause. Stanislaw Tillich stands up to thank you for your applause. ) ; Mr Marek Kuchciński, President of the Seym (Applause) - Marek Kuchciński stands up to thank you for your applause. ), Mr Matthias Rössler, President of the Saxon Provincial Parliament (Applause. Matthias Rössler standing up to thank you for your applause. ), Prime Minister Viktor Orbán (Applause.) , all former and current public officials and their relatives (Applause) , leaders of historical churches in Hungary (Applause.) , representatives of Hungarian communities abroad (Applause.) , members of diplomatic bodies (Applause) , Hungarian representatives of the European Parliament (Applause) , you, my fellow Members of Parliament (Applause) , Nationality Spokespersons (Applause.) , all our dear guests, representatives of the domestic and foreign press and everyone who monitors our work (Applause.) Dear Parliament, Please, stand up and sing the Anthem together. [[The people in this room will stand up and sing the Anthem together.]] Thank you very much; please take your seats. Dear Parliament, Dear fellow Members, Dear Guests, I would like to ask Mr. Speaker László Fatér to give his festive speech.
u2016-10-25-1	Mr. President. Honourable President of the Republic of János Áder! Honourable President Stanislaw Tillich! Honourable President Marek Kuchciński! Honourable Prime Minister Viktor Orbán! Dear Guests, Ladies and gentlemen, Ladies and gentlemen. Dear Parliament, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. He who writes the modern history of Hungarians must answer that he has sunk in the land of the great medieval nation. Before 1956, thirteen years ago, or 1943, one of the largest XXs. László Németh, our centuries-old Hungarian thinker, began his speech with these words at the meeting of the Szársó intellectuals seeking a way out in times of distress. [[10.10]] The reasons for the rise or sinking of the Hungarian nation have been explained and provided by the scribes with a library of debateable explanations, but there is one reason, and the only reason that history confronts us is that it is beyond debate. When Hungary was able to self-determination, i.e. a sovereign state, capable of acting and pursuing national goals, the Hungarian nation always rose. However, when Hungarian statehood was absent or lost any element of its sovereign, capable and national nature, Hungarians were always facing difficult times and historical falls. In the Middle Ages, the independent, capable and correspondingly national Hungarian state protected not only Hungary, but also the Christian Europe at the end of the southeast from the hostile forces outside Europe and destroying European civilization. In 1956, it was just 500 years of anniversary that the Hungarian army of castle protectors, including the sons of Central and Eastern European peoples, stopped the Ottoman army in Nándorfehérvár during today's Belgrade in 1456 and gave 70 years of protection and peace to the contemporary Europe. However, just five decades later, the national target-setting capacity of the elite leading the Hungarian state was lost, and then the state's capacity to act was enormously fatal, while the medieval Hungarian state itself was crumbled in order to protect itself and Europe, and it ceased after 1526, and Hungary was divided into three parts. After that, the restoration of the sovereign, capable and national Hungarian state represented the greatest freedom for the Hungarians; the freedom to remain who we are. This was the goal, which passed through the centuries and connected the Hungarian generations. Annex XVIII to Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 is amended as follows: This was the goal of Rákóczi and his Kurucas in the century, in 1848-49 the young men of March and the Kossuth Lajos, and the XX. This was also the goal of the 1956 Revolution and the fight for freedom. The enemy overpowered all three of our great freedom struggles, but the Hungarian desire for freedom proved to be the winner in all three cases, because in the most difficult times it was alive and strengthening the Hungarians' hope and faith until the time was ripe for the national goals. Ladies and Gentlemen, The heroes of 1956 faced a system based on the treading of national identity, the elimination of state self-determination and the social and economic humiliation and unfairness that destroys self-esteem. This system was Soviet Communism. Hungary was not part of this system on its own initiative, but, together with its Central and Eastern European comrades, after World War II, it was pushed there as a victim of geopolitical games between the western great powers and the Soviet Union, stealing its place in the free world of Europe. The consciousness of the Central European Fate community was referred to by one of the first ideas of the 1956 Revolution, the statement of the Budapest University of Arts on 22 October, in which, I quote, the university youth expressed its solidarity with the Warsaw workers and youth, with the Polish independence movement. On 1 November 1956, the revolutionary Hungarian government declared Hungary's independence and neutrality and announced its withdrawal from the Warsaw Treaty. In an international legal sense, the Hungarian state regaining its capacity in the revolution exercised its sovereignty in defence of the interests of the nation. The next day, on 2 November 1956, the U.S. State Department of Telegram informed the Yugoslav leader, Tito, who hosted the Soviet party secretary, that, I quote, the United States government does not have a positive interest in governments along the borders of the Soviet Union that are unfriendly to the Soviet Union. On November 4, 1956, the Soviet Union attacked Hungary with more tanks than Hitler in Poland in 1939. Sixty thousand trained Soviet soldiers fell on a few thousands of militaryly untrained or incompletely equipped, mostly young civil freedom fighters. On 4 November 1956, in the Parliament surrounded by Soviet tanks, the last representative of the Hungarian revolutionary government, Minister of State István Bibó, wrote in his lonelyly typed manifesto: "The people of Hungary have paid enough blood to show the world's attachment to freedom and the world. Now it is up to the powers of the world to show the power of the principles set out in the UN Statute. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Five hours after the Soviet attack, Henry Cabot Lodge, who represents the United States government in the United Nations, said only this:. If there was ever a time when the United Nations could become a matter of life and death for an entire nation, this is the time. In his book published in 1962 by American veteran Frank G. Johnson, he commented on this as a reason: "Hungary died, because the only power that could have saved him was the United States who chose to die, pretending that we would be relieved of our responsibility if we put it on an organization that could not provide it. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Dear fellow citizens, Dear Guests, And all manner of peoples, orders / They ask why this was necessary. Why didn't it die like you asked? Why didn't you wait quietly for the end? / Why did the sky break, / Because one people said, "That's enough." I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. [[10.20]] He put this on paper with the fights in the ranks of Sándor Márai's shockingly beautiful poem. More than 3,000 dead on the streets, including just 60 years ago here in Kossuth Square with machine gunfire, 71 known by name, and who knows how many unknown victims, 20 thousand wounded, 20 thousand conceptual lawsuits, over 200 executions, thousands of Hungarians dragged to the Soviet Union, 13 thousand interns in Hungary, 200,000 refugees forced to leave their homeland, and a communist dictatorship reconceived for more than 30 years in treason and manslaughter, an anti-national and evil dictatorship - was punished for 1956, for not dying, as they asked, for not expecting its end in silence. As a reward sanctified with blood and sacrifice, the Hungarians received from 1956 that in 12 days they regained the soul-lifting power of freedom, dignity and responsibility. This force allowed a democratic Hungary to be reborn in 1990, a force which helps Hungary today in the Euroatlantic alliances to preserve its dignity, equality and independence in fulfilling its obligations and exercising its rights. Ladies and Gentlemen, Just as the 1956 Hungarian Revolution and War of Independence provided an inevitable lesson for Europe at its age, its message is just as important for today's European generations. In the light of the Hungarian revolution, the former Europe and the world could recognize the true face of communism, so after 1956 no one could refer to communism or socialism with a human face in good faith anymore. The Hungarian Revolution was also a tragic example for everyone that a nation of occupied Europe is XX. In the second half of the century, how he fell victim to the cynical games of great powers outside Europe. Today, the lesson of revolution and freedom struggle warns that, without maintaining and defending its own identity, self-determination and self-esteem, Europe as a whole, the European Union as a whole, can be a tragic loser of unscrupulous interest in the powers of great power outside Europe and in the democratic powers and control of states. The Hungarians of 1956 are sending a message from XXI. To the century, national identity, self-determination and self-esteem are never a threat, but are always a resource for a community, including Europe and the European Union. In a global competition in which identity is becoming an increasingly political and economic competitiveness factor, Europe cannot stand without a European identity created by diverse national cultures based on common Christian civilization foundations. Hungarian 1956 sends a message from XXI. To the hundredth century, that neither the will of the people, nor the sovereignty of the state, can be excluded from our state sovereignty based on the will of the people, because otherwise, Europe will be subject to the deterioration of democracy, anarchy and submission. Our 1956 Hungarian revolution and the ideals and values of our freedom struggle oblige us to build a European Union and a Hungarian state in it that serves and does not serve European and Hungarian citizens. For these ideas 60 years ago, the Hungarians also committed a certain death by hitting foreign tanks that trashed freedom. He misjudges and underestimates the Hungarians, who today believe that we will be persuaded by sugar or whips, lies, pressure and threats to deny the legacy of 1956, to give up our identity, self-esteem and self-determination. We remember with regret all the victims of communism belonging to Hungarian, Polish, German and other nations, all the martyrs of the fight against communism. Thanks to the heroes of 1956 who live with us. Thanks to our Polish and German friends, thanks to all the freedom-loving citizens we could count on and count on for Hungarian and European freedom. Glory to the heroes, God give strength, perseverance, wisdom to their followers. [[It's a long applause.]]
u2016-10-25-2	I thank you for the words of Speaker László Fat. Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, I now invite President Stanislaw Tillich, President of the German Bundesrat, to come to the stand and give his solemn speech. In the meantime, I would like to inform my fellow Members and our dear guests that, with the help of the interpreters, the two Presidents' speeches can also be heard in Hungarian.
u2016-10-25-3	Mr. President of the Republic! Prime Minister Orbán! Honourable Marshal Kuchciński, President of the Sejm! Mr. Rössler, Regional Parliamentary President. Ladies and Gentlemen, Congresswoman and Lords! Honourable Kortanúk, participants in the 1956 Hungarian uprising! Ladies and Gentlemen, It is a special honor for me to speak to you today as President of the Bundesrat, President of our Federal Chamber of Parliament and Prime Minister of the Saxon Free State. Today we remember one of the most moving events in Hungary's long history, an era that has brought hope and grief to many people and many families, but it also meant consciousness that we must remain steadfast. Today we commend the people who, with incredible courage and great determination, advocated freedom and self-determination. And let us also remember the victims who lost their lives fighting for freedom. Their memories will be preserved forever. At the time, people were driven by the desire for freedom and self-determination and connected in several countries of Central and Eastern Europe; the desire for democracy and the closure of Communist rule and foreign rule. In June 1953, in several cities in East Germany, people went out into the street and protested against the Communist regime, which caused them so much burden and pressure in their daily lives. This movement quickly spread throughout the country and became a people's uprising. This uprising, however, was brutally beaten down by Soviet tanks. Countless people lost their lives or were wounded or imprisoned. And many have asked themselves: What ideology is it that sacrifices people, where power is more important than human life? And how brave the Hungarian citizens were three years later, who, after the East German experience, went out again into the street and rose against Communist alien rule! What began with a student demonstration became a movement of society, a movement of Hungary as a whole. Thus, the spirit of freedom flowed here in the country in October 1956. It was days of rebellion, days of hope, days of hope. Free, democratic, self-determination Hungary seemed to be within reach these days. And how much this proud, high - tradition country deserved! [[10.30]] These were the days that moved the whole world and pointed out that Europe's division and foreign communist rule would be over. Unfortunately, however, this hope also lived for a very short time in Hungary. The rebel movement ended in a desperate war of freedom; many young people joined this fight. After all, they did not want to give up hope that they could live in Hungary, live a life in which they could achieve their dreams and goals. In the end, the Soviet force was overwhelming, and the fight could not be won. Thousands of Hungarians lost their lives or were wounded. The people who stood before tanks and sacrificed their lives at that time in a hopeless struggle were called XX. They are among the heroes of the century. Their courageous stand was not in vain, even if they themselves could no longer survive the victory of freedom. They fought and fought not only for their own country, but for an entire continent; for a Europe where people longed for freedom, peace, and an end to division. The uprising in Hungary was brutally defeated, but it was already clear that the rule of communist violence in Central and Eastern Europe would not last forever. This was clear even then, because a dictatorship, despite the oppressive bodies, cannot survive, because it cannot read people's minds, the minds where the ideas were shaped by European enlightenment, and those who wanted freedom and lived in the knowledge that democracy could only be the word of the future. Today, Europe must set this positive example and be a motivation for all people who are forced to live today in oppression or under the burden of dictatorship. In 1968, the spirit of freedom appeared in Prague, in Czechoslovakia at that time, and the winds of change and opening appeared there. From all over Europe, from both sides of the Iron Curtain, young people came to that town on the coast of Moldova and dreamed of a free future. In Germany, eyewitnesses still talk with rapture about these special moments, moments that we know as Prague Spring in our European history. Once again, hope for change, for a life in a free and democratic country, and the pursuit of freedom was once again overcome by violence and the death of countless peace-loving people. It was the 1980s that made a real difference in Poland, where people have repeatedly raised their voices against the repressive Soviet power, and the Solidarity Union was formed. This union, Solidarity, played a crucial role in 1989, in the year of the revolution. 1989 is one of the happiest moments in our history for us Germans. And Hungary played a very important role in this history. What was only hope until then really became a reality. The pictures of the Austrian and Hungarian foreign ministers traveled the world as they cut the fence across the border. The Iron Curtain was opened here in Hungary. From East Germany, many thousands of people who had a desire for freedom have seen a different purpose before their eyes. They crossed the border from Hungary to Austria and from there to the Federal Republic of Germany. That Hungary then opened the way to freedom for our fellow countrymen, so we Germans will be grateful in our eternal lives. But not everyone wanted to go to the West, because in autumn 1989 tens of thousands of people in Saxony and other East German regions went out onto the street to protest for freedom, democracy and change. The peaceful revolution in the eastern part of Germany was as successful as the so-called velvet revolution in Czechoslovakia or before Poland, or the Hungarian revolution. The rush of freedom could no longer be stopped, no one could stop it. It swept away dictatorships and dictators, and the division of Europe ended. Together we could start on the road to freedom and decide again democratically and autonomously about our country, our future. Since then, more than a quarter of a century has passed, and the people living in Eastern Central Europe have been honorable since the fall of the Iron Curtain. This time has brought us many changes, changes that have not always been simple and have often been difficult for people, and often have been hardships and deprivations. That despite this, the change of regime has succeeded, it deserves recognition and great respect. Ladies and Gentlemen, Those who went out on the streets in the communist regime have dedicated their lives to higher goals: freedom, democracy and the rule of law. These values characterize our coexistence here in Europe today, and they make Europe so special. If we are talking about the future of Europe today, we must remember the long and difficult journey that has led us to freedom. Remember our common European values. Let's build a bridge and create trust in each other. You have to step on the bridges. This means that we must pay attention to each other and remain open to dialogue. Always see the challenges of our time from the perspective of the other side. Think of all the things we have accomplished together. Consider that we can live in a Europe that the East Germans in 1953, Hungarians in 1956, Czechoslovaks in 1968 and Poles in the early eighties could only dream of. This should be remembered, for the victims of those sacrifices, the Stalinist overpower, gave their lives in vain. A Europe from which young people expect much and have high hopes must be a Europe where both Germans and Hungarians are the 21st. We live in peace, freedom, democracy. Thank you very much. [[The people present are standing up, applauding for a long time. The Officer of the Office will escort Stanislaw Tillich back to the VI. a box.]] [[10.40]]
u2016-10-25-4	I would like to thank President Stanislaw Tillich for his speech. Thank you, Mr. President. Now, with all due respect, I would like to ask Mr Marek Kuchciński, President of the Polish seymour, to come to the stand and give his festive speech.
u2016-10-25-5	Thank you very much. Mr. Speaker, Dear Lord of the President of the Parliament, Mr President of the Republic. Mr. Prime Minister, Dear President Bundesrat, Ladies, ladies, ladies, ladies, ladies, ladies, Gentlemen, Congressman Lords! Excellent Lords! Eminence Lords! Dear Audience, It is a great honor for me to be able to speak in the Parliament of the Republic of Hungary on this exceptional historic day, when we commemorate the 60th anniversary of the Hungarian revolution and uprising. I am speaking on behalf of nearly 60 million Poles living in Poland and abroad. Thank you very much for inviting me and for the opportunity to speak to you as President of the Seymour of the Republic of Poland. I am aware of the exceptional significance of this moment. Hungary is one of the home countries of new European democracy and is the home country of parliamentary democracy as well as Poland, and the Parliament of the Republic of Hungary, the building, which is not only wonderfully impressive, but also historically deeply rooted in Hungarian traditions and Hungarian history. Our countries started the greatest development just in the time of parliamentarism. During the Polish seisms and the Hungarian Parliaments, patriotic values, understanding of state interests, legal culture and responsibility for the state were established. When absolutism reigned in Europe, both in the West and in the East, our ancestors in Poland, Hungary, were already on the path of democracy, and along this democracy, economic development was amazing, we are proud of our past. This is the basis of our historic policy, today's Poland, today's Hungary. Both the Kingdom of Poland and the Kingdom of Hungary formed an exceptional state model in the Middle Ages, where we had cooperation between all layers of the nation and tolerated all religions. It is an exceptional feature of Polish and Hungarian fate, however, that history is interlinked. By the way, the reason for this is that we have shared interests that came from Christendom and that have come from an attitude towards our own state, so we all wanted to serve our country. For us equality, freedom, brotherhood are not just political passwords, but they are the necessary universal characteristics of political life. Therefore, the Poles and the Hungarians are the 19th. In the century they became warriors of freedom and democracy, for our freedom and for your freedom. The same was written on their flag in 1956 by the revolutionaries who opposed the bad empire, the Soviet Union. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Honourable Members, Polish-Hungarian solidarity in 1956 cannot be understood if we do not understand the past and the future, so I would refer here to three symbols that form our past. The first is a historical symbol, so at the same time in history, at the end of the X. century both the Poles and the Hungarians not only took up baptism, but also built their own country and their state here in the middle of Europe in the IX-X. In the 18th century, they defined the most important political and cultural values of their countries. The most important political and religious centers are located in this part of Europe, Poland and Hungary, and the six most important family signs in the main halls of the Hungarian Parliament refer to both Polish and Hungarian royal houses. I would like to say that both Hungarians and Poles have entered into political and military alliances in most of their history. This was seen in the battle of Varna, in the battle of Mohács, and in the national uprisings, we helped each other mutually in the 19th century. in the century, and in the time of both world wars. The third symbol is important and most often in difficult situations, the Poles and Hungarians have always prayed to God and gave themselves to him. From 1823 what do we sing in the Hungarian Anthem? God, bless the Hungarian with good cheer and abundance. A few years earlier, in 1816 there is a God in the Polish National Vocabulary, an anthem, who has been shining and helping us for centuries. For hundreds of years, Poland and Hungary have been the outstretched sword of Christianity and defended Europe. Poland, the Polish people, will always be grateful to the Hungarians for the help they gave to the Poles in Hungary during the Second World War, this emotional bond between our nations survived the most difficult times. Whether there were differences after World War II, our fate was completely identical, we were on the other side of the Iron Curtain. In 1956, both the Poles and the Hungarians sought independence again, and in the spirit of mutual help they fought for their state, honor, dignity, values and democracy. We are grateful to the Hungarians for remembering Polish solidarity in 1956, in which we sent humanitarian shipments; this is well remembered by a plaque that was exposed a few days ago at Bem József Square, here in Budapest. We are grateful for other memorials, such as the commemoration of Zbigniew Herbert, his memorial plaque was also exposed here in Budapest a week ago. Ladies and Gentlemen, I am Polish, so I am European, and you are European. Why? Because they're Hungarian. That's the order. So that's reason and causality. And this is also binding in the future, because there are nations in Europe, not a Utilitarian European people, which are ethnically and culturally united. The main value of the European Union is that we are united in diversity, and that is perfectly understood by everyone in Central Europe. So just because we are different, this has always been the great force of this region, which has determined our culture, social life and the economy for centuries. Our differences gave strength to both the Hungarians and the Poles. [[10.50]] In Central Europe, we have rejected the principle of sharing and conquering, building on a different value: nothing without us. We are consistently rejecting the policy of unification of European peoples, we want to strengthen Europe, we want to renew Europe, but we want a Europe of solidarity, of homelands, of parents and of states. Both Polish and Hungarian history prove that it is possible to make friends by preserving our diversity, living in sovereign, strong states, pursuing our own national democracies. We both know the price of freedom in Poland and Hungary. We also know that when there is no reform or too late reforms, they inevitably lead to failure. That is why we believe in the rapid renewal of the European Union, remembering very well how the Polish-Litvan Union failed or how the Austro-Hungarian Monarchy failed. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear Hungarian Friends! For centuries, the Poles and the Hungarians respected each other, and today I am honored to present to the Hungarian Parliament his greetings, recognition and respect for the Seymour of the Republic of Poland. God, bless the Hungarian with good cheer and plenty! Thank you very much. [[The people standing up, applauding for a long time Marek Kuchciński leaves the speaker's stand, holding hands between the benches with László Kövér, Viktor Orbán and Zsolt Semjén, and leaving the room.]]
u2016-10-25-6	I would like to thank President Marek Kuchciński for his words. Thank you very much, Marshal. Dear Parliament, In the solemn conclusion of the session, please stand up and sing the Word together and salute the departure of the national flag and historical flags. [[The people in the room will stand up and sing the Word together. After that, the commander of the decorative guard shall step forward and the flags shall leave the meeting room at the sound of the fanfares.]] Thank you very much. My fellow Members, please take your seats. [[The president and the people present will sit down.]] Ladies and gentlemen, Before I close the meeting, I would like to address Mr Lajos Kósa, Head of the Group, who has applied for a point of order. Here you go, Mr. Group Leader.
u2016-10-25-7	Mr. President. Dear House, Since no vote was taken at the festive session, I would therefore like the record to contain the following fact: the fact that the Hungarian Socialist Party was formed as the successor of the Hungarian Socialist Workers' Party, who choked on the 1956 revolution with Soviet help, did not attend the festive session, where we remembered the revolution, the struggle for freedom and the heroes. Thank you very much.
u2016-10-25-8	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. This regrettable fact is recorded in the minutes of the sitting, in the parliamentary diary, that the MSZP parliamentary group did not take part or took part in today's Jubilee commemoration session. Ladies and gentlemen, The holiday session is closed. Thank you for the participation of our dear guests. I would like to inform you that the conference on 25 October 1956 will be held in the Upper House Chamber from 11 a.m. I would now ask my fellow Members to remain in this Chamber for a few minutes while the guests are leaving, in order to avoid the tumors outside, in order to ensure that they are undisturbed. After a short break, we will continue our work with speeches before the agenda, and I will take a break. Thank you very much for your appearance. [[The festive session ended at 10:58 p.m.]]
