u2016-10-24-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] Dear Parliament, The 13th day of the autumn session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that, in the chair of this meeting, Lajos Szűcs and Dezső Reliable notary will be of assistance to me. Welcome to our dear guests and everyone who's watching our work. Dear Parliament, Member István Hiller applied for a pre-meeting speech with the title "The Future" in memory of 1956. Here you go.
u2016-10-24-1	Mr President, Congresswoman Wives and Congressman Lords! Dear Parliament, No doubt, no one is preparing to be a hero. No child dreams of becoming a hero at the end of his life. In 1956, they didn't want that kind of life - and not that kind of ending. I think it is right and important that among the heroes of 1956, whose names were less known to the public, and even less known to the public, they have now become more known from posters, portraits, TV and Internet appearances. It is due to this particular cruelty, just waiting for its maturity, to Péter Mansfeld executed as well as to the János Mecséri, who was the commander of the Juta-domb unit, whose memory was erased, not only death sentences and prison sentences, but even the hill itself, the Juta-domb. However, I do not like it, and I do not consider it a coincidence that the political leaders of the revolution were not or hardly mentioned at the official commemorations of the 60th anniversary. The names of Imre Nagy, Miklós Gimes, Géza Losonczy, József Szilágyi, Miklós Vásárhelyi, Ferenc Donáth and his associates were almost hardly mentioned. They were hardly seen on the anniversary of the revolution in posters and brochures. No one thinks or believes that this is not part of a clear political vision, and I believe that democratic politics cannot be seen among heroes. It is neither a task nor a duty to give first, second and third grade classifications to former participants in revolution and freedom fights. It is right for the Hungarian public to know and know the boys of Pest by name, and all those who have stood up for their ideas in the capital or in the countryside, and even beyond our borders. But let's be clear: without Imre Nagy and his associates there is no solo Without Imre Nagy and his associates, he is not a complete political tabloid of 56. And any attempt, any conscious re-painting of history whose experiment we do see, the purpose of which is to put the political leaders of the revolution in the background and to keep them in the dark, is considered not only to be faulty, not only to be wrong, but also to be shameful. They wanted a free and fair Hungary in 56. They believed that it could be created. But the memory policy, the revival of events 60 years ago, doesn't just mean we're going through every day, hour by hour, all that happened 60 years ago. Those thoughts, those ideas, and however embarrassing and unpleasant it may be for anyone today, are clear and proud left-wing and socialist ideas among them, and we are also obliged to remind you of this in the circumstances of today's Hungary. I don't think, in fact, I'm sure that among those who wanted and demanded freedom of the press in 56 there would be even one person who would agree with what happened recently and in the present with Hungary's largest newspaper. On the 60th anniversary, it must be stated that what happened to Népszabadság is a violation of the Hungarian freedom of the press, i.e. a reduction of Hungarian freedom. It is also clear that those who wanted a fairer Hungary in 56 would find it difficult to bear and condemn the policy that resulted in 40,000 poor children being thrown out of public education for the past years. I do not think they would approve of the fact that those who have money are sending their child to the best schools, while hundreds and thousands of talented Hungarian girls and boys born in poor families are invading. We Hungarian socialists are proud, Honourable House, that Hungary is a member of the European Union. We see and there is no doubt that the European Union is slow, waiting or even afraid on a number of issues. But this does not mean or will not mean that we would agree with any step or intention that would remove our country or actually lead it out of the European Union. We Hungarian Socialists succeed in a free and just Hungarian future [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] we see Hungary as a strong member of the European Union. Thank you very much.
u2016-10-24-2	On behalf of the government, I give the floor to Secretary of State Csaba Dömötör.
u2016-10-24-3	Honourable Congressman, I am pleased that in the MSZP, even after the holiday, we have started to think together, a process of what we think about 1956, the actors of 1956 [[Zoltán Haughty interrupts.]] and the things that have to be done now. It's a pity you haven't been involved in this activity in the last few weeks or months. 1956 is for us about freedom, independence and most about national unity. The government went after the 60th anniversary with the hope that we could make up for the fact that the left-wing government ruined the 50th anniversary ten years ago. You may remember that you were a minister at the time, and I might as well have been shot because I was in the celebratory crowd, just like I was yesterday. But what has the MSZP done in the last few weeks? He began by not signing a joint declaration on.56 - this would, among other things, have asked all Hungarians, regardless of where they live in the world, to bow down to their heroes and victims and to celebrate the anniversary with pride. [[13.10]] Then came Tibor Szanyi, who, we do not know what influence he was under, but he could say that he could not see 23 October as a national holiday, and this man represents us in the European Union to which you referred. And that's how we get to yesterday, where the left has stepped again, not in a spiritual capacity or organization, but in aggression and violence. Instead of drawing the lessons of the ruined 2006 holiday, the left tried to ruin the peaceful holiday again, instead of trying to break up arguments, to destroy the state celebration. The international guest of honor, the President of the Republic of Poland, the young actor, and the radical left also whistled at the hymns, and whistled at Father Olofsson Placid, who had been imprisoned in the gulag for ten years. [[Interjection from the ranks of Fidesz: That's right!]] It's hard to go any lower than that. If I wanted to describe what I think in three words, I would say shame, shame, shame! [[Zoltán Grimlock: Who did you address this to?]] I was addressing the radical left, Mr. Congressman. [[Dr. László Varga: Talk to your boss about the helicopter.]] I'm sorry you guys support him. [[Zoltán Grimlock: Is that what you're saying?]] It is very disappointing that the decisive forces of the opposition, instead of driving, saw only party political goals yesterday. They should also know that freedom of speech does not mean that anyone can destroy peaceful commemorations at their pleasure. One thing is certain, if the left can show this much on a national holiday, then in its present state a bag of potatoes cannot be entrusted, let alone government. But if you would like to change that and think about what will be done in the future - if I take the words of the Member well, then there is such an intention - then please note that there has been a referendum in Hungary, the result of which is an obligation on everyone. [[Dr. Bertalan Tóth: Invalid!]] Now the national unity comes from the referendum, because a unity has been established [[Ágnes Kunhalmi: There is a unit on the other side.]] A national unit in order to prevent Brussels from installing immigrants in Hungary without consulting us. This is a community of 3.3 million, honourable Member, including left-wing voters. If the MSZP is thinking about future tasks, it cannot turn its back on this community. If you really care about human rights, democratic rights, then you will negotiate the amendment of the Constitution, not exclude yourself from work, as the Democratic Coalition does. Honourable Congressman, Returning to the previous theme, the anniversary, something much more important than left-wing aggression: yesterday hundreds of thousands celebrated the 60th anniversary of the 1956 revolution throughout the country. We would like to thank all those who participated in the commemorations in any form and commemorate the courage of the Hungarians in 56. This silent but just as proud stand proves that the Hungarian people are united, when it comes to our most important values, and also that where heroes are not forgotten, there will always be new ones. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-10-24-4	Congresswoman Bernadett Szél, member of the LMP faction, has also applied for a speech before the agenda. Here you go.
u2016-10-24-5	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear pro-government Faction! János Lázár, Minister of the Prime Minister's Office, spoke about the fact that although the half-million-dollar layoff mentioned by Deputy Minister Csepreghy is based on excessive and incorrect calculations, he does not want to say the exact figures for his part, because he believes that the opposition parties would build a campaign on it. On my part, let me point out that it would also be worth a few sentences if a minister accused his own deputy of throwing numbers on such a serious issue on the basis of incorrect calculations and did not thank him for his work, and yet he did not say that he would be kind enough to find another job, because layoffs are too important a topic to scare people on the basis of incorrect calculations. But even more frighteningly, when the minister responsible for the area is actually refusing to tell us how many people they want to put a road map on in the state sphere. Of course, there's also a B-version that you might have no idea how many people are in this situation, because there's chaos in the government, and you don't know how many people you want to fire to cut costs, but you know that you want to fire people, because the Fidesz-KDNP, you used to say that you wouldn't leave anyone on the side of the road. Now we see more and more people on the side of the road and fewer and fewer people on the road. However, as opposition party leader, I would like to tell the Hungarian Government and János Lázár that, despite their secrecy, we have a duty, if such announcements are received, to tell them what the facts are, and to say that it would be a completely wrong solution to let anyone go in the public sector. We see that in the Hungarian public sector there is much more labour shortages and labour poverty, and that people should not be dismissed, but wage increases should be given, as wages should be settled once and for all in Hungary. By the way, if John Lazarus refuses to tell us how many hundreds of thousands of people they want to fire because of fear of the opposition or because of government chaos, then I think it is not difficult to conclude that this is a very high number, and it may be a very high number that has to be afraid of being kicked out of work in the public sector. Moreover, János Lázár, repeating Nándor Csepreghy's earlier words, himself argued that it should be dismantled in the public sector because there is a shortage of labour in the economy. I'm sorry, but it's completely nonsense, nonsense, and total incompetence the government's talking about. I would also add that it is infinite impertinence, impertinence, that the government should make redundancies on the grounds of lack of labour, because in Hungary there is a shortage of labour today, because hundreds of thousands of people have decided to leave their own country because they cannot make a living on wages. It is not an adventure that drives these people to another country, but that they cannot pay the checks, they cannot live with honor. I would like to add that there is a circle in the public sector where it could actually be helped to reduce labour shortages, which is the circle of public workers. There are 230,000 public workers in this country, a third of them have professional qualifications, some of them could indeed be retrained, but this is exactly what the Hungarian government does not care about. I would like to add, however, that I have been dismissed from the public sector, if this huge austerity were to take place and this huge dismissal, they would not be able to alleviate the shortage of labour. Obviously, those who work in public administration or public companies are employees in administrative and office positions. Where is the labour force most absent in Hungary today? In sectors such as construction, manufacturing and information technology, apples cannot be replaced by pears, honourable government representatives, honourable Minister, honourable State Secretarys. But if the government thinks it's a possible exchange, then I would encourage you to test it on government waterhead discharge ministers or state ministers. I would very much like to take a look, Mr. Secretary of State, as an electrician or carpenter, perhaps working with a assembly line on a minimum wage, Mr. Secretary of State, I would like to know how you would feel if you were Hungarian workers working on minimum wage. I also have a suggestion: Mr. Antal Rogán should be an electrician, you, Mr. Secretary of State, go join the carpenter, János Lázár, and try to come out of a minimum wage. [[13.20]] One word for it, I see that the government is trying to put out a fire with oil, and it's a fire that the government itself caused. By the way, this will undermine the efficiency of the public sector, and sooner or later they will not be able to avoid giving Hungary the way out of the wage crisis. But if you cannot do this, then stand up and say good-bye now, because Hungary's biggest problem is the wage crisis. This is why the May Other has initiated Parliamentary Debate Day to discuss labour shortages and related wage crises. I think this is a worthy topic for the whole Hungarian Parliament to address. I look forward to the signatures with respect and thanks so that this debate can take place. I'm also counting on pro-government support. Thank you.
u2016-10-24-6	Mr. Secretary of State Péter Cseresnyés has the floor.
u2016-10-24-7	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Although it is far from my point of view to engage in any personal activity, I do have to give you an example, for example, of the example that I have worked in the competitive sphere, unlike you, and I also have to say that I have done physical work in my life, which is why I know what I am talking about when I talk about the sphere of competition, the primary labour market, employment and work on not too high wages. It is likely that you do not know exactly what is real in those thoughts, in the sentences you say, when you set an example or when you wander into different areas. After the economic revolution in Hungary, the number of jobseekers and the number of job vacancies of employers is, of course, increasing at the same time as the labour force demand in the competition sector, thus increasing activity and activity in the labour market and increasing the search for workers. This is how, in addition to the increase in activity, a significant reduction in unemployment occurred, with this already below 5 percent in Hungary today, based on the last figures, 4.9 percent. And, as you say, just because the economy has increased as a result of the government's economic policy, there are areas in the economy, employment areas where there is considerable competition for the workforce, looking for well-trained professionals and looking for people who want to work in a given area. As you have just listed, such as manufacturing, health care, certain areas of service or the construction sector. But the goal of the state, the government, is to create a more competitive state, a more competitive state. Today, the number of people employed by the state is between 20 and 30 percent. This, when compared with other countries in Central Europe, Slovakia, Poland or even Germany, is around 10-20 percent. So it can be said that the number of people employed by the State is still large enough in Hungary to compare with other countries. The spread of digitalisation allows for a loss of numbers in this area, but precisely because these people need to be transferred, they need to be transferred to another area of the primary labour market, so a Career Bridge programme is being carried out by the government, and their location will be easier. Therefore, those leaving the public sector will be given the opportunity to move to the primary labour market. In general, therefore, it is not possible to address or meet the labour needs of the competitive sphere with the number of employees with special skills and experience in the public sector, while there are groups of professionals where these people are either without re-training, because they already have the knowledge to fill the job, or they are able to join the workplace by means of re-training. Of course, no one thought, as they tried to distort the intentions and reality here, that, let's say, a very good financial expert who worked as a finance manager or lecturer in the public administration, would become a bricklayer, or would do some other kind of professional work in the construction industry. That's your idea, nobody thought about it, but you have to find the right place for everyone, you have to find the right place for everyone. The demand for labour in the budgetary sector, unlike in the competition sector, has not increased in the last year, so it is not true what you said that there would be a general and global demand for labour in the public sector. It can be said that in certain areas there is such demand, but in other areas there is labour surplus. For example, in health care there is such a situation, there is a need for work, but in public education, in public education, that is not true. Overall, it can be said that the government's aim is not to dismiss people, but to make employment more rational, to reduce employment in the public sector as much as possible and to enable employees to work in the competitive sphere. Numbers cannot be talked about because the government does not grant quotas, but provides opportunities and manages the situation with its current employment and economic policies. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-10-24-8	Now, the leader of the Jobbik Group, Mr Gábor Vona, will be next:, send a message to Fidesz: 98 percent said no to the establishment business as well! - It's simple with the formula. It's up to Team Leader. Here you go.
u2016-10-24-9	Mr President, Dear Parliament, We will vote on the amendment of the Fundamental Law on 8 November. Last Tuesday, I told the Prime Minister in his study in private that we would support the amendment of the Fundamental Law in the event that it happened as we originally wanted, and that he excluded all forms of resettlement, neither poor migrant, rich migrant, poor terrorist, nor rich terrorist should arrive in Hungary. Since I gave this very clear position to the Prime Minister last Tuesday, your media has, to put it mildly, come at me. The coronation of this was perhaps the day yesterday, when the following appeared in your media:. Gábor Vona's speech was whistled out, and during Gábor Vona's speech there was a riot and pushing at Jobbik's event. It all appeared when I hadn't even stepped on the stage. [[Dóra Dúró: Shame!]] Here's what happened: you sent your provocators to this event, you just forgot one thing, you didn't call them to see if the provocation had happened or not; it's very embarrassing, very unpleasant. A little déjà vu has a feeling that memories similar or related to what happened in front of the National Election Office are living in a person. I was just saying that if, next time, they send provocators to our event, they should make sure that they discuss it with them and call them to see if it happened before these articles appear in their press and get into a very unpleasant, pathetic situation. By the way, we're saying that there was no disturbance at our event, and the police confirmed that there was no whistling. There has been such a thing on the last day, on the 60th anniversary of the event, Viktor Orbán was whistled out at the government's memorial, and at your event there was a disturbance, disturbance, a fight, for which I think that everyone should explain their side. But not only did your press make it worse for me, but your fellow Members have said all kinds of things over the last few days about our position. Bence Tuzson opened the line, and he said we're dealing with the fundamental law amendment. Well, do we sell the bonds, or do you sell them? When I went to the Prime Minister, I didn't say that we should get a small share of this business, I didn't say that we wanted dividends from the money of the rich migrants, and I didn't ask him for money for a helicopter, but I said that this corrupt institution, which, moreover, puts Hungary's real security at risk, should be eliminated as it is. That's all it is, but it's not dealing. Then Lajos Kósa, the leader of the group, came along and continued this great line and called me a traitor. I'm not really having a hard time here either. You have to interpret the term yourself. Who sells the country? The one who wants to put an end to a corrupt system that endangers the security of the country, or the traitor who sells the country because he's calling in rich migrants for bonds? It's just a word analysis, and then we have the traitor of the two of us, Mr. Head of the Group. But my favourite was Szilárd Németh. [[Defiance.]] Who at the end of the week said he agreed with Gábor Vona in April, not October. Mr Vice-President, if you have such different voices, I will help you to clarify this question: you did not agree with me in April. When I announced the amendment to the Fundamental Law in April, he sat there the same way and didn't say anything. If you had agreed with me in April, then why didn't you tell György Rubovszky, who, in breach of house rules, didn't let our fundamental law-modifying proposal be put on the table, saying that Viktor wouldn't allow it? [[13.30]] You disagreed with me in April, my honourable fellow Member, Mr Vice-President. Of course, let's be kind to you, maybe what I say in April will only happen to you by October. [[Applause in the ranks of the Jobbik.]] You'll understand in October. So now I'm telling you, I think the settlement policy should be lifted. You have until May to think about this. If you could solve this formula by February and March, I think the whole country would thank you. But, ladies and gentlemen, the joke aside, because this is not a funny topic, I think the formula is very simple. The formula is very simple, terribly simple. Do we, too, need to take a stand on the following issue: the money of rich migrants is more important, or is it the real protection of the country? That's the question. All the rest of it just smells like sweat. There's no need for a press campaign here. In this matter, I ask you to decide whether money for rich migrants is more important or whether it is a real defence of the country. You'll have to decide on November 8th. The fact that you've been thinking about this for almost a week now shows the real face of orbánism, that the big talk is on the surface, that we are defending the country, and the rest, but the whole point of the system is stealing. Orbánism is a national-colored, packaged lie, theft, distribution, looting. That's the essence of orbánism, that's what we're going to be fighting against on the political stage. This is what we want to replace in 2018. Or if you may have the courage, then let's have an early election, and then let's replace orbánism earlier. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A big round of applause in the ranks of the Jobbik.]]
u2016-10-24-10	Once again, I give the floor to State Secretary Csaba Dömötör. Here you go. [[Interviews from Jobbik and MSZP.]]
u2016-10-24-11	Mr President, Thank you for your attention. [[The president's ringing the bell.]]
u2016-10-24-12	I appeal to both pro-government and opposition representatives to calm and quiet, okay? If I may. Thank you.
u2016-10-24-13	It was another speech that anyone could have spoken from Péter Juhász to the prestigious Gyula Molnár. You think a lot about it, but you don't think it comes from a party that claims to be national. By the way, your speeches yesterday proved that. They talked about virtually everything, government measures, Gábor Vona's clever attempts at extortion, but hardly the heroes of '56. As far as settlement bonds are concerned, the settlement policy is an economic and investment issue because it has benefited the country. [[Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks.]] Its customers cannot be confused with immigrants, whose refugee status cannot be withdrawn, while the permission to buy bonds can be withdrawn at any time. [[György Szilágyi: Say one thing!]] It's weird what you're doing about the amendment of the Constitution. In the past, Jobbik was the one who clearly said that he was in favour of the amendment of the Constitution, it is not a prestige issue for him, because it is a national matter. They also said that Jobbik is aware of its own responsibility, and said that it would not be right to derail the fundamental law amendment as a party dispute, and said that this is perhaps the most important: by all means the introduction of the quota system must be prevented. Indeed, the President of Jobbik has referred earlier to the fact that anyone who does not vote for this cannot view it as a traitor to his country. I remember that, too. [[An uproar in Jobbik's ranks.]] You said that in the same tone as before. Compared to this, we don't know whose advice, we don't know why, whose request...
u2016-10-24-14	Why the unrest in Jobbik's ranks? What for, gentlemen? ! Please listen to the Secretary of State.
u2016-10-24-15	Compared to this, we don't know whose advice, whose request, but Jobbik is suddenly willing to support the amendment of the Constitution only on terms. Why would Jobbik deny Jobbik a few weeks ago? If my colleague Bence Tuzson used the word "fighting" for all of this, then bingo, he spelled the situation right. The former national party joins those who turn their backs on their own voters, ignoring the will of 3.3 million people. By the way, I do not know what the representatives of Jobbik, apart from the party president, will say to this left-wing smoothing policy, but they cannot have much pleasure in it, I can tell you. Especially if we know that the party president made them sign that they couldn't vote for a constitutional amendment. [[Dóra Dúró: It is included in that of their own volition.]] Even worse! That's how a leader trusts his own partymates. Probably the same lack of trust is due to the fact that the consultation announced by Jobbik was outsourced from Jobbik, and it was named by a bird - seen association. [[Deterioration in the pro-government benches.]] Mr President, You said in today's interview that anyone who isn't against me is with me at the moment. So the president of the former national party practically quotes János Kádár on the day after October 23. We don't know who, how much and why Jobbik was forced to change course, but it's clear that the former national party is capable of everything for money and power. [[There's a lot of noise in Jobbik's ranks.]] Gergely Pongráz wouldn't be happy to see this. Thank you for listening. [[A big round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-10-24-16	And now the Christian Democratic People's Party representative, Mr.Miklós Soltész, will be next:.Comrades for 60 years, 10 years and today. Congressman's got the floor.
u2016-10-24-17	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. [[Moore in the opposition benches.]]
u2016-10-24-18	Congressman's got the floor.
u2016-10-24-19	Dear Parliament, Mr President, Yesterday the country celebrated, yesterday the world remembered the XX. Perhaps the purest, most beautiful revolution of the century. Despite being beaten and reprimanded, despite the fact that the communists and the socialists for decades had banned the commemoration, they called it a counter-revolution, the vast majority of the country considered this a national matter for a wonderful and difficult period 60 years ago. Why individual left-wing parties cannot rise up on themselves, why they do not want to participate in the national unity, there is no explanation for that. Therefore, it is worth going back to ancient sin and then to the sequel. Perhaps all of this will answer their unsuitable behavior yesterday, as they did on the 60th anniversary. In 1956, Antal Apró - perhaps a familiar name, especially for the socialists Ferenc Gyurcsány - said: "We are not yet there to talk about generosity and to develop a mood, enough of retaliation. 'Antal Tiny said all this after the defeat of the revolution.' György Marosán similarly said: From today we will not negotiate, from today we will shoot. "The workers," he said to his protests. Béla Biszku said: "There are a lot of minor convictions and relatively few physical destructions in the prosecution of the sinners of counterrevolutionary organization. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Maybe all of this will answer your insufferable behavior yesterday. No wonder, then, that their spiritual, physical heirs, communists, socialists, the left could not even celebrate the 50-year anniversary fairly. They kidnapped young people, smashed celebrations, ruined the holiday. It is worth looking at the statements of this period, the period ten years ago. Ferenc Gyurcsány said this in your closed session: "I almost died, that for a year and a half we had to pretend to govern, but instead we lied in the morning, in the night and in the evening. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. You've assisted in this. Then they also assisted socialists and left-wingers to beat up people and civilians after that, during the series of celebrations. Then, here in Parliament, here in Parliament, when Ferenc Gyurcsány reported on police brutalities, he said: "But I might add, it is unacceptable to call the rioters freedom fighters, or to label them peaceful protestors. The government's view is that the police's action on 23 October was overall legitimate, justified and proportionate. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. [[There are constant interruptions from the lines of the MSZP.]] They all supported this period, honourable socialist Members. And the cynicism that continued after that, I think it tells me everything. After all, in February 2011, Gyurcsány said: "The eyes of people? How many of these people do you know about? He replied to a journalist. After that, unfortunately, the behaviour of the left was expected yesterday. It's disappointing, it's outrageous, but we were counting on it. While the 60th anniversary was well remembered in many countries of the world, Andrzej Duda, President of Poland, whistled by left-wing politicians and their supporters, took part in this ceremony. While stadiums and public buildings are lit all over Poland, you are whistling both the Polish and Hungarian anthem. It's a disgrace to the left. It's a disgrace to their entire politics. And this is what Gyula Molnár said yesterday: "We did not believe that those who claim to be his 56 heirs would be the ones who violate and desecrate his 56 ideas every day. Says you, who are descendants, who are legitimate heirs of the MSZMP, who destroyed that beautiful 50-year anniversary ten years ago, which resulted in many, many people and young people being kidnapped. [[13.40]] After that, honourable Socialist Members, who have not yet apologized, acted like this on the 60th anniversary, as you are now completely inadequate to lead the Hungarian nation, Hungary. [[What do you think of Tasnádi?]] Thank you so much for listening. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2016-10-24-20	I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Here you go.
u2016-10-24-21	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, This year's anniversary, the 60th anniversary of the revolution and the struggle for freedom and the ten-year-old police terror would have been a good opportunity for the left to apologize. Apologies for the fact that ten years ago the veterans of 56 were not allowed into the hallway of the University of Arts. [[Agnes Kunhalmi: You do not allow Democrats into Kossuth Square!]] When there was a central commemoration of the revolution of 56 there, because for some reason they thought that without the 56's, the socialists would remember 56 more easily than with them. This shows that there is something from the conscience in the socialists or in their later offspring. And it would have been a good opportunity for either Ferenc Gyurcsány or the Socialist Party or politicians of the Democratic Coalition to apologize to people for sending police officers to peaceful commemorations ten years ago, before the heroes of '56, using tear gas, using rubber bullets, using swords, using horsemen. There was no such apology compared to this, even standing side by side, adding the microphone to each other before and after Ferenc Gyurcsány, they performed together at an event, and they talked about left-wing renewal with Ferenc Gyurcsány, which, I think, can now be a grammatical oxymoron in Hungarian politics. Ferenc Gyurcsány even pointed out that anyone who seeks an excuse, who is a Gyurcsány is with Orbán. Well, there's already a quote from János Kádár, it's one way back, it's from Mátyás Rákosi, isn't it? Well, a similar rhetoric appeared at the commemoration of the renewable left in 56 which was not at all about "56," it was not about the revolutionaries, it was not about the guys in Pest or Péter Mansfeld, but it was about the political position, who would, where, on what list, in a few years, wish to appear in the elections of 18. At the same time, we have seen another part of the left around Kossuth Square, who tried to make trouble with a dignified commemoration, but thank you to all those who maintained the order and defended those who peacefully wished to commemorate a state ceremony and defended those who wanted to act aggressively, who attacked or at least were there, and tried to disturb peaceful commemorators. [[Sándor Burány: And they were beaten well.]] Fortunately, the applause was always louder than the whistle yesterday. [[Zoltán Grimlock: Rakosi has been applauded!]] , and it can also be concluded that Article XX does not apply to: In the first century, disturbing the other's memorial, such loud action was never the political weapon of moderate forces. If we look at XX. The 20th century's history, such attacks, such aggressive action has always been motivated by extremist political leaders in the 20th century. In the history of the century. And all of this shows what the opposition is capable of on 23 October. Not to praise the heroes, but to say a loud nothing, which is extremely loud, but extremely contentless, to a very small extent contains any vision for Hungary. And even if someone has the guts to whistle during the speech of the Hungarian Anthem or the President of the Polish Republic, or the '56 former heroes, who are truly moved to the stage by their own diary notes and have heard back their own childhood records 60 years ago to whistle during this, they can also interrupt the celebration and commemoration, it is, I believe, showing that they do not respect what happened 60 years ago in Hungary. October 23rd is not for opposition positions, but for the heroic praise of revolutionaries, the Pest boys. After all, they have done something for Hungary that few people can say about themselves. And I forgot one more apology: we would have expected an apology from Gábor Kuncze, former Minister of the Interior, ten years after the events of that time. Remember, that was the time when we learned that the hedgehog wasn't a friendly little forest animal, it was actually a police term. I also think it is important to note that, unfortunately, in 2006, many people in Western Europe listened in the same way as they did in 1956, those who sometimes fear for freedom of the press or fear for freedom of speech in Hungary, they raised their voices very few times to protect the boys in Pest, or very few times to raise their voices after 23 October 2006. In turn, we continue the events of the 56 commemorative year, in 355 settlements, 80 exhibitions, 29 taverns of ruins, 14 pieces of music, 56 theatres and 204 points of pride. [[György Szilágyi: Invite the Matsik!]] Thank you so much for listening. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2016-10-24-22	Lajos Kósa Group leader, on behalf of Fidesz, will be the last among the speeches on the agenda: the 60th anniversary of the October Revolution and War of Independence. Here you go.
u2016-10-24-23	Mr. President. Dear House, Freedom is the most important value of the Hungarian nation. If you think about it, there is no other nation in Europe whose national and state celebrations are all related to freedom or the declaration of self-employed status. This struggle of freedom, this desire for freedom, is so profound in our thousand-year history that no moral basis can be established in any way. This struggle was shown when the Hungarian nation acted unitedly as one, although if he thought very different things about the interests of Hungarian society, he became this II. The freedom fight led by Ferenc Rákóczi, whether it is the freedom fight of 48 or the revolution and freedom fight of 56. The cooperation that has been shown in these moments is exceptional. An exceptional moment in Hungarian history, and those Hungarian compatriots who participated in these struggles are indivisible and clear heroes of the nation. We can only be grateful to them, to the people who have become hopeless in their struggle, even though they knew that their struggle at that moment could not result, they did what their perception, their morals, their desire for freedom demanded of Rákóczi's Kurucas, their 48ths or the Pest boys. And while we are at it, let me say: and to the tens of thousands of rural young and insurgents who went out into the street not only in the capital, but across the country from Debrecen to Pécs and Szeged, and told the Communist dictatorship's performers that it was enough, Hungary, the Hungarian nation, does not ask for it, our freedom is above all else. At a time when celebrations are held in memory of these heroes and in honor of this desire for freedom, it is fitting to bow your head and to whistle absolutely uncouth. Because anyone who whistles or protests at a time like this is not quite clear what he's doing. Does it say that he agrees with the ÁVH, or does it say that with the whistling of Kossuth Square, because there we celebrate the heroes, that they have their ideals with the shooters, and they agree with them rather than with the victims and the heroes? Or they're simply uncouth, and they didn't recognize in democracy the simple rule that if they don't like political or political power, they'll organize this whistling-spitting event, they'll go away and whistle. But they don't hurt the heroes, they don't hurt the patriots who sacrificed their lives for freedom! And it's definitely a blowback when those who remember the events of 56 know exactly that ten years ago, on the 50th anniversary, they were shot into the crowd as well as at the time of 56; moreover, those who are the political and legal successors to the MSZMP, which drowned the revolution of 56 in blood. [[Zoltán Grimlock: They sit among you!]] And to make the situation even more interesting, today we see that yesterday the complete Hungarian left legitimized the crowd shooters on the 50th anniversary, by allowing them to celebrate together, if at all, the event where those who were shot in the crowd on the 50th anniversary, or at least together with them, remembering the revolution of 56. [[13.50]] Hungarian politics is interesting. So let us modestly note that in no way can we identify with those who are the political successors and the successors of the 56 revolution who drown in blood and those who were shot into the crowd on the 50th anniversary. And only factually, but it is an interesting connection that yesterday's commemoration was the first commemoration that could not be reported by the newspaper that was born by drowning the revolution in blood, and served unscrupulously retribution, terror and then the Communist one-party dictatorship. [[Zoltán Haughty: That's not true either! At least now you've admitted it! You admitted it!]] Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches. Agnes Kun-halmi: Admitted! Admit it! Zoltán Grimlock: Congratulations!]]
u2016-10-24-24	Once again, Secretary of State, Csaba Dömötör, please.
u2016-10-24-25	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr President, Dear Chief of Staff, Allow me to speak briefly about yesterday's holiday and to think a little further about the tasks that 1956 has imposed on us today. There were many hundreds of commemorations yesterday, and these hundreds of celebrations made it clear that Hungarians are the people of freedom. That is why the question arises, what is the job of a freedom loving people today. [[Sándor Burány: It bothers you.]] Freedom had to be fought day by day in 1956, and we have to fight now every day. In Kossuth Square, it was also said yesterday that one of the most important tasks, perhaps one of the most important, was to save Brussels from socialisation. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: Your job must be yours. Agnes Kunhalmi: You have become a bigger communist than the Bolsheviks!]] Trying to decide somewhere else for us, for example, who to live with, how to live in our own country. [[Dr. László Varga: Propagandaministerium!]] I am only bringing this up because last week, in addition to the 60th anniversary, there was an EU summit in Brussels, and it is clear that the European Union intends to keep the issue of compulsory quotas on the agenda. The Council's final document also draws attention or calls on Member States to speed up the distribution of immigrants. [[Dr. Bertalan Tóth: It's signed!]] This is, of course, opposed by the Hungarian Government, as it indicated on the spot. The fact that quotas are still on the agenda is bad news. The good news is that Hungary is already supported by 3.3 million votes in these negotiations, the new national unity. It is the unity of those who believe that the community of nation states is needed instead of the united states of Europe and that Hungary must protect its communities and culture. We expect a prolonged debate. The referendum is not the end of something, it is the beginning of a story, a process. It is clear from this that Hungarians are united on the most important national issues, even against the price, and defend their independence. That is why the Government has initiated a constitutional amendment and is therefore in dialogue with all parliamentary parties in this matter. We are sorry, but we are not surprised that not all parties are involved in this negotiation. Dear Chief of Staff, As regards yesterday's left-wing movements: the left left left left left a serious opportunity to finally clarify its relationship to 1956. They could have justified the 2006 police force and the dishonest violence. They could have proved that it meant something to them, that there were thousands of people who gave their lives for freedom and for Hungary - also beyond Imre Nagy. Instead, the left only had a few dozen whistles and a small yearning to get them into the international papers. At this rate, the radical left did not violate the government, but the hundreds of thousands who peacefully wanted to thank the heroes of 56. Even though the left tried, he couldn't ruin yesterday's anniversary. The heritage of the Pest boys is much more durable than the present performance of the Hungarian left. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-10-24-26	Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches before the agenda. I would like to ask Mr Dezső Liberty to present the speakers who are not on the agenda.
u2016-10-24-27	Dear Parliament, László Teleki, MSZP; Balázs Ander, Jobbik; Tamás Pintér, Jobbik; Zoltán Magyar, Jobbik. On Tuesday, the following representatives applied for the speech before the agenda: Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, MSZP; Ákos Hadházy, LMP; Tibor Bana, Jobbik; István Hollik, KDNP; István Németh Szilárd, Fidesz. On Tuesday, István Szávay, Jobbik applied for a speech after the agenda; Dániel Z. Karpát, Jobbik. No one came forward after the agenda on Wednesday.
u2016-10-24-28	Dear Parliament, Lászlóné Csúcs, a Polish minority spokesperson, will now take place for a five-minute period on the occasion of the year of Hungarian-Polish solidarity. I give the floor to Mrs Lászlóné Csúcs, who describes the first sentences in her native language and then translates them into Hungarian. Here you go.
u2016-10-24-29	Panie Marszałku, Wysoka Izbo! Czuję się niezwykle zaszczycona, że jako parliamentarny zzecznik narodowosci polskiej na Węgrzech mogę zwrócić się dzisiaj do Pań i Panów Posłów w tak wyjątkoej chwili. , w 60-tą rocznicę Rewolucji Węgierskiej 56 roku, którą... [[The president's ringing the bell.]]
u2016-10-24-30	Madam Speaker, I'm sorry, you forgot to put your microphone on, so feel free to start again.
u2016-10-24-31	Czuję się niezwykle zaszczycona, że jako parliamentarny zzecznik narodowosci polskiej na Węgrzech mogę zwrócić się dzisiaj do Pań i Panów Posłów w tak wyjątkoej chwili. , w 60-tą rocznicę Rewolucji Węgierskiej 56 roku, którą, dzięki inicjatywie marszałków naszych parlamentów, László Kövéra i Marka Kuchcińskiego, świętujemy w Roku Solidarności Polsko-Węgierskiej. Mr President, Dear House, Dear fellow Members, It is an honor for me to speak to you today as a Polish ethnic advocate for the 60th anniversary of the Hungarian Revolution and Freedom Fight in 1956, an anniversary which will be celebrated on the initiative of Speaker László Kövér and Sejm President Marek Kuchciński in the year of Hungarian-Polish solidarity. It was an uplifting moment when, in February, both the Polish seym and the Hungarian Parliament unanimously voted for 2016 as a year of solidarity. With this decision we bow to the heroes of June in Poznań and October in 1956.In 1956, the long return of our countries on the streets of Poznań and Budapest to democratic Europe began. 56 symbolizes the desire for freedom and independence of the two peoples, which can once again be of importance by reaffirming the union and common interests of the two nations. Today, both countries are seeking to occupy the right place among the peoples of Europe with the freedom and equality they have acquired. The year of Hungarian-Polish solidarity is about freedom and bringing our peoples together. It is about the pure, indisputable values for which we are prepared to pay the highest price. Freedom, friendship and solidarity are key words in Hungarian-Polish relations. We need to know that this is in our common interest, which obliges us to show mutual respect and to cultivate it wisely and to pass it on to the generations after us. As a result of this cooperation, we have witnessed and witnessed a number of joint events and events that have further strengthened the solid foundations between the Poles and Hungarians. They have created the opportunity for the two peoples to show their spiritual values and unique characteristics of their culture, which are unrepeatable by others. In the year of solidarity, the Catholic Youth Summit was held, where thousands of young Hungarians had a deeper relationship with the culture, spirituality and customs of the host country, Poland. At the World Summit in Krakow, young people's courageous and responsible role has shown that Poland is an inclusive society that is open to the world. [[14.00]] At the international economic forum in Krynica, where Hungary was the guest of honor, partnership and solidarity, identity and integration have been identified as a fundamental issue for Central and Eastern Europe. I was able to witness the visit of Speaker László Kövér in Poland, and he expressed it with my heart in Przemyśl when he said: "The Hungarian Hussar and the statue of the Polish Ulanus wish to commemorate the consciousness of the Hungarian-Polish fate community, the friendship of weapons and solidarity. The two nations celebrated the 60th anniversary of the Hungarian Revolution. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. The series of celebrations were attended by the popular Polish delegations, several Polish NGOs, Polish people and their organizations in Hungary and many, many of my compatriots. The joint celebration, the revival of the common past, was also a symbol of unity, a community of fate, solidarity. To sum up, all people, young and old, could experience an inspiring and uplifting feeling of cooperation, friendship, regardless of political affiliation. I would like to take this opportunity to thank the two Speakers, the representatives of the Hungarian Parliament and the Polish seymour, for giving a year of Hungarian-Polish solidarity to the memory of our heroes. Thank you for your attention.
u2016-10-24-32	Dear Parliament, It is now time to set the agenda for our meeting starting today. We shall decide on the agenda, the duration of the meeting, the speaking time limits on the basis of a proposal put forward by the President. Dear House, The author proposed that the house rules be set at 67. Paragraph 1 of the Act of XXXVI of 2012 on the National Assembly. T/12532 on the amendment of Law T/12532 Following the conclusion of the general debate, the Parliament shall decide on the adoption of the bill at the same meeting. Anyone who agrees with that, please vote by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] Act XXXVI of 2012 on the National Assembly T/12532 on the amendment of Law T/12532 Following the conclusion of the general debate, the Parliament shall decide on the adoption of the bill at the same meeting. Anyone who agrees with that, please vote by raising your hands. (Vote.) I find that the visible majority of this House has accepted the proposal. The Fidesz Group has proposed that the XXXVI of 2012 on the National Assembly. T/12532 on the amendment of Law T/12532 The general debate of the bill No.1 shall take place on this day of Parliament's meeting before the debate on the Commission's reports and summary amendments, and in so far as the House Rule 67. § 3 may be applied, then the bill shall be adopted on tomorrow's sitting. Anyone who agrees with that should also raise their hands. [[Vote.]] The adoption of the bill will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Anyone who agrees with that should also raise their hands. (Vote. ) Thank you. I note that the visible majority of Parliament has also accepted this proposal. Dear Parliament, We are now deciding on a proposal on the agenda put forward by the President. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts the recommendation on the agenda with the amendment adopted above. Anyone who agrees, please vote by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] Thank you very much. I declare that the visible majority of Parliament has adopted the agenda. Dear Parliament, We are now deciding on the programme of the 25 October holiday meeting. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it will accept tomorrow's holiday meeting programme. Please vote by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] Thank you. I find that the visible majority of this House has accepted the proposal. I would like to inform you that the Parliament's festive meeting begins tomorrow at 10 a.m. Dear House, A decision on a personal proposal will not take place today. Now, at 2:04 p.m., we move on to interpellation and immediate questions. Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, a representative of the MSZP, has submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Human Resources. Or wasn't he a better person for a state medal than the director of Bicske accused of pedophilia? It's an address. Congresswoman Ildikó Bangóné Borbély has the floor.
u2016-10-24-33	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, On 20 August, the director of the Bicske Children's Home received state recognition. The head of the institution took the Hungarian Bronze Cross of Merit from János Lázár. Just one month after the transfer, DG Social and Child Protection suspended the director of the institution, who is suspected of pedophilia. The man referred to as Uncle John has not been accused of molesting children for the first time, since then he has been detained, and his arrest has been initiated. [[Dr. János Latorcai, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]] On a TV show, a 22 - year - old youth resident of the Kossuth Zsuzsa Children's Home in Bicske claimed that the institution's director had molested several children in charge for years. Another boy on the show said he had sexual relations with the director for eight years since he was 12, and they weren't the only two victims. Similar charges against the head of the institution were made earlier, but there was no consequence of the cases at that time. The Ombudsman opened an investigation in 2012 and the police terminated the investigation against the Director. On the questions of the press, the EMMI acknowledged the fact of the medal, while at the same time placing its responsibility on the medal committee. According to the government decree, all the members of the government are in this body, the President of which is the Deputy Prime Minister in the first place entitled to replace the Prime Minister, namely Zsolt Semjén. The secretary of the committee is János Lázár, Minister for the Coordination of Government Activities. Since then, it has been revealed that Zoltán Balog's proposal was actually adopted by the Honorary Committee before the Prime Minister and the President of the Republic said amen. Finally, which is a foam on the cake, Mr Secretary of State, in the detailed explanation of the proposal for a medal to Viktor Orbán, we read about the head of the children's home:, He spends his extraordinary spare time, often weekends with the children. He humbly works to improve the lives of fallen children and young adults in child protection care. As a result of his tireless work, he creates security and predictability for children and young people living within the walls of the children's home. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. For this reason, I ask, Mr Secretary of State, how could Zoltán Balog have presented a person to a state medal in recognition of his tireless work for children, who has been accused of molesting children several times. Is this government really so dilettious that it's gonna honor anyone who gets put up there? And since when did the Directorate-General for Social Affairs and Children's Protection know about the charges, and why didn't they do anything about it? I look forward to your reply, Mr. Secretary.
u2016-10-24-34	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. The answer will be given by Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2016-10-24-35	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, This government has also declared zero tolerance in relation to children's crimes. When the victim is a child, the new criminal code adopted by the new Parliament after 2010 (2010-14) protects children as a vulnerable group much more strictly, imposing a much stricter penalty for certain crimes if it is committed to the harm of a minor than if they were committed to harm other persons. In fact, with a subsequent Fidesz-KDNP amendment proposal, we have made similar sexual crimes a nonjudged crime, precisely because in many cases these terrible acts will be revealed much later than the statute of limitations would otherwise be. Therefore, up to 15 or 20 years later, these criminal proceedings can now be launched following the Fidesz-KDNP amendment proposal and the perpetrators of such crimes can be held accountable. This is a very important problem, which obviously concerns many people, and we have therefore adopted a legislative amendment, which, from 2014, I believe, makes the system more transparent and brings out these cases, because in the new system, where there were not so-called institutional guardians, but child protection guardians now operating in the institutions, this has also brought these cases to light. What is the difference between the previous and the new system? In the previous system, when they have not been discovered to a large extent, and now, at last, in the interest of children, they are able to reveal these abusive cases. The point is that the representative of the children who act in their behalf is no longer the head of the institution on a general level, but an outside person, the so-called guardian of child protection. That is why he is more able to explore such cases, and precisely the report of the child protection guardian, his information, helped us to suspend this person from his job, or that we immediately arranged for him to leave the institution, and that he had to move out of his former place of service. [[14.10]] In the last year, our National Center for Patient Rights, Services, Children's Rights and Documentation, called OBDK, which is responsible for protecting and revealing the rights of children in the institution, has reached one child in the fourth institution so that he has been able to sit down with one in four; he has enlightened them of their rights; he has asked them whether any abuse has occurred in connection with them over the past period and how they can be helped to bring any such crime to the surface. Precisely because there is a great deal of visibility in this crime group, so we have asked this talented and child-rights centre to go through every institution and talk to as many children as possible and try to collect their complaints. As a result, one in four children was able to hold such a meeting. So I think that we have been able to take immediate action on this particular issue, and we have been able to act immediately because there is now a much more effective system of protection for children's rights than we inherited from the previous period. At the same time, we can see that it is better for children in many ways if they are not in large institutions, but in foster parents. That is why this work is ongoing, in which we are making good progress, and I can tell you that by 2019 more than 90 percent of children under the age of 12 will be in foster care. One who does not, because it requires some special care, double care, which can only be obtained under institutional conditions, but could not be given to foster parents. I consider it very important that the legislative packages of child-friendly justice, which we adopted in the previous cycle, are trying to make reporting on this precisely to children the least traumatic. Therefore, a child-friendly hearing room was established at every police station in Hungary by 2014, where the details of the crimes committed to them could be much less traumatized in circumstances similar to the children's room. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] children. We hope that this will help us to prevent as many of these as possible. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-10-24-36	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I will ask Mrs Ildikó Bangóné Borbély if she will accept the State Secretary's reply. Here you go.
u2016-10-24-37	Thank you, Mr. President. I can't accept the answer, Mr. Secretary of State didn't tell me how this man got a medal on August 20th. That's the only thing you didn't mention, Mr. Secretary. He says they're moving right away. Nothing happened for weeks, but when the media and politicians spoke, that's when they started to deal with it, Mr. Secretary of State. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Weeks before.]] We've put in a motion for a resolution to review the signal system, because there are big problems. Do you know the answer to that, Mr. Secretary? If we make a proposal, they will not vote for anything at the committee meeting, but if we use criticism, they will submit a dirty interpellation like what Szilárd Németh will say here in this House. [[Uproar, interrogation from the pro-government benches.]] They're not dealing with the solution, and they're admitting that they've made a mistake, they're starting to get dirty, because that's their answer to everything, and they don't want to solve the problem. And that is not what is happening now, because the supply system is not being dealt with now, and they do not deal with the problem of how vulnerable children can be protected from such people in Hungary today. I can't accept your answer.
u2016-10-24-38	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Congresswoman did not accept the Secretary of State's reply. That is why I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts it. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply 99 yes, 43 votes not, without abstention. Dear Parliament, Congressman Márton Gyöngyösi, Jobbik's representative, submitted an interpellation to the Prime Minister:, Let's send a message to Fidesz: 98 percent also said no to the establishment business! Not the moneyless migrants, yeah, the big fish that support terrorists? It's an address. On behalf of Mr Sándor Pintér, Minister of Interior, who is competent and competent on behalf of the Prime Minister, State Secretary Károly Kontra will respond to the interpellation. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2016-10-24-39	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Over the last year, the government's communication - quite rightly - has given priority to the protection against mass migration and the dangers of immigration and multiculturalism. The often uncontrolled mass influx of aliens represents not only social and economic, but also security policy challenges and an increase in the threat of terrorism. Despite a campaign of more than HUF 17 billion, however, the government opened a legal loophole, the institution of the settlement policy, which allows immigrants who can pay EUR 300-400 thousand to settle in Hungary, enjoying the same rights as Hungarian citizens. It may not even be necessary to mention that, by outsourcing the sale of settlement bonds, the Fidesz economic clientele has once again gained a rich profit. Unfortunately, this is not the most remarkable case for the government's double speech on immigration. Rather, it is the case of the businessman in Saudi Arabia, Ghaith Pharaon, who was listed in Forbes magazine in 2008 as the world's ten most wanted white-collar criminals, who were also wanted by the FBI for the overthrow of American financial institutions involved in money laundering and the financing of arms trafficking. [[István Szilárd Németh intervenes. The president's ringing the bell.]] and who, according to a 2002 French Parliamentary report, is associated with the Islamic financial network, Havala, also used by terrorist organisations. Pharaon also came to Hungary through the settlement policy, where in a short time he immediately drew attention to two corruption cases near the government. Pharaon was in contact with a company connected to the Prime Minister's son-in-law, István Tiborcz, BDPST Zrt., from which he purchased the former Postabank headquarters in József Rádor Square. In fact, Pharaon was also in contact with the Hungarian government. In December 2015, Prominence Food Zrt., specialized in food wholesale, was registered in which one of Pharaon's companies was joined by the Hungarian National Trading House, which was supervised by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Mr. Secretary. Do you not feel conflicted that, while on October 2nd, the Hungarian people said 'no' to aliens by 98 percent of the valid votes, you opened the door wide with settlement bonds to such dubious businessmen associated with terrorism, such as Ghaith Pharaon? Don't you think the bond system should be abolished? Do you not consider it a national security risk that such a top-ranking scoundrel deals with the Hungarian Prime Minister's son-in-law, and that the National Trade House owned by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade has set up a joint venture with a terrorist? I'm looking forward to your reply. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-10-24-40	Thank you very much, Congressman. As I said, the answer will be given by Secretary of State Károly Kontra. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2016-10-24-41	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, First of all, I would like to make it clear to Mr President: Hungary has not opened its doors wide to persons of questionable background or suspicion of terrorism. No person mentioned by you has been granted a residence permit in Hungary. I'll tell you again, you didn't get permission under any name. In principle, the system of bond claims precludes the purchase of a residence policy in Hungary linked to terrorism or to terrorism by the person wanted by Interpol, Europol or the person in the Hungarian wanted list. I can confirm that such a person has not been granted a residence permit in practice. Such attempts have been made, but the screening and research systems operated by BM and its organs have completely thwarted this. In several cases, applications have been rejected both for reasons of national security and for reasons of public security. If a person becomes unworthy of a residence permit, the licence may be revoked under the legislation. Honourable Congressman, From the date of the introduction of the programme, four of the applicants for a residence permit were rejected in the light of national security interests, having regard to public security interests. As a member of the family, nine persons were rejected in view of national security interests and one of their main applications was rejected in view of public security interests. [[György Szilágyi applauds.]] Go on, Congressman. We also make it clear that businesses linked to organised crime and terrorism could not settle in Hungary. It is clear that Hungary's economic recovery and public health have made it attractive to foreign capital. However, the settlement policy is not a real threat to Hungary, to the security of Hungary or to the security of the Hungarian people, but to the 390 thousand illegal immigrants whose real personal data and ideological beliefs have not been identified. Unfortunately, the link between illegal migration and terrorism has been confirmed several times. Honourable Congressman, Since I have given you all your questions in particular, and I have given you all your questions with a reassuring answer, if you are a correct questioner, you will accept my answer. Do this. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. Defiance in Jobbik's ranks.]]
u2016-10-24-42	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I ask Congressman Márton Gyöngyösi if he will accept the State Secretary's reply. [[14.20]]
u2016-10-24-43	Dear Secretary of State, I'm afraid I can't accept your answer. For the most part, we are having a conversation here in this house on Pharaon, and we are getting more and more frightening and hair-scarring answers from you, and we are getting more and more frightening answers to these questions for you. There is a businessman in Saudi, who has direct business relations with the close relatives of Prime Minister Viktor Orbán here in Hungary and who operates a joint venture with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. And - now the monkey jumps into the water - from the Ministry of the Interior of your government, the Minister of the Interior, leaked a letter addressed to the Ambassador of Saudi Arabia, in which he admits that Pharaon is the Pharaon wanted by the FBI. [[Intruder from the benches of Jobbik: Shame!]] - Here's the letter, Mr. Secretary. [[It's a lot of noise. Dr. István Apáti: Oops!]] - who was wanted by the FBI, and to whom such financial transactions may be linked to the financing of terrorism. [[Lajos Kósa: Are the Grey Wolves much better?]] There are two options. You either operate counterterrorism in an amateur way, or this is a controlled system, Mr. Secretary of State, this is a mafia state with the head of Prime Minister Viktor Orbán. There's nothing expensive for you, not even for the migrants for the dirty money! Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. [[It's a lot of noise. A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2016-10-24-44	Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, The congressman didn't accept the Secretary of State's answer. I'm asking you if you'll accept it. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 107 votes in favour, 36 with no abstentions. Dear Parliament, Congressman Ákos Hadházy, representative of the LMP, submitted an interpellation to the Prime Minister: "How long will the government assist the Austrian wiener?" It's an address. On behalf of Antal Rogán, Minister of the Cabinet Office of the Prime Minister, who is responsible and competent on behalf of Prime Minister Csaba Dömötör, State Secretary, responds to the interpellation on behalf of the Prime Minister. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor. [[Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]]
u2016-10-24-45	Thank you very much. Mr President, My apologies, the interpellation will be more intense, I did not write it; it was written by a journalist who lost his job, but I can completely identify with him, so I ask his questions. We would have put it on for the Prime Minister, but I know he only sent one Secretary of State. [[Károly Kontrat: What is a State Secretary?]] We have some bad news for those of you who opened champagne on October 8, when the People's Liberty was destroyed. The truth about this action, in which the government was involved, will be revealed, and in the belief that government politicians dealing with freedom of the press and the public are now free to rob. You will also mention the day when the most important newspaper in Hungary was executed. [[It's constant, it's loud. The president's ringing the bell.]] The Prime Minister and his environment claim that a simple economic decision has been made by the owner, the government does not interfere with the freedom of the press. But anyone who says that doesn't believe that either. You intervened in the freedom of the press even when the Origo Internet News Portal was beheaded for searching for János Lázár's travels and hotel bills. They also violated the freedom of the press when they allowed Andy Vajna to buy TV2 with government-proof, dream-maker state money. We cannot talk about freedom of the press in a country where it belongs to a member of government administration the second biggest... [[Turn left:]] Who said "traitor"? [[It's a lot of noise. The president's ringing the bell. Sándor Font: You!]] Who told you that? [[It's a lot of noise. Sándor Font: You, now!]] Yes, I'm a traitor, I'm a traitor, I betrayed your boss... [[There's a lot of noise. There's a leak from the pro-government benches. The Member continues to speak, his words cannot be heard because of the lack of sound and the noise.]]
u2016-10-24-46	Fellow Members! Please note that Congressman Ákos Hadházy has the floor and that the interpellation must be made. [[It's constant noise. Intercoms from the pro-government benches: Let's hear it, let's hear it!]] And Congressman, we're gonna count on your time. [[Lajos Kósa: The clock is on!]] I would like to draw your attention to the fact that interpellation is a tied genre, so that there is no possibility of talking about it; you must tell us what is on the paper, or at least what must be said in substance. I'll give you back the floor. You have the floor. And I would ask the ladies and gentlemen of the Government to allow the interpellation to take place.
u2016-10-24-47	Let's just put it in the record that they called me a traitor. I'm of course... [[It's loud, it's clear.]]
u2016-10-24-48	Congressman, if you don't stop talking about this interpellation, I'm going to take the floor from you, because the house rule clearly obliges me to do so. Here you go. [[Dr. Wind Bernadett: Mr. President, should cursing be tolerated?]] gel Congresswoman Bernadett, I'm warning you. [[Dr. Wind Bernadett: Thank you.]]
u2016-10-24-49	There is not a single country in Europe where the termination or continuation of the leading political newspaper would be a mere economic decision. In addition, Népszabadság not only wrote about politics, but in addition to continuously documenting the downfall of public funds, it kept documenting the results of Hungarian culture and Hungarian science, the social processes, the work of civil society organisations, the daily lives of disadvantaged groups. When the Austrian Heinrich Pecina bought the publisher of Népszabadság, he also took responsibility for the operation of one of the most important social institutions in the country, and we can now say that he did not exercise that responsibility, but abused what a truly national government in the world would not stand by and watch. Since October 8, an adventurous foreign businessman has behaved unqualifiedly with Hungarian workers, banned them from their workplace for no reasonable reason, sabotaged the mandatory consultation required by law, and deleted e-mails, the online content of Népszabadság from the Internet. These illegal actions were not justified by economic rationality. It was not a loss minimisation, as you claim, but political revenge and reckoning against a newspaper which consistently called for theft and which, during your administration, had more and more to do with every day. This assassination was certainly committed on political order, and the Publisher of Népszabadság had no interest in eliminating today's successfully reorganized, minimal loss sheet. The government did well with it. The deal you made is one of the dirtiest in the Hungarian press history after the change of regime: according to the information of independent media, Heinrich Pecina, who is involved in several crimes, gives his company, MediaWorks, to a buyer close to the government, to which most county newspapers in the country are published, in exchange for the silence of Népszabadság...
u2016-10-24-50	Congressman, I've included in your time and stopped the clock. I think you've all seen this. So now I'm asking you to ask me the question so that you can answer that.
u2016-10-24-51	Secretary of State, you lied when you claimed that strangling People's Freedom was a simple economic issue. Answer whether the authorities of the Hungarian State will investigate the background deals or pocket contracts behind the unwarranted, coup-like termination of the newspaper market, and whether the government will act against the labour code, the Austrian newspaper owner who has repeatedly violated the legal rights of Hungarian workers, and tell him what Heinrich Pecina has been promised for the liquidation of Népszabadság. Thank you very much.
u2016-10-24-52	Thank you very much. The answer will be given by Secretary of State Csaba Dömötör. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2016-10-24-53	Thank you, Congressman. Thank you for asking. As far as Hungarian freedom of the press is concerned, thank you very much. [[Dr. László Varga: Make a decision about him!]] Everyone in this country can find the TV, radio, or newspaper closest to his view of the world. [[Dr. László Varga: The government writes what to think!]] On the basis of the information available, the government considers it only an economic issue that the publisher has suspended the release of Népszabadság. According to the information available, the owner provided information that Népszabadság only generated losses in the last ten years, the number of copies decreased dramatically, as people were no longer interested in the newspaper. This process is not unique, by the way. [[Dr. László Varga: Lajos answered this before the agenda!]] It is a process that is seen throughout Europe and the world. It would not be right for the government to interfere in any form with the decision of an independent publisher, just as such interference would violate the freedom of the press. When we talk about Népszabadság, it is worth looking at the facts. The MSZP was yelling in the House, paraded on the front page, organized a protest on the streets, and even yelled at Brussels, while the facts are as follows. For many years, Népszabadság was part-owned by the MSZP, and then they sold it themselves or made a hundred million dollars. There was just a political reason why the MSZP ran the paper despite the fact that, as we know, it was a massive loss of money. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the employees of Népszabadság received their salary even when the owner of the party put hundreds of thousands on the streets in Hungary. [[14.30]] Allow me to quote Attila Mesterházy, who also puts the death of Népszabadság on the left, said that he does not understand why, during eight years of government, the MSZP government could not manage to ensure the continuation of the paper. I can also quote the president of the Free Press Foundation, who was not, incidentally, the chairman of the Supervisory Board of People's Freedom, he said that he still doesn't understand why the MSZP, which created the foundation, couldn't solve long-term funding. It also means that if he wanted to, the left would save Népszabadság, but he didn't want to. Those are the facts. Anyway, let me ask you: where were those concerned about freedom of the press when there was no forum for right-wing views in Hungary for many years? [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: That's right!]] or then [[Dr. László Varga: The government has not spent ten billion in our country!]] When, in 2009, a Socialist Prime Minister called on the state institutions to cancel the subscription to a right-wing newspaper? Did you run to Brussels then? Why didn't they brag when Péter Medgyessy suggested that if someone wanted to be made public, he should buy himself a TV? Back to the original theme, Népszabadság was killed by the left, that left [[Dr. Laszlo Varga: You're lying! You're a mean, fucking liar!]] Which, with András Schiffer's departure, you would now join in applauding. [[Intercoms from Fidesz: That's right! Moore from the ranks of the MSZP. Dr. Laszlo Varga: You're lying!]] That's what the left did before, anyway. [[Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] With everything he touched, they gambled away their own headquarters, sold it for tobacco. [[Dr. Laszlo Varga: You're lying! Bastard!]] the Hungarian industry, whose reinforcement now requires enormous efforts. [[Noise and intervention from the ranks of the MSZP: Open the history book!]] While they did so, they tried to put the blame on someone else. Well, that's not gonna work. Based on all this, the left-wing voters, I think they deserve more, but so does the country. I'm sorry you're joining this band. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-10-24-54	Congressman Ákos Hadházy is next.
u2016-10-24-55	Mr President, They asked me where I was in 2009. I was in Fidesz. [[Noise and clarity in the pro-government ranks.]] Then, of course, they stood up for freedom of the press in the same way. [[It's constant noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] You were on the wrong side at the time, and it was very important for you to have freedom of the press, which is why what you're doing is very painful. You must know that as long as the freedom of the press is in place, you are safe, because the opposition is asking you for your filth, and when the freedom of the press is gone, the people will ask you at some point, but it will not be good for you. State Secretary Navracsics and I had a forward-looking meeting last Saturday. He said there's freedom of the press because we can talk about it. I think you know this doesn't mean everything's left. The LMP retains its political position. You went somewhere else. I'm in the same place, I'm in the LMP. Thank you.
u2016-10-24-56	Congressman, you didn't tell me if you'd accept the Secretary of State's answer or not. [[Noise. It's ringing.]]
u2016-10-24-57	I don't accept the Secretary of State's answer.
u2016-10-24-58	Congressman did not accept the State Secretary's reply, so I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts it. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 109 votes to 109, 16 votes against, with one vote in favour. Szilárd Németh, a representative of Fidesz, has submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Justice: a Pedophile scandal around the MSZP? It's an address. Szilárd Németh has the floor. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-10-24-59	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State, Dear House, I would like to draw the attention of this House to a scandalous matter which has recently been made public. Several newspapers reported that a Pedophile crime was suspected of being arrested in advance by a MSZP politician, Miklós S., who has been convicted since then. Miklós S. is a pillar member of the Csepel MSZP, a former municipal representative and an active organizer and actor of left-wing movements. This would not be a problem, however, but it is also important to know that this is not the first time you've had a paedophile on him, and, according to press information, he's been to prison for this. According to the report of Csepel.info, serial sexual child abuse started in 1998 [[Lajos Kepli: And will you be honoured? Dr. László Szakács: Are you presenting him for a medal?]] When he tried to have sex with a little boy at a municipal event. At that time, only the case of the MSZP candidate was tried by comrades to cover it up by afraid of the scandal, replacing their candidate. Of course, the wise thinking never described the members of the local MSZP, as shortly after the paedophile scandal, he became the head of the hairdresser's school in Csepel, the permanent organizer and participant of the local children's camps, and the partly founded Dóra Járó Foundation for Children's Protection. Enjoying the confidence of the local MSZP, even the children from Csepel's twin cities were entrusted with his supervision. This could have happened in the district led by the socialists, until he went to prison for pedophilia in 2006. We have no idea how many poor children have fallen victim to this sick man. [[But he went to jail, dude, we didn't give him a medal.]] in municipal programmes and children's camps organised and managed by him. [[Interview from Fidesz: What does Bangone say about this?]] However, prison years did not last for long, which, according to press reports, was due, among other things, to local MSZP leadership and then the State Secretary for Justice. [[Zoltán Grimlock: We closed it, we didn't award it!]] After S. Miklós was released in 2009, blikk.hu reported that only a month ago, on 26 September 2016, in the hairdresser shop, tried again to degenerate with a 15-year-old teenager. I think I don't need to further detail this unscrupulous and despicable act in order to understand the danger our children are at and the responsibility of a political leadership to prevent events from happening. [[Interviews from the ranks of the MSZP: Or you will be decorated!]] or, as the MSZP city administration has done, it even helps him to act in public, close to children. To what extent can a man who has committed such a series of crimes expect to be punished, and how is it possible to prohibit him from coming near children? [[Zoltán Pride: You don't know! Sick man!]] Is it necessary to amend the law to stop such criminals once and for all? I look forward to your reply, Mr. Secretary. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-10-24-60	Thank you very much, Congressman. We will hear the answer from State Secretary Pál Völner. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2016-10-24-61	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, The most repulsive crimes against gender freedom and gender morality are crimes against children. The legislator pays particular attention to children, and this outstanding attention also means ensuring increased criminal protection. The Criminal Code, which entered into force on 1 July 2013, strengthened the punishment for sexual offences against children. Sexual acts without the consent of the victim, but not as a result of threats against life or physical integrity, so-called sexual extortion, are sanctioned as sexual coercion. A qualified case of the offence is sexual coercion of persons under the age of 18 or 14 who are sentenced to imprisonment for 2-8 years and 5-10 years respectively. It is also a classified case and is punishable by imprisonment of between 2 and 8 years if the perpetrator has committed the offence abused by a relative or by his/her education, supervision, care and treatment, or by any other power or influence between him and the victim. A qualified case of sexual violence occurs and is punishable by imprisonment of up to 5-10 years if the offence is committed to the harm of a person under the age of 18 and, as a result of sexual coercion, is committed by a relative or a guardian of the perpetrator, during his or her care, during his or her treatment or otherwise under his or her influence, and is punishable by imprisonment of up to 5-15 years in the case of a victim under the age of 18. In comparison, the sentence of a basic homicide is five to 15 years imprisonment. The protection will ensure effective enforcement of the criminal code by imposing a penalty against employment, according to which sexual freedom and the commission of a crime against sexual morality, if committed to the harm of a person under 18 years of age, can be removed from any occupation or other activity in which he or she is not under 18 years of age in the course of education, supervision, care, treatment or influence. Children are also protected by the tightening of the criminal record system by the fact that the data content of the official moral certificate for the possession of a criminal record is prohibited from any employment or activity which would involve the applicant in the training, supervision, care, treatment or influence of a person under 18 years of age. For the protection of children, there is a significant social interest, so that for the education and supervision of persons under the age of 18, only a person who can establish an employment relationship, a public servant's and a public service relationship with respect to criminal offences which may be committed to the harm of minors has an official moral certificate stating that he is not registered, under reasonable suspicion or under criminal proceedings and is not prohibited from employment. [[14.40]] So these were also tightened up in the Labour Code, the Public Employee Status Act and the Public Service Officers Act. Based on the provisions described, the legislation in force takes account of the vulnerable situation of children. Protection of children is considered a primary objective, but, if necessary, it is possible to review the tightening of penalties in the case of sexual offences against children. [[Applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2016-10-24-62	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I will ask Mr István Szilárd Németh if he will accept the State Secretary's reply. Here you go.
u2016-10-24-63	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Your answer is reassuring, and of course I accept this answer, but I would just like to draw attention to the fact that the problem here is not primarily due to the fact that the legislation is strict enough, but whether it is possible to apply it, whether the employer or the person who hires a person to work near children, municipalities, foundations, individuals, Kft.-s, I do not know whether they maintain such child protection or children's institutions, so whether everyone is using it. By the way, politics can protect these people, as in this case, each time protected by local policy [[The intervention of Zoltán Haughty.]] them and whether or not the court applies the penalties for which [[Zoltán Grimlock:...or you can give him a medal!]] In fact, such crimes are also severely punished in Europe. [[Dr. László Kács: Or you will be decorated!]] So when a review is carried out at the Ministry of Justice, I would ask that these reasons also be taken into account. Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: He was even awarded a medal! Dr. László Kács: Then he will be decorated! Applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2016-10-24-64	Thank you very much, Congressman. The congressman accepted the Secretary of State's answer. Dear Parliament, Congressman László Kiss, representative of the MSZP, submitted an interpellation to the Minister without a wallet for national policy: It's an address. On behalf of Mr János Lázár, Minister of the Prime Minister's Office, Minister of State, Nándor Csepreghy responds to the interpellation on behalf of the Prime Minister. I now give the floor to Congressman László Kiss.
u2016-10-24-65	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, Nearly a year ago, at the plenary session of the Parliament, I suggested that the Pro Minoritate Foundation, known as Zsolt Németh's organizer of the Tusnádfürdő camp, builds camping houses twice as expensive as a qualified passive house, Bethlen Gábor Fund awarded a HUF 150 million grant to the Foundation for a two-page individual request. I also said that the letter contained a total of 5 lines on the description and justification of the project, and the applicant promises a basically 180-person extension. It raises questions as to how 180 people can fit in 3 wooden houses suitable for 8 people. But, of course, there are other problems. The cost of the three wooden houses in the application was HUF 48 million, i.e. it costs more than 300 thousand forints per square metre. The question also arose: if, according to the request, three wooden houses are built for 48 million, why is there only HUF 21 million in the building permit submitted to the municipality, i.e. less than half of the amount submitted in the application. So how much does the cabin actually cost, how much does it cost us? By the deadline of May 2015, of course, nothing was completed, neither the said wooden houses, nor the conference room and dining room to be built for HUF 102 million. This building permit was also requested two months after the end of the project. After the press also announced on-site photos of this, the Bethlen Gábor Fund, which provided support, extended this withdrawal by more than one year until August 31, 2016. The real problem is here. Not only did the foundation close to Fidesz find out that he wanted to steal money with the help of this overpriced investment project, but also that the extension of the deadline by Bethlen Gábor Fund also raises the suspicion of misrepresentation, since they were concluded virtually without any substantial information or meaningful performance. In our view, the payment of state money should have been reversed, demanded back and reclaimed to this day. The applicant did not achieve the purpose of the tender in time, even if it is considered that the quotation mark itself was born in virtually amazing circumstances. I therefore ask the Secretary of State whether these wooden houses, which cost HUF 150 million for 24 seats, have been completed up to the deadline extended until 31 August 2016, i.e. how is the big wooden house project in Stupid. I'm waiting for your answer.
u2016-10-24-66	Thank you very much, Congressman. The answer, as I said, will be heard from Nándor Csepreghy, Secretary of State. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2016-10-24-67	Mr President, thank you very much for the floor. Honourable Member, you have the opportunity; I am always very curious when the MSZP speaks on issues of national policy [[Sándor Burány: Wooden houses, Mr. Secretary of State!]] Even if you ask a question that you were given a specific answer to in writing just a little while ago. Allow me to correct some inaccuracies in your speech. On the one hand, the Pro Minoritate Foundation asked for and received support for minorities in 2014, not for the renovation of three wooden houses, but for the renovation of several properties of the Free University of Idolos and Tusványosfürdő. As you have actually mentioned, there was a request from the Foundation to postpone the deadline for the investment. This was an extension authorised by the Bethlen Gábor Fund Manager, which also happened for other projects and could happen for other projects, as we are talking about an opportunity for any beneficiary. Therefore, this investment must be completed by the end of August 2017. The Romanian construction rules are somewhat different from the Hungarian construction rules. There shall also be an estimate of costs in connection with the construction of the constructions during the authorisation procedure. However, the amount included in the cost estimate and the amount included in the grant contract are also different because the technical content is different, because not only are we renovating and transferring structural property, we are not only renovating and handing over structural water blocks, and we are not only expanding the camp area with structural buildings and real estates, but we would like to provide them fully furnished for later use. And since the Member, I think, is not willing to believe in the future either, nor in the future, let me make a personal offer to invite you personally on 30 August 2017 for a trip to Tusnad Bath, in which you can ascertain with your own eyes how, how the people who live there value this government-supported investment; it really contributes to increasing the quality of this camp. The Member can then ask the questions and get an insight into the accounts that the government is essentially paying to finance these investments. I think that the responsible government attitude is that when the investment is made, we should take stock of the investment rather than say that anyone would have stolen or damaged the public assets, if any. I therefore ask the Member to make use of this offer. If you think that you are unable to travel to Transylvania alone as a MSZP representative, I understand that, given the history of the referendum, this offer is to other MSZP representatives at my own expense. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the benches of the governing parties. Zoltán Grimlock: Who doesn't dare to go there? We've been more than you.]]
u2016-10-24-68	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I will ask Mr László Kiss if he will accept the State Secretary's reply. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-10-24-69	Dear House, I am afraid that the readiness of a Parliamentary State Secretary does not extend to the knowledge that a Member of Parliament is a member of a committee. I often go to Transylvania as a member of the National Assembly Committee. I don't need the donation the Pro Minoritate Foundation needs, this 150 million forints. I can go to Transylvania whenever I want, not when you allow me to. I would like to give you three deadlines: May 2015 as the deadline when this money theft was supposed to take place for the first time; August 31, 2016, when the deadline was extended by another year and this money theft should have been completed. And the third is what you just said, August 31, 2017. We still do not know which is true; these wooden houses have been built or have not been built. By the way, the project itself is outrageous. He says a lot of things that the building permit was only asked after the deadline expired. I don't know what construction regulations are in Romania. Obviously, they're not after the deadline. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] You have to ask for construction permits. You lied all over the place, which is why I can't accept the answer. [[14.50]]
u2016-10-24-70	Thank you very much. Congressman, as we heard, you didn't accept the Secretary of State's answer. I therefore ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts it. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 99 votes in favour, 33 against and without abstentions. Dear Parliament, Congressman György Szilágyi, Jobbik, representing the Prime Minister, has submitted an interpellation to the Prime Minister: - Let's send a message to Fidesz: 98 percent also said no to the establishment business! If a terrorist pays Fidesz money, will you let him into the country? It's an address. On behalf of the Prime Minister, Mr. Csaba Dömötör, Minister of State, acting on behalf of the Minister of the Cabinet Office of Prime Minister Antal Rogán, who is competent and competent on the subject, responds to the interpellation. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2016-10-24-71	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Protecting Hungary from terrorists arriving in Hungary together with migrants is one of the most important national issues today. There can be no half-solutions in this case. 98 percent of the people do not want not only the migrants that Juncker wants us to have, but they do not want other migrants arriving in Hungary in any other way, so they do not want those arriving through the settlement business of Antal Rogán. It doesn't matter if the refugees come through Jean-Claude Juncker or Antal Rogán, they are also a threat and a national security risk to the country. Moreover, those arriving in our country with Rogán Antal's terrorist bonds can be even more dangerous, since they have the right financial background to build, operate and finance terrorist organisations and terrorist cells. People want security, they want to keep their families safe, their loved ones safe. They do not want the EU to compromise this security, but they do not want an emergency in Hungary because of Antal Rogán's business. If you think this through, you know we're right. We need to close every loophole in front of terrorists, including the possibility of buying settlement bonds. Of course, everyone knows how much profit selling settlement bonds has brought you. Everyone knows that offshore companies linked to Antal Rogán made billions of dollars with this deal. Everyone knows that some of the leaders of Fidesz, including Antal Rogán and Árpád Habony, have a personal financial interest in maintaining immigration. Now tell me honestly: would you risk Hungary's safety for dirty money, corruption-suspected money? Together with Jobbik and us, people have a clear position: we do not want poor or rich migrants, nor let poor or rich terrorists come to Hungary. Don't let Juncker or Rogan set anyone up for free or money. Once again, neither Juncker nor Rogán can install aliens in Hungary for free or for money. If you do not understand this, Mr. Secretary, you are either stupid or - and this is the most serious case - willing to sell your country for money. Then your fundamental law amendment is just a trick, a sham, a half-solution, because the settlement policy remains a loophole to terrorism. Mr. Secretary. I ask you if you're willing to give up your personal wealth of residence, or, in other words, your terrorist policy, or rather your choice of money instead of your country. That's an important question. Make up your mind, is that your decision: money or your country? I look forward to your substantive answer. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-10-24-72	The answer will be given by Secretary of State Csaba Dömötör. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2016-10-24-73	Honourable Congressman, Allow me to start with the history. In 2012, Hungary, the Hungarian economy, was devalued from the international market and did not obtain foreign resources. There was a need to raise funds, and the settlement government bond was a good opportunity to do so. Hungary needed this. Today, the country, the Hungarian economy, has been assessed, which is why all the bond issuances are under review, according to the government's timetable. This has already been announced by the government. This is an economic and investment issue, and the experience of recent years has shown that the settlement government bond has benefited the country, because bond buyers also contribute to the maintenance of Hungarian jobs, and this construction has contributed to Hungary not having to take out new loans. The settlement government bond is a five-year licence, which can otherwise be withdrawn and cannot be confused with immigrants who are granted refugee status, which cannot be revoked. In addition, the settlement policy is an investment option based on existing international examples and is common practice in other countries, while complying with EU rules. The legal guarantees are extremely strict, the buyers and family members of the bonds are monitored four times, including TEK, police and specialist services; if it is up to the government, no terrorist will come here. Let's hope Mr. Juncker feels the same way. Jobbik is now trying to confuse an economic, investment issue with a fundamental law amendment. In the past, you have indicated that if someone does not vote for the amendment of the Fundamental Law, the traitor is the traitor; look up the reports on this. The Cabinet won't allow the Betterman to blackmail you. He has never given in to the blackmail of the IMF or Brussels, nor will he give in to the threat of Jobbik, either in this case or in any other. It's weird, though, that you're talking about security risks. I'm not even thinking about the Béla Kovács you keep asking me to do. [[There's a noise in Jobbik's ranks.]] You may not remember that a few years ago, on October 23, a few years ago, Gábor Vona told me that Jobbik would invite the Iranian Revolutionary Guard to the elections. Now I can't fully restore his quick tone, but he said that the ÁVH will not be engraving on election day, but the Iranian Revolutionary Guard. Find it back. And then we had not even talked about how good it would be to clarify whether Gábor Vona had actually used the handmark of a Turkish extremist organization; why the politician tried to remove the Internet clues to this; and at all, it should be clarified why the party president is in contact with Turkish extremists. Or does Gábor Vona continue to believe that Islam is the last hope of mankind? If you are really sensitive to security risks, you will, above all, clarify them. So there are a lot of questions around you, but one thing is for sure: we think that the left-wing casting will be restarted soon - you have an excellent chance of participating in all of this, based on your change of direction. Thank you for your attention. Please accept my answer. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-10-24-74	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I will ask Congressman György Szilágyi if he will accept the State Secretary's reply. Here you go.
u2016-10-24-75	I asked you a simple question: the money or your country? You answered that: money is more important to you. Mr. Secretary. We were talking about national security issues here; I'm saying that your silly answers also pose a national security risk, which you say here in Parliament, and with which you try to mislead people on such issues. You are talking about a quadruple inspection in a country where an FBI wanted person could be next door to Viktor Orbán and deal with Viktor Orbán and his family. You're talking about a quadruple inspection in a country where a Russian criminal simply checks into an exotic country and brings a perfectly clean certificate, a moral authority certificate. You're talking about security when, in Germany, far more advanced than we are, where the secret services are much more advanced, after two years, they found 3,000 fake passports, and 3,000 fake passports have now been withdrawn, for whom procedures have already been launched. Secretary of State, you are putting Hungary in jeopardy just to get rich and put business first. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]] I don't accept the answer.
u2016-10-24-76	I've been waiting, Congressman. Congressman did not accept the State Secretary's reply, so I respectfully ask the Parliament whether it accepts it. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 109 votes in favour, 35 against and 1 abstention. Dear Parliament, Members of István Hollik and Mátyás Firtl, representatives of KDNP, have submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Human Resources: å What steps does the government plan to take in the field of prevention or drug rehabilitation? It's an address. The question will be formulated by Congressman Mátyás Firtl. I'll give you the floor. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-10-24-77	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, I think it's safe to say that it's a high responsibility for all of us to reduce addictions, to treat patients in a complex way. In this matter, I can say, we are talking about a national interest. [[15.00]] For this reason, in recent years, we have done a lot here in this House or in the government. We have laid the groundwork for combating drug addiction, we have made progress in improving drug prevention, and important decisions have also been made in the area of criminal law and rehabilitation. Based on data from the KSH, the number of drug users in treatment has ranged from 12 to 17 thousand in recent years. On the basis of official data, we have to expect such a wide range, but, of course, if prevention becomes important, then this circle is much wider, as we can talk about very serious social problems with potential stakeholders, especially certain groups of young people. Dear Secretary of State, According to the National Drugs Strategy adopted in 2013 and adopted until 2020, the reduction of the supply and demand of drugs can only be achieved through cooperation based on a single strategy. To this end, it focuses on the non-use model of life, the basic approach to health, and on the care of drug addicts, in line, of course, with the general objectives of the European Union. This strategy deals not only with those who are already involved, but also with those who are not drug users, but are at risk and set the goal of not being addicted to drugs. I would like to highlight some important elements from the Government decision defining strategic policy tasks. Supporting health development training programmes and educators in educational institutions, strengthening the family system at home, developing parental skills through targeted preventive interventions, reviewing the activities and functioning of drug rehabilitation institutions, improving the acquisition of modern instruments and tools, strengthening drug coordination forums, training of professionals, research support and, of course, participation in international cooperation. The list also shows what complex options we are facing if we want to move forward in the fight against drug use. Thus, we have work to do in almost all areas of life, and we have many challenges to deal with. That is why I am asking, Mr Secretary of State, how much their recent developments have helped to combat drug use and what steps the government is planning to take in the area of prevention and drug rehabilitation against this year's surplus resources. I look forward to your reply, Secretary of State. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-10-24-78	Thank you very much, Congressman. The answer will be given by Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2016-10-24-79	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Our national anti-drug strategy has set itself no less objective than to permanently banish drugs by 2020, banish drug dealers and banish drug dependence on Hungary. This is a rather ambitious goal, but we also have clearer and clearer tools to achieve this. Obviously, both demand reduction and supply reduction, which is important for fewer people to sell and fewer people to buy drugs. [[It's a lot of noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] As you said, over the past six years, recovery focus is important in drug prevention, so it is not to help people who are drug addicts in some way, but to help and encourage those who have not touched drugs. After all, one of the main areas of action in the national drug strategy is those who have not yet tried drugs to confirm that they are following the right path. On the other hand, obviously, those who have become addicted to it in some way, we are trying to stop this, to help them recover from this addiction. That's why we broke up with needle exchanges and started drug prevention policy towards recovery. If I look at this year's budget and Mr President asked me about the budget, it is nearly HUF 800 million, which is almost double the amount that was available earlier in this area. We want to use the largest part of this HUF 800 million, HUF 490 million for applications and grants in five categories. Part of this includes preventive programmes and support for the recovery process of addicts, which can be applied for; strengthening a local anti-drug policy, which clearly means the development of local organisations, anti-drug councils, local programmes; and research is also very important. This is achieved from budgetary resources, but we also try to spend as much money on drug prevention or addiction treatments as possible from EU sources. Thus, from the Human Resource Development Operational Programme, the EFOP, we will spend HUF 3 billion on the construction of a dedicated prevention programme to prevent addiction. On the one hand, there are awareness-raising programmes, on the other hand, there are targeted and proposed interventions, as I said, worth HUF 3 billion. This adds HUF 1.7 billion, which can be used to develop social assistance activities in kindergarten and school, which is also important for prevention with the help of colleagues there. And for those who have previously failed prevention and are in rehabilitation care facilities, there are 3.8 billion forints available to improve the conditions there and nearly 4 billion forints available. It can also be seen that there are 3 + 1.7 + 3.8, i.e. significant billions available for drug prevention. The introduction of adolescent rehabilitation has been a very important new category in recent years, since the legal background of rehabilitation has been guaranteed from adulthood, but it was also important for adolescents, so it was also important to create rehabilitation with new beds for those around the age of 16. Overall, we spend 42 million HUF on rehabilitation activities from the budget. We hope that this can help adolescents now. In addition, we will develop child and youth psychiatrists, the infrastructure of the addiction and mental health care system, and a psychiatric and addictological care network will be developed. We will improve the quality and accessibility of specialist care in the framework of the structured development of the psychiatric care system. We hope that we can further reduce the levels of drug testers and drug users from EU and domestic sources, and we hope that we can also reduce drug crime by strong means. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-10-24-80	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I will ask Congressman Mátyás Firtl if he will accept the State Secretary's answer. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-10-24-81	Mr President, Thank you for the floor, and, Mr Secretary of State, thank you for your answer. I mean, as I was just saying, I think it's a national issue. And if this is a national issue, then the government's efforts in this area must, of course, be fully supported, and it must be recognised that the resources it devotes to this purpose are indeed for the sake of our children, our grandchildren. Therefore, for all the efforts they are making, all we have to do is thank you, and in the future, we really need to do everything we can. It is very important, as Mr Secretary of State has begun, that law enforcement agencies do everything they can to ensure that these people, these acts are also persecuted by drug dealers and drug dealers, because our children have also threatened through distributors. Thank you, I accept your answer. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-10-24-82	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Congresswoman Erzsébet Schmuck and Bernadett Szél, representatives of the LMP, have submitted an interpellation to the Minister of the Prime Minister's Office: doesn't János Szél know that metro number three is not a toy? Title II. On behalf of Mr Miklós Seszták, Minister for National Development, who is competent and competent on behalf of the Prime Minister, the interpellation will be answered by State Secretary László Tasó. You have the floor, Congresswoman. Here you go.
u2016-10-24-83	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, After the Mayor of Budapest spoke in several places about the direct delay in the renovation of metro line 3, here in Parliament we asked for a significant delay in the start of the metro renovation two weeks ago. Mr. Minister said, among other things, that our proposal was justified. I just want to remind everyone that there's been a debate about subway replacements. Obviously, it is known to everyone that BKV could handle the situation by buying its own buses, but instead it would be done by some outside company. After our interpellation, we learned that the replacement bus tenders have failed for the time being, which may cause the renovation to slip significantly again. And István Tarlós, mayor, immediately authorized the CEO of the BKK to stop metro 3 immediately even in case of any trouble. Now, what I'd like to say is that subway 3 is a 40-year-old line, and every 25 years, we should completely renovate the entire infrastructure. That didn't happen for us. And I'd like to say that Metro 3 travels three Debrecens a day, so it's an extremely busy metro line. So you really should not mess with this situation, but you should give the money to the mayor and the capital, because they do it in all the metropolises in the world, they support public transport; we do not understand how such a situation can occur in Hungary, that, moreover, such a continuous debate between actors of the same political family arises about whether the money is being given or not given in connection with metro line 3. [[15.10]] In addition, another serious problem appears to arise, given that there is a shortage of money: there are rumors that they want to save on the renovation of stations and accessibility. István Tarlós also referred to this a few days ago when he asked whether we chose to start full accessibility or renovation. This is completely nonsense, so you can't ask a question, because the answer can only be that both of them are needed, accessibility is needed, and there is also a need to renovate the stations, the whole metro line 3 must be modern and safe. And the formula for me is that because of your chaos and battles, your debate, this whole project is practically out of order, and the citizens of Budapest can travel on an unsafe metro line every day. Dear Secretary of State, The Minister recently stated in Parliament that they are ready to provide a significant bank guarantee, collateral and guarantee in order to - and I quote - that the financial conditions of Metro 3 can be partly or, if necessary, even more than they have done so far. Then I ask you, after such a ministerial statement has been made, how can there be any possibility that metro 3 will not be fully renovated, including mandatory accessibility, stations? And I would like to remind you that there is money for a lot of things in this city - how can there be no money for the security of the citizens of Budapest?
u2016-10-24-84	Thank you, Congresswoman. The answer, as I said, will be given by Secretary of State László Tasó. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2016-10-24-85	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and The fact is that it would have been a slightly better comparison to say 4 segments instead of 3 towns of Debrecen, because the city of Debrecen has 210 thousand inhabitants, and there is no traffic of Metro 3 in any case, but 520 thousand people were recorded daily on the working days, and it should be added immediately that Metro 3 is Hungary's largest railway plant, so naturally traffic is definitely the reason for its renovation. Metro 3 is 17 300 metres long, 15.5 kilometres long, passing through a tunnel, so of course we need to monitor and monitor its operation at any moment. By the way, subway 3, thank God, works safely, but, of course, it is necessary to renovate both its infrastructure and its rolling stock, but these two things must always be taken separately. So when we look at exactly what the Hungarian government has to do, what the City Council has to do, we have to separate the two things. One thing is certain: the renovation does not wait for you, but as you well know, the Hungarian government is committed to this. In the five stages, between 1976 and 1990, Metro 3 started its journey from Újpest to Kőbánya-Kispest railway station, and it is indeed reliable; there is nothing else to replace this line, and no other means could replace this transport capacity. What is important and it is important to know is that the Hungarian government, at the request of the capital, has already made a guarantee of HUF 60 billion in the previous period, and knows precisely that we supported the preparation of the project with HUF 635 million in the previous term. The feasibility study has already been completed, building permits are also being completed slowly, all design documentation is available and accessible. One thing is certain: from the beginning of November, we will have everything we need for the export plan. The government also committed to support the renewal of the metro line with the help of EU funds, and, if you remember, it supports it by HUF 137.5 billion instead of the HUF 125 billion previously determined by the municipality, i.e. by paying more than 10 percent more and by providing the Hungarian Government for the infra renovation. However, we also need to know that the European Commission has the right to co-decision on this project, and we have been negotiating with the European Commission ever since November 2015, and we have been going through a lot of rounds, and we are very confident that we hope that the level of support we are expecting will remain. What is important is that the provision of EU funds belongs to the Hungarian government, but the public procurement and negotiations with the bidders represent the task of the Municipality of Budapest, and that is precisely why it is necessary for the Hungarian government and the capital, as has been done before, to cooperate well. All members of the Hungarian Government, the Municipality of Budapest and Lord Mayor István Tarlós himself, cooperate well and clearly support the renovation as quickly and smoothly as possible. One thing is certain: it is a special issue, it is a special subject, it is also special for sensitivity, but one thing is certain: the Hungarian government's intention is clear, not special, but it is quite clear: the entire section of the metro line will be renewed with each of its accessories. So these myths, which are being said, are really saying; we are doing everything that is included in the renovation work according to the program. I am very confident that little of this will be experienced by members of the traveling public. I respectfully ask you to accept my answer. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-10-24-86	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I will ask the congresswoman if she will accept the Secretary of State's reply. Here you go.
u2016-10-24-87	Mr. Secretary, if you don't mind, it wasn't a good time to start talking to me about how many hundreds of thousands of people's lives are at risk if you choose metro three; if one person gets hurt, will the Fidesz-KDNP take responsibility? Moreover, I did not bring here tales, but I quoted the Minister, and I read from the Mayor, and I was very careful to try to bring quotes from the sentences you have formulated to the interpellation. So I continue to see that the government and the capital would not cooperate well, but it does not understand what responsibility it has in the matter of the lives of the people who use metro 3 daily. I respectfully ask you to accept that the travelling public of Metro 3 is not interested in legal disputes and various pro-government kitten fights and promises. We need money, we need an immediate source of money, we need to speed up the purchase of buses, and the stops and everything must be renewed in order for Budapest to become a safe city. This cannot be the subject of political debates. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] It's about these people's lives, Mr. Secretary. I can't accept the answer.
u2016-10-24-88	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, The congresswoman did not accept the Secretary of State's reply, so I ask you if you will accept it. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 106 votes in favour, 26 against and 1 abstention. Dear Parliament, Congressman Pesti Imre, a representative of Fidesz, has submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Justice:, What can justice wait for? It's an address. Congressman Imre Pesti has the floor. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-10-24-89	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, During socialist-free democratic governance, we have often heard that it is a country without consequences. As a Member of Parliament, I also find that the Government and the competent Ministry of Justice are making serious efforts to restore public confidence in justice. That there's something to fix, I'm going to give you a specific example. In the two political cycles between 2002 and 2010, Terézváros became known, inter alia, as a result of the low price sale of real estate. The then MSZP-SZDSZ majority city management sold several high value properties on Andrássy út and other valuable properties in breach of law, without competitive competition, at a price clearly below market value to the so-called customer of its choice. There are currently more than ten real estate cases in criminal proceedings, which are in different stages. The list of properties affected by criminal proceedings is long, but for a taste some are: Andrássy út 2., Andrássy út 3, 47, 21, 23. 22, 35. 14, 45. , Munkácsy utca 31 and 37, Liszt Ferenc tér 7, Anker köz 1-3. , Oktogon Square 4. , Dalszínház utca 2. In the ongoing criminal proceedings, the Public Prosecutor's Office is accusing MSZP and SZDSZ representatives of the majority of the body of representatives of the time of a particularly significant misappropriation of hundreds of millions of forints. In this case, court proceedings are currently being held on account of the miscarriage of two properties. According to the prosecution, on the one hand, buildings were sold at a lower price than the real price, on the other hand, they waived the competitive tendering procedure, which would have been absolutely necessary under the legal provisions, since the sales contract should have been concluded with the best bidder. [[15.20]] By selling property under Andrássy Road No.3 the financial disadvantage is more than HUF 570 million, i.e. more than half a billion, and the financial disadvantage caused by the sale of property under Andrássy Road No.47 exceeds HUF 130 million. There are also real estate transactions in which the civil court has already definitively declared the nullity of the contract concluded by the city leadership of the former MSZP-SZDSZ coalition on the ground of a conflict of law. I am surprised to find, after such a history, that although some apparatus of the state organization is working, the sentence of a criminal court that reassures the public has not been reached in any case. On this basis, I respectfully ask Mr Secretary of State what justice is waiting for, when public confidence in justice can be restored. I look forward to your reply, Secretary of State. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-10-24-90	Thank you very much, Congressman. The answer will be given by State Secretary Pál Völner. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2016-10-24-91	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, In line with the principle of separation of powers, the Ministry of Justice does not express its opinion or comment on ongoing procedures, nor has it so far. The Constitutional Court 60/1992. According to its decision, the publication of legal guidelines, circulars, guides, guidelines, resolutions and other informal interpretations and the practice of governing them from the Ministry and other central public bodies without guarantee rules of the Law is unconstitutional because they violate the constitutional requirements of the rule of law. Therefore, the Ministry of Justice cannot provide a resolution or an interpretation of the law either in general or in relation to a specific case, in particular that it does not have all the relevant information on the particular case. At the same time, public trust in justice must be strengthened by the Ministry, which is one of the government's priorities. However, in order to restore public confidence, not only legal instruments are needed, but also the rethink and strengthening of judicial relations, where cooperation and dialogue are the cornerstones of democracy. One of the key objectives is to shorten, simplify, improve and modernise procedures. Another important objective is to improve the judgment of the courts, to strengthen the right to fair judgment, to strengthen fair and effective procedures and to restore confidence in the system of expertise and enforcement institutions. The values of the Fundamental Law also give rise to the responsibility to find a transparent solution to the social problems arising from the enforcement power, with its instruments available, which are acceptable to society. In doing so, we must strive for the rule of law, subject to the requirement of social justice and legal certainty. With the establishment of the Ministry of Justice, the Minister of Justice set the objective of consistent representation of the above. The Minister of Justice is constantly responsible for relations with judicial bodies, courts, prosecutors and other bodies which form part of the wider judicial system. In this context, it shall liaise with the Mansion, the National Court Office, the Public Prosecutor's Office and other relevant institutions, while respecting the principle of judicial independence. Under the Statute Regulation, the Minister of Justice shall carry out tasks relating to notaries, lawyers, counsellors, bailiffs and judicial experts. This also means contacts with the professions involved in the judicial activity, cooperation and supervision provided for by the legislative framework. In doing so, the Minister shall maintain professional cooperation with professional orders, be represented at professional meetings, involve the relevant bodies, vocations in the preparation of legislation within the framework of the legislative framework, and contribute to the development of professional competences through the development of professional training, examination and training materials, the organisation of legal examinations. However, in recent years, a number of legislative proposals have already been put before this House, either directly or indirectly, aimed at restoring public trust in the judiciary, with regard to the new Code of Civil Procedure, the bill on general administrative order and administrative order, but also the laws on enforcement or experts. So the Ministry is trying to speed up and effectively facilitate the closure of these procedures within its framework. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-10-24-92	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I will ask Congressman Pesti Imre if he will accept the State Secretary's reply. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-10-24-93	Between 2002 and 2010 there was significant corruption at all levels of the state. At the government level, let's just think about Ferenc Gyurcsány's speech in the autumn, the Sukoro case, the Demszky-Hagyó case in terms of the capital, and in district matters, let's think about the VII. on the Hunvald case in the district and now on the VI. in the district of Teresa, which I just told you about. Some of these corruption cases have been investigated and convicted, but in some cases, known as Terézváros, the VI. We're still waiting for a verdict in the district. Seeing the Ministry's efforts to restore public confidence in justice, I accept the answer. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-10-24-94	Thank you very much, Congressman. As we have heard, Congressman has accepted the Secretary of State's reply. Dear Parliament, Congresswoman Márta Demeter, representative of the MSZP, has submitted an interpellation to the Minister of National Economy:. At last, they are completing the introduction of migrants filling the pockets of fidesz buddies, or can the Prime Minister's statement be taken seriously? It's an address. Congresswoman Márta Demeter has the floor. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2016-10-24-95	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, In the last year and a half, you have based your entire policy on fear and hatred of refugees and immigrants rather than on governance. In the meantime, however, the circles linked to Fidesz are breaking hundreds of billions of people from the lure of economic immigrants to Hungary, and in the end the Hungarian people pay the price with interest, because the basis of the construction is the settlement bond. Anyone who buys this will lend a loan to the Government of Viktor Orbán, and will be immediately granted a residence permit in Hungary, and then, five years later, he will receive his money back with interest, and the interest paid from the Hungarian people's money is much higher than the market returns. Secretary of State, the Hungarian State has already lost more than five billion dollars by paying the offshore bond holders four times the market returns after the settlement bonds. The hundred billion-dollar profit linked to the distribution of bonds now moves through offshore companies to fidesz buddies. According to the Ministry of Interior, this construction has already brought more than 17 700 people to Hungary. Despite the efforts of the debauched public media and the Habony works, the majority of Hungarian people now sense the exact contradiction between government propaganda and the activities of the Fidesz offshore buddies with the right of establishment. Orbán may therefore have been forced to announce the revision of the settlement bond programme on 3 October in response to my colleague Tamás Harangozó's immediate question. In the context of the Prime Minister's statement, therefore, I look forward to the following questions being answered by the Secretary of State. Has the Ministry of National Economy been instructed by the Prime Minister or the Government to review the residency bond scheme? If so, when did you get this assignment? Is this review or any review currently ongoing? When will the report on this review be prepared, and when will you put the issue of the abolition of the settlement government bond programme on the government's agenda? I look forward to your answers. [[Interruption from the ranks of the MSZP. Applause in the ranks of MSZP and Jobbik.]]
u2016-10-24-96	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. State Secretary Péter Cseresnyés came to the answer. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2016-10-24-97	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and It is strange to hear these questions from a representative of a party that you have asked, which we have heard from you, when the Hungarian economy is in such a damaged state when it is governed. [[Zoltán Grimlock: Don't get me wrong.]] that it was one of the most vulnerable, one of the most difficult economies by 2010 [[Interviews from the ranks of the MSZP. The president's ringing the bell.]] After your administration. [[Bangóné Borbély Ildikó: What does that have to do with it? The president's ringing the bell.]] It has much to do with this, Congresswoman, because you created the situation that this form had to be introduced, because I would like to inform you that, before the establishment of the Hungarian government bond of establishment, we have examined what international experience shows, because this construction is not unknown in Europe, in the European Union. [[15.30]] One of the most important aspects of this work was to open up the possibilities of investing in the Hungarian economy and of settling in such a way as to help our economy develop. In other words, the bonds allowed foreign investors to come to our country, who are entitled to assume that they contribute to the performance of our economy and are able to participate in job creation. At the same time, it is important to note that our safety is also a very important aspect in this case, so those who apply for the purchase of a settlement policy will undergo a four-fold filter. This has been said several times today, and is also monitored by the Immigration and Nationality Office, the Counter-Terrorism Centre, the Constitutional Protection Office and the police. They now have 30 days to carry out strict checks instead of the previous 8 days to do the most thorough work. Returning to the bonds, I must also inform the congresswoman that, in contrast to all other state bonds, the important national economic advantage of the settlement policy is that investors cannot sell it during the five-year term. Therefore, they are also a stable, non-recoverable source of debt financing for market turbulences. [[Dr. Zsolt Legány: Does it come with a helicopter pass?]] As you well know, the intermediary companies are selected and approved by the Parliament's Economic Committee at an open meeting, and your representatives are also represented in the committee, so not only are they pro-government, but they are also opposition representatives, so transparency has been resolved in the case of parliamentary parties. [[General noise, interruptions from the lines of the MSZP.]] In answer to his question, Minister Mihály Varga was indeed invited by the Prime Minister to revise the debt strategy at the end of the summer and at the beginning of the autumn, and within this framework, the establishment bond programme. Work on the revision of the debt strategy is ongoing. In this context, we will also examine, among other things, whether the benefits of the construction still exist under the current conditions and whether emissions will enable us to achieve the objectives set in 2013. This may depend on whether or not you put it on the government's agenda on the basis of the report and, if so, on the timetable for reviewing the programme of settlement bonds. And about the numbers you said here, how many people were able to get a residence permit by buying these bonds, it's a fraction of what you said; I don't know where you're taking these numbers from. [[Márta Demeter: Based on the Home Minister's response.]] So it's very, very important that there are numbers here again that are not near reality, the facts. Overall, I consider it important that the settlement bond has proved to be a secure form of debt financing, and that is why it has survived since 2013. Of course, I will continue to accept what I have said about the fact that his review is under way, and this is taking place today as well. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-10-24-98	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I will ask Congresswoman Márta Demeter if she will accept the State Secretary's reply. Here you go.
u2016-10-24-99	I don't accept the answer, Mr. President, and that bullshit we saw here. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: We hear you!]] It can clearly prove that we can assume that the Prime Minister was so cowardly that he made this statement to review this program, and it clearly shows that he may or may not have lied about it, and that nothing is planned. So you think it's okay for the government to hand over Hungary's sovereignty to offshore companies, and you think it's okay that the Hungarian state already has a loss of 5 billion because of the quadruple interest. You think it's okay for Fidesz offshore companies to make hundreds of billions without paying a single penny in Hungary so that some people have money to chopper. And that means that it is also okay for you to finance the Hungarian state by convicted criminals. We submitted our proposal two months ago to stop the distribution of settlement bonds immediately and to account for the companies. This was voted out to protect the Fidesz offshore shit. This is unacceptable! [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] The Ministry of Interior assists in this mess, the Fidesz majority of the Economic Commission assists and the parliamentary majority. The question, and the answer, is that the Ministry of National Economy also assists in selling Hungary's safety. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2016-10-24-100	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, The congresswoman did not accept the Secretary of State's reply. I therefore ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts it. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 107 votes in favour, 32 with no abstentions. Dear Parliament, Congressman Tibor Bana, representative of Jobbik, has submitted an interpellation to the Prime Minister:, send a message to Fidesz: 98 percent also said no to the establishment business! Why do you support migrant protection organisations? It's an address. On behalf of Prime Minister Prime Minister Zoltán Balog, Minister of Human Resources, who is competent and competent on the subject, will respond to the interpellation. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2016-10-24-101	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Your governance over the past year and a half has been all about immigration. Jobbik also sees this as a matter of vital importance for our country, but we must say that while money has been spent on a series of meaningless poster campaigns, it is not possible to debate, for example, the situation of education or health care, not to mention systemic corruption by Fidesz. Ten billion have been spent to prove to the people that you protect them from immigrants, Brussels, quotas and George Soros. However, in their struggle to defend the nation, they somehow managed to provide little money to organisations aimed at helping and integrating migrants. On 8 September 2015, 58 NGOs assisting immigrants issued a call for assistance to the government in the humane treatment of the refugee crisis. The government heard their word. Unlike the Körmendiek who called for the closure of the migrant camp or Kiskunhalasia, while billions were spent on the anti-immigration campaign, more than one billion HUF was allocated to these organisations. The real twist in the story is that a significant proportion of these organizations are strongly linked to George Soros. To György Soros, with whom the government has spoken in the entire Habony and Vajna media for several weeks last autumn, to help immigration through civil society organisations, thus destroying the nation states. [[Adam Mirkóczki: Shame!]] Last October István Hollik said that it was not exaggeration to say that György Soros supported unlimited immigration with money, while Viktor Orbán's same statement used the following words:. They also help the migrant flood, who support everything that weakens the nation states. The name of George Soros may be the strongest symbol of this Western thinking and activist network. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Well, Mr Secretary of State, the facts are stubborn; you too have joined the ranks of financial supporters for immigration. It can be seen that the government, as in so many other issues, is capable of being two-faced even in the area of immigration. It is not enough that they spit on their immigration policies with the residency bond business, because although poor migrants are kept away, the rich migrants can come, but we protect the Hungarians under the cover of the password even support liberal migrant protection NGOs you call harmful. [[Adam Mirkóczki: Shame!]] Dear Secretary of State, Why do you support civil society organisations with so much money, which, according to your testimony, are harmful? What's going on? How does this fit into your immigration policy so far? Did you find out exactly what these organizations spent the money on? I look forward to your substantive answer. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-10-24-102	Thank you very much, Congressman. We will hear the answer from Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2016-10-24-103	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, From the better benches, when it is only at rhetorical level to talk about immigration, we hear courageous expressions like this is a vital issue, but when it comes to voting, and let's say, in relation to the Fundamental Law, one - you, I quote - should also be confirmed in the Fundamental Law on a vital issue. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: We submitted it, and you voted it down! That's embarrassing.]] The will and intention of 3 million 300 thousand Hungarian voters are suddenly being set by Jobbik, and it is no longer a matter of vital importance, rather than whether or not they fulfil their other political conditions. And the fact, honourable Member, that over the past year or two we could not have talked about health, education or other issues: there was a debate on corruption in Parliament, there was an educational debate, even trade unions came here, there was a health debate, here were our bill; if you attend committee meetings, if you attend plenary sessions, [[Adam Mirkóczki: You are not dating!]] then all these proposals have been discussed in the past. So, honourable Member, it is a matter of intent whether someone wants to deal with this or not. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: Now we hear the answer!]] What you quoted as a form of support, I think you know very well, but you forgot to say that the functioning of this is governed by the legislation laid down by the European Parliament and the European Council, EU regulation 516/2014. From now on, we can say [[Adam Mirkóczki: Where is the freedom fight?]] The fact that its parts of Hungary are only in the form of instructions from Hungary, but these are Brussels money, which is committed and defined under a regulation of the European Parliament and of the European Council in Brussels, not on the basis of a directive or regulation. [[15.40]] But there are, indeed, sources of immigration that we made from Hungarian budgetary sources last year and this year - I hope that you did not think of them as George Soros organisations - because the Hungarian Red Cross, the Hungarian Maltese Charity Service and the Hungarian Ecumenical Assistance Organization received a total budget of HUF 200 million. This was indeed the sovereign decision of the Hungarian government. [[Adam Mirkóczki: And the COFFEE?]] And that's how we helped them do their job. [[Adam Mirkóczki: You missed the COFFEE!]] to provide humanitarian care for these people along the border. This has been increased this year, since now there are five organizations: the Hungarian Maltese Charity Service, the Catholic Charity Service, the Hungarian Reformed Charity Service, the Hungarian Ecumenical Relief Organisation and the Hungarian Red Cross receive HUF 50-50 million, i.e. altogether HUF 250 million in support to carry out humanitarian work along the border and provide for the people who are brought to the border of Hungary by human smugglers. On the other hand, Hungary has also applied for this migration fund, and we have asked for recognition of the spending that we have made for unaccompanied minors. We have received a letter of reply from the European Union: three rows - three rows! - they refused Hungary's request, they said that what happened in Hungary did not correspond to the definition of an emergency when hundreds of thousands of people walked through our country. We then treated all unaccompanied minors as any Hungarian child; we asked the Union to at least recognise some of this as a cost, but neither half of it, the 10 percent, nor 1 percent, nor 1 forint was provided by the Union, but Hungary rejected its request in a three-line letter. This is how the Brussels bodies work in the spirit of these regulations, that when there is a need for genuine solidarity and the Hungarian state has to bear such costs, they do not do so. What we do know is that Jobbik has something to do with organizations. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: Na! Let's hear it.]] The Grey Wolves have turned up today, who... [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: How did they find them?! Tell me about it.]] who are... [[Interjections and clarity in the ranks of Jobbik. The president's ringing the bell.]] who do make quite a profit by smuggling people. We also know that Gábor Vona, when he shows this [[He shows a picture of Gábor Vona. Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks.]] then he doesn't say hello to the Grey Wolfs - of course I don't know what it is -; we also know that in this photo [[He shows a picture of Gábor Vona with others. Interviews from Jobbik's ranks. Adam Mirkóczki: You can't be serious!]] It's not among the Grey Wolves, but it's among some people. [[Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks.]] [[Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks.]] It would be good for Jobbik to clarify its relationship with this organization and to clarify that the person Ali Agca - who tried to assassinate the Holy Father - is also Ali Agca (intercoms from Jobbik's ranks). ) - why such an organization, which has such members, is very similar to this way of saying hello to that organisation. [[Ádám Mirkóczki: You are your own cartoon! Defiance in Jobbik's ranks.]] It would be nice if, at some point, the Jobbik could explain this, and this could be clarified here in Parliament. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-10-24-104	Thank you very much. Before I give the floor to the Member, Mr Secretary of State, I would like to warn you that you have used an unannounced illustration, and I will inform the President of this House. [[Intercoms in Jobbik's ranks: That's right! Guard! Adam Mirkóczki: He took it from the top of his bed!]] Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-10-24-105	Thank you, Mr. President. [[It's constant noise.]] Dear Secretary of State, It's an "A" word. If you were to engage in a real freedom fight, the Ministry of Interior would not have contributed to goals that would help migrant protection organisations. Consider the facts, some specific examples. International Organisation for Migration, pilot project to support family reunifications in Hungary, HUF 39 million; sames Inn Budapest [[Adam Mirkóczki: Oops, oops! Dr. Bence Rétvári: EU!]] Improving equal opportunities for migrants, nearly HUF 10 million [[Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks.]] Közőkeres Közhasznú Alapítvány, help migrants become entrepreneurs, nearly HUF 20 million; Migrant Help Hungary Association [[An intervention from Jobbik's ranks, what's this?!]] training and counselling for migrant guidance and integration, HUF 19 million; Kalunba Social Service Provider Nonprofit Kft., national resettlement programme, more than HUF 80 million in support [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: Beautiful! Ádám Mirkóczki: None of them are EU money! Dr. Bence Rétvári: EU money! Adam Mirkóczki: None of them are! Dr. Bence Rétvári: All integration funds!]] And we could continue the line for a long time. [[Constant interruptions.]] Jobbik's position is clear and clear: we say that neither poor migrants nor rich migrants nor poor terrorists nor rich terrorists should enter the country. This is how we put our amendment to the basic law, and you did not support it, because it seems that business, money, is more important to you than the security of Hungary. [[An intervention from Jobbik's ranks: That's right! Intercoms from the pro-government benches: Grey Wolf, Grey Wolf!]] It's a shame! I can't accept your answer. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik. Intercoms. The president's ringing the bell.]]
u2016-10-24-106	Dear Parliament, The congressman didn't accept the Secretary of State's answer. So I ask you, do you accept it? Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 105 votes in favour, 23 votes against and no abstentions. Dear Parliament, Mr Ákos Hadházy, representative of the LMP [[Moore in the pro-government benches.]] has submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Human Resources:.. Terrorism and Nosocomial Infections. Congressman Ákos Hadházy has the floor. [[It's constant noise. The president's ringing the bell.]]
u2016-10-24-107	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, This weekend, the Prime Minister said that he was going to save Europe. This could be reassuring for Europe if we did not know that, even after the Prime Minister's six-year-old leadership, we were still at the point that there is no soap in hospitals or stks in the bathrooms. [[Intercoms from the pro-government benches.]] [[Intercoms from the pro-government benches.]] Not only desinficious soap, there is no plain soap (intercoms from the pro-government benches. ) and it should be known that in nosocomial infections, hospital infections - also commonly called carnivorous bacteria multiresistant Staphylococcus - Staphylococcus, nosocomial infections can be prevented by simple hand washing. We have come a long way to see how your State Secretarys for Health have behaved when it comes to the safety of Hungarian patients. Miklós Szócska encrypted the report on hospital infections so that no one could know what conditions there are in hospitals [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: He just posted it on the Internet, so encrypted!]] "Gábor Zombor had to beat the table to finally publish the report, and we remember that even at the beginning of the year the SAO had to be sued to prove that such data was in the public interest - true, this was already the product of the process in which the SAO was torn to pieces and smashed. Last year, 136 nosocomial epidemics, 136 hospital epidemics were reported, 23 percent more than two thousand... [[Constant noise from the pro-government benches. Dr. Bence Rétvári: Put something on the record. There should be a record of something. Lajos Kósa: That's it! That's it! Dr. Bence of Rétvári: Break will be recorded! The president's ringing the bell.]] That's 23 percent... [[Constant noise from the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-10-24-108	Are you finished, Congressman? [[Constant noise from the pro-government benches. The president's ringing the bell.]]
u2016-10-24-109	...it's 23 percent more epidemic than it was in 2014, and I'm not flattered. 644 people died in the... [[It's constant noise.]] Mr President [[Constant noise from the pro-government benches. The president's ringing the bell.]] I didn't know I was in kindergarten. [[Deterioration in the pro-government benches.]] 644 .......................................................................................................................................... [[Noise.]] 644..., 644 people died. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] Nosocomial infections, hospital infections, and 620 people were killed in traffic accidents, and no one has been fortunately killed in a terrorist act, so 644 more people than in terrorism. They tried to smudge with results that certain cases decreased, but the reality is better reflected by the increase in infection rates, i.e. the situation today is no better than it was last year or before. Although they never forget to praise the reporting system, it is well known that the willingness to report is rather mournful, and it would be foolish to believe that they do not mean anything because hospitals, the laboratory background, are territorially significantly different, in many cases there is no microbiological examination, no evidence of death. Let's not go past the fact that most of these infections could be eliminated by simple washing of hands, but they're not in the bathrooms, I went in two times last week, and they weren't in the bathroom. [[Constant noise in the pro-government benches. The president's ringing the bell.]] soap and hand sanitizer. On the other hand, it is also important to know that separation of patients could be the second thing, and we also know that this is extremely urgent. What are you going to do about it? What are you going to do to keep these causes of death from being present in such a very large number?
u2016-10-24-110	Thank you very much, Congressman. The answer will be given by Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Here you go, Secretary of State. [[Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]]
u2016-10-24-111	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Since the subject is serious, allow me to answer your questions seriously. First of all, Congressman, don't look down on those working in Hungarian health care, not doctors, not nurses. [[Miklós Soltész: That's right! Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] That you're trying to teach them how to wash their hands from here in Parliament before they touch a patient or before they do some kind of treatment! Believe me... [[István Szilárd Németh beats down the laptop on the table of Font Sándor. Noise. Interventions from opposition representatives.]] Believe me... [[Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] Everybody knows that! As regards basic operations in mathematics, honourable Member, the number of the three major infections reported in a year was rather representatively - much more representative than in many Western European countries - changed from 14 028 to 13 340, according to the rules of mathematics not 25 per cent, but a decrease of 5 per cent, as there were 688 fewer such cases, for which I think thanks to the health workers on the one hand, on the other hand, and it shows that the development that the government has made, in particular in rural hospitals, was worth more than 300 billion forints, from which it was able to renovate entire hospital winges or even entire hospital buildings, and that the 104 billion forints that we spent on purchasing new instruments also helped prevent such infections. [[15.50]] As far as reporting is concerned, you know very well that the reporting rate in Hungary is much higher than in many Western European countries. As regards the confidentiality or publicity of the reports: Honourable Member, you know that they can be found both on the website of the National Centre for Epidemiology in Hungary and on the websites of joint healthcare organisations in Europe. So if you call it a secret to put something on the Internet, then I think you're very wrong. Don't try to make it look like anyone's hiding it, everyone on the Internet can find these numbers. For example, if you look at the incidence rate of Clostridium difficile, which is one of the most typical hospital infections in Hungary, you can see that the Hungarian numbers are somewhere between Finland and Germany. So, as I said, there is obviously always a possibility of repair, but both in the frequency of reports and in the occurrence of hospital infections, Hungary is in the right place. And I think the fact that we put these numbers on the Internet every year, we face it, we try to make decisions every year that can improve them, this also shows the government's determination in this area. However, these infections appear normally in hospitals, where people arrive with a weakened organism, and sometimes the treatment itself weakens the immune system of patients, therefore they are more exposed to such infections. This is why we decided to launch a HUF 5 billion EFOP project with EU support. This construction is called complex improvements in the health care system to increase patient safety. This means, on the one hand, an attitude-forming approach, and, on the other hand, a greater recognition of sources of danger, but it is in the interest of patients, in any case, of patient safety. I think it's in everyone's interest to talk about real numbers, to talk about real trends. We have a job, of course, to improve the safety of patients, but we must recognise the work of people who do more for patients, honourable Member, rather than washing their hands before an intervention, and it is their work that has led to a 5 percent decrease in the number of hospital infections over a year. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2016-10-24-112	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I'll ask Mr. Ákos Hadházy if he'll accept the Secretary of State's answer. Here you go.
u2016-10-24-113	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Of course I won't accept it. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Why?]] I am surprised, I am not surprised, but I am surprised that the question has not been understood lately, and I am surprised that what we wrote in writing was, of course, not about the incidence, not the number of cases, but about the number of epidemics, it has increased by 25 percent, the specific number of cases has decreased. [[Dr. Bence of Rétvári: Now you're finally admitting it!]] However, when we look at how many people were treated, the proportion of these cases increased. That doesn't change the fact that there's no soap in the stk. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: No more stk!]] I don't know when you've been to places like this and there's no soap in the hospital. Even if they wanted to wash their hands, they couldn't wash their hands. I am very glad that they recognized the opportunity, so it usually happens, when they find 5 billion forints quickly, there will be a lot of studies from these 5 billion forints. Again, we don't need studies and a lot of public insurance. We'll see about that. Thank you very much. [[Lajos Kósa: Ákos Hadházy wash your hands. It's a rare round of applause from the Jobbik benches.]]
u2016-10-24-114	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Congressman didn't accept the Secretary of State's answer. So I'm asking you if you'll accept it. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 107 votes in favour, 33 against and without abstention. Dear Parliament, Congressman Gábor Bellozó, a representative of the MSZP, has submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Human Resources: It's an address. Congressman Gábor Bellozó has the floor. Here you go.
u2016-10-24-115	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary. The pay increase in September was due for teachers, teachers and kindergarten teachers, which would have been the last phase of the gradual increase programme announced in 2014. The legal background of the increase was partially modified from 2015 as the calculation formula excluded the effect of the increase in the minimum wage. For this reason, the 2016 teachers' salaries are roughly 10 percent lower than previously promised, as instead of the current minimum wage of HUF 111 thousand, the formula still includes the HUF 101 500 minimum wage for 2014 as a multiplier, under the name of the projection fund. According to the current situation, another wage increase is not planned as of 1 January 2017, as the projection fund will remain unchanged in the Budget Act for 2017. Secretary of State, there is a strong wage tension in public education, one of the main reasons for this is that the career model has not been introduced comprehensively to all employees, and then a hundred thousand people have been excluded from any salary increase. The government is listening to a systemic improvement in the situation of educators, and it is not about improving their situation. School secretaries, kindergarten secretaries, teachers' assistants, dormitory secretaries, nurses in kindergarten, labists, administrators, school psychologists, janitors, janitors, maintainers, accountants, administrators, economic administrators, leisure organizers, librarians - without them, the system would not work, they are the tutor-educator workers, their salary has not increased for eight years, they will all receive the guaranteed minimum wage on the basis of the public employee pay table. It has been mentioned several times here in Parliament, the last time you answered such a question is that you know that it is much more than that, much more resources and much more benefits, which could have been obtained directly by staff assisting in the educational work over the past period. Mr. Secretary, I've just received a lease paper, which says: after 39 years of service, a medical pedagogical assistant takes 100 487 forints home by supplementing his salary with 7.5 thousand forints - this is already included in 100 thousand forints - as a medical pedagogical supplement, and it is supplemented by 7.5 thousand forints to reach the guaranteed minimum wage. Secretary of State, it's a shame, so I'm asking you when there's going to be a general wage increase for non-pedo staff. When will real action be taken to eliminate wage tension? And please, Mr. Secretary, don't make your answer ridiculous by referring to the HUF 35,000 food voucher to receive it at a wage increase. You know, you can't turn a food voucher into a pension fund. I'm waiting for your answer.
u2016-10-24-116	Thank you very much, Congressman. The answer will be given by Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2016-10-24-117	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, In the field of education there is not wage tension, but wage increases, since 2013 it has been continuous, it continues every year [[Zoltán Grimlock: Didn't you hear me?]] and it has not ended, honourable Member, but the wage increase programme launched by the government will continue next year. It is precisely because the economy has now made it possible to start the payroll, first we started it with teachers, now this year there is a very significant increase in the salaries of doctors and nurses, but professional police workers, defence workers, civil servants working in district offices are also noticeably and greatly increasing their salaries, as the 50 per cent increase that is being made for teachers or the 207,000 forints increase that doctors receive or the 100 per cent increase that is being made for health care professionals between 2012 and 2019 is a noticeable increase in wages. You know, you're more sensitive when you're lost in your wages than when you're added. Therefore, a lot of people still remember when you were talking about these workers, whom you were talking about, whose salary you could have borrowed in 2007 and 2008, because you took a month's wages from this man. [[Zoltán Haughty: They didn't pay taxes!]] They took it because, on the one hand, they put the country's economy on the brink of ruin. [[Zoltán Grimlock: No, it's not true! They didn't pay taxes! An intervention from the ranks of Fidesz: Shame!]] On the other hand, because the phone rang at Gordon Bajnai and Ferenc Gyurcsány, they called from Brussels from the IMF to say that it would be good for the nurses and teachers and the police and doctors to cut their salaries, and it would be good for pensioners to reduce their pensions. [[Interviews from the ranks of the MSZP.]] And you saluted, stood up here in Parliament, and all of you, during the roll call, said yes to these people's salary cuts. [[Interviews from the ranks of Fidesz: Shame!]] Conversely, what has been happening in recent years [[An intervention from the ranks of the MSZP: This is a disgrace!]] We gave these people back what you took. [[Interview from the lines of the MSZP: What?]] The pension increase of pensioners, if I look at the value of the customer, exceeds what is the value of a month's pension. [[Zoltán Grimlock: Do not go among them, because you may not get away with it.]] And for teachers, we are proud that we have been able to make a significant increase in wages every year. [[Interview from the ranks of the MSZP: Bence, this job is not good for you!]] If I look at it every year, one year plus 32 billion, then 120 billion, 38 billion, 36 billion, and this year we'll add 34 billion forints compared to last year. [[And finally, a helicopter...]] And we'll continue next year. [[16.00]] In the case of those who have a pedagogical education - even in your example - we extended the teaching career on 1 September 2015, so if you have a pedagogical education, but were not employed in a teaching position, but, let's say, you directly assisted the educational work, in their case, as of 1 September 2015 you also paid the increased teacher's salary, the career salary. [[Intervention in the ranks of the MSZP: State Secretary's career model!]] I have to say that on January 1st this year, a number of teachers have increased their salaries, as 25,877 have entered the teacher II. They earn 30-35,000 forints more, seven thousand became master teachers, and a number of researchers are also teachers. Those who are not employed in teaching jobs received 50 thousand forints, then twice 35 thousand forints, and from 1 January next year they will receive a general 7 percent wage increase, and in addition we will give a further 3 percent wage increase, which means that the head of the institution will decide how the amounts of this moving framework will be allocated to the employees. Obviously, those with higher performances will be more than 10 per cent, but a 7 per cent wage increase is guaranteed for everyone. Honourable Congressman, I think that it would be better for you to support it here in Parliament than to oppose it, and it would also be good to support the legislative proposals with your own votes, which concern this, because you have only been able to prove that you can reduce the salary of teachers. The fact that they can increase, in the last 26 years, the MSZP has failed to prove it. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-10-24-118	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I ask Congressman Gábor Harangozó to accept the State Secretary's answer.
u2016-10-24-119	That wasn't an answer, Mr. President, but the Secretary of State continued to lie. I show you the MTI news; Rétvári: the wage increase continues, the wages of the educators are also increased. Mr. Secretary, you're deceiving these people again. If a person who earns a net HUF 100,000 has to add HUF 7500 to his salary in order to receive the guaranteed minimum wage, he will receive a 10% wage increase from January, it means that you will not add this supplement to the guaranteed minimum wage, but give it as a wage increase, and will also bring home HUF 100 500. [[Interview in the ranks of the MSZP: That's right!]] Aren't you ashamed? [[Interjection in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] Secretary of State, a ten-year-old nurse in kindergarten brings home 88,000 forints, while the Governor of the Central Bank for fattening in the poverty of foreign exchange credentials [[Constant interruptions. The president's ringing the bell.]] Yoga-loving, inability to buy a flat, central bank president is raised to 5 million forints, and they say he deserved it. [[In the ranks of Fidesz, you gave Simor eight!]] Obviously, he deserves to be able to buy himself an apartment, and these people are given 35,000 forints so they don't starve to death! Shame on you!
u2016-10-24-120	Dear Parliament, The congressman didn't accept the Secretary of State's answer. So I'm asking you if you'll accept it. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 106 votes in favour, 37 against and without abstentions. Dear Parliament, Congressman Gábor Staudt, representative of Jobbik, has submitted an interpellation to the Prime Minister:, Let's send a message to Fidesz: 98 percent said no to the establishment business as well! - Do you think a real investor is the person who even borrows the settlement policy? It's an address. On behalf of Mr Sándor Pintér, Minister of Interior, who is responsible for the subject, the Minister of State Károly Kontrat will respond to the interpellation on behalf of the Prime Minister. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-10-24-121	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Prime Minister, Dear Secretary of State, With regard to the settlement bond structure, we are no longer surprised at anything. We started from the business of the century, where mostly offshore companies were the only ones who benefited, and then continued with the risk of national security, where a specific case was written when a convicted Russian criminal could easily obtain a right of residence. All he had to do to do was log in to an island in the Caribbean, and he could receive a clean moral certificate, using it as a child's ease, through the government's view of a bombproof filter system of four. Of course, the fact that an investigative journalist reveals the background of policy buyers more effectively than the Hungarian secret service, as well as the immigration and counter-terrorism authorities combined, is also horrifying. But the story doesn't end here. The government is constantly expressing the reasons for the national economy, which makes it worthwhile to maintain the construction. Since the quadruple interest paid by the state certainly does not fall within this category, it could only refer to job creation. If that were the case, because we did not get any concrete answers on how many new jobs were created thanks to the construction. According to the latest news, several brokerage companies offer half-price settlement bonds, and the rest is made up of bank loans. It is true that the investor does not get his money back at the end of the term, but the commission of around EUR 50,000 is still due to the intermediary companies. In this context, the question arises as to how serious an investor can only pay the price of the settlement policy in a suspicious, credit combined arrangement. How's he gonna get the money to create jobs? Jobbik made it clear that people did not leave a loophole on October 2nd, that both poor and rich immigrants were rejected, that they stopped the Juncker quota plans as well as the paid resettlements that Rogán Antal had dreamed of. Prime Minister! Mr. Secretary. Do you not think that the person who is having trouble buying the bond will not create too much new jobs in this country? In fact, if you could deny it: exactly how many new jobs have been created thanks to the settlement bond scheme? We expect numbers, concrete results, Mr Secretary of State, Prime Minister and Minister. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-10-24-122	Thank you very much, Congressman. As I said, the answer - interpellation is a closed and bound genre - will be given by Secretary of State Károly Kontra.
u2016-10-24-123	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, First of all, I would like to inform you once again that the settlement policy system is a financial facility that is also used in many Western European countries and also complies with EU rules. You're attacking this construction, and you're mentioning various abuses, completely unfounded. Márton Gyöngyösi's fellow Member also asked a question in his interpellation today, and I also definitely replied no to the abuse. Honourable Congressman, The Hungarian legislation and application of the settlement policy will help Hungary's economy, the national economy, and HUF 315 billion of revenue will contribute to the settlement of the debt service in order to achieve significant progress in the Hungarian national economy, especially in the field of foreign trade. The correct answer to your question is when you ask how many new jobs have been created: I would like to say that since the summer of 2013 Hungary has created 470 thousand new jobs overall, unemployment has fallen significantly and has now fallen below 5 percent. Such positive data has not been registered in Hungary for 26 years. I would ask the honourable Member to stop attacking the settlement bond scheme in the light of this response and to support it instead. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-10-24-124	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I ask Congressman Gábor Staudt if he will accept the Secretary of State's answer. Here you go.
u2016-10-24-125	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, I guess the bonds went better than we thought. 470 thousand new jobs are the result of these bonds, I understand. Well, that's fantastic. It really is a European miracle. By the way, I have to say that generally in Europe, where there is this construction, something is expected to be done beyond the payment of money, and it usually does not operate through the intervention of offshore companies. So the citizens of the state and the state will benefit from this. But when we talk about risks, we looked up what Antal Rogán said at the Economic Committee meeting on 4 March 2013. Look, he admitted there's a risk in the construction, but he's got to take it, so to speak, that's a small risk. If you hadn't created this bond arrangement, there would be zero risk. And if Antal Rogán also acknowledges that there is a risk - we have seen the concrete facts since that is very true - then I believe that this answer is twice unacceptable. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-10-24-126	Thank you very much. The congressman didn't accept the Secretary of State's answer. I respectfully ask the Parliament whether it accepts it. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 108 votes in favour, 39 against and without abstentions. Dear Parliament, It's 16 hours and 9 minutes, and we're at the end of the interpellation period. [[16.10]] Now we move on to immediate questioning. Ladies and gentlemen, Congresswoman Ágnes Kunhalmi, representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question, 'Does Mr. Prime Minister really control the KEHI? It's an address. Congresswoman Agnes Kunhalmi has the floor. Here you go.
u2016-10-24-127	Mr. Prime Minister, After two years of litigation for Freedom Rights, the Company achieved that the Prime Minister's Office would betray the client of the out-of-court government control that took place two years ago against NGOs supported by the Norwegian NGO Fund. In February 2015, the court decided to release the information to the government control bodies, but it took a year and a half before this happened. The TASZ has made public the letter they have received, to see that it was you personally, Prime Minister, who ordered this measure. But then you weren't telling the truth in February 2015. In an interview with Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung, he replied to the question whether it was a coincidence that, after his speech on the role of civil society organisations, official proceedings had started with one of the organisations concerned, and I quote you literally: "For the first time, this is the first time I have ever heard you. You ordered the investigation, Prime Minister. Why did you lie?
u2016-10-24-128	Mr. Prime Minister will have the floor in two minutes. Here you go, Prime Minister.
u2016-10-24-129	Please read it again, my honourable fellow Member. That meant it was the first time I heard that connection. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2016-10-24-130	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. A woman representing a one-minute rejoinder has the floor.
u2016-10-24-131	Prime Minister, do not listen to what I say, but what I do. Do you remember in the Kádár system how the police harassed the democratic opposition? That's exactly what you're doing. [[Defiance from the ranks of the ruling parties.]] Exactly the same... [[The president's ringing the bell.]] Prime Minister, you're doing the same thing to civilians, you're doing the same to the media, Prime Minister, this is a tool for soft dictatorships! I have to say, he's become a bigger Soviet than the former Communists. [[Happy Stephen: But you are! Applause from the ranks of the MSZP.]]
u2016-10-24-132	One-minute rejoinder, Prime Minister. Here you go, Prime Minister.
u2016-10-24-133	Mr President, Dear fellow Member, Just to be clear, it looks like Kehi's name is the Office for Government Control. That means it's the government's control system. I would like to inform you that this body is doing its job with an annual audit plan approved by the government. In addition, it is possible to carry out an out-of-court audit by acting by the Government, the Prime Minister or the Minister in charge of the Prime Minister's Office. In all cases where there is an investigation, we are following this procedure, and I ask you not to dismiss this right from the government or from me. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties. Dr. Gergely Bárándy: Then you must confess, right? Hanging Gábor István: Then why did you lie? We should answer the question.]]
u2016-10-24-134	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. Dear Parliament, [[Interviews from the ranks of the MSZP.]] [[Interviews from the ranks of the MSZP.]] Fellow Members! Congressman Adam Mirkóczki will be given the floor. I should have asked you an immediate question, and I would have given it to you. (Intercoms from the lines of the MSZP. ) Congressman Ádám Mirkóczki, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: "Let's send a message to Fidesz: 98 percent said no to the establishment business as well! Is money really more important than the security of this country? It's an address. Congressman Adam Mirkóczki has the floor. Here you go.
u2016-10-24-135	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Mr. Prime Minister, I dare say that anyone who says that there is no connection between settlement bonds and immigration problems, immigration and terrorism problems is either dilettant or lying. Now, there was one of your party's ranks who repeated it to the press like a parrot. And if we accept all that there is a link and it can continue to exist in the future, then I think that guarantee and security are better than money in all aspects. It is clear that people who finance terrorist or terrorist cells or any group of ill-meaning national security risks are not trying to get into Hungary by throwing policemen at Röszkön, they do not even want to cut the fence at some point in the southern border section and arrive in Hungary, but will rather land at the Liszt Ferenc Airport, with an establishment bond in their pocket. I think that if we start from this, it is not a coincidence that the press has already explored the presence of questionable and risky businessmen in Hungary, and, among other things, they have revealed companies doing business together with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to the public. Why is it more important for you to have dirty money than the security of the country, so why cannot you release an institution that is obviously a hotbed of corruption just to comply with the opposition demand, the legitimate opposition and civil demand? By the way, the international political situation shows exactly what all international experts, security experts, support how the siege of Mosul is taking place, and all those terrorists and those financing them will be splintering in Europe right now. Why, then, is money more important than the security of the country? I'm looking forward to your reply. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2016-10-24-136	Thank you very much. Prime Minister Viktor Orbán has the floor. Here you go, Prime Minister.
u2016-10-24-137	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The first question is whether the settlement policy represents any risk. The answer is no. The settlement government bond is a five-year licence and can be revoked at any time. So if we can gather any information, either through counterterrorism or through any other organization of ours, it can be withdrawn at any time. The second question is, what is the purpose of the resettlement, pardon, settlement policy? [[Defiance from Jobbik's ranks.]] It's a construction we created back in 2012. It was created in 2012 because Hungary was valued on international markets and did not obtain foreign resources. And we took every opportunity, looked at every international example, and we transposed what we could to Hungary, which, in that difficult situation, you will remember, has helped Hungary to sell bonds. After this was an international practice, we introduced it. The thing is, the country has been valued ever since. Therefore, the practice of all bond issuances, not only of settlement bonds, but also of all bond issuances, will be reviewed. This is happening now, the Minister for Finance and the Minister for Economic Affairs are doing this work. There is a timetable, it will report to the government, and then we will decide whether this construction should remain, replace it with another, or not need such a construction at all. But we will make this decision because it is our responsibility and we will not allow any political blackmail. [[It's an intervention from Jobbik's ranks. A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2016-10-24-138	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. In return, the word belongs to Congressman Ádám Mirkóczki. Here you go.
u2016-10-24-139	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr. Prime Minister, I'd like to respond to your last sentence first. The terms are not ours, but yours. We'd like to close a loophole, a high-risk loophole that you opened, not in 2012, but in 13th. I would also like to draw the Prime Minister's attention to the fact that he is arguing not only with me, but with your fellow minister, Antal Rogán, who himself acknowledged the existence of this risk in this construction. I would also like to say that your words show that you can risk safety, too, because there is money that is worth it. I would like to remind you that if there is only one person who slips through such a system... and you know that in the Caribbean countries who have a small amount of money, you will have access to documents without any problems that the only secret service in the world will not be able to verify whether that person is really that person, whether that document is original or just a fake. That is why we continue to say that we do not live with blackmail, we want to eliminate and close the system that poses a security risk to the country. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2016-10-24-140	Thank you very much. One-minute rejoinder, Prime Minister. Here you go, Prime Minister.
u2016-10-24-141	I understand your efforts to close everything that's a risk, but you'll find another subject, given that it doesn't pose a risk. We give it for five years, we can withdraw it, whenever we feel that there is a risk, we can unilaterally break this agreement. Consequently, this bond structure is no more risky than any internationally known financial engineering instrument. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2016-10-24-142	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. Dear Parliament, Congresswoman Bernadett Szél, representative of the LMP, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: "Do you know the government's bigger than 3.3 million? It's an address. Congresswoman Bernadett Wind has the floor. Here you go. [[16.20]]
u2016-10-24-143	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr. Prime Minister, In your speech yesterday, you said that Europe chooses the cheaper, the more comfortable, instead of its own children, immigrants, jobs, speculation. I think that you could not have written down, more precisely, the policy that your own government is pursuing against Hungarian workers. I'm sure you know that a few days ago in the press, word came out that in a settlement in North Lowland, the organized and mass resettlement of migrant workers had begun. The Samsung factory in Jászfényszaru has 120-150 Ukrainian guest workers working from September, their number is constantly growing, they earn a net of 125 thousand forints, they live in renovated barracks and mass accommodations, but the new workers' hostels are already being built. I would like to remind you that the resettlement of foreign migrant workers was facilitated precisely by the legal decree which entered into force on 1 July during your referendum. While the country was busy with the referendum, these multinationals could have already worked to bring organized and mass foreign migrant workers into the place of the Hungarian citizens who had left this country because of the bad wages and sought prosperity abroad. I think, Prime Minister, that with this pull, the Hungarian Government is once again on the side of multinational companies who are not interested in anything but one thing to get a cheaper workforce. They do this instead, Prime Minister, to create fair conditions and decent wages for Hungarian citizens living here before the country is completely empty. Mr. Prime Minister, In this country, 4 million of our fellow citizens are currently living in poverty. When will the Hungarian government finally take the side of the Hungarian people instead of multinational companies? When will the wage arrangement in this country finally begin? When can we finally offer Hungarian people wages that do not have to go mass abroad? And how did the government even think of giving up hundreds of thousands of Hungarians going abroad and bringing organized and mass foreign workers into their place? Are you sure this is the job of a national government?
u2016-10-24-144	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. I give the floor to Prime Minister Viktor Orbán. Here you go, Prime Minister.
u2016-10-24-145	Thank you, Mr. President. As far as the first question is concerned, I can tell the Member woman that the order of residence of migrant workers in Hungary is regulated by legislation. Please, if you're interested in these, study them. As regards wages: in Hungary, the state has two things to do with wages. There are people who are directly employed by the government. It was not so long ago that there was an immediate question here when I could answer one of my better colleagues in a long list of questions about the wage increases that have taken place in the last year. I'd be happy to repeat this list whenever you ask. The second question is what opportunities and responsibilities the government has in terms of regulating market wages. We follow the philosophy that wage increases should always be agreed with employees. We do not want a wage increase due to the lack of consideration that employers are actually removing jobs. Therefore, in Hungary only wage increases that employers and Hungarian entrepreneurs can support, accept and participate in their work, such as the issue of raising the minimum wage. I think it's the government's job and nothing more than that. We do this job every year. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-10-24-146	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. In return, Congresswoman Bernadett Wind has the floor. Here you go.
u2016-10-24-147	Mr. Prime Minister, Don't be offended, but you have taken care of the fact that while you have fought against migration, you have passed a law in the Hungarian Parliament that allows foreign citizens to settle in Hungary in an organized and mass manner. We see that some multinational companies are already taking advantage of this opportunity and that these migrant workers have arrived in place of the Hungarian citizens who left this country for a living. They've come from Mexico, they'll come from Nepal, Ukraine, from countries of lower pay standards. And I have one more question, Prime Minister. We've been talking about cutting the public sector. They said that hundreds of thousands of people could be dumped, and then the Deputy Minister was corrected by Minister János Lázár, who said that fewer but still so many people would be dumped that opposition parties could campaign. Let me ask Mr. Prime Minister, instead of a campaign, do you agree that the shortage of labour must be addressed by cuts and firings in the public sector?
u2016-10-24-148	Thank you very much. A one-minute rejoinder is also due to the Prime Minister. Here you go, Prime Minister.
u2016-10-24-149	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I am also happy to discuss a question on what is the optimal, ideal, acceptable number of bureaucracy in Hungary, but we are not talking about that, but about the question of migrant workers and the context of resettlement. I would like to make it clear that there is no connection between migrant workers and resettlement. On the other hand, I am pleased with what you are saying here, and I appreciate the crocodile tears you are tearing up, but I must say that your MEP has said in the European Parliament: the LMP - your party, if I am not mistaken - cannot imagine the solution to the crisis other than the introduction of a mandatory quota system. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-10-24-150	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. Dear Parliament, Members of Péter Csizi and Győző Vinnai, the representatives of Fidesz, want to ask the Minister of Interior an immediate question:. The obvious relationship of the President of Jobbik with the title Grey Wolfs. Minister Károly Kontra has appointed Secretary of State to respond to his urgent public mission. [[There's a noise in Jobbik's ranks.]] With all due respect, I would like to ask Mr Győző Vinnai, who will ask the immediate question whether he will accept the person of the response, namely Secretary of State Károly Kontra.
u2016-10-24-151	Yeah, I'll take it.
u2016-10-24-152	Congressman says he'll take it. Winner Vinnai has the floor. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-10-24-153	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Grey Wolves, founded in Turkey, are an active new-fascist terrorist group. The primary task of the extreme right-wing military movement is not only to spread Islamic fascism, but also to carry out violent terrorist attacks. Their targets include Christians, Armenians, Russians, and anyone who rejects the ideology of Islamic fascism. However, the organisation also has a good relationship with the Islamic State. One of the most infamous attacks of the Grey Wolves in 1981 was the II. It was a brutal attempted murder of Pope John Paul. But there are recent events here. The terrorist organisation also played a significant role in the preparation and execution of the bombing of the Russian passenger carrier crashed on 31 October 2015. Or the Russian hunting bomber's catapult pilot destroyed by the Turks on 24 November last year was also murdered by a leader of the Grey Wolves. Today, the organization derives mainly from migrant flows and is mainly known for its smuggling activities. Dear Secretary of State, According to press reports, Gábor Vona contacted the members of the organization during a multi-station Turkish lecture tour in 2013. [[Dóra Dúró: It's not true!]] In fact, according to the news, the President of Jobbik was elected honorary member of the Grey Wolves, with this figurative honor they wanted to express their sympathy for the Hungarian politician. [[There's a noise in Jobbik's ranks.]] The common threads are strengthened by cooperation that also emerges on an ideological basis, such as the twin city relationship between right-wing Tisavasvár and Osmaniye in Turkey. [[There's a grumble in Jobbik's ranks. One voice: What's wrong with that?]] Gábor Vona Vona, who calls himself a Christian national radical, used the wolf head signal several times when he was not campaigning for cuteness. [[István Szávay: Time is up!]] Dear Secretary of State, In light of this, I ask whether it is a matter of national security that in Hungarian political life there is a politician who sympathizes with a terrorist organisation and his party. Thank you for your reply. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. There's a noise in Jobbik's ranks.]]
u2016-10-24-154	Congressman Savay, you are a notary of Parliament, you do not have to yell out here. I'm listening. If the left-wing clerk were here, he'd probably warn me. [[There's a noise in Jobbik's ranks.]] But you must pay particular attention to keeping order, Congressman. Don't make me say that again. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] Secretary of State Károly Kontra will respond. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2016-10-24-155	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, The question raised by you will be examined in detail by the Hungarian authorities and the National Security Committee will be informed of the outcome of the investigation. [[Noise on the opposition side.]] Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-10-24-156	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. To rejoin Mr. Winner of Vinnai, it's up to him. Here you go, Congressman. [[16.30]]
u2016-10-24-157	Thank you for your reply, Mr Secretary. Thank you for giving the government the right weight to deal with this issue. [[Defiance in Jobbik's ranks.]] I think that is entirely justified in today's terrorist situation. It is possible, fellow Members, to laugh, and indeed, Bence Rétvári today showed the picture of Gábor Vona standing among the sympathizers of the Grey Wolves in an interpellation. I'm sure you've seen that picture, and I can tell you that Philip Erik, Vice President of Jobbik, has been in the same position since summer in 2012, during a visit to Turkey. So I'm asking the government to deal with this issue with the right weight. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-10-24-158	Thank you very much. A one-minute rejoinder is also due to Mr. Secretary of State.
u2016-10-24-159	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, I can make this promise that the Hungarian authorities will take due care of this issue. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-10-24-160	Thank you very much. I ask the Jobbik Group, with all due respect, to calm down for a minute, okay? [[Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks.]] Congressman Staudt! Congressman Abbot, if I'm going to warn you now, you won't be able to tell me your immediate question, so you'd better be quiet. [[Deterioration in the pro-government benches.]] Dear Parliament, Congressman Tamás Harangozó, representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question:. Have you personally met Ghaith Pharaon, an international wanted person, and do you see a national security risk in the fact that the company of a person involved in financing terrorism, according to the news, is doing business with your family, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has a joint company with him and has already bought a house against yours? It's an address. Congressman Tamás Bellozó has the floor. Here you go.
u2016-10-24-161	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Prime Minister! Under your leadership, Hungary is supposed to be committed to the fight against terrorism, and under your leadership, Hungary is supposed to be committed to fighting corruption. In Hungary, in your street, Hungarian voters cannot protest because of security risks. Compared to this, it turns out that Ghaith Pharaon, a Saudi businessman, who is wanted by the FBI and Europol, is involved in the financing of arms trafficking, the overthrow of financial institutions and the news that he is involved in the financing of terrorism, he bought himself through the companies of your neighbor. It is a fact that through your narrower family, son-in-law, István Tiborcz, your company has a business relationship. And if that's not enough, he's running a joint venture with your government, the State Department's Trading House program, with Pharaon's interest. The question arises not only in one ordinary person, Prime Minister, after all, whether there is anything else that matters to you, because this matter is also a matter of priority for the National Security Committee. This is a very serious question, Prime Minister, because if it is true, you are fundamentally questioning whether you will be able to hold the post of Prime Minister in the future. [[An uproar in the pro-government benches.]] I therefore ask you to answer the following question specifically and seriously, taking into account the gravity of the situation. Did you personally meet with Ghaith Pharaon, who is on international wanted list? Two, do you see a national security risk in the news that a company associated with the financing of terrorism is doing business with your family, the State Department has a joint venture with this group of companies, and has already bought a house against yours, according to the news? Please respond specifically and in accordance with the gravity of the situation.
u2016-10-24-162	Thank you very much. With respect, I give the floor to Prime Minister Viktor Orbán. Here you go, Prime Minister.
u2016-10-24-163	Thank you, Mr. President. What I know, and what's my business, I'll answer, of course. At a dinner of honours from one of Jordan's representations in Budapest, where the ambassadors and embassies of all the Arab countries accredited to Hungary were represented, I attended, and there was Professor Pharaon. And the answer to the question on the substance of the matter sounds like I told Jobbik that in May, but I am addressing it to you now, because it seems to me that this is becoming more and more operational, that you are repeating Jobbik's questions, so perhaps you will accept the answer. [[Deterioration in the pro-government benches.]] After your motion came to light, the Hungarian Government, of course, examined the Hungarian activities of the person in question and found that it complies with Hungarian law and does not pose a national security risk to Hungary. That was my answer at the time, and that answer has been valid ever since. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-10-24-164	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. In return, Congressman Tamás Harangozó has the floor. Here you go.
u2016-10-24-165	You see, Prime Minister, the letter that the Minister of Interior turned to the Ambassador there has indeed come to light and made it clear that this is the man against whom an international arrest warrant has been charged with very serious charges. If your government has examined and you believe that this man's activities in Hungary are okay, then the big deal, Prime Minister, is that you and your government are a national security risk in this country. [[Uproar and clarity in the pro-government benches.]] If you believe that a Saudi businessman linked to the charge of terrorism, linked to the charge of arms trafficking, has no impact on the citizens of Hungary, the Hungarian government and Hungary's activities, and there is no risk of national security, Prime Minister, then, once again, you are a national security risk and you are unworthy to lead this country. Thank you very much.
u2016-10-24-166	The Prime Minister also has a one-minute relationship answer. Here you go, Prime Minister.
u2016-10-24-167	I listened to your answer. I'd like to point out that flattering me won't do you any good. [[Deterioration in the pro-government benches.]] But the case itself, we're talking about, is worthy of attention. I'm convinced that the case around the person in question is an American secret service game. This is known from the fact that no Schengen country has raised objections to the entry of the gentleman in question, no one has asked for his arrest, even though the visa issued was visible and known to all Member States. It also makes me wonder how, if someone is supposed to be wanted by the FBI, they can stay out of jail for 24 years and go to Europe several times. I'm telling you to be careful not to be part of an American secret service game. Thank you. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-10-24-168	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. Dear Parliament, Congressman István Apáti, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Minister of the Cabinet Office of the Prime Minister an immediate question:, Let's send a message to Fidesz: 98 percent said no to the establishment business as well! - You're resigning? It's an address. Congressman István Apáti has the floor. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-10-24-169	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Minister, Tough, persistent, hard work always brings fruit, you are a more unpopular politician in Hungary than Ferenc Gyurcsány. Probably between its unpopularity and settlement bonds or terrorist bonds, which can be regarded as your intellectual by-products, there is a close logical link. Let's look at the problem financially, and let's look at the more important national security risks. The problem with this arrangement, Minister, is that companies with offshore backgrounds only register settlement government bonds from the Hungarian State for EUR 270 000, and then pass them on to rich migrants or rich terrorists as own-issue securities for EUR 300,000, and then they also pocket a brokerage fee of EUR 60 000 per client, and they also make four times the profit of the market at maturity. This is another problem from the point of view of the Hungarian State that the financing of this is four times more expensive than it is in normal market conditions. It is therefore hard to believe that the total amount of 80 billion forints of about 3 thousand or more customers has not migrated to your friends, your friends or even your pockets, Minister. It is hard to believe that there is not enough of 80 billion for everyone, because it is a bounty-corn that makes it possible to satisfy the entire demand system. What is much more serious, Minister, is that these people cannot be checked. It has already been said here that you are a suspicious Russian entrepreneur or just mentioned Ghaith Pharaon, who is simply unable to be checked by the Hungarian secret services, because in these countries the shepherd dog can buy from the goat moral certificates, false passports and other false documents. That's the problem, Minister. So the question is what's important to you, the dirty profit from dirty money or the security of your country. Are you willing to give up this profit, or are you willing to give up this profit? What's more important? Make up your mind and answer me. Thank you. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-10-24-170	I give the floor to Minister Antal Rogán. Here you go, Minister.
u2016-10-24-171	Thank you very much. Honourable Congressman, Mr President, Mr. Prime Minister, I think that when we decided on the settlement bonds and I would like to recall this to you, honourable Member, in this House, in a debate that was an open parliamentary debate, with your participation - we are talking about 2012, Hungary was in a different economic situation. [[16.40]] We passed the law in 2012, fellow Members. Take a closer look. In 2012, Hungary was devalued, and we were barely able to obtain foreign exchange resources. This was an opportunity to involve foreign exchange resources in other countries, in Western Europe and elsewhere, my fellow Members. For this reason, the Hungarian Parliament also laid down a law on its return at the time. Among other things, you said that Parliament should set the yield by law. At the time, the return recorded in the law seemed to be an incredibly low return compared to what the Hungarian government bonds went on in 2012-13. Ladies and gentlemen, I think that the programme has achieved its objective in terms of the fact that it has now made it possible to involve nearly EUR 1 billion of funds for Hungary, under favourable conditions, without having to pay interest on it for 5 years, so it will not increase our interest expenditure at all throughout the year, which is also one of the problems for the budget. Ladies and gentlemen, All decisions have been taken by Parliament in an open debate, including the Economic Committee. Your group leader, Mr. Volner, was sitting next to me at the committee meeting. He never once asked you a question - that's probably why he became a faction leader with you. [[Deterioration in the pro-government benches. János Volner intervenes. Dóra Dúró: But you let it become a national security risk.]] Not on any occasion, fellow Members. Then there would have been a way to ask all these questions at any time, along the way. And, ladies and gentlemen, the security risks have been clarified precisely by the fact that, after the Commission's debate, the Ministry of the Interior carried out a multi-level audit and, first of all, the examples with which you are coming are not true. Pharaons have never applied for or received a settlement policy [[Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] and nobody got any Caribbean, I don't know what it is, because they have to participate in the program every time with a certificate of their country's papers and authorities. You know that very well, my fellow Members, so I fear that if someone is not telling the truth, they are, in principle, you and not us. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-10-24-172	Thank you very much, Minister. István Apáti is entitled to a one-minute rejoinder. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-10-24-173	Thank you. Dear Minister, Please name the bond buyers. Name who paid whom, when, how much. Who, when, how much did he put in their pockets? Who created, when, where, how many jobs? Besides companies with exclusively offshore backgrounds, who benefited? Did you benefit from this, Minister? How good was it? Did you get any of that allowance? Or a charity offer? A regular gift? Or I could call these titles in many other ways... [[An uproar in the pro-government benches.]] I expected you, Minister, to make it easier for your Prime Minister. You have one thing to do: to go to Prime Minister Viktor Orbán and tell him, Prime Minister, that we should leave this whole thing alone, that I will get out of it, and that we will find a way to resolve it otherwise, so that this should not be an obstacle to the fundamental law amendment. As the legislation on this is repealed [[Noise and interruptions in the pro-government benches.]] as soon as we rule out two thirds of them being able to re-introduce, we will immediately vote in favour of the amendment to the basic law. [[Defiance and uproar in the pro-government benches.]] We want to hear names, Mr. Minister. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] We want names and names. [[A voice from Jobbik's benches: Who are the persons?]] You know what's sad, respected Antal Rogán? Once, this country was led by men who, if necessary, sacrificed their lives for their country. All you have to do is give up the money. Think about that. [[A big round of applause in the benches of Jobbik and MSZP. Crying from the benches of the governing parties: Shame!]]
u2016-10-24-174	Minister Antal Rogán is also entitled to a one-minute rejoinder. Here you go, Minister.
u2016-10-24-175	Honourable Congressman, I have a huge advantage from this programme: the fact that you can keep asking questions here in Parliament and I can answer that. It's definitely a huge advantage. But, honourable Member, may I say to you that, as far as courage is concerned, I still remember when a process of renewal took place in Jobbik just a few months ago, and a certain Member, István Apáti, who stated that he would definitely start as Vice-President, because - what did he say? - he misses radicalism, so he goes against Vona's will, tests himself, starts on the renewal, because at least then the will of membership will be shown, and he also said that if his calculations don't work, I will go home and pick apples - I quote you literally - and I am also a man in rubber boots like I am in a suit in Parliament. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. [[Dr. István Apáti: That's right.]] I see your calculations have not worked, Mr honourable Member, but the suit and the seat of Parliament are more comfortable, I just think, to this end, we need to load and ask questions here in Parliament, following the requests of the new owner of Jobbik. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Intercoms from Jobbik's benches, someone needs a suit. István Gábor Bellozó: Helokoptere can't be for everyone! Intruders. A big round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-10-24-176	Thank you very much, Minister. Dear Parliament, Representative József Attila Móring, representative of the KDNP, notary of the Parliament, wants to ask the Minister of Agriculture an immediate question:, How can the government help stop the waste of food? It's an address. Congressman Attila Móring József, notary, please.
u2016-10-24-177	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Minister, One of the most important tasks to be solved in the years ahead is the proper feeding of the growing population of the Earth with ever more scarce natural resources. One of the most sensible and effective tools to increase food security is to reduce food waste and loss. An EU-funded project presented an EU28 estimate of food waste in spring. The European Union produces around 88 million tonnes of food waste each year. The value of this is close to EUR 143 billion. According to official estimates, 1.8 million tonnes of food is wasted each year in Hungary. This includes everything: from agricultural production to trade to catering and residential consumption. Last year, in France, businesses over 200 sq m were banned by law to throw away or destroy food that could still be consumed, and all remaining food must be offered by aid organizations. The Romanian House of Representatives voted in favour of reducing food waste in the previous week, making food donation easier for social institutions. There are similar efforts in Hungary to collect food, but most of the time another practice has become common: they make the products leaving the last day on sale, and in many places they can be bought at a cheaper price. Dear Minister, On 16 October, we celebrated the World Food Day launched on the Hungarian initiative, which is also the World Food Waste Day. For this reason, I ask the honourable Minister: how can the government help stop the waste of food? I'm looking forward to your reply. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-10-24-178	Thank you very much, Congressman, notary. The answer is given by Minister Sándor Fazekas. Here you go, Minister.
u2016-10-24-179	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, I am very pleased that this extremely important problem has been raised by the Member, because the waste of food has unfortunately become part of everyday life. If you look at 25-30 percent of the world's food being wasted, it stays in the fields because it cannot be sold on the markets, it is ruined during transportation, storage, or the expiration of warranty and consumption times on the shelves of shops, you can see that there is so much food in the world that if we could make use of it, there would be no hunger in the world. We could solve a problem that is one of mankind's greatest challenges. Fortunately, in Hungary, Hungarians are cheap and shop more carefully. We can say that even so, about 10-15 percent of the food purchased is wasted. This means about HUF 50,000 per family per household per year. It is certainly a seemingly significant item, so it is worth taking action on one side by legislative means and on the other side by means of awareness-forming, so that consumers can look at what they buy, what the expiry date is, whether the price-value is proportional, preferably buying long-term foods, qualities that do not need to be thrown out in a few days. So there's also a mind-forming side. But we work with the Hungarian Food Bank Association to make as many donations as possible from foods that are already at the end of the expiration date, but can still be used. In October 2014 we launched the Food Value Forum, which aims to explore and remedy the problems of this complex topic along the entire product chain. We are also monitoring the legislation of other European countries, which we can bring into Hungarian law. That's where this job is right now. Thank you. [[Applause in the benches of Fidesz.]]
u2016-10-24-180	Thank you very much, Minister. I give the floor to Congressman Attila Móring József for a reply, please.
u2016-10-24-181	Thank you. It is reassuring that the government is doing so much to reduce food waste, and I hope that we will not stop here, and that with further targeted measures and programmes the government will help households to develop in all market players - both food companies and trading companies - the approach and behaviour that will further reduce food waste. [[16.50]] I think that this is an area where we should not be satisfied, especially when we think about the importance of combating poverty. I hope that, for the reasons set out above, this intention will also be given a prominent role in the government's long-term food strategy. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-10-24-182	Thank you very much, Congressman. Minister Sándor Fazekas is also entitled to a one-minute rejoinder. Here you go, Minister.
u2016-10-24-183	Honourable Congressman, It is a task for many players to reduce food waste and to manage food more cost-effectively. Therefore, the National Food Chain Safety Office has launched a programme called "The Unstrengthened" to prevent waste from being used as unnecessarily as possible in the food chain. A significant relief is that the rules of donation have been simplified as a result of a legislative amendment, for example, there is no obligation to pay VAT on donations. This is also of particular importance for food donations, and I can now tell this House, honourable Member, that according to January 2016 data, 2600 tonnes of food were donated to the Food Bank in 2015 at home. This is a thousand tonnes more than in the previous year. It's a very important thing, and I trust it. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] that this program will continue, and we can do something about food waste, against hunger. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-10-24-184	Thank you very much, Minister. Dear Parliament, Congressman Ákos Hadházy, representative of the LMP, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: "Blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah. It's an address. Congressman Ákos Hadházy has the floor. Here you go.
u2016-10-24-185	Thank you very much. Mr President, Mr. Prime Minister, The other day, you had a little trouble understanding the question, and now I've given you another example. There's a village in South Békés called Pusztaottlaka. It's 200 miles from there, Cece, and my Lajoskomar is not far from there. Three projects were won in these three villages, 16-16 million forints for health screening and blood pressure measurement. In each of the three villages, the same three companies were asked for a bid, because public procurement was required, not an open call for proposals, but an invitation; three companies in Budapest from thousands of companies, not health companies. There is another coincidence, Mr. Simonka and the mayor of Cece, Mr. Gábor Varga, are sitting next to each other in Parliament. I'm saying this can't be a coincidence. [[Noise, clarity and interruptions in the pro-government benches.]] I'm simply looking for an explanation. That of thousands of companies not health care, thousands of Hungarian companies in restricted tenders, in principle in completely independent public procurement of three... [[Noise in the pro-government benches.]] - so the Prime Minister won't understand the question - they're inviting three companies in Budapest, it can't be a coincidence. The mathematical probability of this is quite minimal. The two Fidesz MEPs being side by side [[Noise, clearness in the pro-government benches. Intercom: They need to be planted.]] The only way you can explain it is that they've discussed who's gonna win it and who's gonna be invited. My question, therefore, is whether you understand, Prime Minister, that you have another explanation for this, so that the same three companies are invited to participate in restricted public procurement hundreds of kilometres from each other. Can you think of any other explanation for that than the two gentlemen here discussing who to invite? [[Defiance in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] If you do not know any other explanation, do you, however, maintain that the opposition speaks only of corruption, or, as you once said, only the opposition blabs about corruption? Thank you.
u2016-10-24-186	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Prime Minister Viktor Orbán. Here you go, Prime Minister.
u2016-10-24-187	Dear fellow Member, As far as the substance is concerned, the government is proclaiming zero tolerance to corruption, and I will do everything I can to ensure that it is enforced. On your question, it is not clear what you expect me to do, but I would like to make it clear to you that in this House the order of sitting is not for me, but for the Speaker, and that is why I cannot put Members apart. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Defiance and applause in the ranks of the governing parties.]]
u2016-10-24-188	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. One-minute rejoinder from Congressman Ákos Hadházy. Here you go.
u2016-10-24-189	Prime Minister! Your colleagues talk a lot, maybe that's why you don't understand. I'll tell you one more time. So do you have any other explanation for the fact that in villages hundreds of kilometres apart, the same three companies are supposed to be invited in independent, completely independent public procurement? So it wasn't open public procurement, restricted public procurement, blood pressure measurement, sugar measurement; it was an invitation to a company that had nothing to do with health care. What's the explanation? And by chance, there's Simonka and Mr. Varga. I didn't ask you to plant them, but what could be the explanation other than that, because I only understand this one explanation, that if they discussed it. But if they discussed it, they resisted the public procurement law, and that's basically the hardcore corruption. [[Noise.]] I know you know only one foreign word, that's migration, but there's also a word called corruption. Thank you. [[Noise, interruptions in the ranks of Fidesz. Mr. Zoltán Gőgös: Mr. Mutyzott, Prime Minister. What do you mean?]]
u2016-10-24-190	A one-minute rejoinder is due to Mr. Prime Minister. Here you go, Prime Minister.
u2016-10-24-191	Dear fellow Member, Accept from me that I cannot participate in such a board game. There's one thing I can tell you. There are laws in Hungary. If you have any knowledge that they have been bypassed or played, whether openly or in collusion, please make the necessary announcements and will be investigated by the authorities. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of your age-related pair. Noise, interventions from the lines of the MSZP, including Zoltán Gőgös: They're making a new one, Mr.]]
u2016-10-24-192	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. Deputy Chief of Staff. Look at me, Deputy Group Leader, don't just say it. [[Zoltán Pride: For me?]] Yes, for you. I'll give you the floor when you hear from me. Thank you. [[Zoltán Gőgös: I am not a deputy group leader.]] Dear Parliament, Szilárd Németh, representative of Fidesz, wants to ask the Minister of the Interior an immediate question:. Will the truth finally come out about the payment methods used during Gyurcsány? It's an address. Minister Károly Kontra has appointed Secretary of State to respond to the urgent public task. I respectfully ask the Member whether he will accept the Secretary of State as a reply or wait for the Minister to be present in Parliament. [[On the sign of István Szilárd Németh:]] Congressman points out that he accepts Mr Károly Kontra as a replyer. Szilárd Németh has the floor, please.
u2016-10-24-193	Dear Secretary of State, Dear House, Between 2002 and 2010, Hungary spent a total of HUF 17 billion on various contracts, various studies, PR articles, with the governments of Gyurcsány and Bajnai, and no money spent on the media. But one of the biggest snacks and the most striking amount spent was 432 million, which was given to Political Capital, and 190 million forints of it came from the National Security Office at the time, in very strange circumstances, without practically having a security certificate. The people who were hired to do this job weren't screened. [[Zoltán Grimlock: What about the century's end?]] Besides, this not only shows that they forgot that it was a mistake, but they didn't want to do any real work. I've looked at these studies, there's no secret information in this, no secret files had to be handled, it's all scissored. So it's about this kind of dream, it's basically an alibimelo, it's all about getting to 190 million forints. László Földesi-Szabó commented on this recently as the president of the Foundation for Egymásért Egy-Másért Foundation, who was also put in place, on the basis of the idea of László Földesi-Szabó, the then Director General of the National Security Office, Lajos Galambos, came with an invitation to participate in the investigation of the extremes in Hungary in order to carry out this research work, and the Foundation to act as an contributor between the NBH and this company. The Director General has appointed and defined the Political Capital for this work. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I respectfully ask the Secretary of State when we can fully [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] to shed light on all 17 billion spent forints. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. Zoltán Grimlock: You've been ruling for six years.]]
u2016-10-24-194	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr Károly Kontra has the floor. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2016-10-24-195	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, According to the documents, the National Security Office paid a total gross HUF 190 million in 2007, 2008 and 2009 by Political Capital Szolgáltató Kft. and related companies. On the basis of the examination of pre-contractual procedures, it can be concluded that most of them have been carried out with concern. The National Security Office did this despite the fact that the Agency had the necessary professionals and departments to carry out some of the services provided by the contract, and even the staff could have been expanded. They didn't. The fulfilment of the obligations arising from these dubious contracts was not proportionate to each other. For these reasons, the Office filed a complaint on 4 March 2011. It is clear, honourable Member, that the contracts with the Political Capital Group have been concluded under worrying and questionable circumstances. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[17.00]]
u2016-10-24-196	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. A one-minute rejoinder, Mr. Szilárd Németh has the floor. Here you go.
u2016-10-24-197	Thank you very much. Why they dared to do this, we read about it in the book of László Tonhauser, and if I may, I would read this connection. In 1980, too, there were serious conflicts with the Secret Service regarding the investigation into the Prestige case. [[There's a cell phone on the phone.]] to arrest certain people who wanted to get away from us. The background analysis revealed... [[Noise, interruptions, including, "Your cell phone's ringing."]]
u2016-10-24-198	Congressman, just a minute. There's someone in your neighborhood turning off your cell phone because you're intruding. [[Defiance, noise, interruptions from the ranks of the MSZP: Yours!]] Okay, we'll count on your time. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-10-24-199	And then later, these people... [[Cell phone's ringing again. Defiance. Zoltán Grimlock: Secret Service is involved in this! Dr. Gergely Bárándy: They don't like this speech, Szilárd!]] Later, these people appeared here, in Hungary, and later some of them were blown up, and others were shot. Then I had to think about what kind of organizations they really were. All sorts of investigations show that the secret services function as a shadow government, collect information, and put it in the hands of politicians properly grouped. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-10-24-200	Thank you very much, Congressman. A one-minute rejoinder, Mr. Secretary of State. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2016-10-24-201	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, All documents relating to legal transactions between the National Security Office and the Political Capital Group can be found and viewed on the website of the Constitutional Protection Office since 5 April 2016. These documents include agreements between the National Security Office and the Foundation for each other, which include the transfer of funds. This data, this information, it speaks for itself. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-10-24-202	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Member Gergely Bárándy, representative of the MSZP, wants to ask the President of the National Bank of Hungary an immediate question with the title "Friends, Friends and Others." Mr President has appointed Vice-President Márton Nagy as a response to an urgent public task. I respectfully ask the Member whether he accepts the person who is responding, or whether he will personally ask Mr President for an answer.
u2016-10-24-203	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'd like to wait for my plaintiff. Thank you.
u2016-10-24-204	I'm sorry, Congressman, the plaintiff wasn't lucky to use it at the moment. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: The President.]] The President shall reply at the hour of the forthcoming immediate questions. Dear Parliament, Congressman István Tukacs, representative of the MSZP, wants to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question: å How many tragic cases do we have to deal with in health care? It's an address. Mr. Minister has appointed Mr. Bence Rétvári as Secretary of State to respond to an urgent public task. Congressman indicates that he accepts the Secretary of State as a responder. Congressman István Tukacs has the floor. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-10-24-205	Thank you, Mr. President. Of course, I accept Mr. Secretary of State's reply, as why this week should stay out of it. Dear Secretary of State, It was very interesting to have a conversation with my fellow Member Hadházy when talking about hospital infections. I'm not saying you were so good at it, but you forgot to tell me one thing, how many of the patients with the decline in infection belong to, what number of patients. And you forgot to tell me that more people die in Hungary from hospital infections than in road accidents, which is a tragedy. Unfortunately, this is not the only tragedy in health care. Because of lack of financial and professional background, human limbs are amputated rather than vascular surgery. You are delaying the introduction of 18 new-engineered cancer medications, saying that your secretary of state thinks that everyone will be given medication in time, and that the cancer patient should not yearn for a new development, even if he believes that he will be cured. In emergency care departments, the infusion bottle, which is hooked to the front rack, drips off, in good case; in bad case, the patient will. The dead pigeons are dropping from under the torn ceiling of the Maco hospital. They're moving over there because the new O.R. they were working on wasn't able to operate. Secretary of State, the patient between two hospitals accidentally loses his belongings and drinks out of a washed-up sour cream glass for two days because somewhere he doesn't have his stuff. Secretary of State, there is no such thing in a well-functioning health care, and there is no such thing in a well-funded health care. So I'm asking you, when do you want to realize that health care needs more money? Thank you, Mr. President.
u2016-10-24-206	Thank you very much, Congressman. [[Several Members are leaving the Chamber.]] I am speaking to Mr Bence Rétvári, Secretary of State, and I am asking my fellow members of the Government not to leave the Chamber yet. Here you go. [[A statement from Jobbik: If the boss leaves, everyone goes!]]
u2016-10-24-207	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Honourable Congressman, I don't know if you've noticed or not that we need more money in health care, but even if you've noticed, you haven't done anything special about this. So it's completely indifferent for you to see whether you need more resources or not to see that you need more resources. [[Zoltán Grimlock: You don't even see it!]] Either way, they're subtracting it, either way, they're charging it anyway. [[István Tukacs: We are not on the government!]] After all, you have also reduced the amount of the Health Insurance Fund from 1700 billion to 1500 billion forints. Moreover, they did so while passing on a large part of the operating costs of health institutions to municipalities, without being covered, and consequently the municipalities took out loans, the municipalities issued bonds and were able to cover the hospital's viability for a period of time and hours. If this were simply, if it had all been up to your health government and not the conscience of the local authorities, that they had somehow taken out a loan of HUF 1200 billion or issued a bond, if they hadn't done so, then the system might have completely collapsed by 2008, because the era started after 2010, the period from which they could actually enter into health care. In your health insurance fund reduced to less than 1500 billion, there will be more than 2,000 billion forints next year. Developments in the European Union have been on the rise and a period of development has begun in the health sector, for which you have not been able to give much of an example when it has been before. [[Zoltán Gőgös: Who else has decided on that, Secretary of State?]] Instruments that I saw myself in several hospitals that were 30-40 years old were replaced. So they were supposed to be replaced 10, 20 or 30 years ago, but none of this happened. Such tasks, such modernizations have been taking place throughout your entire period, while you have talked about visitation fees and hospital daily allowances, talking about hospital safes, and playing over the medical register, the health area for the SZDS, precisely because of a reduction in the level of care that you will only be able to hope for privatisation. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Then they'll make this whole register private. That's why they fucked him up so they could privatize him. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-10-24-208	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. A one-minute rejoinder is the word of Congressman István Tukacs. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-10-24-209	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr. Secretary, time has stopped for you. You've been ruling for six years, and you've been telling me in one answer what happened during our administration? You're putting on this scratched record that's barely even close, and you still think that's an effective answer? Secretary of State, I was talking about today's problems. These problems aren't out of the blue, and you know they exist. Then why don't you talk about how to solve these problems, Mr Secretary of State, and how to operate at least some workable health care, where the crasher on the highway doesn't wait an hour and a half for the rescue helicopter? Of course, helicopter is different from you, I know, but it's a tragedy that your answer to these problems is what we did during our administration. Secretary of State, they're ruling - so please steer! Thank you for the floor.
u2016-10-24-210	Thank you very much, Congressman. A one-minute rejoinder also belongs to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2016-10-24-211	Honourable Congressman, I think it is important to say these things because politics is also a matter of credibility in the eyes of voters. There are not zero-kilometer politicians sitting here in Parliament, but behind each one's back, who has a gray wolf, who has a blue bird, but who has a past behind them. [[An uproar in Jobbik's ranks.]] Even in the eight years that you've left behind, there are health facts, health management performances that discredit you when you say you have more money for health care. We know that in 2002 it was written on the posters that . More money for the people, more money for the municipalities! I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. [[Zoltán Grimlock: They got more! It was a 50-percent raise!]] But you didn't, and you're talking about it, but you didn't, and yet the medical register went down, and we took it up. We were able to carry out, or we could do, a health wage increase in the following years, with 107 plus 100 thousand forints for doctors, which you do not know, because this is one of the keys to the solution. This is the very large, radical increase in medical and health wages that has not been seen in Hungary's post-system change history, which is taking place in these years. Thank you. [[Zoltán Gőgös: We gave you 50 percent, Mr. Secretary of State. Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-10-24-212	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, That concludes the hour of immediate questioning. We are now taking a two-minute technical break in order to ensure that all my fellow Members who leave the Chamber for their urgent and important official affairs are able to do so as smoothly as possible. [[It's a short break.]] [[17.10]] Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, It is now time for a series of proposals to be discussed. The Jobbik Group has proposed that the Parliament decide on the XXXVI of 2013 on electoral procedure to facilitate the exercise of the voting rights of residents of Hungary residing abroad. T/11693. Bill No. 1 on inclusion in the series of articles. The series of articles was rejected by the Judicial Committee. First, I give the floor on behalf of the authors to Mr István Szávay, the notary of the Parliament, within a five-minute time frame. Here you go, Congressman, notary.
u2016-10-24-213	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, For the fourth time, the Jobbik Group is bringing this proposal to the House, which is about making it easier for Hungarian citizens who live permanently abroad but have a Hungarian address to participate in the elections; in this regard, it is only possible for them to vote in person at embassies. We are talking about hundreds of thousands of people, and according to the most pessimistic estimates, the number of people who, because of the activities and economic policies of the governments of recent years, are now earning a living elsewhere. [[Mrs. Loránt Hegedűs takes the seat of a gullible Dezső in the notary seat.]] These people can only vote personally at embassies, which, for many of them, can mean hundreds of miles of travel in larger countries, including working hours, days off, costs, and if they are not yet fortunate, they can line up more hours to take part in the vote. How alarming this is for them is precisely indicated by the figures of the current referendum. In the current referendum on 2 October, 10 000 of these hundreds of thousands of nearly millions of Hungarians participated in the referendum. I think that it would have been much easier for us here in the debate on effectiveness, if you had already allowed these people to vote, if these people had already been able to vote in a letter. As our fellow Hungarians can vote easily and simply abroad in a letter. Some of them are Hungarian countrymen from abroad who live in a flat or work in a workplace with a Hungarian in Hungary in some part of the world. They don't have to travel hundreds and thousands of miles, they don't have to take the day off, they spend money and line up, but they could have received this voting package by mail anywhere in the world, and they could have easily sent it back in the mail. Of course, we do not want to say that we should rethink the vote on the letter of Hungarians from abroad, although there would be arguments, but there could be arguments, since we do not see that the system can filter out the vote of dead people. This was well shown, by the way, that the package of letters should also be sent to dead people, because today it is in the law of your one-party electoral process that those who register once will receive their package of letters for ten years, if they so request, if not, if the family has not declared their deceased. We see this as a much bigger problem, that the Hungarian state does not know whether a citizen entitled to an election is still alive. We see it as a much bigger problem than what Répássy Róbert said at the Justice Committee meeting, where he rejected Jobbik's proposal, inter alia, with the argument that if we gave this opportunity to a Hungarian citizen with a Hungarian address, we would not know where he really is on the day of the vote. I think that from this point of view, this question, Jobbik's proposal - I would like to draw attention to it before it is turned around again - is about asking for this package of letters only for a foreign address, only for the address where the person is staying. Of course, there is no such thing as giving this option to Hungarian addresses in Hungary. Last year and the year before the Hungarian Permanent Conference, with the support of government representatives and the Government, the Hungarian Permanent Conference adopted a resolution which states that it is necessary to ensure that suffrage is facilitated, but you have not yet done so. For the fourth time, our proposals on this matter have been swept away, with an astonishing lack of quality and demagogic arguments at the Justice Committee meeting, where we have also learned from a statement by my fellow Member Rubovszky, who is present here, that you have not done anything for six years to change the Slovak citizenship law, because it is not anti-Hungarian. I suppose my fellow Member in the KDNP was highly praised for his sentence. Mr Répássy came up with the absolutely amazing argument that if Hungarians living abroad want to vote in a letter, they should cease their Hungarian address and cut this opportunity, even this link, from Hungary. I find it rather outrageous that you would like to encourage these people to do so. These people should be tied to Hungary as much as possible, and these people contribute to the livelihood of their families who remain at home through their transfers. The Hungarian state, the Hungarian government and the Hungarian Parliament, the Hungarian parliamentary parties, should work to keep as many ties as possible for these people to stay in Hungary, so that these people can return home. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] This could also be an important opportunity to give them the opportunity to participate in the elections, to have a say in Hungary's affairs. Please support our proposal. Thank you. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-10-24-214	Thank you very much, Congressman. One representative per group of representatives can now speak in a two-minute time frame, as well as the independent representative, who is the first to apply, in a two-minute time frame. I will ask my fellow Members if anyone wishes to speak. I give the floor to Congressman Sallai R. Benedict of the LMP Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-10-24-215	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would like to say that the May Other is in favour of the initiative and asks the Parliament to be included in the series of articles. Perhaps they all remember that in 1849 and in the following year, the first migration of the new era from Hungary began, in the historical period of that time, refugees from accountability are military officers and very, very many who participated in the fight for freedom. After that, poverty caused the 19th century. The emigration of the second half of the century and then the revolutions of 18 and 19 took place a wave that lasted until World War II. Now we remembered 1956 during the weekend, and then the statistics record 208 thousand Hungarian citizens, how many people left Hungary, while almost half a million Hungarians left Hungary in the last few years. It is unacceptable that they should abandon their permanent address in Hungary, or that they should be second-rate citizens of the country, which is devalued by Fidesz. Accordingly, we support the inclusion of Jobbik in the series of articles, and we ask the Parliament to allow all Hungarian citizens to have the same rights and to allow the legal institution of the letter voting to apply to our countrymen who have migrated across the border, who have left the country for economic reasons or because of persecutions by you. [[17.20]] That's why I'm asking the Parliament to support this series of articles. After entering the series, there will certainly be an opportunity to discuss details. Thank you for the floor, Mr President.
u2016-10-24-216	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr Gergely Bárándy is next from the MSZP Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-10-24-217	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Parliament, In many cases, we have also spoken about the fact that the Hungarian people who wish to vote abroad must do so in a different way, that they otherwise have or do not have permanent residence in Hungary. Of course, we understand the intention of Fidesz. A XXI has been written very clearly. In the book on dictatorships in the 20th century, as in my view Hungary today, the methods by which, for example, these states are trying to influence the results of elections in an unacceptable way. For example, one of these methods is that, rather than forbid, as in the old dictatorships, it was customary to emigration, emigration, emigration, but also to explicitly facilitate the exit, emigration, and, more importantly, to encourage people who would probably not vote for them, for example, because they are so enlightened that they can see through the situation. This is probably the Fidesz method, and of course this includes the fact that if these people have already gone out, then let's make it as difficult as possible for them to cast their votes in any election. This method is clear as day, and once again, it is not a Hungarian invention, but more XXI. In a dictatorship of the century, it is already a well-established method. This bill is about to change this situation from Jobbik's point of view. We have had a similar proposal, we will have a similar proposal, and we are also planning to organise a conference on this in the near future. That is why we will now support the bill before us. Thank you very much.
u2016-10-24-218	Thank you very much, Congressman. Member Vas Imre of the Fidesz Group has applied for a speech. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-10-24-219	Thank you very much for the floor. I think that the authors are in more material error than my fellow Member Savay was. He immediately said that they were permanently living abroad. For a person who lives permanently abroad, the XXVI of the year, in,,,,,,,,,,,,, I'm sorry! - LXVI. Law 26 Under §2 of the Act [[Dr. László Kács: Miracle the details!]] Your residence in Hungary must be terminated within 3 working days. Because the residence is where the elector's declared address is... [[Dr. István Apáti: Never mind.]] So if [[István Szávay: Talk about the actual situation!]] Somebody [[The president's ringing the bell.]] you do not live in Hungary permanently, you must cancel your address. On the other hand, the bill is not suitable for a general debate. If that's what it is. [[István Szilágyi: Why?]] There would also be agreement to give this, I add, that this would significantly violate the security and secrecy of the election, and the bill does not adapt the other provisions of the electoral procedural law, so those rules are not drawn up. [[Dr. László Kács: The government is doing great! That's your job!]] Thirdly, my fellow Member, Barándy, is not right in the political sense that we want to make it difficult for people living abroad to vote. 'Cause, uh, [[Dr. László Kács: Well, you've already done it!]] People living abroad [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: Sorry about the future. Dr. László Varga: It would be even harder if you banned it about!]] If you look at the elections 14 in the polling districts where the votes cast abroad were added, in each of the ten districts where either Fidesz or MSZP won, everywhere in these polls, the ten closest... - sorry! - by the way, the Fidesz-KDNP candidate has won that polling round everywhere. [[György Szilágyi: Stop yourselves! Self-limiting!]] where foreign votes were added, by the way. [[Intruder from the benches of the MSZP: You hit him in a polling circle!]] So, anyway, it would be in our interest, but right now, there's no solution to this thing. Thank you very much. [[Dr. László Kács: The vote is secret! Dr. Gergely Bárándy: Wasn't it secret to you?]] It was for everyone!
u2016-10-24-220	Thank you very much, Congressman. From the Jobbik Group, Mr Gergely Farkas is next. Here you go.
u2016-10-24-221	Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, Dear Congressman Imre Vas, He was just talking about security, which I cannot understand, because this vote in the letter is still working in Hungary, specifically in the case of Hungarians across the border. How do you raise the issue of security in the same way, while we want to introduce what is also the case for cross-borders, that is what we want to extend? You can legalize here that you have to check out of Hungary within 3 days, but the practice shows that hundreds of thousands of our countrymen do not do so, and Jobbik and the other opposition parties are also interested in making it easier for them to vote. There are many international examples, by the way, if you are incapable of creating such legislation. [[Dr. Vas Imre: Austria, letter vote.]] Just look at the examples of Germany, Sweden, Estonia, Slovakia, Poland, Luxembourg in all countries [[Dr. Vas Imre: Austria, letter vote!]] people living abroad can vote for a longer period of time. There's a possibility. Austria is a bad example, my fellow Member, Imre Vas, because there is an opportunity to vote in the letter that allows people living in the country to vote. [[Noise. Dr. Vas Imre's intervention.]] That's what our proposal forbids. Our proposal wouldn't allow that, so... [[The president's ringing the bell.]] We would like to submit or submit a proposal of a completely different nature. [[György Szilágyi: This is all undemocratic countries you have listed!]] So please consider this difference. Once again, I suggest that you take into account foreign examples if you are unfit to develop such a feasible and functional system. Make sure you study the German, Swedish, Estonian, Slovak, Polish, or Luxembourg example. We have also made these proposals, knowing that there is a safe and effective way to help hundreds of thousands of our countrymen effectively, so that they can cast their votes, they can speak to Hungary's public life, and thus we will strengthen the relationship that unfortunately seems to be weakening. You want to cut this thread permanently, and we want to strengthen it. That's the big difference, that's what you're gonna have to decide. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches. Dr. István Apáti: That's right!]]
u2016-10-24-222	Thank you very much, Congressman. I am asking my fellow Members if anyone else would like to speak in the debate. [[No one's reporting.]] I don't see any contact. I will ask Mr István Szávay if he wishes to respond to what was said in the debate. [[On the signal of István Szávay:]] Yes, please, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2016-10-24-223	Dear colleague Imre Vas, Will you please be willing to understand that there is no mention of securing a letter vote in the country. This has been endless for the past six months. [[Dr. Vas Imre: But that's what it is!]] I have patiently explained to you about four times, but I can see that you still haven't understood. [[Dr. Vas Imre: Yes, you can.]] It's not that! This is not necessary in Hungary, however, because people can vote in any other settlements on election day or in another district in Budapest, anywhere else in the country in person. This option is available abroad, in Australia, the United States or Canada, or anywhere, but I can tell you that it has not given us a country in Western Europe, it has to travel hundreds of miles or even thousands of miles. If you do not consider this proposal to be a good proposal, Mr Congressman, you should submit amendments to it. If you don't think it's right at all, then put in another suggestion. We are open to every proposal that will resolve this situation. If we need to discuss the institution of the letter vote and with various legal guarantees to back it from the right and from the left, then let's talk about it, let's do it. If this is not a good proposal, bring us another proposal. Your party and the other party of government, Deputy Prime Minister Semyen personally accepted the declaration of the Hungarian Permanent Conference on this issue both last year and the year before. [[Dr. György Rubovszky, who says no.]] Stop nodding, Congressman. Yes, you can. [[Dr. György Rubovszky says no.]] It was unanimous. Okay, Congressman Rubovszky says no. Last year and the year before the Hungarian Permanent Conference, the joint meeting of the parties from abroad and Hungary and the Hungarian government accepted Jobbik's proposal that the participants asked for laws to facilitate the participation of those living abroad in elections. You didn't do anything about it. We're bringing the letter vote here for the fourth time. They're voting him off. It's okay. Bring someone else here. I want you to come up with another bill. Let's talk, let's say, about creating an opportunity to vote on the Internet. That would be an opportunity, that would make it easier. But it's simply that you're afraid of these voters. [[György Szilágyi: That's right!]] You continue to consciously want to keep these people away from the urns. Thank you very much to my fellow opposition Members for thinking that it is just as good and right as we are. [[György Szilágyi: Election fraud!]] To resolve this discrimination. And if you are concerned about security, why is it possible that Hungarians across borders can vote on behalf of thousands and tens of thousands of dead people. That's more of a security risk. Thank you very much. [[Dr. Csaba Gyüre: And the settlement policy! A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2016-10-24-224	Thank you very much, Congressman, notary. Dear Parliament, The decision will take place on our meeting tomorrow. [[17 .30]] Dear Parliament, The MSZP Group has proposed that the Parliament decide to implement the 2013 LIV on the implementation of reductions in oil and gas prices on the world market. T/1185. Bill No. 1 on inclusion in the series of articles. The series of articles was rejected by the Economic Committee. First, I give the floor to Mr Bertalan Tóth, the head of the group of the MSZP Group, on behalf of the rapporteur, in a five-minute time frame. Here you go, Mr. Group Leader.
u2016-10-24-225	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, They say that every politician has a fixed idea, we have heard that it is Viktor Orbán that the European Union is like the Soviet Union, although I would have seen that if KGST's money had been stolen at such a level as it has been in the European Union, then what would have happened in the past. Now, I also have such a fixed idea with the support of the faction, namely the need to reduce energy prices in Hungary. The last two-and-a-half years of gas prices and electricity and district heating prices decreased significantly in the international market, while oil prices have decreased significantly by 60-70 percent since August 2014, but the price of imported gas has also decreased by 40-50 percent, the price of gas coming from Western Europe, and the Regional Energy Research Centre reports that Russian gas imports are also 40 percent lower than in the previous period. As a result, since spring 2014, traders have had cheaper access to the energy source, but are selling it at the same price. But why? Where will the profits go? Why does the government pay more than the energy source, and why does this fall not reach Hungarian consumers? The new price reduction is both necessary and possible, it is necessary because the number of customers with public utility charges is nearly double that in 2009, in April 2016 more than 100,000 households were turned off from electricity, gas or district heating. It would also be necessary because at present, in 16 European capitals, people living there have less energy costs than their income. I will give you some examples: Luxembourg, London, Berlin, Dublin, Copenhagen, Stockholm, Amsterdam or Tallinn are not necessarily Mediterranean cities, but they are cooler than in Hungary, yet households there pay less for energy. We know that the most effective price reduction is the energy efficiency programme, for which we have and have a proposal, but you would like to take away this money, which the European Union provides for this, from households, and would prefer to cut a good slice of it in its own public procurement process by renovating public institutions' energy efficiency. The price reduction is possible, as Minister Miklós Seszták, Szilárd Németh, but previously Lászlóné Németh acknowledged that there would be a possibility, all the more so because you said that the large nationalisation process - which cost significant public money - would end up being state owned by public utility suppliers and that the price of energy could be cheaper. Households don't see any of this yet. Therefore, the point of our proposal is to reduce the price of gas by 20 per cent and the price of electricity and district heating by 10 to 10 per cent if there is a possibility of cheaper energy prices. This, as I have said, is a fair price reduction, since it involves average consumption, consumers will also receive a discount above average consumption, but not as significant as the higher the profit they have in reducing your overhead, but the greater the support they would receive for small consumers here; the more so, because this proposal also takes into account energy saving, because the less they consume, the greater the price reduction and the lower the price reduction. The Hungarian Socialist Party has previously supported the price reduction initiatives and voted in favour of the relevant proposals, but what is happening now is unacceptable, as the benefits resulting from this reduction in energy prices are due to Hungarian households, to Hungarian people, and you are closing it down, and I do not know where, at which state company or company there is a large amount of money, up to a hundred billion items that do not reach Hungarian consumers, and rather support the profit of energy traders, instead of this price drop, which is characteristic of Europe and the world, reaching Hungarian households. That is why I ask you to support our application for a series of articles, to discuss the proposal and to accept that Hungarian households pay less for energy. Thank you very much.
u2016-10-24-226	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. Dear Parliament, Now, one representative per group of representatives can present his position in a two-minute time frame and the first independent Member who is asked to speak in a two-minute time frame. I give the floor from the Jobbik Group to Mr Lajos Kepli. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-10-24-227	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Indeed, even at the time of the introduction of the reduction of the rent, it proved to be a very clever political communication trick, which later resulted in substantial savings in a very small number of households, as has been shown by the experience of recent years. By contrast, when the Fidesz government considered and came up with this reduction, it knew that energy prices were expected to fall significantly on the world market in the near future, so it did not take too great a risk by introducing a reduction in overhead costs, whereas Hungarian households still cannot feel the profits they would have to feel long ago due to lower energy prices, not in the form of a reduction in utility fees or energy charges of up to 30-40 per cent or even 50 per cent. There are two ways to achieve energy savings: on the one hand, by investing in energy efficiency and, on the other, by applying real energy prices to the population. Some EU and domestic sources are or would be available to the first, if the government used this in an appropriate form, there would be huge energy savings, and on the other hand, if real energy prices were to be applied to the population, there would also be a significant savings. Obviously, the government does not want to make a profit reduction for companies close to the government or in the government, as we have seen in the settlement policy that if the decision violates the businesses of the government, whether offshore or other companies, then you simply do not make it, because Viktor will not allow you or will not be allowed by the business circles behind you. Of course, we consider the proposal to be eligible, as we would also like the Jobbik Hungary Movement to ensure that the Hungarian people get energy at the best possible price and as secure as possible. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-10-24-228	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr László Szakács is next from the MSZP Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-10-24-229	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Yes, it was the Economic Commission that rejected this proposal so that Hungarians would have to pay less for energy and gas. Even though the world market processes are 40-50 percent less gas, this somehow does not get to the Hungarian households, and it is your fault, and you voted against it without further ado, and probably because of the fact that companies close to the government, Fidesz companies - a lot of lawsuits, a lot of news about this - are very good at making money on this. We have also heard greater miracles at the Economic Commission meeting, where they have tried to convince me that the price of gas has nothing to do with the price of the energy produced, or at least this relationship is very distant. Then when we said that the more people are consumed by the more they consume, the poorer people, who are rich, have a large house, have a lot of durable consumer goods, have a sauna, have a swimming pool, and they win a lot of money on this deal, then they even tried to convince the Economic Commission that there is no connection between the amount of energy consumed and someone's social situation - and my problem is that you actually believe that. Gentlemen, believe me, it's not like that. If the price of gas on the world market is reduced by 40-50 percent, the price of energy in Hungary should be reduced, the price of heating should be reduced and the price of electricity should be reduced. If you don't accept this because it's an MSZP petition, then you're punishing voters, you're not interested in voters. We're always gonna bring this in, we're gonna bring it in here every single time, and we're gonna start a debate about it every single time, and you guys are gonna get in there, you're gonna have to argue, you're gonna argue. Step into the debate day, let such a debate day be here. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] And let such legislation be here, let us adopt it! Thank you very much for your attention. [[17.40]]
u2016-10-24-230	Thank you, Congressman. Mr Sallai R. Benedek is coming from the LMP Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-10-24-231	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. The main reason why we support this proposal is because it is important to talk within the framework of Parliament about what has happened in recent years about the reduction of Hungarian citizens, despite the fact that the content of the proposal itself, the need to reduce consumer prices at all costs, we do not necessarily have to agree. [[President Tamás Sneider, Vice-President of the National Assembly.]] The problem is not that the world market price difference is paid to consumers, but that it is not to be used for a permanent reduction in overhead costs, nor for general household energy efficiency investments, but simply to be stolen by fidesz buddies and friends. Our main problem is this. If all of this revenue could be used to achieve a permanent, long-term energy efficiency upgrade in each house, even in the Kádár cubes typical of rural areas, window replacements, building insulation, roof replacements, heating upgrades, this could reduce the amount of energy used in the long term, and this would be the real reduction in the costs. I believe that this is a much more important goal to permanently reduce the costs by reducing the amount of use than to lower prices. At the same time, the commercial abuse of this and the use of criminal groups in their own interests close to government, and the benefits of some of it all fall into their pockets, is unacceptable. That's what we need to talk about. This is what needs to be brought to Parliament and it is clear who is being enriched by the difference between world market prices and Hungarian prices. That is why we need to talk about this, and also the debate on how to imagine Hungary's energy vision, it would be worth bringing to the House, because the subject is worthy of this, and it would be necessary for us to discuss it. That is why we support the opening of this opportunity within the framework of Parliament. Therefore, the MSZP initiative is supported by our faction. Thank you very much.
u2016-10-24-232	Welcome, fellow Members. I now give the floor to János Bencsik, speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2016-10-24-233	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Perhaps there are still some Members in this House who remember well the energy policy and price regulation measures taken during the last period of government of the socialists, when gas prices were significantly increased in the last year of their governance. [[Dr. László Cook intervenes.]] and, however, gas price subsidies have been abolished [[Dr. László Kács: It has grown from $20 to $100!]] Therefore, the public support that provided the opportunity to reduce the burden on consumers. [[Dr. László Kács: You don't know that!]] According to the Hungarian Energy and Public Works Regulatory Office, the following changes have occurred since 2012, which are also due to the reduction of the overhead. From HUF 94.8 billion in 2012 to HUF 53.9 billion in 2016, there was a decrease in outflow outside 30 days, while the number of remaining customers fell from 1 million to 550 thousand to 986 thousand. This is what the reduction in the cost was compared to what you achieved in the last year of your governance compared to the decisions on the part of consumers. [[Dr. László Kács: It is 2016! It's on the calendar!]] In this connection, it is also worth saying here that the MEKH should take account of the change in the price of natural gas in the determination of consumer prices, in the regular and detailed review of justified costs and in the price preparation carried out on the basis of the Hungarian energy and public utility regulation authority under the legislation. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] That is why there is no need to include the motion in the series. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2016-10-24-234	Thank you. I do not see any further comment, so I will ask the author if he wishes to comment. [[For signal:]] Yes, the floor is yours.
u2016-10-24-235	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear fellow Member, A significant price reduction could have been made when, as State Secretary, you preferred MET and METI Holding on the basis of a ministerial decree obtained from cheap gas imported from Western Europe - it did not reach Hungarian consumers either. I'd like to tell you that the period you're talking about has increased from $20 to $100 for oil, and from $100 to $400 for gas. Nevertheless, there was indeed a compensation system, which was not imposed by the socialists, but by you in 2011. [[János Bencsik shakes his head. Dr. László Kács: Yes!]] Fidesz abolished this compensation scheme [[János Bencsik: The Bajnai government! The Bajnai government!]] And they didn't do anything until 2012. Household debt increased significantly then. So without any compensation, households were completely vulnerable during this period, as you have eliminated it. [[János Bencsik: The Bajnai government!]] And the energy prices were high. [[Dr. László Kács: No! 2011!]] And that's always a false argument about what was then. Let's talk about the current situation. If it is good for you that there are still 900,000 households, if it is still good for you, that more than 100,000 households are currently out of service, this is left to your conscience, while the international processes for price can be seen to reduce this energy price, but you are leaving this profit to companies again. Who knows what kind of offshore companies are making a profit out of this again. We say and thank the opposition parties for their support in discussing this proposal. We also consider LMP's proposal to be good, and they could be parallel, since they both point in the same direction. I trust that tomorrow in the vote you will change your mind and support our application for a series of articles. Thank you very much.
u2016-10-24-236	Thank you. The decision will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Next up is the XXXVI of 2012 on the National Assembly. General discussion of the bill amending the law until closure. Presentation by MEPs Lajos Kósa and Imre Vas T/12532. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr Vas Imre, the author of the item on the agenda.
u2016-10-24-237	Thank you very much for the floor. It is a very short bill. There are two objectives of the bill; on the one hand, so that the Hungarian Treasury can open a separate payment account and a related sub-account. This is what the Hungarian Treasury is doing right now. Proposal No. 2, 3 § 2 of the Act concerns the re-allocation of wages. It is known that, since 6 May 2014, faction employees have not worked as civil servants, but as employees, no civil servants. That is why we are proposing to amend the law. Law 4, 5. Article 2a is of a technical nature only, and it is a provision of entry into force. Please support the adoption of the bill.
u2016-10-24-238	Thank you. I now give the floor to Congressman György Rubovszky of KDNP.
u2016-10-24-239	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, The history of this bill is that Lajos Kósa invited the parties to a five-party meeting. Well, not everyone showed up. We showed up, we made our requests. Thank God we saw these in the bill. So we are in favour of the bill, and I ask that this House also support the adoption of the bill. Thank you.
u2016-10-24-240	Thank you. I indicate that the representative of the government has indicated that he does not wish to state his position. I'll ask if anyone else would like to comment on this item. [[There's no such signal.]] I do not see a candidate, so the general debate is closed. I'll ask the author if he still wants to speak. [[Dr. Vas Imre says no.]] He says he doesn't want to. I would like to announce that there has been no proposal for an amendment to the proposal, so that, according to our agreed agenda, the final vote on the bill will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, The 2015 LXXV on the transfer of certain state-owned assets to free municipal ownership of county libraries and county-wide urban museums. The Commission's reports on the amendment of the Act and the debate on the draft amendment. [[17.50]] T/12066 submitted by MEPs Péter Cseresnyés, László Vigh and Mónika Dunai. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. First, the position of the Legislative Committee and the formulated minority opinion will be presented in a 15-minute time frame. I give the floor to László Vécsey, rapporteur of the committee.
u2016-10-24-241	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, I hereby inform the National Assembly that the Legislative Committee discussed at last Thursday's meeting the 2015 LXXV on the transfer of certain state-owned assets to free municipal property for the purpose of the county libraries and county-wide urban museums. T/12066. The Committee presented a proposal for amendment and a summary report with 27 yes and 5 non-voting votes. The summarised amendment only contains one-point legal improvements to the Cultural Committee. The debate was therefore not about the committee's amendment at the meeting of the Legislative Committee, but about the discussion of the proposal of the MSZP. In my opinion, the committee did not have to decide first of all about house regulation, because in the literal interpretation of the house rules, the paper also stood the test of house regulation in the opinion of the majority of the committee. The question of principle to me is whether, without any direct connection to a bill on the transfer of a property to the state of Zalaegerszeg, the transfer of a property in Szeged into municipal property is acceptable as a modification proposal. I am convinced that even if the objective is noble and supported, it cannot be taken on an ad hoc basis without proper coordination. Along with all this, I hope that the fate of Szeged property will also be settled soon. In the light of all this, I ask that you support the proposal submitted. Thank you very much for your attention, Mr President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-10-24-242	Thank you. I now give the floor to Gergely Bárándy, who expresses the opinion of the minority.
u2016-10-24-243	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Indeed, a serious debate took place at the committee's meeting on this agenda, and indeed not on the Commission's proposal for an amendment, but on the draft legislative amendment proposed by the MSZP. In this, as my fellow Member Vécsey said, it was indeed a real estate in Szeged. The interesting thing about the debate was that it was quite quickly able to change the opinion of some government actors. In the first round, the rapporteur sought to express his view that the proposal was an expansive one, so that the committee could not negotiate it, and then Mr Palkovics, who was present at the committee meeting, said that he did not support it either. Then, if I remember correctly, I asked him the question myself, so that he could at least answer why not. He said that he had no objections to this proposal in substance, but, unfortunately, the proposal is over-expanding and therefore does not support it. So you agree with him in substance, but since it doesn't comply with house rules or the law, unfortunately the government can't support it either. There's been a brief debate about overgrowth. At that time Vice-President Balla was still in charge of the committee meeting, and then President Gergely Gulyás arrived during the debate, who looked at the proposal, of course consulted his experts, and said that he thought the proposal was not expansive, that it could be accepted, that it could be voted on in substance. He asked whether the committee wished to hold a separate order of business vote on the expansion. At that point, the authors were relatively uncertain, they did not ask for a vote on the order of business, so everyone accepted - as my fellow Member Vécsey concluded - that this proposal was not exaggerating. But it has to be said that these were the precedents of the committee meeting. I'll tell you why this is important. Because then we returned to the problem and asked Mr Secretary of State Palkovics, now that the problem has passed, that the proposal is expanding - by the way, I note that the government has nothing to do with whether it is or not, because it is decided by the Legislative Committee and not by the Government - then, Mr Palkovics, I cannot say anything other than that he changed his position within a few minutes, and he has suddenly had problems with the content of the proposal, that it is necessary to look beyond this, to ask, to ask the Szegedians about it, and the rest, and he confirmed this position on behalf of the authors, if I remember correctly, Congresswoman Mónika Dunai. There was a debate on the content arguments, and then, if I remember correctly, my colleague Sándor Burány drew up a letter which, if you will, was about the agreement on the content of the wallet. That's the thing. At that point, it was more and more embarrassing to argue that we should look behind it and check with the Szegedians. At the time, I thought that we were living in a modern world, that there was a telephone in the world, and I would call either the mayor of Szeged or Szeged's elected parliamentary representative, and ask him what the Szeged people, the Szeged leadership, think about it. I have also reached my fellow Member, Sándor Szabó, who will comment on the content of this debate, and therefore I am abstaining from it on purpose, who has confirmed that both he and the mayor of Szeged support this proposal, has been submitted with his agreement. From now on, the arguments are really running out on the pro-government side. Everyone was extremely sorry that this was the case, but this form is not appropriate, even that is not enough, but even the assembly should be asked. In other words, I'm sorry to use the word "fake excuses." The proposal was to submit this in the form of an individual motion by its representatives, since many Fidesz Members are also in favour of adopting this proposal. Ladies and gentlemen, I only have one problem with all of this. If I were to say it popularly, I'd say it's not like it's gonna end in moaning. If, on the other hand, I wanted to put it a little more sophisticated or closer to the truth, I would say that you probably had a problem with that: that an otherwise substantive and good solution was not put before the committee as a pro-government proposal, but as an opposition amendment, because no other argument was put forward, another argument of substance proved untenable after my fellow Member Burány presented the letter of State Secretary and I presented the direct opinion of the Mayor of Szeged and the individual representative. But, by the way, even Fidesz MEPs, as the rapporteur said, would have signed if they did not think that this was an over-extensive proposal. In other words, they agreed with the content. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, I consider what happened at the Legislative Committee to be a very bad example, an explicit impression of how you wish or do not wish to take any gestures to the opposition, because even if you want to implement something and consider it justified, it is still a solution to make it a pro-government proposal. Well, ladies and gentlemen, there is now a socialist proposal for individual representatives, and I hope that they will no longer have any other substantive objections or other formal concerns about it and can support it. I also find it rather strange that this is not the case, and I find it rather strange that the Secretary of State Palkovics, whom I know as a serious man, changed his opinion at a committee meeting at a point on the agenda to 180 degrees. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2016-10-24-244	Thank you. I would like to inform the Honourable Parliament that the authors of Péter Cseresnyés, László Vigh and Mónika Dunai are not present, and I therefore postpone this item on the agenda. We hope that they will arrive today, or we will not be able to put this bill to the vote tomorrow, so we will move on to the next bill. [[18.00]] We now have the Commission's reports on the proposed amendment of individual laws in the context of the autonomous pledge and the discussion of the summarised amendment proposal. Government referral T/12368. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the parliamentary IT network. The debate will be the first to present the position of the Legislative Committee. I also give the floor to Congressman László Vécsey.
u2016-10-24-245	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, I hereby inform the Parliament that the Legislative Committee discussed on 20 October the T/12368 on the amendment of individual laws in relation to the autonomous pledge. The Committee presented a proposal for amendment and a summary report with 21 yes and 8 non-voting votes. The summarised amendment contains the motion of the Judicial Committee. In order to simplify the real estate registration procedure and to reduce the workload of the real estate authorities, the supported amendment does not require that the fact of the disclosure with the pledge be certified by the lien before the real estate authority by a document, thereby making it the subject of a real estate authority's discretion as to whether that document is appropriate to justify the fact of the disclosure or the existence of the communication. Instead, it considers it sufficient for registration of the conversional self-reimbursement to be sufficient if, in addition to adding the conversion statement on which the registration is based, the lien makes an express declaration that the attached instrument has been notified to the pledge. The fact that the conversion declaration is communicated is a material legal condition necessary for the transformation to take effect, a matter in which the court should take a position if this could be the subject of a dispute between the parties, not by the real estate authority. The proposed amendment to Jobbik's TAB would have exceeded this simplification and crippled the work of land offices in the first place. It is very important to note with regard to the amendment of the law that debtors must in no case be put at a disadvantage by restructuring the pledge. I therefore call on this House to support the amendment of the law, the amendment before us. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2016-10-24-246	Thank you. I now give the floor to the author, Mrs Ágnes Hornung, Secretary of State.
u2016-10-24-247	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Members, As we have said in the general debate, boosting lending to the housing market and keeping interest rates low is also a priority to boost the mortgage bond market. The issue of maturity consistency also plays an increasingly important role in prudent banking. On the basis of what Mr Vécsey has said to the bill, the proposal for a two-point amendment tabled by the Judicial Committee was aimed at facilitating or simplifying the procedure for the registration of immovable property in connection with the registration of the conversional self-reimbursement. Make it easier to ensure that the registration procedure is not prevented by the fact that the contract underlying the registration of the mortgage law subject to the conversion did not include the identity of the pledged person but should be the data to be obtained by the authority on its own initiative. Simplify the application of the law to the extent that, in order to reduce the workload of the real estate authority, it does not require a certificate of disclosure to the mortgage. It is also important that the authority does not consider whether the document submitted is appropriate to justify the communication. The fact that the conversion declaration is communicated is a condition necessary for the conversion to take effect. In the event of a dispute, it is not for the real estate authority to take a stand, but for the court to take a stand. Dear Parliament, In view of all this, I thank you for your cooperation and I would like to ask you to support this proposal with your vote. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-10-24-248	Thank you. I would like to point out that the designated Justice Committee has not presented a rapporteur. It is now up to the Members to speak within the time-frame on the agenda. There is no possibility of two-minute comments during the debate. I give the floor to Congressman Gábor Staudt.
u2016-10-24-249	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Indeed, the reason why I cannot give a minority opinion is because I took part in a five-party basic legislative consultation, and it seemed a serious task, it seems, that the committee meeting, the meeting of the Legislative Committee and this consultation will be coordinated by the organisers. But the point is, you can say a few very important things here in fact during faction time, which has either not been said in the general debate or has happened since then. One or two of the Commission's amendments, which make this proposal even more, have fallen through the window and are even more favourable to the banks. [[Dr. István Tiba takes his place as notary.]] I'd like to separate two things here. Madam Secretary, you say here that market processes, lending, low interest rates are a goal. This is an objective that can be agreed upon. Another thing is how much a self-reimbursement alone as a technique, as a solution, supports this goal. But even if we accept that it supports - we can't; I couldn't convince myself that I wouldn't expose people to such an objective, because interest rates are still low, but let's accept that it is true - let's accept that a self-reimbursing pledge through mortgage credit institutions helps keep interest rates low, that's one thing. But another thing is why banks are given the opportunity to convert previous, otherwise other loans, mortgage loans, or to enjoy additional advantages during this transformation, whether it is a real estate registration advantage or even a savings on the costs of notarial documents, notaries' dictatorship. My colleague Imre Vas - I don't see him here now, he was just here - and he said at the committee meeting that when I told you what facilitations you were going to introduce, he probably didn't pay enough attention, and he said that this was also a reduction in rent. The only problem is that banks and financial institutions. They're the only ones who can use this device. So, I would like to point out that by having a self-requiring pledge that this has been traced back, it is possible to argue. In my opinion, and I am not alone in this, I am not the only lawyer, including Lajos Vékás, who agrees with this; of course I would not compare myself to him, but I would agree with his opinion that this can be more dangerous than a mere mortgage right. The other half is that if it has already been traced back, it should be done correctly, and perhaps in the future make it possible for a person to conclude a contract with a bank to decide whether he would like to have a separate pledge facility recorded on his property. Because it's not fair at all that you bring in this legal institution, and you say that anyone who's previously contracted for something else, with a unilateral statement from the bank, a new category, forming such a transitional category, under the name of a transformational self-reimbursement - let's note, this is justismord in this form - can do that. In addition, and this is also a legal absurdity that, in other cases, in the self-reimbursement, you expect a so-called collateral agreement or a kind of content. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Now, what you're saying is that if someone has made a mortgage contract in the past, it should be considered a collateral contract. Thus, a form of contract now created, which regulates this new arrangement, is drawn on the mortgage contracts that were previously concluded without amendment. It doesn't work that way. This may have worked in the planning economy, in communism, by requiring what to be, and then it was, but if we look at legal systems and legal arrangements, it doesn't work that the apple is said to be a pear, and tomorrow it has to be a pear, because it is required by a law. [[18.10]] Not to mention, what was said here in the majority opinion of the committee is that they also make small, subtle reliefs for the banks, which is difficult for me to understand. If, let's say, they missed a certain amount of the debtor's data, didn't submit it, didn't get a deficiency call that all normal citizens would receive, or if someone submitted a sales contract or other contract, they would get a deficiency, even. I've spoken to fellow practitioners, and he usually doesn't get a shortage, but he doesn't get rejection, so he doesn't get the opportunity to make up for it. Well, in this case, the bank doesn't need to be called to fill the gap, the bank doesn't have to go anywhere, the bank is spared any financial and temporal losses. It's quite simply the real estate register, the real estate authority will request these details of the debtor, and he will insert it into this contract, and the matter is resolved. And then, not to mention, they've successfully solved the problem that they should have already seen legally. If these expensive good banks - we have seen many times - want to carry out all the public documents and notary contracts, because why would they not want to implement them - we have seen how they were usually legal and uncontroversial in foreign exchange-credit cases, for example - well, if they want to implement this, then it is expected that all the elements of the process, so not only that the debtor, let us say, assumed his obligation, but that any declaration that was made later, whether the contract was terminated, and yes, even a declaration of conversion. You may have noticed that the implementations could not be started, since there was a missing link, these conversion statements were not registered in a notary document, incorporated in an authentic instrument. What are you doing? They don't tell banks that the law applies to them, they leave a loophole, they write "whoa," so in this case it can be waived. Thank you very much. It can be said that this is a small nuance, just to save money for the banks, because it does not have to go to the notary and make all kinds of statements there, and later - and this is what the majority rapporteur referred to - does not even have to worry about, and it is very difficult for me to understand that the bank at least provides any proof that it has informed the notary of its unilateral decision to transform the previous mortgage into a conversional self-restraint, does not even have to prove it, prove it, whatever the word is. By the way, the present Secretary of State, the Secretary of State of the Ministry of Justice, seemed to accept this proposal to prove it, because a return card may be attached or anything by the dear little bank and financial institution. Well, you don't even want to do that, because we have to speed up the process, we've heard it, and it's causing a disruption, because the real estate authority can't decide whether it's proven or not. When a common property, let us say, has a pre-emptory reason, the same real estate authority can decide in many other cases whether the document submitted is correct - so that it does not have to decide against the banks. And the argument is quite simply false that it will then be possible to attack this in different remedies. Yes, so the client, the consumer, will start to sue the bank, first submit an appeal, the appeals will be thrown back from routine, and usually the first instance authority will be given the truth; and then hire a lawyer, go to court, try to enforce the truth for a statement. By the way, you may see that it is completely meaningless, or you have no money, because usually it is not the richest people who already have a major mortgage. So it's the Fidesz way of reducing the rent to the banks, thank you very much for the debtors. Do not hide that you simply will not become more pregnant or more pregnant with this new arrangement for debtors. You don't know that, and if you don't believe me, let's just say, "Lajos Vékás," and don't say that he doesn't know what he describes in civil law. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2016-10-24-250	I ask my fellow Members if anyone else would like to comment on the bill. [[No signal.]] I don't see a candidate. I'll ask Agnes Hornung if she wants to comment. [[For signal:]] You have eight minutes and 20 seconds, Madam Secretary.
u2016-10-24-251	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I do not want to take advantage of this time frame. A lot has been said, and I do not want to respond to everything today, because, on the one hand, the fact of the self-reimbursement itself, the fact that this is being introduced into the Ptk. is already decided in the spring, so I really think that we should not have to argue about it now, and I really say that this debate should not be conducted here, but by the professors of law, and that I would like to keep myself away from it. I would like to add two thoughts to the comments with the banks. One: the simplification of the procedure does not serve to help banks, but actually simplifies the procedure. The banks will not be relieved by this, since they will not receive any relief; the procedure itself will be simplified, and this is necessary because these conversion mortgage rights do not appear individually, in one place, but in a concentrated manner, and where hundreds of applications are centralized, it is also necessary, in my view, to simplify this procedure. As has been said earlier, the targeted amendments are intended solely to simplify the procedure. As regards the burden of proof, I just wanted to point out that it is in the bank's elemental interest to prove the transfer itself, since it is interested in the registration of the mortgage right. Therefore, regardless of whether the legislation itself does not require this now, the bank will do so. The legal remedy does not change regardless of whether the bank makes the evidence or whether it is the client itself. So I don't see a problem from that point of view. According to experts from the Ministry of Justice, there is an adequate guarantee system for protecting customers, and I accept this opinion, which is why I thank you very much for supporting the proposal. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2016-10-24-252	The debate is closed. The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. I am now telling my fellow Members that Mr László Vécsey has joined the previous motion, so that we can continue with the 2015 LXXV on the transfer of certain state-owned assets to free municipal property for the purpose of county libraries and county-wide urban museums. T/12066. The debate on proposal No 1. Then I give the floor to Congressman László Vécsey.
u2016-10-24-253	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, As rapporteur for the debate, I would like to comment on the fact that our fellow Member Bárándy has tried to explain the situation in the Legislative Committee. Well, the situation is much simpler than what our fellow Member has said. Although he rightly referred to the fact that from a technical point of view today's world is already very advanced and that a telephone can handle a lot of things, nevertheless, the members of the Legislative Committee, the Committee as a whole, did not think that a serious way of dealing with the case was to try to support the proposal with a phone in Szeged, so I reserve those presented in the presentation of the opinion of the Legislative Committee as rapporteur. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2016-10-24-254	Thank you. I'm asking if anyone on the government's side wants to comment. [[Dr. Peter Hoppál: Yes.]] I can't see... I didn't see a button pressed by Secretary of State, but then it was Secretary Peter Hoppál's.
u2016-10-24-255	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, I think it will be important for the minutes to state that all the Commission's majority and minority opinions on the amendment of the law, which recalled the debate at the committee stage, are actually a sideline to the substantive amendment of the law, because the essence of the law, the original law adopted last year, is that the state has handed over a huge stock of real estate to the Hungarian authorities for a hundred billion-dollar value, real estates that serve part museum and partly library purposes in our cities. These properties were thus previously state-owned and therefore did not allow the municipalities to mobilise their own tender opportunities for the infrastructure development and expansion of buildings. From then on, since the civil government made this gesture towards the Hungarian municipalities, and the state passed this law into municipal property, the cultural exploitation of the property has already been possible throughout the country. [[18.20]] However, some municipalities have reviewed the properties listed in the Annex to the Act, which have been transferred to this function, so they have been transferred to the municipalities specifically for cultural use. Of these municipalities, it was Zalaegerszegi who proposed, through its representatives, that the law be amended only at the level of the annex, that the Parliament amend and take out one of the properties, because it is not for such cultural purposes as are defined by the law. So that's the main line, that's the essence of the current bill. Everything else, when the legal interpretation of the proposal to join the Zalaegerszeg was submitted, is an adjective. If there is a subsequent amendment of the law, there can obviously be proposals from other municipalities, and if such changes come, the government will take note of this as well as the current one. So, in summary, I would like to report to the Honourable Parliament that this is the subject of the negotiation of the current proposal, which is supported by the Government, with the proposal for a summary amendment, which, by the way, concerns a single word derogation, a linguistic clarification. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-10-24-256	Thank you. No rapporteur was presented by the designated Cultural Committee. Now, the representatives' comments will follow if someone pushes a button, but no one intends to press a button, so the debate... [[For signal:]] But, excuse me, I give the floor to Congressman Sándor Szabó.
u2016-10-24-257	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Thank you, Mr State Secretary, for saying this in the introduction, but we differ in our opinion that this initiative, which we could say to the Szeged case relating to museums, is also a technical matter, and you know exactly what this initiative is, since July 2016 this kind of initiative has been going on with you. I think, by the way, that, as my colleague Gergely Bárándy said earlier, this is not such a big deal that, if necessary, it could not have been accepted in your national cooperation system. I have read here that 10 pages of 24 pages of the Legislative Committee have dealt with this issue, starting with the fact that the proposal is over-expansioned, and then after Mr Balla, President Gulyás came in, who has already interpreted it as not over-expansioning. Secretary of State Palkovics didn't know about this case. I can't help it if you have so many secretary of state and ministerial commissioners that you don't know who, when, what kind of consultation happens. Obviously, it's not my place to judge. I refer, or have asked my fellow socialists to present this proposal in the Legislative Committee, because you have given us a very strong encouragement in this regard, which I have been able to represent on behalf of the city of Szeged. Very briefly, what was that all about? Obviously, I do not want to say this deeply either, but Mr Secretary of State also said that the museums did indeed go to the municipalities on 1 January 2013 to maintain the municipalities. The Móra Ferenc Museum owns five properties free of charge. One, however, is really this Budapest, VIII. district - Labor Street 3/A. CHAPTER III Floor 2 - apartment at Prometheus Home was previously owned by the Móra Ferenc Museum. The town of Szeged had no knowledge of it, but you were also described as Hungarian National Property Management Ltd. in 2014. has requested the ownership of this property. So obviously, when the law was listed, the municipality of Szeged couldn't ask for this property because he didn't know that the Hungarian National Asset Manager had requested the right to do so, so he didn't include it. This is why we have made contact with you in July 2016 from the municipality, and we have started to discuss how this issue could be dealt with, since it has been managed and used ever since. Again, it's not such a big deal that I don't think you could say yes to that on the Legislative Committee. Then, in mid-August, you answered us and told us two options. One is to collect such needs through the County City Association, which is probably done in the background by the County City Association, or through individual representatives we are trying to remedy these similar cases. This is precisely because we dared to do so on behalf of a town with county rights in Szeged, because here is your letter to the mayor, László Botka, referring to this bill, to an amendment, that he is here right now in front of Parliament, and that is where Péter Cseresnyés and László Vigh's parliamentary representatives are about a property in Zalaegerszeg, and let us join in, so I took the liberty. Obviously, this matter came to me after the general debate in Parliament, so we have tried to find possible solutions on how to join it. It was proposed that, through the Legislative Committee, even after the annex to this Act and in connection with this chapter, everyone in the Legislative Committee concluded that it could not be proposed to be over-extensive, the proposal came and it was obvious that we were asking for your support. It was very surprising to me, once again, to say that in 10 pages out of 24 pages, this was the subject of the Legislative Committee. As my colleague Mr Gergő Bárándy said, what I really see in this matter is that you do not want to solve this issue. In addition to expansing, the Secretary of State has already spoken about content issues, although he clearly sees clearly that this is not the case. My position, my opinion, is that if you wanted to resolve this matter, you could have resolved this issue and the Legislative Committee could have voted calmly on the fact that it would otherwise have accepted and supported this quasi-amendment proposal. I was here in the general debate when my colleague László Vigh spoke about this case in Zalaegerszeg. My colleague, László Teleki, was the speaker of the MSZP. We absolutely supported this proposal because we, too, believe that if there are cases that are in the interest of the local community, then I think it is appropriate to support it. I think this case in Szeged would have been one of those cases. The other question is, how is it possible in your interpreter dictionary that when it comes to a socialist proposal, it is a cursed word in itself, especially when it comes to a case in Szeged? However, after not supporting the proposal in the Legislative Committee, as soon as the Legislative Committee ended, I also put the matter before Parliament as an individual amendment. I hope, Mr Secretary, that, after your letter is really here, and has encouraged us to try to deal with such matters in the context of proposals for individual amendments, if not otherwise, we will be able to support it on the next occasion. Thank you.
u2016-10-24-258	I'm asking if anyone else would like to comment on the agenda. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see a candidate. I will ask Mr. László Vécsey if he wishes to comment as rapporteur. [[For signal:]] It says no. The debate is therefore closed. The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Now, the next step is the land for the farmers! Discussion of the Commission's report on the proposal for a programme. The government referral T/12231. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. I will first ask the rapporteur, Mr Bitay Márton Örs, if he wishes to comment. [[For signal:]] It says no, for now. I now give the floor to Sándor Farkas, rapporteur of the designated Committee on Agriculture, in a three-minute time frame. [[18.30]]
u2016-10-24-259	Thank you very much. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Over the last few weeks, the debate on these laws has been brought together before the parliamentary session, and the debate on the two legislative proposals and the proposal for a resolution has been held together, and likewise this process has been carried out at the committee meeting. Today, as I see it, we take these laws apart. It must be stated, and I believe that there is a common position on the part of the pro-government people in this regard, that we all support these legislative proposals. Of course, minority rapporteurs will give their views on this. However, I would like to say to the honourable Parliament that during the debate and at the time of the debate, there was also a unified or simultaneous hearing by Minister Lazarus, which has greatly complemented the answers to the questions raised in the debate. This proves to me that these laws, which were adopted or tabled earlier, are now proposed to be adopted, there is no debate between us. I therefore continue to propose the adoption of all three laws by the Fidesz-Hungarian Civic Association. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-10-24-260	Thank you. Two speakers now present the minority opinion formulated in the committee, in a total timeframe of three minutes. First, I give the floor to Congressman Gábor István Harangozó.
u2016-10-24-261	Thank you very much, Mr. President. In a minute and a half, I'm gonna try to sum up the board's minority opinion. In the minute and a half, I can say that all opposition representatives have condemned themselves in an extraordinary way, which they are closing with these laws and the way in which the programme took place. Technically, no land for farmers! It is the closure of a programme for rich people, as has been said by several Members at the committee meeting, because it is incompatible with the pre-empted property policy goals, the land law clearly defines the criterion on which small and medium-sized family farms should have been put in the position of this law. On the other hand, we have seen that, in a politically and economically advantageous position or placed in a position near Fidesz, the majority of entrepreneurs have come to land and have not improved the structure of the estate policy, but have made it significantly worse, and therefore no eulogy and any legislative proposal or proposal for a decision giving any positive ringing of this programme cannot be accepted in this respect. What means the use of land revenues is what the Minister of Agriculture has submitted in this case, and this is specifically an unacceptable category, but we will continue with this. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2016-10-24-262	I now give the floor to MEP Zoltán Magyar in the remaining time frame.
u2016-10-24-263	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Fellow Members! Mr. Secretary. It was also mentioned in the Commission's debate, as in the general debate earlier, that the opposition deeply condemns this programme, and we will obviously not be able to accept this draft law or the proposal for a subsequent decision accordingly. We find it quite amazing how much the government faced itself in this respect, the aim of the government programme and the national rural strategy were just the opposite, and they are not in a thank-you relationship with what they did later, that is, rather than selling our last most important national assets, the aim was to increase it in the first place. Perhaps the Secretary of State can't deny that. At the committee meeting, concrete figures, data and facts were raised as to why this programme failed, why it helped the rich to access state land against what they communicate. In this regard, we have not heard one argument which would have contradicted this, and we should practically take it as a confession. It is therefore not surprising that we cannot support this draft. Thank you, Mr. President. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-10-24-264	It is now time for the speeches by its representatives. First, I give the floor to Congressman Zoltán Gőgös.
u2016-10-24-265	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would like to draw attention to one thing once again, because after the meeting of the Commission, I have also indicated to him that there are serious errors in the implementation of this law - which we did not agree with in the first place to sell the land - and we firmly state that the National Land Fund Manager has abused its right in an organised and thoughtful manner and does not apply the right to pre-empt under the law. I have given concrete evidence of this to Minister, and I am sure that Mr Secretary of State will respond, and I would also like to ask for an answer that, if this is confirmed, how long can those NFA leaders stay in their seats unless they do what they do in a higher order. And the reason I'm saying this is a national thing is that farmers who live in the country can't enforce a pre-emptive right in any way, despite which the minister has written a completely different letter to me, and no legal justification is given by the National Land Fund Manager, in a row he describes not to be preceded by a bid winner. It's absolutely outrageous. The other, briefly, I said here in the general debate that what happened here with this proposal for a resolution, I am obviously not going to ask for another word with the other two and the law, or there is an absurd legal situation with regard to the law that the Minister of National Economy is going to present a parliamentary resolution, which will be passed at the same time by the laws of the executive. I believe that this would work by adopting a resolution by Parliament, instructing the government or one of the members of the government to do something, and then introducing the laws. I don't know how the vote will be put together here, but we may vote on the law before the parliamentary resolution ordering it. You might want to think about it, if it's a normal world, but there's nothing normal here, that's what we're seeing. The other is that, instead of protesting against this parliamentary resolution, in which rural development funds or money from rural property are to be used to reduce general government debt, the Minister of Agriculture undertakes to submit the law in this regard as a national. I think it's pretty unprecedented, too. I am very sorry that you have not changed your mind and are not revoking these laws, and one more thing: putting something in another paragraph space, Mr. Secretary, doesn't mean that story remains two-thirds. We hope that the President of the Republic will discover this, but if he does not, then obviously the Constitutional Court will, because of the fact that it is the 15th. Instead of putting something in the 19th, which, by the way, is in the 15th, it's still a major. So don't think the Hungarian Parliament is so stupid, but it's also a stupid look of the President of the Republic, I think. So, obviously, we're going to go to him first to see if he's going to give his authority to such a bill, which clearly wants to avoid the fundamentality of wealth recovery, because they knew exactly that no one would give his name to it. So in Hungarian, that's why they used this technique. So that's all I've thought about here, as an addition to what was said in the general debate, and I think it's not surprising that Gábor has indicated that we do not support the parliamentary resolution or the two legislative proposals.
u2016-10-24-266	Thank you. I now give the floor to Congressman Sallai R. Benedek.
u2016-10-24-267	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, The speakers before me have pretty much merged the three themes, which is why I am trying to save time for all of us, and I am trying to say it at the same time. I will start with what concerns the amendment of the National Earth Fund Act. In practice, the government wants to use the funds received in connection with stolen, fraudulent lands to repay public debt, so that the government practically steals the Hungarian countryside. I would like to draw attention to the shame that this is supported by the Committee on Agriculture, thus expressing the Fidesz majority of the Committee on Agriculture that Hungarian agriculture does not need this money. The Fidesz majority states that the Hungarian countryside does not need this money. At the moment, the National Earth Fund Act states specifically what this money can be used for. You do not accept this to translate into strengthening the countryside, maintaining the population, strengthening small and family estates, and so many of the agricultural committee's policy makers, Fidesz pro-government politicians, say that this is not necessary in the Hungarian agricultural sector, and they do not require it, because the pig sector, the dairy cattle sector, irrigation systems, everything is so good, according to the pro-government majority of the Agriculture Committee, that it is possible to give up on all of this, and it is safe to approve that government source stand, which is trying to steal this money completely illegally. So obviously this is the same shame for the entire Committee on Agriculture as it is for the FM, who steals this money from rural development and rural people, which was clearly stated in a previous decision of the Constitutional Court as to what it can be used for, and that would obviously be the expectation. So this part can't be supported. [[18.40]] I do not want to repeat the general debate, the Philip of Fidesz Benedek was still here, we listened to the hurrah-optimist speeches about how good it was to distribute this land. It is clear, and at the moment, no one can deny that the land, in its proportions, can be said that 15 percent of the owners, customers, biders bought nearly 63 percent of the earth, 48 percent bought 33 percent of the land, and 38 percent of the land had a total of 3.8 percent. It is true that the government propaganda is that many have bid, but the vast majority of buyers have participated in bidding between 3-5 hectares and offers below 3 hectares, and they have received the small one, but all others have been sold contrary to the spirit of the NFA Act. Accordingly, I think that once a normal government has to initiate the restoration of the original state, so from here, from Parliament, in the final debate, I will tell you that there should not be any peace between the billionaires and the fidesz green barons and the Magosian country crooks who have just made this opportunity possible, perhaps they have taken credit, because this must be restored, and this shame cannot be maintained, that this is how the Hungarian nation's legacy was lured out and made possible. My fellow Member, Mr Farkas, mentioned that this was also a debate with the ministerial hearing of János Lázár. After the departure of János Lázár, Minister of State, Mr.Zsolt Kis, I think that as a competent agricultural professional, he cannot answer what small estates and large estates are. I asked him to tell me in hectares, livestock, gold crowns, whatever he wanted - he said he couldn't tell me. From now on, all kinds of government propaganda about how they shape the proportion of small estates and large estates can only be a lie, since no agricultural politician and any responsible member of the Prime Minister's Office can tell who is considered to be a small farmer, a family farmer, on the basis of specific indicators. For this reason, the proposal for a decision that would allow us to conclude what we should not have started is clearly not to be supported in this form. The May Other Politics stands in favour of all those who have assisted this scoundrelry, who have cheated the National Earth Fund Act at bids and in the National Earth Fund, sooner or later, I trust that, like Philip, Benedek will be accountable, and I trust that sooner or later they will gain their legitimate criminal category for what they have done to the future of the Hungarian countryside. Overall, after I do not want to repeat what has been said earlier, I ask the Parliament to reconsider its fate and not to support these mischiefs, because they are both against good morals and against legislation. Thank you for the floor, Mr President.
u2016-10-24-268	I would like to tell Mr Sándor Farkas that a two-minute comment is not possible at this time of the debate, but if he pushes a normal button, he will have the opportunity to speak. I now give the floor to Congressman Zoltán Magyar.
u2016-10-24-269	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Fellow Members! Well, obviously, the Secretary of State will not be surprised at what we say, but he must hear these arguments again. There is still a little bit of hope in me - perhaps unnecessary - that the Secretary of State might press a button and, exceptionally, as a man, participate in the debate and give the arguments that, in your opinion, have established this bill and would do the Hungarian farmers good by accepting it here. Unfortunately, he does not have such arguments, and I think this is not only because he hasn't flashed them before, but also because it is incomprehensible how to protect people from buying, say, 1500 hectares of public property for more than 2 billion forints. It's inexplicable! On which scale do they count as small, locally-living family farmers? And it's not one of those cases, there's only two of Fejér County with such brutal sizes, but there's quite a few over 500 acres. Or how smart it is to explain that they stand up and say that they protect the Hungarian land from foreigners, and then watch the Claesssens from Somogy, who can buy 917 hectares for 1 billion forints. Aren't they foreigners enough? Or how much more do you need to be a foreigner? They couldn't protect the Hungarian land from them, but they couldn't even protect the state land. It was more important for you to serve your own friends, even at the price that a significant part of the land was transferred to foreigners. The whole story reeked from the very beginning when they stood up, and last summer they started talking about Magos and the Chamber of Agriculture, that these state lands might have to be sold. Neither the economic society nor the opposition is considered by any of the above mentioned organisations to be of such importance that they should accept their views. At the Chamber of Agriculture elections, if I remember correctly, the national average did not reach even 7 percent, who participated and voted for these officials, moreover, in almost every county, they are Fidesz politicians, or at least people who are well connected to you, who fill these posts. And the Magos has now ceased to play the role for which it was created for ten years, and for which it was estimated at the beginning, its leaders sit among you, betraying the interests of the country, betraying the people of the country. If Magos were to operate as it should, and as it started, we should have filled Kossuth Square with tractors a long time ago, as you are constantly taking measures against the Hungarian countryside. For example, if I do not mention anything else, it is that the country has a minister of agriculture that, while the government takes HUF 270 billion away from the Hungarian countryside, it is not that it does not stand up, it does not rebel against this decision, but virtually adds its name to it and stands up for it. Show me another country in Europe, where if you lose 270 billion forints from the territory of the minister, then he does not raise his word - therefore he does not need to be Minister of Agriculture, completely unnecessary - because it is not possible to interpret otherwise that the land in the region is privatized, which, as we have already discussed, was originally a sinful thought, and the amount from it is not devoted to the development of the countryside. This is another story, of course, that it is done by circumventing the two-thirds fundamentality, which must be addressed later. As to the fact that this would have been in the interest of Hungarian society: according to the polls, all three factions, sorry about the LMP, I do not know their numbers, but among the Fidesz, MSZP and Jobbik voters, the proportion of those who condemned land privatisation and consider it to be sinful is over 80 percent. They can't rely on the Hungarian people from now on. And it is also not an argument that farmers wanted land privatisation, which of the affected social groups would not want to have access to their own production equipment, so that they could try to move forward so that they could buy one or two hectares? It's a natural reaction when a farmer called me before privatization, and I told him to do the math, compare it with his own options, and if he thinks he can, of course, do it. They are not the sinners because they want to buy land; simply the government had the irresponsibleness, the historical sin that it was able to privatize this little, even public land. I don't know how there's gonna be land for anything they promised me before. How will there be a demographic target? How will there be a social land program? How will there be land for the municipalities to achieve the public goal that you claim you would support all the time? Compared to this, as I have already said to the Secretary of State, we are talking about Fidesz mayors and local governments seeking opposition representatives to try to get you to a sense of reason, to keep this area to the state, so that, if it is justified and indeed for a public purpose, it can be made available to the municipalities. We also do not understand how they explain that even two years ago, the Secretary of State, the Minister, said that long-term leases are the perfect way to use state land properly for Hungarian farmers and for their growth, and that there was a magic shock compared to that, and from last summer, privatisation was suddenly the best solution. What happened during that month, what happened? We'd like to hear that, too. Because if you don't answer it now, Mr. Secretary, there's only one reason I can discover: you've established with the rental system that customers should be at least guided, who can actually participate in the field privatisation at all. I know the Secretary of State will say that the lease didn't generate any pre-emptive rights. Well, that's all I needed. We know he didn't generate any pre-emptive rights, but who's crazy, excuse me, who wants to farm and buy land with a tenant for 20 years? ! Thus, this is the way in which the lease has already been managed to determine who knows or who will want to buy most of these land. And the lease, we know how it was distributed: it was practically a tender system full of subjective elements, which not only we say, but several public bodies, including Kehi, said. Stroke system - we talked about this a lot. As long as you are not willing to do so in order to filter out the strómans in Hungary, it is not possible to carry out a fair ground-privatisation or even any similar action. [[18.50]] No one can explain to me how a tractor announced on a minimum wage can buy 200 hectares of agricultural land in Hungary. With all due respect, if you've been able to put that much aside, but we know the Hungarian public states, that's not what we're talking about; and this tractor guy has another colleague from the same level of pay, he's got a lawyer, he's got a family, and we put together the thousand acres of state land that they played out for their own friends. These were the most important arguments that we have made and, unfortunately, we have not received an answer to this day, and I really urge Mr Secretary of State not to get smart again because we cannot respond to that, and you regularly abuse it. [[Dr. Márton Bitay: There is no time! What do you want? Interview from the ranks of the MSZP: Yes there is!]] Allow me, Mr State Secretary, there will be three more debates here when I can respond effectively in case something is not yet in my time frame. So on behalf of the local governments, Hungarian farmers, the Hungarian people, on behalf of all the owners, I say that we stop this madness, undo it until it is too late, and return these territories to Hungarian national property, so that we can achieve the goals that you claimed to own in 2010, but then something happened. Thank you for the opportunity, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of Jobbik and LMP.]]
u2016-10-24-270	I now give the floor to Congressman Sándor Farkas.
u2016-10-24-271	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would just like to share a few reactions with you. We are once again hearing what has been said in the general debate, and we are in the same place as we were two weeks ago. I understand that, I have been and we have been opposition representatives, and we know who has what to do in this case, so if we don't know anything else, then let's repeat ourselves; that's what I'm doing now. But allow me to reject the alarms of the stolen, cheated, stolen R. Benedek Sallai R. Benedek, because if we accept this, then virtually in Hungary now, in the past period, farmers who have acquired a lease or land ownership could also be regarded as fraudsters or perhaps criminals according to this logic. I think that this should be considered, and perhaps it should not be said in this way about today's farmers, who are in a significant part, I might say, almost without exception, all of them are trying to cultivate and continue farming these lands as best they can, even if we find one or two exceptions, which are in all systems, was in the previous one, is in it now and will be in the next period. There will always be one or two clever people trying to circumvent the laws, but there are far fewer of them than ever before, which has been raised in the agricultural sector. And one more thought about this rural development and the reduction of public debt. Let us not forget, however, that Hungary has a budget, there is a chapter in the budget on agricultural subsidies - I think Chapter 12 is about agriculture, the chapter of the FM, if I remember correctly, was at least that chapter in the past - so there is a national support page in it, and if we look at the national support page now, they are much larger and larger every year than in recent years. For me, as a farmer, and for a budget, what we're giving out of that savings in debt repayment, what we're leaving behind for continuous work is a completely different story. I believe that, yes, this has been said politically many times, that practically the countryside is being robbed, robbed, others, us, everyone. It's not like that. I believe that rural development policy, when we look at the budget, that is, European Union funds, will, in a large part, all go to rural areas and will virtually support rural development. The fact that these amounts are now being transferred to the reduction of public debt also means that public administration, budgetary management, will be in an easier position, and perhaps we can get to the point where, in the 2017 budget, a certain degree of national support can be given together with EU support, if that is possible, and why would I not consider it possible? So from this point of view, I wouldn't dare create such a strong anti-rural mood, because it's not an anti-rural mood. Here, the real anti-rural atmosphere was when, in the course of the compensation, those lands were in doubt in the world, and not always to those who farm as farmers. Now it is safe to say that 99.99 percent of these lands were brought to the farmers, to the hundreds of thousands of farmers who were registered as farmers, who acquired this land. I do not believe that these people, once again, should be called, my honourable fellow Member, crooks, or perhaps crooks. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-10-24-272	I now give the floor to Congressman Gábor István Harangozó.
u2016-10-24-273	Thank you, Mr. President. My fellow Member has provoked me to comment once more in this round, and I thought that I would only be in the next session, but I cannot go without saying that, although there were obviously many people who bought land fairly, but when you announce a land-privatisation programme so that the Minister responsible for this, when he first talks about this programme in the parliamentary committee during his hearing in December last year, talks about the fact that there will be very clear and clear rules for this land-privatisation when he says that the Hungarian legislation clearly describes who can buy land and who can't buy land, and that only those who live from agriculture or who have a larger share of the income he acquires come from agriculture, even if he doesn't live exclusively from agriculture. And after that, this minister himself buys land because he gets the farmer's ID, or maybe he checks in as a farmer, as he refused to declare to this day what title he bought it. When the Prime Minister himself buys land before he talks about how people like you can't buy land - I mean people like you can't buy land - I think in this situation, if it turns out, his prime minister in normal law states says that my friend, I'm sorry, but you don't have a place in my government. And he wasn't the only one, several members of the government made the same mistake, if not personally, but through family members. The wife of L. Simon László, the gymnast, I do not believe that she is also the callous peasant woman that Mr. Lazarus spoke of at his ministerial hearing, and many such examples can be given. We also know very well that the gasman of the nation now has a lot more than a multiple of the available land, and he has bought more than he could, but the system is just a little off, and the rules have been set so that family members are not counted or counted - but the whole country can still see what's going on! And what my fellow Hungarian Member talked about before was a land lease system, the land lease system was described by the prosecutor's office in an investigation that this system was an opportunity for abuse, and it was abused, point. Then there was a Kehi test, which describes the fact that, for example, Hortobágy had land lease procedures, according to which it was organized using mafia methods to determine who owns the land, and so was distributed, and this did not have any consequences. And yes, the people who got land leases, and then they were easy to buy. Well, who dares to go up against them when they see how they got their land lease? In a rural place, in or around a small settlement, he dared to go out against them, when everyone saw that, for example, after the first land-privatisation or land-lease announcements in Borsodi, field lands, when it was announced who the winners were, the Fidesz politicians simply appeared, and immediately withdrew that they couldn't receive, because my friends didn't, they said; here I am talking about Mr Mengyi's interest and the interest of Mr Tállai. They took the results back, and then they put out a round of applications, and on the miracle of miracles, in the second round, their buddies got the land. [[19.00]] And then, of course, they make it a lot easier to sign up as customers, because obviously no one dares bid on them, dares to go there. And another sentence about how the peasants with the crusted palms could buy the land everywhere. I was on a land license where only one customer or interested person who actually worked in agriculture didn't buy a square foot of land, but they showed up at the bid with Slovak plates, I don't say brands with very expensive SUVs, various ladies in high heels and very pretty clothes, and all the land was taken that day at all the bids, and the man who came to me was crying about how this could happen, because he, his family and his ascenders were farming and he couldn't afford to buy it, he could only rent those land, all those lands were bought from them now, and he wouldn't dare take credit from me, and he wouldn't dare to sign in on this bid like this. We know very well what's going on here, so let's not try to stun each other. This was an unacceptable ground-privatisation! Thank you, Mr. President.
u2016-10-24-274	Congressman Sallai R. Benedek, you have 18 seconds to say.
u2016-10-24-275	Yes, I know, thank you, Mr. President. All I wanted to do was classify the criminal category: the members of the government, the Magos and the Chamber of Agriculture stole the future of the Hungarian countryside and the sources of the Hungarian countryside, and those who took a lot of it, and those who took a lot of it. Accordingly, I maintain the criminal group category, and I claim that it was indeed a crime that took place in this case. Thank you very much.
u2016-10-24-276	I am asking my fellow Members if anyone else would like to comment on the debate. [[No signal.]] I do not see a candidate, so the debate is closed. I'll ask the author, Márton Bitay, if you'd like to comment. [[For signal:]] It says yes. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2016-10-24-277	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Mr Haughty mentioned the rejections of pre-emptive rights, the letters written by the National Land Fund Manager. I would like to make it clear that you are entitled to all pre-purchase information, so this is not the debate between us, but the fact that a single-liner is informed that he has not been able to exercise his right to pre-purchase. We have taken into account the indication of Mr Haughty, a legitimate criticism; in the following, detailed explanations will also be given to those who have not been able to exercise their pre-emptive rights. By the way, I note that the National Land Fund Manager has sent the entire document package to the Land Administrations, which contains a detailed explanation of who was rejected, and if the client has decided not to accept this single-word response to the NFA, he has, of course, received a detailed reply after being asked back. I don't mean to apologize, but the case number didn't involve colleagues in preparing such long, detailed answers. But I took the paper that Congressman said, and in the future, they will be given answers to pre-purchases that clearly list the reasons why he didn't become the owner. A number of opposition representatives have mentioned that it is quite wrong that revenue should not be devoted to rural policy. I would like to mention two things to you in this regard. One is that I think that national wealth - and state land is a national property - is not equal to rural property, it is the wealth of the entire nation, and I think that it continues to agree with the idea in the referral that debt reduction increases the wealth of the entire nation in the same way, or at least improves the financial situation of the entire nation. By the way, it was open to you to submit an amendment of the option, whether in particular, to any opposition representatives. With regard to the fundamentality, we have already had that debate, and I do not want to bring it up again. Congressman Sallai mentioned the issue of small estates, that my State Secretary-in-Office could not answer that question. It is very right that you did not reply because I think that this is not an option; it depends on what production is going on in that area. A lavender plantation on 20 hectares can be a major estate, while, let's say, a field corn growing in a medium or low quality area on a hundred hectares may not be certain to reach the level of the medium estate. I would answer that by saying that I think it depends on the work done on it, on the revenue generated from it. Mr Zoltán Magyar mentioned some examples of foreigners. I would just like to point out, for the sake of the minutes - this debate has been held several times - that Jobbik and, among other things, the Hungarian Member, in his motion to the Constitutional Court at the time, proposed, together with the entire opposition, that the Constitutional Court abolish the Government's resolution, which stated that only domestic citizens can enter the auctions, so that a little dissonance is perceived. The gentleman you mentioned, I do not want to mislead you, so I say in a conditional way, but I remember that he is a dual citizen, not a foreign citizen; it is only a matter of detail that he has been living and farming here in Hungary for 30 years. He mentioned that I would not answer the question or participate in the debate, and then he also mentioned it - and so I think I may not have to excite myself anymore - that I knew exactly what Mr Secretary of State would say. I think that I have been able to clarify whether I am involved in the debate or not. With regard to the polls, which you have also mentioned, I can only give you one opinion poll, which is quite certain: I do not want to give an adjective, but the 200 000 signatures needed for a simple referendum have not been collected. In my opinion, this is quite good data for opinion polling as to how Hungarian society is really related to the land sale programme. And I also appreciate it as a positive - but I think it goes against what you said - that you encouraged the farmer who sought you to participate in this programme, according to your own statement. We encouraged everyone, almost 30,000 of them bought. I feel that there can be no criticism from this point of view. Indeed, with the rental system - as you know, or I assume you have certainly seen in the Land Traffic Act - the lease right is, if it does not last at least three years in terms of cultivation, it is worthless, because otherwise it cannot be in the first place in that order of pre-emption. Stroke tractor, 200 million forints. Now, I'm asking you very nicely, not to take it as a figure of speech, to be kind, to press charges, but I'd really like to ask you here. I don't want anyone to buy it. If you are aware of someone who, in this way, clearly in an act of deceit, I would really like to ask you with respect, report immediately. [[Interjection in Jobbik's ranks: We're over it.]] In fact, I, for one, and the Ministry, will offer you all the help you can get if we can make any progress on this. [[Zoltán Grimlock: The D.A.'s office isn't helping.]] Mr Bellman mentioned a few things, and I would like to say only two of them. One is that he mentioned that the nation's gas mechanic - or how he put it - bought 1,500 hectares. I would like to make it clear that no natural person in Hungary can own land over 300 hectares. It doesn't matter whether he took part in a bid, didn't participate, private land, public land, over 300 hectares of natural persons can't be owned by anyone in Hungary. And at the bidding, they took everything, mentioned an example of how an elderly farmer complained to you about it. I think the bidding was worth everyone's participation. We tried to help those who, by the way, may not have had their own funds, but indeed, they had to participate in the auction to buy land. But even here, I would like to mention to you the important thing that is that pre-emption is a right for everyone outside of the auction. So at the auction, I don't know what kind of vehicle you've mentioned, or even if I'm trying to cut the auction price, because with the pre-emptive right, if I'm ahead of the auction buyer under the legal conditions, everyone can always live. In fact, it was also envisaged that if the purchase price was unrealisticly raised at the auction, the banks would have established the credit necessary for the purchase price not on the basis of the real value of the property but on the basis of the final purchase price established at the auction. So I understand what you're saying, and there's a truth in that if someone takes it very high and otherwise doesn't have that kind of money for pre-purchase, then there's a lot of credit that's gonna have to be paid off for a very long time. [[19.10]] However, for the sake of the record, I wanted to state that the financing provided to all for the final purchase price at the auction was the state-developed credit facility. As a result, I consider that nearly 30,000 farmers have bought from this land sale programme, and I particularly appreciate what Mr Sallai said as a negative point at the beginning of his speech that very many have bought few lands. That's right. A lot of people bought small fields, that's what this program was about, of course, as the government claims, 80 percent of the family economy, 20 percent of the big plants. I don't think there's anything wrong with the fact that if there's anyone who bought, say, 150 or 200 hectares of this land sale program, they're gonna make out 30-40-50 hectares of backyard. Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2016-10-24-278	Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. We now have a similar title, the land for farmers! Discussion of the Commission's report on the proposal for a decision on the programme. The government referral is H/12232. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the parliamentary IT network. First of all, I would like to ask Mr. Secretary of State again if he would like to comment at the beginning. [[For signal:]] It says no. I now give the floor to Sándor Farkas, rapporteur of the designated Committee on Agriculture, in a three-minute time frame.
u2016-10-24-279	Mr President, I can repeat myself, and from now on, I think the remaining two agenda items will be largely repeated. Once again, I can only say what has already been said, that the Fidesz-Hungarian Civic Association in the committee, alive and considering, supports the bill, taking into account the views of the opposition parties, of course, but that does not discourage us from adopting this law. Thank you very much.
u2016-10-24-280	Thank you. I now give the floor once again to Gábor István Harangozó, who will give the minority opinion, sharing it with MEP Zoltán Magyar.
u2016-10-24-281	Thank you very much, Mr. President. In view of the fact that the debate on these three proposals took place in the committee, and the first two are practically so similar in substance, we would not say the minority opinion one more time here, but we would rather take the opportunity to comment on the third, because there are still things that I think are important to say here in the House. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2016-10-24-282	Thank you. I ask Mr Zoltán Magyar, and he also indicates that he does not want to take the opportunity to speak now. I ask if one of my fellow Members wishes to comment on this very similar item on the agenda. [[There's no candidate.]] I can see that you didn't. Thus, the non-existent debate is closed. I'll ask Mr. Secretary of State if he'd like to comment on the things he hasn't said. [[For signal:]] It says no. Thus, the decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, Next up is the 2010 LXXXVII on the National Earth Fund. Discussion of the Commission's report on the proposed amendment to the Act. The government referral is T/12230. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the parliamentary IT network. Again, I would like to ask the Secretary of State if he would like to comment now. [[For signal:]] It says no. And then again, I give the floor to Sándor Farkas, the rapporteur of the designated Agriculture Committee.
u2016-10-24-283	Mr President, In the same way, I join the sentence I said earlier that the Fidesz-Hungarian Civic Association supports the support of this law. We talked so much about it, perhaps we should have taken the item on the agenda when we adopted it, with a motion for amendment, as well as with the general and Commission debate. This, I think, has been overlooked by all of us, then we could have had this debate a little more constructively and with more reality content. So I think that this story has become a little out of place, and we continue to recommend its adoption.
u2016-10-24-284	Thank you. I'm just suggesting that we could have done this by way of house rules. There was no motion for this on the part of the parties. I will ask Gábor István Harangozó if he wishes to give a minority opinion. He got up, so I'll give you the floor.
u2016-10-24-285	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Yes, I indicated that I would like to make a comment at this point, and even in a proper comment. And I believe that it is very unpleasant for Fidesz, indeed, it is not an overly - how shall I put it - bright story, because it is nothing in this law but that the Minister of Rural Development himself, more precisely, is submitting the amendment of the National Fund of Earth that is about the fact that the Government of Fidesz could only illegally spend the money that has been corrupted. Therefore, he wants to amend practically a two-thirds law in such a way that he does not have to spend the money in accordance with the objectives set out in the two-thirds law, but rather spend it on someone else. And I would like to list that, because that is what was said at the committee meeting about what the government could spend money on, and it doesn't want to spend it on it. Here's what the law lists. It says: support for a social land programme or a public employment programme, the operation of livestock farms, the provision of land for operation, the stimulation and regulation of the land market, a forestry programme, the exploitation of land for environmentally friendly, sustainable farming or the stabilisation of the situation of land users, the establishment and strengthening of family farms. For these purposes, the government could use the money, instead bringing in an amendment, not to them, but to a whole other point, to spend the money to finance the public debt. So he wants to withdraw this capital from the countryside, which is unacceptable, so we did not support it at the committee meeting either. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2016-10-24-286	I now give the floor to Congressman Zoltán Magyar.
u2016-10-24-287	Thank you, Mr. President. As has already been said in today's debate at an earlier point, we cannot, of course, support this proposal. And Fidesz may be able to support it, but it is certain that a decent agricultural portfolio and minister could not support this proposal, so the minimum is that Minister Fazekas should resign. Thank you for the opportunity, Mr. President. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2016-10-24-288	Ladies and gentlemen, It is now time for the speeches by its representatives. I give the floor to Congressman Gábor István Harangozó.
u2016-10-24-289	Thank you very much, Mr. President. In the Commission's debate, and later in the ministerial hearing, the debate on this continued, and there were arguments that I would like us to debate in plenary. On the one hand, it was said that the whole programme had to be launched because agricultural subsidies would cease to exist from 2020. I do not know where they could read such a resolution, of course, it is feared that if some European politicians, such a method of beating up the European Union at the front, the programmes that are taking place now will probably be more difficult to continue by 2020. But let's assume that they are right, and by 2020, there will be no such agricultural subsidies as there are now. You argue that in this case the value of the Hungarian land will be less, because if this support is not behind it, the prospective customers will not pay for it. What I do not understand is how to conclude from this that if there will be no subsidies after 2020, then it will be necessary now and, in addition, to pay well the Hungarian rural actors for the long term. After all, most of these lands were purchased by those who bought them by entering 70 billion forints, taking out 200 billion forints of loans. These 200 billion forints of credit will be paid by these people when you think agricultural subsidies will decrease. This is the capital you withdraw from those agricultural enterprises, and if it were true that the target group had access to the money, you would, in principle, withdraw this money from small and medium-sized family businesses, who should now be helped to thrive, especially after 2020, when they do not have agricultural support. [[19.20]] I think it's something completely twisted, incomprehensible to me, which, let alone justifies it, makes this whole ground-privatization unexplainable. There is one more problem: the entire land privatisation was preceded by the rental system, which, in my previous speech, had a significant impact on how land privatisation and bidding could take place. This land lease system, which precedes land privatisation, in the lawsuit that was brought against NFA in Kishantos, the court, at least in the current state of the case, seems to condemn the whole system itself. It is highly questionable to me that if there was a land lease that went wrong, then the land lease that changed the relations afterwards was based on how a fair and legitimate privatisation could be carried out. I know Mr. Secretary of State is a lawyer, and I'm sure he can make some very good turns, but when you think about it with common sense and peasant logic, it's certainly not right. Then let's see what's going on with the money. He said, Mr. Secretary, if the debt is reduced, it's good for the whole nation. But, Mr. Secretary, how can a countryman make a living, how can he manage? The fact is that in a large part of the settlements there is nothing very different than agriculture. The problem at present is that this agriculture is linked to a large-scale owner, so-called family owner, who has long since ceased employment, has no animals, has no sideline system in which people can be employed, and is not working on how to replace the job that is missing there, how to launch programmes to encourage these players to employ as many people as possible, to adapt the support system accordingly, not to give a penny area allowance to those who do not employ, but who are employed, and who could be given. You do not live with anything like this, but simply will and will not put back the revenues from this to create jobs in the countryside, to have people living in it, but simply to burn it in the financing of public debt, in which, let's face it, you have not been very successful again, since the Hungarian government debt has continued to grow in nominal terms since 2010, and you can keep this sovereign debt in check while burning the $3,000 million pension savings, being stuffed into this system. Now the national wealth, the land of the countryside, the remaining state lands are being sold, the proceeds are being burned again, they are being put into the public debt financing system instead of trying to reduce public debt with a normal economic policy. And there's one more thing I need to talk to you about. After not having been such a great success in this privatisation, there remained about 200,000 hectares. This 200 thousand hectares - and this has also been mentioned at the ministerial hearing, where Minister Lazarus promised that he would support and work to see what the opportunities are - should not be wasted now. They've already paid their friends, and they've given the land to everyone they promised it to, it's okay, but with this 200,000 acres, we should be responsible for farming. And since there is great poverty in the countryside, very few people have anything to live on, these lands provide an excellent opportunity to start the social economy by using these lands as well. I call on you here - and I say, Minister Lazarus has promised that you will think this through, and he does not think that this is entirely deplorable, but it should be addressed by the Ministry of Agriculture - to make EU aid a system of aid that puts investment aid to the development of the social economy at 100%. EU rules provide an opportunity to provide an operating grant of 5%. It is also possible, as atypical employment, to grant start-up social enterprises up to a hundred percent wage support in the start-up year, which can be withdrawn from time to time, as they become more marketable. It is possible to put behind a support system that will not depend on whether there is a suitable mayor in a given settlement who is competent or if there is a specialist who is competent, but should be organised by the Ministry to have regional knowledge centres, even based on universities, who can help this programme and have a district support system, so that these social economies are linked to a system of appropriate professional support, logistical background and commercial sales background. Many people could create sustainable, meaningful jobs, which could and would like to move on from the public work programme to those people who would be able and able to move on from this programme. So I suggest we use the remaining land for this, and the money that came in revenue could also be used to build this system. And if you have mentioned national grants here, well, the European Union gives us the opportunity not to add 15 percent but 25 percent of national funding to EU funding, which could be supported in a much larger volume. Other Member States make use of this and give 25 per cent of the national budget to it, while Hungary gives 15 per cent. That money would be enough for us to add 25 percent. The responsible thinking and the responsible action would be to do so. That is why I am asking you and calling on you to do so and to withdraw the proposal that you would like to see adopted by this House. Thank you for listening. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2016-10-24-290	I give the floor to Congressman Zoltán Magyar.
u2016-10-24-291	Thank you, Mr. President. Secretary of State, there have been some very serious statements here, for example, that people who bought it from the state are doing a fair job of farming. That's why I'd like to see the system where they control this. And the conclusion is that these people, let's say, the Lőrincs Mészáros, are doing 1500 hectares of work with families. Because if those who have been named, that is, the local family farmers, had actually been given the most greasy land, then there might not have been such a debate between us. Yes, and the opposition turned to the Constitutional Court to prevent land privatisation, and not even by chance, so that foreigners could buy land here. We have discussed this with the Secretary of State several times since then. And, yes, we will go to the Constitutional Court now, if this money is to be spent for purposes that the fundamentality would not allow without a two-thirds decision of Parliament. Let's press charges - it's my favorite, they say that in every case of corruption. I would be very happy to send you the reports I have made. The D.A.'s office has a brief response, which basically has two main things to say: he has no man to do it and he doesn't know how to do it. In no way have they given us the opportunity to filter out the strobe system, and not only have they given us the opportunity to do so, but also the authorities. That is why, two weeks ago, I submitted a proposal for a resolution that would have allowed us to amend at least five laws to act effectively against the strobe system. If this had been done by the Parliament and it hadn't been swept off without debate at the committee meeting, we certainly wouldn't be here. And after the construction of such a system, land privatisation could have taken place with perhaps more decent elements. We really didn't get a meaningful answer to anything. I am a great admirer of the ladies, and I am glad that as many people as possible are involved in agriculture, for example, but it is obvious that, let's say, more than half of the farmers are ex-ladies, while in farmers this ratio is about 10 percent. These are certainly interesting data. I'm really glad that the ladies are in the mood to buy the land, and they're going to be farming, but I'm afraid there's something quite different going on here, Mr. Secretary. If this system is as good as you say and as it shines in these proposals before us, then why was it not so acceptable that it would have been entered into the programme in 2010 or 2014 before the elections, they would have talked about it. It was very quiet about this, Mr. Secretary. They talked about the fact that the old tenants, who were sometimes insufferable and, in fact, rather often rented public land under unsuitable conditions, were so positively rewarded with these lands that they would eliminate it and create a new system. That's what they're talking about, we were partners in this, and you can't say a word about it. [[19.30]] We didn't get a meaningful answer as to when the forests would take place. [[Dr. Márton Bitay: You didn't ask.]] There were also reports here a long time and a half ago, and we did not get a satisfactory answer as to whether the rumors were true that they would privatize the forestry and then maybe later the forest itself. Why hasn't the state land sold been tied to employment? It would have been an excellent measure of the fact that these lands were indeed sold on the basis of the common good, in line with local interests, and were acquired by customers who took this into account. What about checking the tenants? You've never said anything about that either, Mr. Secretary. Are these checks going on? There was a lot of bullshit in those applications that led them to win these state lands. Will you continue to check these? They're gonna check on livestock? The conditions they expected, and the ones that gave them high points and won these lands? Or won't it be important now? We'd like an answer to that, too, because that could explain a lot. And since we've mentioned that it's small and big and that you can't tell what that means, don't make such a professional point, Mr. Secretary. I think that we, who speak on this subject, are all aware that it does not matter what sector we are talking about and how many hectares are small or large. But the fact is that in any sector, under no circumstances can it be considered small to give someone 1500 hectares of the existing land plus the state land. I know, of course, it's not for one person, it's for the family, but it's amazing. And according to no calculation can you say this, Mr Secretary of State, that this is about helping small and medium-sized family farms. Or what scale or golden crown is there, or what can they grow, which justifies giving a family 1,500 acres worth 2 billion forints? At all, who can spend 2 billion forints on state land, what would qualify as a family economy, especially small or medium? Unfortunately, he hasn't given us any answers, but he keeps pushing us through the usual government communication here, Mr. Secretary of State. You're very good with statistics, but here I'd like to ask you to leave these half, one or two or three acres, of dirib-pieces of land. No one would've told you if you'd told me under three acres that the state didn't keep land and that, let's just say, privatize it. The problem is fatty, large, contiguous land, which, in addition, unlike lying communication, have mostly never been owned, let's say, by small farms. So this is not, let's say, the great estate created at the time of nationalisation, but much earlier, and these estates served serious public purposes. Compared to the size of the old princely, lordly estates, a significant number of new-rich, close-to-government circles are now formed, with similar estate sizes. The big difference is that they don't provide any common good, we don't see any common good on the part of these gentlemen, unless we take the suspicious sports subsidies to it, but the state does so from the other side, not least. I don't understand why we had to develop this vassal system with the state territories. In one speech, Mr State Secretary, he says why the opposition is jumping, because this state land, which has been privatised, is perhaps 2-3 percent of all the land assets, and in another speech he says that this has been a tremendous help to Hungarian farmers, the Hungarian countryside. It would be nice to decide now. Once, if you feel like it, and you wish to underline what you have to say, you will base on this, and you will say that it is a minimal area, and if you think it is good, then you will enlarge it and say that we have saved the Hungarian farming community, and from now on you will be able to withstand all the challenges. No, Mr. Secretary. This land is certainly not enough to make a substantial difference in terms of the country as a whole, let us say, if we consider GDP as a measure, and to significantly improve the situation in agriculture in this respect. However, it was a great deal to be able to create thousands of decent jobs in rural areas based on this and built on it. There are quite a few quality municipal projects, which have shown how many jobs they can create on some hectares, and thus make the people living there stay in place, making it easier for the families there to live. This land should have been used for this, and it should not have been given to Csákvár Agricultural Zrt., Lőrinc Mészáros and Claesssens, no matter how many kilos of bulls you can shoot, Mr. State Secretary. Either I don't know how they decided that he could get this land or he couldn't get it; I'm sure you know that better. But believe me, this will not help rural Hungary because you will have a place to hunt. Thank you for the opportunity. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-10-24-292	Ladies and gentlemen, The debate is closed because I do not see a candidate. I'll ask Mr. Bitay if he wants to comment. [[For signal:]] Yes, so it's up to the Secretary of State.
u2016-10-24-293	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Mr Gábor Bellozó again raised the issue of two thirds of revenue. What I can tell you is that if the National Earth Fund Act is wrong, it's 28 that regulates revenue. The Parliament adopted §8 with an unduly half law in 2010, then you are right. I'm not a constitutional lawyer, but I think it's not bad. I think there are a lot of two-thirds laws in Hungary, which we consider to be a two-thirds law, but not two-thirds of them from the first letter to the last letter, but one-thirds of them. In these laws, the majority is typically two-thirds, and there are parts that do not require a two-thirds majority. For the purposes of this Decision, the following definitions shall apply: §, which regulates revenue, is not two-thirds. Therefore, the NFA Act, at least the proposed amendment of the law, is in any event in place. You would be right if this provision of the NFA Act were not appropriate and was not accepted by the Parliament at the time. He mentioned how much the proceeds from the land auction could be spent at the NFA's disposal. What I can tell you is that, by the way, the fact that the National Land Fund Manager meets his listed tasks is independent of revenue developments. So what you're not knocking out is, for the record, I just want to make it clear that NFA's revenue, the proceeds from the sale of land, are not knocked out by this new pass. So, if there is any more, then, of course, with the proceeds from this, just as it has been before, the section of the NFA Act that allows you to achieve the goals you have listed will remain in force. Now the bill submitted in total says that from the land sale programme, which means naming this programme, the revenue generated by it should be used to reduce debt. Did the lease applications influence the results of the auctions? If I understand correctly, you admit that you weren't a legal influence, but, if I was paying attention, you said why the hell would someone be applying for or running for an area that someone, I don't know, would rent for another year. I'll tell you honestly, I can't answer that question. I can only see it from the side of the results, and there were a lot of people who bought an area that someone else rents. But based on the statistics I've collected so far, we've never made a comparison like this before, they're far from the majority. So what you've said doesn't stand up for me, based on my measurements, is that people who, by the way, are already renting land from the National Land Fund Manager in some other context. Many others also bought land, not just those who were otherwise in a rental relationship with the National Land Fund Manager. What you said about the 200,000 hectares, the social land programme, is that Minister Lazarus added that this idea should be considered, and it is worth... [[Gábor István Bellozó: He said he supported it.]] I'm sorry, I wasn't paying attention, I didn't read the report that you supported me. I have to say, this is nothing new, and we support it, so there is no new element in this. So far, the National Land Fund has had the opportunity to provide land not only for the industrial park but also for the cultivation of the land, either for municipalities or for social cooperatives. So it's not gonna be closed anymore. I don't think that's a good thing, and I can honestly tell you that for 200,000 hectares now, otherwise, it won't be 200,000 hectares, but now it's also a social land programme. But I think that it is absolutely acceptable, and I think that we have supported it so far, there have been a lot of such applications, which have been assessed positively, where a candidate municipality has been granted this, not the ownership of the land, but the right to use it, or a trust contract, or leases, or other legal arrangements of relevance. [[19.40]] I would like to clarify what he has said about Mr Zoltán Magyar. So don't shake yourself into the psychological situation that you didn't attack the government decision on foreign buyers, because - I almost literally quote the Constitutional Court's submission they wrote - they said that the government decision, in the EU legal system, is restrictive of competition, because it excludes foreigners. In essence - once again, I do not quote literally - the word "competitor" was included in the Constitutional Court's submission. So please don't tell me this isn't what you attacked, because this is what you attacked in full swing, along with the opposition. I would also like to mention to you that you are in the first place among the signatories, not even paying attention to the fact that, if it was already such a mandatory faction signature to have the right number, at least poor agricultural people should be at the end of it, so that it is not that the signed text begins with them. More than half of the customers are ladies. You like statistics. Be nice, then show me how much this is. We'll run it back on the record, and if you'll allow us to count the data on how you came to this conclusion, because that means that there are over 15,000 of the nearly 30,000 customers, because that's what more than half of them mean. I'd love to see this list of 15,000 ladies with their names on it, although I wouldn't be alarmed by that, because, thank God, there's no rule out that they should be shopping too. He mentioned whether the rumors about forest privatisation were true. I could tell you to ask yourself this because you're spreading it, and you obviously know the answer to it, because if you're spreading such a rumor, you can obviously tell us what the reality of this is. There's nothing I can do about that question. [[Gábor István Bellozó: A yes or a no.]] He mentioned the 1,500 acres, that he couldn't count on a small amount of 1,500 acres anywhere else. But you can count on small, even small, 1500 hectares, because if you want to work on seed production in an international competition, you can't even kick a football in the Carpathian Basin, let alone on an international level. But if, let's say, he's doing grazing livestock, then even within the Carpathian Basin, he could be 1500 acres even small. [[Zoltán Gőgös: 1300 hectares?]] I just wanted to tell you this, for the record again, so that we wouldn't keep the stupidity in the record of 1,500 hectares of this kind of fist rule that we've been used to manifesting in a number of lands. [[Zoltán Grimlock: Why? And that's 1300?]] And it can't be. [[Zoltán Grimlock: And what is 1300?]] But maybe there's a farming mode in which that's possible. What he asked was whether a person who buys for 2 billion forints was a family farmer. I wanted to confirm this once again: it is not a family farmer. [[Zoltán Grimlock: Cigarette smuggling, good.]] I have told you several times before, and I will continue to think so: if you buy for HUF 1 billion, for HUF 2 billion, but I go on, I think anyone who buys for HUF 400-500 million may not necessarily be a family farmer. That is why I am telling you, and the government, that we want 80 percent of the Hungarian agriculture to be on family farms; 20 percent of us believe that we cannot do anything with large farms, and we do not need anything to do with them, because they are needed, and it is useful for them to be present in the structure of the agricultural economy. [[Zoltán Grimlock: Is this going to be okay?]] About the 2-3 percent, the total wealth, it's little or much, and again, it's my turn to play this song. I think we should get this straight. The fact that 2-3 percent of all agricultural land in Hungary has now been auctioned, I think, is not much compared to all of them. If I take it that 30,000 of the 100,000 farmers were bought, that's a lot. I'm sorry, I'm not trying to deceive you. Indeed, this logic must be followed, but unfortunately, this is a situation in which I present a number to you in two ways, not because I would like to lead you on, but unfortunately, if a third of a class of society has access to a property element, it is, in my opinion, much, even if it is a small part of all agricultural land. That's logically my opinion, it's a follow-up thing. And what you said at the end of your speech or suspected, I would like to reject. I think that in the communication style with which I try to honor you in my answers, even if you do not like it, these assumptions are, to put it mildly, beneath the belt, as I would like to reject verbally or expressis verbis. I do not accept any kindness or gift from anyone, nor do I accept the sale of land, nor any other procedure relating to my job as an official. I would like to urge you, in particular, that, if you do have any information about this, you should not float; it is a very vile thing, it is ruining my reputation without any proof of it to you. I didn't do that to you. If you'd do me the honor of possibly being able to rise out of general political mud throwing, then do me the honor of doing this, because personally, I'm hurt if you suspect such things. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2016-10-24-294	Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Next up is the 1997 XLVI on the National Hungarian Hunting Chamber. The Commission's reports on the amendment of the Act and the debate on the draft amendment. Presentation submitted by MEPs János Lázár, Zsolt Semjén, Imre Vejkey and László Földi T/1836. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. The debate will be the first to present the position of the Legislative Committee within a maximum period of 15 minutes. I give the floor to László Salacz, rapporteur of the committee.
u2016-10-24-295	Mr President, Dear House, I hereby inform the Parliament that the Legislative Committee discussed on 20 October the 1997 XLVI on the National Hungarian Hunting Chamber. T/11836. The Committee presented a proposal for amendment and a summary report with 20 yes and 9 abstentions. The summarised amendment only contains the technical specifications of the Committee on Agriculture. At the meeting of the Legislative Committee, the opposition said that the bill before us could be adopted by consensus. Well, I see no reason to do so, because the rules on the hunting chamber are perfectly in line with the provisions on other public bodies. For my part, I would not be lucky if the legislation required the chambers to tell them exactly what to spend their money on, because the members know that much better. At the same time, it is their responsibility to ensure that the management of the Chamber represents the interests of the members and is properly accountable to them. On the other hand, the use of weapons entails increased responsibility, and I therefore consider it extremely important that hunting activities can only be carried out by a person who has successfully completed the high level of theoretical and practical training required by the legislation and carried out by the Chamber. In view of all this, I ask that you support the bill. Thank you for your attention. [[It's a rare round of applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2016-10-24-296	Thank you. I will ask the author, Mr László Földi, if he wishes to comment. [[László Earth indicates no.]] He says he doesn't want to comment right now. I'll ask the government for Secretary of State Bitay Márton Örs. [[Dr. Márton Bitay: No, thank you very much.]] He won't comment, he'll signal. The designated Committee on Agriculture did not produce a rapporteur; so I would now give the floor to Congressman Sallai R. Benedek, but he is not in the room, so I cannot give the floor. It is now time for the speeches by its representatives. I give the floor to Mr Balázs Győrffy for the first time as a pre-registered speaker.
u2016-10-24-297	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Dear fellow Members, Basically, this legislation, as my fellow Member Salacz has pointed out, has not generated too many professional debates here in Parliament or at various committee meetings, as we may be in a consensual or at least close to it in terms of professionalism. What is this legislation about? - to briefly turn back to the intention of the amendment. Basically, it aims at creating a kind of harmony with the new hunting law, and in addition to that it restores the mandatory membership that may be fully supported, or at least significant, within the professional circles. [[19.50]] The stability of the Chamber's management, its security and the permissions to issue different permits will now be fully granted to the Chamber of Hunting when this legislation enters into force. The Chamber's task was to issue a hunting permit alongside the hunting ticket, and all the proceeds of each issued permit will increase the income of the Chamber of Hunting later on. During informal discussions with the Chamber of Hunters, the Chamber has a very clear and absolutely professional idea of what it will use this amount of resources for. I think that this will represent the interests of mandatory membership that will be added in general, in addition to being wild and the natural environment in which we all live. In general, this will also be in the interests of these aspects, in addition to membership. At its meeting on 19 September 2016, the Committee on Agriculture discussed certain types of manifestations affecting the fair use of resources by the Chamber of Hunters. I think we can reject this in the name of every honest hunter. I can't give you an example that any activity and any procedure, any conflict, would have established this. The Legislative Committee also discussed the bill on 20 October, evaluated and supported the Commission's proposals for a detailed debate on the bill. I would ask my fellow Members to support this amendment. Thank you, Mr. President. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-10-24-298	I now give the floor to Congressman Zoltán Magyar.
u2016-10-24-299	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. It won't be as much of a debate as it has been before, and I can promise you that. However, I have problems with the proposal before us, not in a professional sense, because it includes many or more forward-looking measures. In fact, I wouldn't deny the Chamber these extra options. At the same time, we are completely confused as to why transparency cannot be expected much more with regard to these additional resources. CHAPTER XXI We live in the 20th century, and they keep saying how important it is to keep up, and we agree with you on that, but why it is not possible, for example, on the website of the Chamber to indicate when and how much of the amount is spent. We consider this to be an infinitely big mistake, even because, knowing the worrying functioning of other similar organisations, I think that is also legitimately expected from the public perspective. Of course, I know that in many respects the amounts thus received do not qualify as public money in the strict sense of the word, but, indirectly, they can be regarded as public property, since they were later converted into those amounts. After all, in this form, I think we can expect to know when, what and how much the chamber spends. That is why we supported the amendment to the LMP, which would have allowed clarity in this regard. Sadly, we found that there were no meaningful answers. The government side considered this amendment to be a kind of attack, as if to assume that something unfair was going on in the Chamber. It's not like that. We just want transparency to remain and to be created in the future. That is why we did not understand why this could not be supported. In fact, there was no argument that would have convinced us to do so. In this way, however, this proposal is much weaker. We'd really like this to be included. I do not know if this could be treated by the Chamber or by the authors as an amendment before such a final vote. I can't believe it's so necessary to insist on spending money in this blur. We would like to add this amendment or similar content to our supporting proposal. We would like legislation to move in this direction, too, in the case of other laws, because we want a state, I hope all of us, whose citizens are so self-conscious that they follow these matters, manage them, and decide on the future and fate of political actors, so I urge my fellow Members to consider that amendment or to present another content that complements this bill. Thank you, Mr. President. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2016-10-24-300	I ask my fellow Members if anyone else would like to comment. [[No one's reporting.]] I do not see a candidate, so the debate is closed. I will ask Mr László Földi if he wishes to comment. [[For signal:]] It says no. The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. The Commission's report on the national referendum is now under discussion. H/12350 submitted by the Judicial Committee The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. I will ask Congressman György Rubovszky, the author, if he wishes to comment. [[For signal:]] It says no. I'll ask if anyone on the government's side wants to comment. [[For signal:]] They're signaling no. Now we're going to hear from the representatives. I give the floor to Congressman Zoltán Haughty.
u2016-10-24-301	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. This referendum initiative belongs to my fellow Member Zoltán Kész. I think that, seeing the great urination and the things that have developed around the central bank, there would be nothing more justified than an amendment to the law to return to the former level, in Hungarian, on the two million-dollar ceiling. This was initiated by our fellow Member. More than 100,000 people signed for this. I think the support for this is very, very high. In the general debate, it was said that this is not so much support. I'd like to say that I told you that no one asked anyone to close the shops on Sunday, but they did it. We don't know how much support that had, but I'm sure it would meet the will of the people. It is also true that this could be resolved in two ways: either released and found out in the referendum, or the law that restores this to the level that Fidesz demanded in 2010. So I continue to propose and think that this referendum initiative should be dismissed, or that the government should present us with a bill to withdraw from this rather harsh increase in salaries. There's been quite a lot of debate about the raises on who's raised what. Minister of State Rétvári's memory was rather short, although he was very young in 2002, when we made a 50 percent wage increase because he said that there were unprecedented wage increases. Interestingly, it never gets to people. So somewhere in the mazes, this money is lost, either because it's done with some bad technique, or because there's a lot of people left out. I believe that if they were to withdraw from this, there would be at least half a sector of people's resources to have a substantial salary increase there, and not just an increase in the minimum wage that no one can benefit from, just the government. So be brave, I can suggest to the not too many MPs present, and tomorrow they will vote for the version of the announcement of the referendum. But here is Secretary of State, if you say that you will submit this law tomorrow, there is still time for it, then it should be able to deliver the same solution. Thank you so much for listening.
u2016-10-24-302	I now give the floor to Congressman György Szilágyi.
u2016-10-24-303	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. In my opinion, the aim and subject of the referendum could be debated professionally, otherwise, whether this is appropriate or not appropriate. I think there would be pro and versus arguments as to whether it is necessary to set a wage ceiling for determining the salaries of state-owned companies, or rather to establish a system that could properly measure performance at the head of these companies and compare, say, their salary. As I say, this could be a professional debate. What we believe cannot continue in this case is that the national referendum - in this, I think, we all agree - is the strongest instrument of direct democracy. We believe that this should be respected. Unfortunately, in the last six years, you have been discrediting the institution of the referendum on the basis of various laws and scandals. [[20.00]] That was to the point where the last referendum was not effective, although you believe it was successful. But then, following this logic, this referendum initiative was not effective from the point of view of collecting signatures, because it did not reach the 200 thousand valid votes, but it was successful because more than 100,000 people signed it. So, based on this logic, you should now support this referendum initiative. The Jobbik Movement for Hungary, precisely because we really believe that the referendum is the strongest instrument of direct democracy, even if we may not fully agree, and I say once again: it is possible to argue whether it is the right wording professionally or not... - otherwise, this debate was opened by you in 2010, because I think you will remember when Viktor Orbán stood up between the walls of this House and said that now, from now on, it is a pay ceiling, and what huge money these company leaders are earning. This new war of freedom that Viktor Orbán announced at that time lasted until your people were included in these positions. As your people are in these positions, at the moment the 2 million-dollar ceiling does not count, it can be lifted to 5 million forints, because that money is now traveling to friends, relatives, vassals and retainers, and then the nature of the public money does not matter. So I would not like to open up the things that were said during the general debate, because it also had a rather serious afterlife, because, as I look at it, videos were made of the general debate, these videos on Facebook gained quite a lot of ratings, and quite a lot of people watched the debate we had here on how to prevent fundamental law changes, how to put referendums ahead and the like. So I will say this again: I do not want to open this debate. One thing is certain: the Jobbik Movement for Hungary pays attention to people, takes seriously the signature of more than 100,000 people, and therefore, if they want to issue a referendum on this issue, we naturally feel that it is our duty to support this referendum initiative. That is why we will also support the vote to have a referendum on this issue in the country. Thank you so much for listening. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-10-24-304	I ask my fellow Members if anyone else would like to comment on the bill. [[There's no candidate.]] I do not see a candidate, so the debate is closed. I will ask Congressman György Rubovszky if he wishes to comment. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2016-10-24-305	Thank you very much. I can only welcome Mr Szilágyi's statement that he does not want to open the general debate. I'm on the same page. I would like to make one point: signing under 100,000 does not give us the opportunity to debate. Between 100 and 200,000 Parliament can consider and decide, over 200,000 signatures the Parliament cannot consider, but must be ordered. We're here because there's between 100 and 200,000 funding. We are in fact at the stage of the detailed debate here, there was one amendment which bled to death before the Judicial Committee, but the substantive decision is not prevented by the rejection of the amendment, because the Judicial Committee has tabled a proposal for a decision that the Parliament is free to adopt any decision. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-10-24-306	Ladies and gentlemen, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. The Commission's report on the national referendum is now under discussion. H/12351 submitted by the Judicial Committee The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. I'll ask György Rubovszky again if he wants to comment. [[Dr. György Rubovszky: No.]] He says he doesn't want to comment right now. I'll ask if anyone on the government's side wants to comment. [[There's no candidate.]] He doesn't want to comment right now. Thus, the representatives' contributions will follow. I give the floor to Congressman Zoltán Haughty.
u2016-10-24-307	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I note this amendment proposal, I am one of its notaries, and I think it would have been fair for Parliament to propose that it was in favour and that it could have been voted off, I think. So that's why we submitted this amendment, and not double it. The technical part of the debate on the other legislative proposals was largely clarified, so why not support the sale of land, and I thought at the time when I presented this proposal that it should be brought to the highest forum. For this, we have signed over 240,000 signatures, of which 18,000 were found to be double, it is obviously deducted, one part, and then there are about 24-25 thousand signatures, which are highly debatable as to why they have now been ignored, but the Election Office has also acknowledged that over 180,000, i.e. 181 thousand valid signatures have been collected for this initiative. I believe that Parliament would be correct in such a case if, as the Prime Minister's initiative, he could freely decide, as my fellow Member said, to put out a referendum. You can do that tomorrow. I don't have too many illusions, I can see that, but there's no professional reason for it, but it's just that after they've submitted a bill that's supposed to make it useless, it doesn't have to be written out. I believe that, even if that were the case, the procedure would be that the referendum will now be issued by Parliament and then attacked by the person who does not agree with this in the Constitutional Court, and that we should entrust it to the Constitutional Court as the supreme judiciary, that the law that the majority will adopt tomorrow will indeed replace the referendum initiative. I am convinced that it is not, but I think that this should not be decided by the Members, but that we should go through the legal process, and then, at the end, the Constitutional Court might say that I have made a motion to legislate against the sale of state land. Obviously, this is not the same in my view as the fact that, in a bill, there is only one conclusion to an auction process, because regardless of other sales, we obviously know that it will continue, with which, by the way, we do not agree that the small areas that we are talking about are the ones that could best help smaller producers, as well as very well, organically connected social cooperatives, and the other. So I will continue to say that we should have the courage in this House, and then life will decide, especially if the two are written together, then we can save enough of the costs. Obviously, as an initiative, we wouldn't have 17 billion to make good advertising for this, or perhaps it wouldn't be necessary, because we asked a clearer question than the government with its own question, which, by the way, couldn't get an effective referendum. Thank you very much.
u2016-10-24-308	I now give the floor to Congressman Zoltán Magyar.
u2016-10-24-309	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, There is a proposal before us that has already been thoroughly discussed in the general debate, but it should be stressed again that Jobbik's position is that we would like it to be a referendum, because the referendum is already politically valid, because those who have signed it would like it to be a referendum - perhaps a hundred percent, I think, would like it to be a referendum. I also think it would be worth letting go of this, because the polls - I would stress it again - show decisively that all the electoral camps behind the larger party, including those that are still uncertain today, would like the ground-privatisation not to have happened. In this form, we can speak on their behalf. The fact that the opposition has failed to collect the appropriate number of signatures, I would not draw far-reaching conclusions either, since there was no nearly HUF 20 billion campaign behind it, and let's face it, the land issue today does not seem to be the meaty issue in the eyes of a larger part of society, unfortunately. I think that if people had been asked about the coercion quota case or anything like that two years ago, we would have experienced a similar lack of interest, and you could not have produced a valid referendum after such a campaign. Another story is that it might be worth thinking about taking down the validity threshold to 25 percent again, because it is clear that, in practice, even for a campaign of nearly 20 billion, the 50 percent threshold does not work. [[20.10]] The state of Hungarian society is quite simply so, and the fact that Fidesz has made a party policy of the issue may have contributed to the lack of interest, but in any case we can see that the majority of people have not left. The issue is outdated in such a way that you have privatised most of the state's land, but it is feared that the leftovers or the forest, as has already been said here, may be able to privatise, so it would certainly provide some protection if you went through and this referendum was successful. As I pointed out, Fidesz voters would like this, by the way, as we know from polls, they could also make a gesture in this form by having a say in such an important issue. The status of the referendum itself is at about the same level as in the case of the quota referendum, there was not a sufficient number there, there were no 200,000 signatures, but, given the legal possibilities, you proposed this to the House for a referendum. In such a way, you can do this now, but there is more support behind it, since a valid recommendation of over 100 thousand has been made. For these reasons, we believe that even if you are largely late, since you have already sold most of these areas, it would certainly be worth holding this referendum. Thank you, Mr. President. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-10-24-310	I now give the floor to Congressman Gergely Bárándy.
u2016-10-24-311	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, In addition to thanking, of course, for the supporting words of my fellow opposition Member, I would like to add an addition, namely that the MSZP has managed to collect the appropriate number of signatures, because we have signed 240 thousand signatures at the National Election Office. In every referendum initiative that has been held so far, there are around 15 percent of the wrong, inadequate signatures, probably in this collection of signatures neither the signature collectors nor the people with their signature are dumber than in the case of previous referendums, in Hungarian, it is simply that the National Election Office has cheated this referendum. In other words, the signature came together. And since you couldn't cheat him enough to get the 100,000 signatures out of you, we're gonna have to negotiate here in Parliament. But this is the contentious debate that we have already had, and we have also held the debate that if 200,000 signatures are mandatory for Parliament, then what moral obligation exists, let us say, in a case where more than 90 percent of this is available. Here at Parliament, I think it would be not a legal, but a moral duty to issue this referendum. However, I would also like to say a few words in the remaining timeframe that, in my view - and this is indeed a formal issue - the report submitted by the Judicial Committee to the plenary session is quite simply illegal and house-breaking. There was a debate about this on the Justice Committee. In fact, I have to say that President Rubovszky is also in the position... - obviously it is no longer advisable to do this here, as he is here as a pro-government representative and chairman of the committee, but that it would be practically the right method if the Justice Committee had submitted a clear version to the Parliament, that is, either our decision in the Committee on Justice is about ordering a referendum or not. Obviously, since Parliament's operation is always, if you like, about positive proposals which the House does not accept, so it is against the vote, it would have been right - and we made a motion for it - if the Justice Committee had put forward that the Parliament should order the referendum, and the Parliament would either vote for it or vote against it. This would have been a clear situation, just as we do not normally put forward in legislative proposals that there is an A-version that the Parliament should vote for the bill, there is a B-version, so that Parliament does not vote for the bill or an amendment proposal. It's silly, and just because there was a previous bad precedent doesn't mean we should go on with it. I have also said in the Committee on Justice that the reference that we have made before is not appropriate to support, as an argument, the fact that we want to make the wrong decision again. At the time I quoted László Kövér, who in a similar case, when he did not give the floor to the representative of the LMP for a Prime Minister's response because he was not a deputy group leader, and in the House Committee the LMP made the argument that he had previously given the word to a Fidesz non-group leader at this time, then he said: yes, that was a mistake then, but the mistake at that time was not an argument to make a mistake now. I'm saying the same thing, nothing more than this presentation: because then the committee made a bad decision, based on which it is foolish to make a wrong decision again. The only good and house-ruled solution would have been in my view: if the committee had presented the version of its proposal to the Parliament to issue a referendum, the Parliament would have decided whether or not the majority would have voted in favour of it. So this is the formal part. But - once again - because it is not a formality, but hundreds of thousands of people, I can almost say in plural, the will and signature of 180,000 people, yet I think that within the walls of this House it should be said that this will should be taken into account by the government, and since Parliament has the opportunity to issue this referendum, and we have not heard any professional arguments from either the government or the governing parties to this day why they do not want to issue this referendum, this should be supported. We have also tried to return to the Committee on Justice to hear at least a few professional arguments from our fellow Members - this experiment has unfortunately failed. So I think that at the will of 180,000 people, because what you're doing right now, I'm not writing it out because it's just an outrageous and cynical attitude, so please change your mind. Thank you very much.
u2016-10-24-312	Thank you. I'm asking if anyone else would like to comment on this item. [[No one's reporting.]] I do not see a candidate, so the debate is closed. I will ask Congressman György Rubovszky if he wishes to comment. [[Dr. György Rubovszky stands up.]] It says yes. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2016-10-24-313	Thank you for the floor. I didn't want to comment because I have just expressed my opinion, but I must reject the last sentence of my fellow Member, Mr Gergely Bárándy. The Justice Committee doesn't propose that it doesn't. Alternative to the Judicial Committee [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: Yes and no!]] What he attacked, yes or no. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: But this is not clear! Zoltán Grimlock: If I want to, she is pregnant, if I want not, she will always find out at the end!]] This is not the same as my position, I explained it there, I said it there, but here I represent the majority will, and the majority of the committee has decided that this is an alternative question. There wasn't a proposal that I didn't. Sometimes, yes, no. Tomorrow the House will decide. Thank you.
u2016-10-24-314	Thank you. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. The 2013 CCXL on the implementation of penalties, measures, certain coercive measures and detention of infringements will now follow. The Commission's reports on the amendment of law and related legislation and the discussion of the summary amendment proposal. The government referral T/12179. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. First, I would like to ask the author, Mr Pál Völner, if he wishes to comment. [[Dr. Pál Völner says no.]] He says he doesn't want to comment right now. The designated Judicial Committee has not presented a rapporteur, so it is now possible to address its representatives. I give the floor to Congressman Imre Horváth.
u2016-10-24-315	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, I also welcomed the fact that the Ministry of Justice was trying to solve a series of violations of detention rights and to avoid further decisions in Strasbourg condemning Hungary. [[20.20]] At the same time, I also pointed out that increasing the possibility of enforcement alone does not solve the problems. The proposed bill also suggests that the commanders and staff of the Bv institutions would not, out of mere neglect, ensure the proper placement of the prisoners, which can be remedied by the omission of a well-written complaint. In fact, however, the Bv commanders and their subordinates will do their best to ensure that the accommodation conditions provided for in the legislation are as good as possible under the existing step-by-step circumstances. Only by legal means can it not substantially improve the conditions which the Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg considers to be in breach of fundamental rights. I have explained that it would be a real solution if, instead of creating procedures that seem to be a rule of law, but actually leading to absurd situations of life, the government were to eliminate the circumstances that violate human dignity. So the bill, although it sets the right goals, is based on a wrong approach. To correct this, the detailed debate and the procedure of the Legislative Committee are essentially inadequate. Thus, the summarised amendment also contains only technical and linguistic specifications. These amendments are necessary, but they do not address the essential shortcomings. Finally, it would also be worth considering whether the profession has been asked about this bill, as it is a more than 30-page bill in its volume. As far as I know, I've been informed at the competent department of the University of Public Service, and they didn't even know that such a bill was actually being presented. It is very important for the profession to give an opinion on this bill. In view of this, the Group of the Hungarian Socialist Party will vote against both the vote on the summary amendment and the final vote on the bill as a whole. Thank you very much.
u2016-10-24-316	I ask my fellow Members if anyone else would like to comment on the item on the agenda. [[No signal.]] I do not see a candidate, so the debate is closed. I'll ask the Secretary of State if he'd like to comment. [[For signal:]] Mr. Secretary of State Pál Völner has the floor.
u2016-10-24-317	Thank you for the floor, Mr President, for just one sentence. It has been said, on the part of the Member, that this is not a sufficient amendment, but it is also obvious that we are not able to present the prison-building and accommodation expansion programme within this legislative package, which is also part of the same package, but is not the subject of today's debate. Thank you.
u2016-10-24-318	Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. CXXXIV of 2013 on the provision of individual public services and related legislative amendments. Discussion of the Commission's reports on the proposed amendment to the Act. The government referral is T/12369. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. First, I would like to ask the author, Mr Pogácsás Tibor, if he would like to comment now. [[For signal:]] It says no. Two speakers will present the minority opinion formulated in the Committee on Sustainable Development. In this context, I give the floor first to Mrs Anita Heringes.
u2016-10-24-319	Thank you very much for the floor. At the committee meeting, as is usually the case, only opposition representatives expressed their views. All three opposition representatives have spoken in order that they will not say no to this amendment themselves in the vote, but, basically, that the whole system you have come up with is completely wrong. A well-functioning system has been destroyed by the government. A waste management system has been established that is unsustainable at the moment. I regret that the Ministry of Interior must now defend the honour of the mundane, since it is the Ministry of Development who is normally the coordinating and managing body in this area. After disaster management, who takes over the tasks in the event that a well-intentioned company cannot continue to operate in a system destroyed by the government, which is most often a municipal-owned non-profit company... - then disaster protection takes over the role of designation, he tells us who will continue to perform the service. That's why you're sitting here, Secretary of State, trying to protect the mundane's honor. My fellow Member, Mr Benedek, said that it would be a much greater task to obtain much more energy, as this would be the real system of waste management if we could create a system that is sustainable. Therefore, as a minority opinion, it was important for all three of us to formulate a new law, create a new law, talk to the profession, and put this system in order, which is now really kicking its last.
u2016-10-24-320	I would like to point out that Congressman Lajos Kepli is not here, so the other half cannot speak to the minority opinion. Now, the speeches will be made by the Members, if anyone feels the urge to do so. [[For signal:]] Yes, Congresswoman Anita Heringes has the floor.
u2016-10-24-321	Thank you very much. I'll try, like every time you talk about waste management, convince you. I regret that none of my fellow members from the committee are present, and very few are in your ranks. But regardless, I'm gonna try to see if anyone in the business can read back the report, see if anyone can finally hear the word that the heads of a lot of government-owned nonprofit companies are yelling into the air that it's not gonna go any further. After all, as a coordinating body, you created on April 1 the monster plant called NHKV, which has received nothing but and only to send the invoices to the public from April 1st. Most of the population hadn't received these bills until last week, and then even in my small town, the April, the first quarter account arrived only at the end of last week, and they are still slipping, and the next quarter hasn't arrived, and the population will have to pay three quarters of a year's bill at the same time, because they have created a company that, as we see now, doesn't do its job, doesn't make any sense. Many people also say that they still received their accounts by receiving the NHKV account, but the original company sends it out because you still haven't been able to process the addresses, the data they're asking for, so if it's a designated service provider, he can get the data, and he'll have to collect the money, the service fee with the reduced amount. One task for the government would be to continue the social debate on this issue, to set up a law that is sustainable; to create a law that is really good for both municipal companies, it is good for the population, and we should not be arguing here - now I don't know what amendment we are in - but we are over 15, that is for sure, what concerns waste management over the last two years - we should not be discussing this issue here, but we could finally create something good. I can't believe there's no such intention in the government to finally create something good, a system that works. They won't just leave behind systems after 2018 that will all fall apart. Ladies and gentlemen, I trust there are experts in the government. I trust that the expert will come out of the deepest of these people, and that professionalism will be more important to them than party discipline. Thank you very much.
u2016-10-24-322	Thank you. If there is no further intention of commenting, the debate is closed. I'll ask the Secretary of State if he'd like to comment. [[For signal:]] It says yes. Secretary Tibor Pogácsás has the floor.
u2016-10-24-323	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, As has already been said the previous time, the bill itself is a small-scale bill aimed at introducing a uniform procedure, so that when a public service provider is appointed for temporary care, the same billing and financing rules and data management rules should apply to the public service as in the normal course of service. [[20.30]] The arguments raised in the debate do not concern this bill, as the State's involvement in shipments of waste based on public service contracts is linked to the National Waste Management Co-ordinator and Asset Management Ltd. as a coordinating body, as a result of the Act of April 2016, and this body is entitled to collect public service charges from real estate users at the moment and to pay the funds due to the public service companies. It is this body which, by the way, is in constant contact with the municipalities. This bill also makes clear by the Directorate for Disaster Management in the case of official designation that the coordinating body is responsible from 2017 for collecting the temporary supply fee from the population and for paying service charges containing the total direct cost of supply. The specific amount of the service fee shall be determined on the basis of the detailed calculation laid down in the NFM Regulation, for which the public service provider shall provide the personal data contained in the Waste Act and any other information on the basis of which the coordinating body may charge the temporary supply fee to the population and may pay the service fee to the designated service provider. During the debate, the question was raised as to why the rules on data processing are being incorporated now. The reason for this is clear and simple that when the temporary benefit law was published and when the temporary benefits started, the coordinating body had not yet performed a task for either the population or the service providers, it was later involved in this process. That is why we must now lay down the rules on data processing in the legislation. On this basis, I ask the Honourable Parliament to adopt the bill. Thank you for the floor, Mr President.
u2016-10-24-324	Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on our meeting tomorrow. The Commission's reports on the amendment of Act I of 2010 on the registrar procedure and the discussion of the summary amendment are now in order. The representatives of Zsolt Semjén, Imre Vejkey, Alpár Gyopáros and Imre Vas submitted T/1206. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. Meanwhile, Mr László Salacz joined the motion. First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. I therefore give the floor to Mr László Salacz, rapporteur of the committee.
u2016-10-24-325	Mr President, Dear House, I would like to inform you that, at its meeting on 20 October 2016, the Legislative Committee discussed the amendment of Act I of 2010 on the Registration Procedure T/12067. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report shall be drawn up by the Committee in accordance with Article 10/2014 of the Rules of Procedure. Parliamentary resolution No 46. It adopted it by 23 votes in favour, 7 against and 3 abstentions. During the committee meeting, the members discussed the amendments tabled by the Judicial Committee in the background, which mainly contain technical clarifications. However, I would also like to draw attention to a substantive amendment. One point of the proposal clarifies that a two-member family name may also be used in the name of a predator and states that the proposal does not provide a legal basis for replacing the last name with a predator name. Furthermore, a pre-registered name may be used as a multi-member family name if the intention to do so is notified in writing to the registry administrator concerned. Ladies and gentlemen, This bill helps citizens whose current legislation does not allow them to bear the name they had previously worn in the way they would otherwise have worn for 30 to 40 years. Please support the adoption of the bill. Thank you for listening.
u2016-10-24-326	Thank you. I'll ask if you'd like to comment as rapporteur. [[Dr. László Salacz: No.]] I guess not. Mr László Salacz indicated that he did not wish to comment now. I'm asking if anyone on behalf of the government would like to comment. [[No one's reporting.]] They don't want to comment. No rapporteur was presented by the designated Judicial Committee. We now have speeches from Members. Mr László Teleki has indicated his intention to speak. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2016-10-24-327	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, The reason why I thought I had to speak to this law is because you can see that public employment is also included in the law, trying to establish a system of how the birth certificate should happen. The Hungarian Socialist Party has said several times and has made several suggestions that this should be expressed differently than is in the law. In particular, it called for an increase in public workers' wages to be equal to the minimum wage, which should have been dealt with rather than the application of the Labour Code. I think that these are important, that the law should have gone in this direction. On this basis, the Hungarian Socialist Party cannot support this bill. [[Sándor Burány applauds.]]
u2016-10-24-328	Thank you. I now give the floor to Congressman Csaba Gyüre.
u2016-10-24-329	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, I think that my fellow Member, who spoke before me, could overlook the title of the current bill, because it does not involve public employment and so on, but it is about wearing the names of predators, bringing back the possibility of voting on the current bill. On behalf of the Jobbik Hungary Movement in the Commission debate, which my fellow Member Salacz spoke about, we have already expressed our position. We have remained in a minority by not supporting this bill. Why we did not support it, I said this in the Commission debate. The point of this is that, on the one hand, it is not exactly stated, Hungarian linguists have not yet spelled out exactly what the name of the predator means, what is included in this concept. First of all, we should clarify exactly the concept, and then we could decide whether we need it or not. We think that there is no need, because according to linguists, the name repulsive arose primarily from the nasty name, the nickname, or embodys a characteristic physical, mental, or spiritual quality of the person who received this type of repulsive name. It is true that the bill does not make it compulsory to reinstate or restore old predatory names, which is why we have decided not to vote no in this case; it does not make it mandatory, it only gives us the opportunity. But in any case, given the fact that it was primarily registered as an ugly name, a nickname, or derivatives thereof, we cannot support it. One more thing: in practice, I asked the birthing director about the possibility of applying this. I have spoken to many of them, who are a practicing registrar, and they all have a negative view of this matter, so they do not consider it helpful. We believe that it will not cause very serious damage, so the Jobbik Movement for Hungary is staying in this case. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2016-10-24-330	I'm asking if anyone else would like to comment on this bill. [[György Szilágyi reporting.]] Congressman György Szilágyi has indicated his intention. You have the floor.
u2016-10-24-331	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. I'd like to say one more addition. In Hungary, there are rather serious requirements for the use of first names, so even if families want to give their children an ancient Hungarian name, a separate application must be submitted, and this is considered by different authorities. An ancient Hungarian first name can be given to children only if they are allowed. So it's kind of weird that with last names, there wouldn't be any such restriction after that. Anything, as my fellow Member said, could be a nasty name, a nickname, and anything else in the name of these people, and they could use it officially. [[20.40]] In our opinion, this is not the best way, in this form, because in our opinion, to use a nickname, an ugly name, or anything else, but an ancient Hungarian name cannot automatically be used, since it requires a specific authorisation, which is not, in our opinion, the most appropriate procedure in Hungary today. That is why, as my fellow Member said, we do not support this amendment. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2016-10-24-332	I'm asking if anyone else wants to comment. [[There's no candidate.]] I do not see a candidate, so the debate is closed. I will ask the author, László Salacz, if he wishes to comment. [[For signal:]] It says no. Ladies and gentlemen, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. The Commission's reports on the proposed amendment to the establishment, maintenance and functioning of university hospitals and the discussion of the summarised amendment are now in order. T/12339 submitted by MEPs Lajos Kósa, László Pósán, János Halász and László Kucsák The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. I give the floor to Congressman László Kucsák, rapporteur of the committee.
u2016-10-24-333	Mr. President. Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, I would like to inform you that, at its meeting on 20 October 2016, the Legislative Committee discussed the T/12339 amending certain laws on the establishment, maintenance and operation of university hospitals. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report shall be drawn up by the Committee in accordance with Article 10/2014 of the Rules of Procedure. Parliamentary resolution 46. It adopted it by 22 votes in favour, 4 against and 3 abstentions. During the committee meeting, the members discussed the amendment proposed by the Cultural Committee in the background and the Legislative Committee, which included proposed additions and aimed at a substantive amendment. The main amendments are as follows. The National Assembly is entitled to establish, convert and terminate a higher education institution as a budgetary body. Therefore, the National Assembly can determine how it can deploy management powers in a medical higher education institution and in a procedure. Furthermore, one of the transitional provisions clarifies that the new qualifications conditions should apply only to managers appointed after the entry into force of this proposal and that the management mandates established before the entry into force of this proposal will continue to apply after the entry into force of this proposal. In addition, the XXXVI of 1992 on the status of civil servants is added. Law to derogate from the general rule laid down in Law I of 2012 on the Labour Code if a doctor who is employed as a public servant at the university is also working in a hospital. The amendment clarifies that a derogation from the rules of the Labour Code is possible in the relationship between the medical higher education institution and the relevant healthcare provider. In this case, the Labour Code is 53. The period of employment referred to in paragraph 1 of Section 1 shall not exceed the working day of 220 posts or 1760 hours per calendar year. Ladies and gentlemen, In the light of what has just been said, please support the bill. Thank you for listening.
u2016-10-24-334	Thank you. I will ask the Member if he wishes to comment as a rapporteur. [[For signal:]] It indicates that you do not wish to comment in this way. I'm asking if the government has any intention of commenting. [[For signal:]] No. No rapporteur was presented by the designated Cultural Committee. It is now time for the speeches by its representatives. I'm asking if anyone wants to comment. [[There's no candidate.]] I do not see a candidate, so the debate, the non-existent debate, is closed. Again, I would like to ask Congressman Kucsák if he would like to comment. [[For signal:]] It says no. Ladies and gentlemen, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. This brings us to the end of the discussion of today's agendas. We now have post-scheduled speeches. First of all, Mr László Teleki applied for a speech after the agenda:, they destroyed the title of vocational training. I'll give the floor to Congressman.
u2016-10-24-335	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, I am pleased that there is a government representative after the agenda, because at least he may answer the questions that I would like to ask. Here, I would like to point out to the government that the new vocational training system, which has been introduced, is bleeding from a hundred wounds, just because everything that has been touched so far means that it shows that vocational training has stopped in Hungary. More and more people also indicate that vocational training is not visible in Hungary, or that professionals cannot be found, or that professional training is not able to come out of professional training right now. As a result, my question is what the Ministry would like to do to ensure that vocational training really reaches the area that could be important to us and that target group. I am thinking primarily of young people, whether the vocational training system that has now been transferred to a vocational secondary school system has worked in your opinion, and whether that vocational training is in the right place now. We see that this is not all right at all, and we see it as very bad not only because you have reduced the obligation to study from 18 to 16 years, but also because we do not see the exit time where this thing can go. As a result, it is natural for me that the layer that has tried most to move towards the vocational training programme does not now see the target group that could go in this direction. I am referring primarily to the complexly disadvantaged settlement structures that can be found in Eastern Hungary, Northern Hungary or even in the Ormany, where they can use it. It's really the only thing that they could do right at a time like this, it's a good profession. The profession should also be provided with a training to ensure that there is no question in Hungary today that it is not sufficiently seen by the learner, the parent or the profession where the vocational training system will lead. As a result, the question arises as to how you have carried out professional consultations and how you have tried to reconcile with the profession in such a way that students and parents are involved in how to take vocational training there, so that you can teach a profession of value that you can truly live in the world and use it in so-called capital life. The other important issue arises from this: we often say that the government makes various discussions with the profession. I think there is a major issue here that I should ask more and more effectively whether the profession has been consulted. I am thinking of the teaching faculty, first of all, whether it has been discussed with the teachers, whether it is good or if it will be useful for future generations. What I can see is that there hasn't been much discussion in this. From this point forward, it is natural for the government today to say whether the vocational training system is sustainable or whether it wants to change the way in which more people enter the school system and learn a profession that will become a marketable profession. It is your responsibility, of course, to oriente young people on this issue and to oriente them in the direction that the good profession is important in Hungary today, because in Hungary there were many times very many generations, if you like, only links to enable them to live if they could choose a good profession and provide education that is necessary and absolutely good for them to acquire the profession. [[20.50]] I'm not gonna go into the rumor that, by the way, you can hear that vocational education is at such a high level that you can't really get a carpenter's bar, and there's no way to put it into practice, because you can't do it without material needs. But this is true of masons and other professions. The question is whether these rumors are true, whether they are not even available to teach practical education properly. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2016-10-24-336	Thank you. I ask Mr Secretary of State if he wishes to respond to what has been said. [[Dr. László Palkovics:]] You have the floor.
u2016-10-24-337	Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Ladies and gentlemen of the Council, What you said, Congressman, we absolutely agree. Indeed, the way it works is the skills, the skills that everyone, regardless of the background of the family, from which region of the country can prevail. This is exactly what the government has set out to do, and this is also what the transformation of the vocational training system serves in the sense that this is why we have created the vocational school, which is doing three things at the same time. First, he provides the same degree in public knowledge as any high school, so there will be no difference here. The second is that he gives a profession, so in the four years after he completes the gymnasium, he has a profession. Today's VET system, which was established in 2004, does not ensure this, since additional studies or parallel studies must be carried out there. Our goal was to make sure that after four years he had a qualification. The third element, which is provided by the vocational high school, provides the possibility for a student to graduate from basic objects or basic objects belonging to the profession, which is one of the conditions for admission. In this way, the presumptions that a vocational high school would exclude a student from a university admission are not so. In the same way, the vocational school, which used to work as a vocational school, is brought up one level. The aim of this is to ensure that those who want to work as skilled workers after a shorter learning period - although further learning, the opportunity to graduate - are able to gain a truly valuable profession. There is a lot going on in this area, the creation of vocational training centres, the development of their funding, and the change of their funding ensure this precisely. I am very confident that we cannot set an example, and that is indeed just a rumor, as the Member said, that there is no malter for mason students or wood for carpentry students to be able to practice this. We've created a series of other options. We have created the possibility of dual training so that students can gain experience not only in vocational school or in vocational secondary school, but also in companies, which complements school practice. It is very important that the kind of early orientation that must begin in primary school and even in kindergarten tell you what these professions mean, that when students get there, they have to decide what they want to do, not just look around and don't know what to do with it. I think that this is all the role of compulsory kindergartening and the transformation of school training. So the government's policy is moving in exactly the same direction as the Member said. Thank you.
u2016-10-24-338	Thank you. Member Mr Ander Balázs applied for a speech after the next agenda: Can't Francis be an inmate? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2016-10-24-339	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, We were not a fascist mob, but Hungarian patriots who wanted to live freely in their own country. We wanted a free and independent Hungary, which gave us a weapon even in the hands of the children," said the Corvin Public Commander, who gave the 56-hole flag to Jobbik's young people, the legendary immortal hero Gergely Pongrátz, who on 26 October 1956 humiliated one of the oldest Soviet troops, the 33rd mechanized guard division with eight hundred desperate Pest guys. On the 60th anniversary of the Revolution and the War of Independence, the 20th century On the anniversary of the greatest event of the century, many of us dressed our souls in celebrations, and I myself, in several settlements of my constituency, bowed my head to the kopja trees erected in memory of the freedom fighters holding arms against the Communist dictatorship. But such is the Hungarian fate, the festival could not be complete. How could it have been complete, when, on the 50th anniversary of the revolution of 56 the chief ringer, who chased the crowd of celebrations, casts out his eyes, could still be out on the loose in a mean manner, instigating the people? The reason this man is not behind me is because he is in a good mood not to attend Parliament meetings, and he is not here because he would have been struck by the fist of truth during the big order, and now, let us be allowed, he would be crumbling his days in a Brussels-compatible or EU-compliant cell. Unfortunately, that's not how it happened, Gy. Ferenc did not become an inmate, but the bitter reality sheds light on several other aspects of the fact that we are indebted to his unrealized ideas until now. It reminds us, for example, of the demands of students of the University of Arts that remain to this day. His embezzled, sabotaged national will embezzled in 16 points 26 years. It is no celebration, therefore, to list the shortcomings, as what would be said about the Pest guys who were tortured by Soviet trackers, who were tortured by puffy traitors, sent to the gallows by Kádár, Tinyó, Dögei, if they could see that this could be a problem for a quarter of a century after the change of regime. Because as the Soviet Union once forced its will upon us, it took our uranium treasure and made us a country of poverty and steel, a people of deserted deserts robbing in Colhozs, we are now a colony. Within the periphery, too, it is increasingly a homage area ripped out by zealous governors and disgustingly pompous Hungarian oligarchs. The parallels of imperial dependence across the century are shocking. Consider, for example, the seventh point on the list of university youth. They are going to re-examine our entire economic system with regard to the domestic conditions and the interests of our Hungarian people. It is possible to squeamish like a snob, saying that the updating of revolutionary demands is unhistoric and sacrilegeful, but then it would also be appropriate to answer how much better it is to build the country of assembly plants after the country of iron and steel of Rákosi. This path is synonymous with the preservation of the backward structure of the economy, which is nothing more than a strategy for self-destruction. And perhaps the millions of Hungarians held as wage slaves could not rightly echo the ninth point of the MEFES today: we demand the urgent and fundamental settlement of the wage claims of workers and intellectuals. Please state the minimum living standards for the workers. With real wages before the regime change, forced into debt slavery, forced into western turf, shivering in homes threatened by mortgaged and loan shark jackals, how right it would be to do so now. In spite of the national rhetoric of all kinds, the multinationals, the leaders of our markets, who demonstrate zero social solidarity, and the government's Bermuda triangle, can easily feel lost by the early rise-up, hard-working young people, the intimidated, humiliated, workers-poor Hungarian workers. On the other hand, we believe that the Hungarian worker is not a labour animal, but a dignified, valuable member of the nation. They're the real resource. The only national wealth on which a successful national strategy can be based. This is also the message of 56. It would be nice to hear this Brusselsian rags that deny millennia of tradition and dress up in extreme liberal rags, as well as the Gucci Ridiculous Flying Flying Flying Flying Flying Flying Flying with a helicopter, and to do so! Blessed be the memory of the heroes. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-10-24-340	Tamás Pintér, Member of the European Parliament, asked to speak after the next agenda:. Fidesz's seven main sin - or who is the real traitor? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2016-10-24-341	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Although only one Member of the 131 Fidesz Members remained here, I would like to say that the events that have taken place in recent years raise some serious concerns about Fidesz' suitability for governance. And while we are sure that they will receive their worthy judgment in purgatory because of their lies, their laziness, their greed, their pride, if they accept the constitutional amendment without change, I will not fine-tune: they will commit treason. But let us consider Fidesz's seven main crimes one by one, which were committed in dealing with or not dealing with the migrant crisis. The first is they didn't build the fence in time. Because like it or not, we proposed to build a fence at the border in 2015 to curb the migration wave. Unfortunately, time has proven us, and we now know that a fence built at the same time could not have developed situations like the Keleti railway station in Hungary. [[21.00]] But no, here you were not interested in our opinion, our proposal for a solution, and Hungary had to pay for it. So we can ask who the real traitor is. They did not create an independent border guard; this is the second. The delay has also caused a huge problem here, because hundreds of people have already crossed the border without proper control, endangering the existence of Hungary and European citizens. But no, you've been leading things around again instead of taking immediate action to protect our borders. So we can ask again who is the real traitor, my dear fellow Member. They didn't change the constitution in time; that's the third. As early as April, Gábor Vona suggested that an immediate solution, the Fundamental Law, should be amended in order to protect the country. But no. Instead, they took the country into a shady, long referendum process and the dirty campaign with it. Rather, they drew a card to 19, and hoped for political gain, to which the Hungarian people had paid their dues. We can ask you who the real traitor is. They distracted the importance of voting with fidesz criminals. Of course, when the country was in trouble, and you were still thinking about filling your wallets, you kept pushing your little doggies, ignoring the ongoing migration crisis. So you're looking for reasons for low participation? I think we should take a look at it ourselves, gentlemen. So if you're looking for the real traitors, you should find them among you. The fifth is when 15 billion forints were spent on an unnecessary referendum. How much money could you have spent on, gentlemen? Let's stick to the subject: it could have been turned into the border guard. But no, you agreed to a referendum in Vajna's casino, put 15 billion forints on the roulette, and unfortunately we believe you lost it. With that kind of force, they could have wrapped it in a bag and grinded it into a helicopter rotor. I'd like to ask you where the real traitors are. They gave Brussels a gun with an invalid referendum. Hungary and the Hungarian people have an elemental interest in stopping the migration wave and preventing migrants from being relocated to Hungary. This fundamental interest is completely against Brussels. With the failed referendum, the weapon was placed in the hands of Brussels, against the interests of the Hungarian people. There can hardly be any greater treason, my fellow Members of the Fidesz. And you still think of us as traitors when you put a sharp weapon in the hands of the enemy? ! But let's take the worst of all. Paying terrorist migrants would continue to be allowed to enter Hungary, Hungary. While they talk about the need to stop migration, terrorism, they continue to ensure, for their own financial interests, that people who are the most dangerous can come to our security of life. The real terrorists never came across the border, they came to our country under the grass. The real terrorists, like Carlos back in the day, came to our country with the knowledge and support of the state. Is this familiar to Mr. Rogán? They sell the security of the Hungarian people for money, and then they call us and Gábor Vona traitors. Well, I'd like to sum it up. The weight of sin is always greater when warned, but committed. The weight of sin is even greater, if it can be improved, mitigated, but they do not. I would therefore ask my fellow Members with respect to stop adding to their guilt. No more homecomings for puddles, for financial gain, for popularity! It's the will of 3 million 300,000 people. Thank you so much for listening. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-10-24-342	After the last agenda, MEP Zoltán Magyar asked for a speech:. Thoughts on the anniversary of the diversion of the Danube. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2016-10-24-343	Thank you for the opportunity, Mr. President. Dear House, Fellow Members! Tomorrow will be 24 years since the Danube has been hijacked, and the judgment in The Hague of 97 has also been a recent anniversary. They're both a pretty sad anniversary. The diversion of the Danube took place under the full assistance of the Hungarian political elite. Here in Parliament, even in the pre-distraction session, there were voices from both opposition and government sides that - then, still - Czechoslovakia would not escape the C-variant, it was possible to calm down, there is no problem here. Meanwhile, on the other side, the planes were running fast, and it was quite clear that our northern neighbor was going to get away with what he had gotten away with. A separate question is whether our country had to go into the previous project, whether we had to start this investment, but we are quite certain, and Jobbik's firm position is that it was a sin to stop it in 95 percent readiness. The biggest sin of modern-day Hungary. As a result of this investment, everyone benefited: our northern neighbour, the Austrians benefited, the liberals who thus made political capital for themselves. So almost everyone - except the Hungarian people. The Hungarian people had a serious debt left, Austria had access to technical equipment, and our northern neighbor thanked him, he was fine, he announced years ago that the investment had been repaid to him. There were also governments that liberalised this area, but later they managed to resolve the issue. Since then, for 24 years, inter island people, who have been most affected by this problem, have been waiting for a lasting, quality and sustainable solution. The brain-parents that came up as an initial step were completely inadequate to make a meaningful improvement, and the next decades were basically about doing nothing. The two projects that have been completed over the past period from EU funds are two six billion-dollar stories that have slightly improved the situation, but have not restored the state of the past at all. The Hague judgment, we all know, has been known as a rather rubber judgment, since both sides have exploded what is beneficial to them. So far, it would not be a problem if the Slovaks still stick to the judgment and, let's say, at least half the water was delivered to us. Compared to this, we are currently talking about a quantity of around 20 percent. What made me want to speak on this matter, beyond the fact that it has an anniversary, is that, according to some press reports, some private, informal negotiations on the part of the Hungarian government have started with our neighbour in the north. We are paying attention to this with serious concern, as much of the good has not yet come from your secrecy and the Hungarian people, behind the opposition, have tried to settle something. I urge you to try to ensure that at least half of the water yield is given to the Hungarian party. They are trying to ensure that quality tourism, agriculture and nature conservation can be restored during the Island. There were quite amazing conditions, and it depends on the ingenuity and continuous presence of technical experts that the Szigetköz is still sustainable in its present state, which, as I said, is far from enough. It's gonna take a lot more than that. And technical experts and conservationists rightly expect governments to receive much more help than they currently do. Let us not forget that the Szigetköz, the Kisaland and other parts of the country, together, launched a popular initiative here at the very beginning of the previous term, so that the subject was included in the National Assembly. At the time, the area was still at a disadvantage, as Secretary of State Elijah represented it from the government side, which, I do not have to stress, then many of us were involved in this debate, quite funny, if I may say so on this serious subject at all. After all, the Secretary of State was practically against the whole world, because everyone was in it from the left to the right of the Parliament horseshoe, at least at the word level interested in making meaningful progress, but Mr. Secretary Elijah could only keep throwing it at our heads to understand that there is water, there is water, there is water, there is no water, there is no water. We couldn't go any further than that. Now that he's been removed from the government, I don't see any further disadvantages, or I don't see any other way to make any meaningful progress. That's what the intersects expect you to do. That's what they promised. Do what you have to do. It's the anniversary, by the way, and we hope we don't have to speak on the same subject next year. Thank you, Mr. President. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-10-24-344	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen of the Council of the European Union, Mr. Secretary. We have reached the end of the speeches after the agenda. Thank you for your work. The Parliament's holiday meeting will take place tomorrow at 10 a.m. Meeting day's closed. [[Meeting ended at 9:09 p.m.]] Mrs Loránt Violin Sz.k. Diligent Dezső s.k. notary
