u2016-03-16-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, On 17 December 2014, the Parliament announced in its resolution that, driven by respect for Hungary's flag and coat of arms, 16 March will be declared the date of use of the Hungarian flag and coat of arms by the XXI of 1848 of 1848 on the national colour and coat of arms of the country. to commemorate the adoption of a law. The use of the national colours, the flag and the coat of arms were already tried by order at the parliamentary assemblies at the time of reform by the emperor, who kept avoiding Hungarian demands. At the last revolutionary assembly in 1847-1848 the issue was again put on the agenda, but the birth of the law was forced by the revolutionary events of March. Article 21 of 1848 is replaced by the following: As a result, after a long time we were able to use our own symbols again instead of the imperial black-yellow colours, two-headed eagle flags and coat of arms, which were alien to Hungarian national traditions. At the same time, the nation had already preceded the legislators: by the time the law was passed, Hungarian flags were waving throughout the country. The red of the colors of the flag represented strength, white of fidelity, green of hope at the time, and, as declared by the Fundamental Law of Hungary, it means to us to this day. During the war of freedom, the flag was of greater importance than itself. Every major military unit had a flag on which the soldiers swore an oath. Sources of his day often highlight the power of the flag to win, the enthusiasm attached to it, the bloody and self-sacrifice struggle to keep it or regain it. The symbolic power of the flag is well demonstrated by the destruction of the Imperials' flags in their hands, almost without exception, after the surrenders of weapons. The Hungarian national colours and the use of the national flag were made the strongest symbol of our nation's consciousness and history by the events of the revolution and freedom struggle celebrated each year on 15 March. When we celebrate the day of the Hungarian flag and coat of arms, we also remember the heroes and martyrs who, under the colours of this flag, sacrificed their lives for the country, for freedom and for Hungary's independence. Thank you very much for your attention. Dear Parliament, The 8th day of the Spring Session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that you will be able to assist me in the chair of this meeting, Mr Lajos Szűcs and Mr Dezső Szűcs. Welcome to our guests and to all those who monitor our work. Dear Parliament, Mr József Tóbias, Head of the Group, asked for a speech before the agenda today: on current affairs. I give you the floor, Mr. Group Leader.
u2016-03-16-1	Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Prime Minister! Yesterday, on the anniversary of the war of freedom, a huge crowd on the streets indicated that it was enough. The two-and-a-half-kilometer crowd made him aware with great dignity and great responsibility: it was enough, people were committed to change. And the government must acknowledge and accept the 12 points formulated by the teachers, which were written for our children, due to the responsibility for the future, for a better Hungary, and that is why it should be accepted, and because 75 percent of Hungarians, 67 percent of your voters, agree with the teachers. [[13.10]] Therefore, a discussion with teachers, representatives of trade unions, should be carried out in order to resolve the educational crisis, because Hungarian society is fed up with the current situation as well as what has happened in the health or social sphere. Real society wants a real dialogue. Don't stop this will of the people. It was extremely important at yesterday's protest, yet let me highlight one of them. Nóra L. Ritók is a school founder and teacher of the real Hungary, he has put a lot on the table. For decades, he has been struggling to balance the odds and run a school and foundation that gave hundreds of children a way out of extreme poverty and launched them with a successful catching-up programme. Yesterday he was talking about Hungarian reality; he said that I am here for the children who are most at risk of poverty with their families. For people who don't even have plaid shirts. To whom the message of the movement did not reach, because other messages in poverty are loud - messages of survival. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Prime Minister! Education should be used to reduce social differences, not to increase them. In a normal country, education gives you a chance, and it doesn't take a chance. People are sick of this. They want to set a new direction for their fate, because Hungarian society wants a real change. They see that what is here at the moment cannot go any further, and they know exactly that we must return to the western, European orbit. Education, health care, the security of the social care system must be corrected, and decent pay must be paid to everyone. However, you are clearly alarmingly far from all of this. This came out yesterday from the Prime Minister's speech, which, if I may say so, I was reminded of a quote by Jókai in this regard: When he proclaims his victories to you, he conceals his wounds most, when he speaks of his power, when he scares you, he fears you the most. Don't believe him. Don't believe him, if he promises, don't believe him, if he threatens you, don't believe him, if he slanders you, don't believe him if he prays. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Ladies and gentlemen, Yesterday there was not a raging, destructive crowd on the streets, but a crowd of disciplined, well - meaning people. This crowd will not fight against Europe on your side. This crowd wants to live peacefully, to work, to teach, to learn, to heal and to heal. This crowd said yesterday that it does not ask - it already demands a new direction for Hungary. Thank you very much.
u2016-03-16-2	Thank you, Mr. Group Leader. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Minister Antal Rogán wishes to respond to what has been said. I give you the floor, Minister.
u2016-03-16-3	Thank you very much. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Chief of Staff, In this House, who are sitting here, we have, for the most part, a multi-annual history of representatives, and I think that there is also a serious government past behind the Group leader and his party. I think that the words you say here today, in the interests of teachers and teachers, should be weighed in such a way that we also look at what you have done when you are on the government, Mr Group leader. Because let's not forget that when you were on the government, it was the MSZP-SZDSZ government that took the money out of public education. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: That's right!]] We've only been putting back the money you've taken out of it since 2012, Mr. Group Leader. How did they get it out? First of all, the educational standards were reduced, for example, as a result of which the municipalities were unfortunately indebted, and several of them were actually on the verge of bankruptcy, because instead of the government they had to bear the burden of maintaining the public education system, because you took much more than HUF 100 billion out of the system by reducing the maintenance normative. It was also you who took a month's wages from the people not only in teachers, but also in all civil servants, in health care, as well as in civil servants, Mr. Head of the Group. [[And in six years, why didn't you give it back? Dr. Bence Rétvári: We gave it back! We gave back more!]] By the way, tens of billions of forints were taken out of public education alone. I would like to point out with respect, Mr Group Leader, that this is why, among other things, from 2012, we had to start the wage increases, the career programmes of which were the first of the teachers. And that's why we started to raise the wages of teachers for the first time from 2012, fellow Members. [[Zoltán Haughty interrupts. The president's ringing the bell.]] because we also consider them important, and even respect them, because otherwise, we would trust them with our most important treasure, our children, Honourable Group Leader. [[Agnes Kunhalmi: The child is very important, we see!]] I think that's why we had to start the teacher's career program and financial appreciation first, but never forget: it was because you were the ones who took the money out of public education. So I would ask everyone to think that, when the leaders of the left-wing parties, who, by the way, governed, from Ferenc Gyurcsány through the MSZP to the liberals, those people are talking about the state of public education today, it was the people who destroyed public education - either at the request of the IMF, or from themselves, my fellow Members. [[Interjection from the lines of the MSZP: Don't miss Soros!]] [[13.20]] And I think that when you stand there today, Mr Honourable Group Leader, nothing else will happen: you want to use the teachers only for their political purposes. On the other hand, the education government has every authority to conduct meaningful negotiations and to change where necessary. There are only two things, Mr Honourable Group Leader, in which I think this government may rightly say that there is a priority for others. One of these points is the issue of wage increases, since we have raised the wages of teachers to the highest extent since 2012. This is certainly not enough, but I can tell you that the teachers were the first, they received the highest wage increase, and I think we can ask that if economic performance allows - because we always raise wages when economic performance allows - then, Mr. Head of Group, others can now have priority. And perhaps, for the first time, others have priority, with teachers' wages rising every year, rising this year, and as a result of the career program, they will rise again in the next year. The other is the matter of a free textbook, which we do not allow. We think that the textbook system you talk about sometimes and your fellow Members would cost more money to parents. [[Zoltán Grimlock: It's not about the price, it's about the content!]] We would like the vast majority of parents in Hungary to receive textbooks free of charge in the future, just as a significant part of them still receive textbooks free of charge today, at least significantly more than in the time of your administration, Honourable Group Leader. And allow me one more thing. We all agree on the dignity of the national holiday. But I would like to ask with all due respect: do you also agree with those who, on the national holiday, have tried to disturb the national event in an unworthy manner with the people of your party colors? [[Zoltán Pride: Is that what you're talking about?]] I think that the dignity of the national holiday includes the respect of everyone's opinion, and no one is trying to destroy or actually make impossible those who wish to celebrate in one colour or in another. Thank you very much for your kind attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-03-16-4	I thank you, Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, István Ikotity, Member of the LMP Group, has also applied for a speech before the agenda. You have no power over us. I give you the floor.
u2016-03-16-5	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, You have no power over us - this is the message of 15 March. Yesterday, despite the bad weather, Kossuth Square was filled again. In fact, even more people showed up compared to the umbrella protest in February. Tens of thousands of teachers, parents and students protested again because of the crisis in Hungarian education. Their objectives so far have been raised in 12 points. Among other things, it has been said to reduce the burden on students and teachers, to ensure the funding of education, to choose textbooks, to reduce segregation or to stop the number of teachers. We, too, have long expressed the goals set, have repeatedly formulated them, asked questions about them, or submitted our own proposals. Yesterday, the situation changed. Now they don't ask, they demand. They've had enough of the government's stalling, the smearing of the round table. They were tired of the government not taking problems seriously, but of trying to tear them apart. The situation is extremely simple: strong and concrete demands have been made, and there is nothing to negotiate on the objectives. But for now, there hasn't been enough pro-government willingness to commit to change. No declaration or promise has been made, anything can be withdrawn, no warranty, no security. But the educators were sick of sharing society. They were fed up with government propaganda and discrediting campaigns, threats and intimidation. What's the biggest problem with the government round table? The fact that negotiations can only be negotiated between equal parties. As long as one side is arrogant, arrogant, and the other looks down on it and uses hundreds of communication tricks against it, we can't discuss negotiations. Enough insulting, the humiliation, the constant government offensive! That's enough! Don't try to force the other one all the time. While you are talking about a hundred billion-dollar withdrawal from the pre-2010 government, you are admitting that the education budget has been reduced by 234 billion again, as this is what you claim to have given to teachers as a wage increase, while the overall expenditure on education has not increased. That's enough. We have a new situation. Since it is virtually impossible to strike in Hungary today under the laws of Fidesz-KDNP, other peaceful means of education have been used. If fundamental employers' rights cannot be exercised, then there will be no choice but to commit civil disobedience, to transcend laws that violate our fundamental rights. If the government has created such a situation, then this is responsible and conscious civil behavior. Civil disobedience is also a part of democracy, an instrument against the powerful. Because we need to get our rights back, and we need to move to XXI. in the direction of centuries of education. If there's no other way, we have to force this stubborn Orbán government to do it. Dear House, Strike and civil disobedience are forms of social participation. LMP is a party to social participation, one of the most important values we believe in. What is needed is that as many people as possible tell us what educational system they want, so that as many people as possible are involved in shaping the education of the future. Our common affairs can only be solved together, with everyone involved. The May Other of Politics wants to strengthen social participation. We have taken a number of steps on this. We want everyone to be free to express their opinions, express their displeasure. That is why we have also tabled an amendment to the strike law, since all workers have a fundamental right to cease work at one point or another. The Government of Prime Minister Viktor Orbán is a liar and a fraud, as they have stood out in favour of these rights, which they have already stepped on by two feet. According to the LMP, it's the government's responsibility if the protest goes to civil disobedience because the strike has been banned. If you want to correct the government, support the LMP proposal, which would allow the strike. Dear House, KLIK can't fire tens of thousands of teachers. What educators are going to do, everyone thinks is right. That is justified even if it is temporarily not legal right now. But the teachers have nothing to lose. If the job is stopped, it is their right; if it is not lawful, but it is entirely legitimate and just.
u2016-03-16-6	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the government, Secretary of State Bence Rétvári wishes to respond. I give you the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2016-03-16-7	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, once again said on the part of the opposition parties that there is a need for dialogue, a dialogue between equals. Honourable Congressman, He doesn't listen, he doesn't know, but if he doesn't listen, he won't even know that at these moments there's nothing else going on on in Szalay Street than the consultation of the Secretary of State for Education and the representatives of the trade unions. It started sometime in the morning, and it ends sometime in the afternoon, in the evening. They are discussing the 25 points formulated by the Teachers' Union. The Member also forgot to say when he spoke about the lack of dialogue, that a public education consultation took place in Hungary before the meeting of the round table for public education, which had not yet been the case. There has been no government in Hungary over the last decades that has invited the directors of all Hungarian schools and a few teachers, parents and students, if any, to a dialogue, a forum, a discussion, where all Hungarian schools had the opportunity to express their opinions, all of them. The leaders and teachers of 2207 state-owned schools went to this forum and gave their views and suggestions on what they thought should be done in the system of public education. We summarized these, and when we opened the meeting of the round table for public education, we explained by number the proposals made in how many districts, and which of these are the most urgent. This is how the theme of the round table of public education was developed. Are you talking about the government not talking to public education? Are you talking about how the government despises the government's power to handle these characters? The characters we send invitations to week after week, and they haven't come to the meeting yet, or have they come once, and then changed their minds? [[13.30]] Do you think this is a trial of strength to invite them every week to come to the meeting, and then they don't even knock on the door, they don't come in, they don't tell us their ideas? And you're telling me this government is negotiating on its own? We have nothing to hide. You don't talk about intimidation, Congressman. Every document the press has referred to in these alleged cases has been posted on the KLIK website. Everyone can go upstairs, read all the pages and all the letters from the first to the last. And it turns out there's no fear of any kind. It may be in your rhetoric, but in the documents we put out that contain all the documents, there is no such thing. Congressman, do not underestimate the fact that, in recent years, from 2012-2013, we have launched a wage development programme in public education, first of all sectors, which has already been a 40 percent wage increase for teachers. The sum of more than HUF 200 billion, mentioned by you, is a huge sum, obviously would have been welcome in other sectors, but we said that we should start it first in public education, because the socialists took a great deal out of public education, either on the side of educational standards provided to settlements, or on the side of taking away 13 months' salary, for example, from teachers' pockets. But if we look at the textbook system, and if we were to restore what we had before, we would take 15 billion forints out of the pockets of parents and schools, as it would cost more to provide textbooks to young people in the old textbook system than it costs now. I think, Mr Congressman, that in recent years we have indeed achieved results that we can be proud of, and I think that the willingness of government to engage in dialogue is broader than any government has ever had before. This is also shown by the fact that trade union negotiations are still under way. To look down on the public education round table where the Hungarian Academy of Sciences is sitting and to say that there are branches of the Fidesz-KDNP government and organisations that agree with them? Or, if I think of the Faculty of Pedagogism, or even the Association of Large Families, or the employer's representative to buy the Chamber of Commerce and Industry as such, or the director of Herman Ottó High School, whom we also invited, the director of Herman Ottó High School and the entire school, do you think it's a Fidesz branch organization? ! We've invited everyone, trade unions, representatives of every other movement. Another question is that they won't come, but I think it's not a policy of power on our part, but a policy of increasing tension on their part, polarizing the whole situation. We'd like to work it out. That's why we told you where we wanted to go for summer and September. We would like to get to the point where, in September, the Klebelsberg Institutional Center will no longer be in its form today, but a different system of maintenance will be established. That there will be no debt to schools and institutional supporters, we have started this, because with the additional resources of HUF 38 billion that KLIK received, the debts that expired 30-60 days ago have been paid out, and it will do all the rest of this surplus because we will put back the money that the Socialists have taken out of public education. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-03-16-8	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Member Dóra Dúró, Jobbik Group also applied for a speech before the agenda:. Among many puppets, the child is lost. I give you the floor, Congresswoman.
u2016-03-16-9	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, The Jobbik considers it extremely harmful that the educational debate is becoming increasingly political. [[Interviews from the ranks of Fidesz, among them: That's right! Bravo!]] It is not a solution-oriented attitude of those involved, but a series of lower blows is taking place. This should be replaced by the professional debate that will bring the whole issue back to the river where we can find a solution. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: This is the round table.]] Instead of hurting each other and personalizing each other, it would be more important for everyone to seek solutions and to take actions and initiatives that point in this direction. It is important that all actors, especially the government that has tens of thousands of protests against education policy, have a little self-criticism over the last six years. The question must be asked whether education policy has been important enough for the government over the last six years. If we look at a figure, namely the percentage of GDP spent on education, we can see that while this figure was 5.6 percent in 2003, only 3.9 percent in 2013. We can therefore say that education was less important for the government in 2013. Is the government capable of realizing the problems? Can it be that if teachers, children, parents give feedback that they are overloaded that the amount of curriculum is excessive, then will the government see this and act accordingly? So is it possible to reduce the overload of children, reduce the amount of curriculum? If you see and tell all schools that the KLIK is simply inoperative, will the government believe that and will you see that there are schools that are in better condition under municipal reservation? When KLIK was created, a number of opposition politicians, a number of pro-government politicians, also said that local governments as maintainers should be left in the system. Three years have passed, it is now quite clear that this is the way it should have been done, but they continue to treat the issue of state reservations as taboo, and they do not allow the municipalities that would be good owners of schools to return to the system. Do you really give professional answers to those suggestions without taboos, do you have a solution-oriented attitude at all, or do you break away from reality, break away from educators? We should stop insult-politicizing everyone. We should stop personalizing each other, not chasing each other, not hurting each other. Because we really need to talk about the education system, the future of the children. Is it certain that the most important criterion for a textbook is that it is so cheap, or can the quality approach come in? I think we should also bring quality into the issue of textbooks. Hungarian politics must also ask the self-critical question of what is the XXI. Indeed, in Hungary, we are unable to have a meaningful professional debate on education policy. Is it really politics that must be at the heart of this and not education? I don't think that's true. That is precisely why if the government could see its flaws, and everyone who wants to change the education policy of the government would have a solution-oriented attitude, then this whole debate would come to fruition. If the parties do not behave this way, we will not be able to find a solution together. According to Jobbik, we need a calm force and professional solutions. That is why, for example, we have launched a genuine national consultation in the field of education, in addition to health and corruption, in order to get people's opinions on the most important issues of education, sitting at a table with professional organisations. We want to put the river back in its own bed, and if that happened, we want to build a bridge; build a bridge between government and professional organisations, build a bridge between government and people. Because it is possible to insult the leaders of the protests, to insult the government on the part of the leaders of the protests, but teachers go into schools every day and teach, if necessary, without chalk, without textbooks, if necessary, without respect. But they shouldn't be teaching without respect. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-03-16-10	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the government, Secretary of State Bence Rétvári wishes to respond. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2016-03-16-11	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, Looks like the Jobbik are fighting phantoms, dancing with wolves. [[Deterioration in the pro-government benches.]] It was good to hear, it was good to hear your calm strength... The MDF came alive in me when she spoke about the need for calm force, perhaps in 1990 the Hungarian Democratic Forum said that. It's just too bad your daily routine for Jobbik isn't. It was also very good to hear how you argued for it, but did not state the conclusion that everyone, every professional organisation, should be at the public education round table. You said you wanted to form a better bridge. Well, then, I ask the Jobbik to use the influence they have and convince the professional organizations to return to the round table of public education, because only and only there can we find solutions. Solution will never be born on the street. Obviously, it can be demonstrated, it's part of democracy. But the solution, which obviously requires detailed regulation, will be found in negotiations such as the round table of public education or what is currently going on at the Education Secretary-General, and they will go from point to point what is acceptable to the government, what is not acceptable and what is acceptable in the proposals. Therefore, if someone is looking for a real solution, they should be looking for that solution at the round table, at the negotiating table. [[13.40]] I can see that, in the context of yesterday's demonstration in Kossuth Square, opposition parties are trying to find a common denominator with speakers there at a frightened pace, as this was a very strong signal for all opposition parties. [[Agnes Kunhalmi: Especially the government!]] Because if we look at how many people were at Jobbik's memorial or event, how many were on the MSZP, or how many were on the LMP, then we can see that people who were dissatisfied with the government for some reason may have been looking for their future because they were teachers, they may have been dissatisfied for other reasons, not in opposition parties. The government may be replaced, but the opposition parties and trade unions were replaced yesterday, because they do not want to enforce their expectations through trade unions, they are not looking for their future with opposition parties, they have created their own alternative forums, because they are dissatisfied with what the opposition parties are doing here - be it the MSZP, be it the Jobbik, be it the LMP - after which they said they would not ask for these opposition parties. [[Ágnes Kunhalmi: The Poles were all you had!]] They don't go, they don't go to their events yesterday, they try to tell them their own demands completely independently of them. Here was a public education debate day a week or two ago, attended and attended by all the opposition parties. Here, on the joint initiative of MSZP and Jobbik, Márton Gyöngyösi and József Tobias started with a nice signature next to each other, they both said that they would never sign anything with the other, no documents, because one considers the other to be a neo-Nazi, and the other one to be a post-communist, and that is why they refuse to share a platform with him. [[Agnes Kunhalmi: Because there are you!]] A few months passed, and the desire for power, the desire for power, overrided all previous principles of restraint and abstract distance, it seems to be the socialists and Jobbik, and, after all, the names of these Members and many of their fellow Members were on a joint sheet, on a signatory sheet. So, on this debate day, each party had the opportunity to express their opinion, there was a more political comment, and there was a more professional comment during the debate day. There were those who pointed towards consensus, and obviously there were those who said the opposites. But there was an opportunity for everything within the walls of Parliament for all opposition parties. And allow me, Congresswoman, to bring up the GDP-related figures here several times, so that we may try to put this mathematical issue in order. Because your data does not match our data, which means education costs for GDP in relation to the expected GDP data of 2015. After all, if we add four items, the amounts spent on the tasks of school preparation and basic education, the sums spent on secondary education, the amounts spent on higher education and other educational purposes, then we get 6.14 percent of GDP, which is higher than the 6 percent you and others demand. This also seems to be a claim that the government has already made in the 2015 budget, raising the wages of teachers in several circles... - since there is already the first three years of teacher's wage increase, this has been done by the government, and therefore the amount of public education has increased to above 6 per cent of GDP. As far as KLIK's debt is concerned, we try to settle it as soon as possible, and where Jobbik had the opportunity, Jobbik had the opportunity to take part in the operation, because half of the schools still have management tasks, if you look at the Ozdish example, it was not the mayor's first step to buy yellow school buses, but to buy yellow convertibles. That's when Jobbik goes to government. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2016-03-16-12	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Mr Péter Harrach, Head of the Group, KDNP Group, also came forward before the agenda, with a message from the 15th of March. Please, my fellow Members, keep your voice down. You have the floor, Mr. Group Leader.
u2016-03-16-13	Mr President, Dear House, Hungary celebrated yesterday, we commemorated the events of 15 March 1848, the characters and the ideas that govern the events. In addition to the public festival, there were other events organized, and these public holidays should be said to have been dignified and elevated. The Prime Minister's speech was addressed to the Hungarians, stressed the unity of the nation, formulated the message of the festival and its current objectives. The message of this festival can be summarized in two words. One is civilization, the other is freedom of the nation. Personal freedom is the most important element of civilization for me, since not only does the citizen experience material security, but also spiritual security and autonomy; I could also say that the possibility of developing an adult personality. And the nation's freedom consists of ensuring much-mentioned sovereignty, and especially then, the birth of self-consciousness and national self-consciousness. Today, it is also important that both of us draw parallels. The provision of personal freedom exists in Hungary, since freedom of expression is obvious, and freedom of assembly is also evident. We have seen that the official public event could also be disrupted by shouting, we see how freedom of the press works, everything can be said, the government and anyone can be scolded, and the press's freedom of the press is barely limited. So personal freedom is important today, but it is also important to protect national sovereignty. There is also a struggle in the Union, at the bottom of which is the dominant spirit, which is actually the ideology of a decadent way of life. I can't resist the temptation to say a few words about the educating ceremony. There must have been a lot of teachers at Kossuth Square, but we do not know how many of the opposition party activists were outside them, because left-wing parties called for their hard core to participate in this protest. It's hard to determine the proportions. Education has problems, because a large system that undergoes profound changes needs to be corrected after a while. We must admit that this correction should have been made sooner. What's this about? The fact is that the level of decisions must be brought closer to the institutions. It is also a fact that administration must be speeded up; that municipal co-operation must be abolished in schools. The administrative burden must be reduced, and I think the source should be increased. But it is not disputed that quality and performance are important and performance must be balanced with load capacity. Teacher authority and orderliness are also essential in education and education. And it's all in the child's real interests, because it's the only thing that matters. However, there is a problem with the demonstration that the government's intention to solve is an outdated one, and that political organizers are flying on it, that it has become a political demonstration that should be a professional demonstration, so that the action of teachers and politicians is divided. I believe that the double objective that we have just set is binding on all of us, ensuring national sovereignty and ensuring personal freedom. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2016-03-16-14	Thank you, Mr. Group Leader. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the government, Secretary of State Bence Rétvári wishes to respond. I give you the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2016-03-16-15	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Chief of Staff, Dear House, On 15 March and 23 October we can always remember that Hungary is the land of freedom fighters. The Hungarian people are a nation that doesn't like people talking about the country, because they have experienced that if they don't decide Hungary's affairs from a place, it will, on the one hand, be the result of a reduction in personal rights and, on the other hand, a reduction in well-being. [[13.50]] The interesting thing about Hungarian is that we have the same word for freedom, the freedom of the nation, the freedom of the country and the freedom of individuals. In other languages, these two concepts, such as liberty and freedom, are divided into two, both of which are the freedom of the country and the freedom of individuals and individuals. In Hungary, if the freedom of the country has been undermined by the Habsburgs, the Germans or the Soviets, then citizens and individuals all have reduced their freedom of speech, freedom of religion and basically all their individual freedoms. And when we managed to shake off these prisoners in Hungary, when the nation was free, freedom of the press increased, individual freedoms increased, and prosperity generally expanded, it was enough to think about the period after the compromise, or it was enough to compare the state of the Hungarian economy 30 years ago or now. That is why we are very attentive to our own sovereignty, and we do not like it to be interfered with from anywhere. And, as you said, Mr. Group leader, it is as if they were trying to force a different way of life from Europe, from Brussels, to Hungary, and as if they were trying to take away the permissions of the Hungarian nation, for example, in relation to the compulsory resettlement quota that Hungary would not give. The Hungarian government has told us several times, the Hungarian people have also told us, and during the collection of signatures they will also have the opportunity to do so, and we trust in the referendum that they do not wish to surrender these permissions. In fact, the Hungarian settlements and the Hungarian cities have also said in the last few days that they do not ask for the compulsory resettlement quota, and they do not want to give this license to Brussels. Anyone who wishes to base the European economy of the future on the introduction, on the settlers to be brought here does not really trust the people of Europe; he does not want to base the future of Europe on the performance of the European people, but says that it is not enough, it will not happen, it does not want to encourage them to have economic growth in Europe, but I want to invite other people from elsewhere, so that they are the basis for European economic growth, which, of course, in many other areas, makes the whole of Europe vulnerable. It makes it vulnerable and changes it, because it changes the way people live, which we have already experienced in Western Europe, how to change their everyday routines, shopping, marching to a game, or other customs, or how to change everyday routines in the fight against terrorism. If this is achieved, our European values and our European way of life will change, and we do not want to give up on this, and we Hungarians will stick to the way of life for which we entered the European Union in 2004 and we do not wish to voluntarily, in any way, to give up on ourselves. As regards yesterday's demands or events, which the Member also spoke about, I believe that Hungary has never been so close in recent years to improving the system of public education by negotiated means, what we are now. What was before, until 2010, was a clear failure, since during that period, in the previous years, the performance of Hungarian students was greatly reduced, while the institutions and institutionkeepers accumulated debt that had never been seen before. The sum that the central budget had to consolidate was HUF 1300 billion, and most of it came from loans taken from the operation of schools. Compared to this 1,300 billion, the 17 billion that was in KLIK's debt a few weeks ago, I feel like it's dwarfing in size. And there has never been such a wide opportunity before that everyone here at the Round Table of Public Education would tell us what he proposes, what he would change, and we have opened up countless questions, not only the structure of the institution-supporting, but also content issues, the National Basics. So, if you have a better proposal, you have an unprecedented opportunity to say it and put it on the decision-makers' table. Of course, if you want to polarize public life, polarize politics, you can use other means. But I think, Mr. Group leader, that as long as there are more people coming from Poland to support us than there are whistles at state celebrations, we don't have much to worry about. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-03-16-16	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Mr Lajos Kósa, Head of Group, Fidesz Group, asked for a pre-meeting address with the title "Learnings of the Celebration of Hungarian Freedom." I give you the floor, Mr. Group Leader.
u2016-03-16-17	Mr. President. Dear House, March 1848 is an undisputed celebration of Hungarian freedom, the Hungarian freedom fight. Therefore, when we remember, it is perhaps obvious that we should approach the issue of Hungarian freedom, that is what we should express our opinion in the spirit of our predecessors. In comparison, much has happened on the 15th of March, extremely instructive. Perhaps the most absurd thing to happen, every year returning performance, the Socialist Party's party award to press colleagues on the day of the free press. This is so absurd that István Örkény would rub his hands, and even he didn't think that he would appoint a couple to the free press. It gives a special byte to this act of a reformbolshevik party, obviously on a nostalgic basis, when it was possible to choose from the newspaper of Népszabadság who is the journalist who best serves the free press. [[István Tukacs: The one who is decorated by a labourer is completely different!]] But there was another absurdity on the 15th of March, because it was customary - I can safely say now - that the speaker of the LMP was partly thinking of antibolshevism, anti-capitalism and anti-globalization; which, of course, is an important connection, but would not have harmed some sentences that commemorate the celebration of Hungarian freedom. The way Jobbik was concerned with the issue of Hungarian freedom was also particularly instructive. For if there is something that threatens Hungarian freedom, freedom of the community as well as individual freedom, it is paramilitary organization, under the name of Wolves, which Jobbik otherwise supports not only politically but also with money. [[There's a rush in Jobbik's benches.]] In addition, it is absurd that this group gives room for confused discussions such as (1) Haynau was right about the fight for freedom; he explained that a significant part of the martyrs who sacrificed their lives for Hungarian freedom were not Hungarian. [[Intercoms from Jobbik's benches.]] Therefore, it does not belong to the issue of Hungarian freedom in this sense, which is a rather extreme position, but it has nothing to do with the issue of Hungarian freedom. And it was a special phenomenon of the 15th celebrations that, now completely uncoveringly and without paying attention to the conspiracy, the demonstration disguised as the pedagogist demonstration, which, by the way, had nothing to do with Hungarian freedom, simply declared - and logged into the political field in this sense - its political intention. If someone has listened to the speeches and the most important demands, apologize to the President of the Republic and the Prime Minister. And then I ask you, why is that? Is it because we're trying to put the money that the socialists took back from education? [[An uproar in the benches of MSZP and Jobbik.]] Is it because the Hungarian government - including the difficult situation of teachers - has made an unprecedented wage increase? Or is it because while the socialists have closed hundreds of schools, we do not do this, but we have declared that the primary school is possible in all municipalities if there is a demand for it? It is quite obvious that the only comment on the issue of Hungarian freedom was that of the Prime Minister. [[There's an uproar in the opposition benches.]] whose speech, by the way, was listened to more than the keynote speech of all the other opposition meetings. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai intervenes. Noise.]] Because it is quite clear that, just as the 15th of March 48 was not a single event, but the issue of the freedom of European peoples, it is quite clear that Hungarian freedom cannot be imagined today without European freedom. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell. Dr. Tamás Bellozó: Are you from Brussels? Vienna? Or from where?]] And it is also quite clear that this freedom is most threatened today by the migration, a wave of migration that is completely alien to our sense of freedom, completely alien to our culture, to our civilisation, and is coming to Europe with a completely obvious purpose of space. [[Intercoms in the benches of the MSZP.]] If one doesn't talk about this on the pretext of freedom, then he really only bakes his most primitive political business because he can't do anything else in that sense. The memory of the day of Hungarian freedom was very instructive. Allow me to say the only valid sentence that everyone has forgotten: Long live Hungarian freedom, live the country! [[A big round of applause in the pro-government benches.]] [[14.00]]
u2016-03-16-18	Thank you, Mr. Group Leader. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Mr Csaba Dömötör wishes to respond. [[Interview from the ranks of the MSZP: Courageous! Dr. László Kács: Do not shake!]] You have the floor.
u2016-03-16-19	Dear Chief of Staff, Allow me to respond to your speech on yesterday's celebration. March 15th was always about a command for many of us, an order to take stock of our place in the world, what we can do for the country we live in, and what we can do for the people we live with. For this reason, on the anniversary of 1848 it is not a celebration, but a direct obligation to tell us what the most important tasks ahead are. If we are even a little sensitive to historical processes - and why not around the 15th of March - then we must say that, like the period of 1848, we are living again in times when events can determine the fate of Europe and its people for decades. We have heard a lot, but it is still shocking: last year, 1.5 million immigrants arrived in Europe, uncontrolled, uncontrolled, unstoppable. According to recent months, it is now clear to everyone that history does not end, thank you very much, you are well, you are stronger than ever; and right now, instead of bayonets, you are changing Europe into the robe of immigration where we live. Under these circumstances, it is no exaggeration to say that we need courage, determination and even more common sense in Europe today. It takes courage to overcome political correctness in the area of immigration. It also takes courage to say that immigration is not an option, but a threat. It also takes courage to say that instead of being larval and pointless bureaucratic standards, border protection is needed. A determined stand will continue to be needed in the future. It takes courage to finally reject the insane proposal for a compulsory resettlement quota, and a few people's standing will not be enough for that. That is why there is a need for a referendum and for all people to participate, whether the opposition likes it or not. Dear Chief of Staff, The circumstances are very different, but the point is the same in 1848 and 2016: no one has the right to force us, force us to do things that we do not want. No one has the right to say who we live with and who we do not live with, and we will not accept any false ideology that does not respect our freedoms, traditions and communities. This is because Hungary is still a people of freedom. We insist that we be able to honestly express our views on the state of things and, if necessary, take our own destiny into our own hands. For us, it is the legacy of 1848. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2016-03-16-20	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches before the agenda. I would like to ask Mr Dezső Liberty to present further speeches outside the agenda.
u2016-03-16-21	Dear Parliament, Today, Balázs Ander, Jobbik; Lajos Kepli, Jobbik; Mrs Loránt Hegedűs, Jobbik; Zoltán Magyar, Jobbik; R. Benedek Sallai, LMP. On the day before the agenda tomorrow, the following representatives came forward: Bertalan Tóth, MSZP; László Földi, KDNP; R. Benedek Sallai, LMP; Zsolt Egyed, Jobbik; Péter Hoppál, Fidesz. György László Lukács, Jobbik; Balázs Ander, Jobbik; Lajos Kepli, Jobbik; Dániel Z. Karpát, Jobbik.
u2016-03-16-22	Thank you, Mr. Notary. Dear Parliament, The agenda for our meeting starting today is coming up. The agenda, the duration of the meeting, the speaking time shall be decided on the basis of a proposal put forward by the President. Dear Parliament, We now decide to derogate from house rules. In the absence of a committee agreement, the President of the Parliament initiates that, by way of derogation from the house rules, the National Assembly is the T/9538 on the recovery cost balance. In the course of the negotiation of the No.3 proposal, move away from the house rules in such a way that the final vote can take place on tomorrow's day. A derogation from the house rules was proposed by T/9538/3. You can get to know him on the website. Dear Parliament, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that in order to derogate from the house rules, the four-fifths of the Members present need to vote in favour. I would ask my fellow Members to check that their cards have been placed in the voting machine. Dear Parliament, I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it agrees to derogate from the house rules. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament accepted the derogation from the house rules by 136 yes, 20 votes against, with 4 abstentions. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that the amendment proposals can be submitted for 15 hours and 5 minutes today. The joint debate on the proposal will take place today as the last item on the agenda, the decision on the draft amendment and the final vote on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, The government initiated the Parliament to discuss the T/9660 on national home-building communities in an exceptional procedure. Submitted by the European Parliament and the Council pursuant to Article 1 (2) of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011. The Government has initiated the possibility of submitting amendments until the third hour after the decision has been taken. The consolidated debate and the decision on the summary amendment proposal and the final vote shall take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, Rule 62 of the House Rules Pursuant to Article 1 (1) of the Act, the Parliament shall decide on the hearing in exceptional proceedings without debate. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that more than half of the Members, i.e. a hundred Members, have to vote in favour in order to order an exceptional procedure. Dear Parliament, Now it's time for decision-making. I'm asking you if T/9660 is accepted. Submitted in exceptional proceedings pursuant to the national motion. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament accepted the hearing of the proposal in exceptional proceedings 114 yes, 46 not by vote, without abstention. Dear Parliament, In accordance with our adopted decision, amendments can be submitted at 5 p.m. today, with a consolidated debate on the bill, a decision on the summary amendment proposal and a final vote on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, We are now deciding on proposals to amend the agenda. The Fidesz Group has proposed that T/9631 between Hungary and the Republic of Slovenia, as a result of the water management regulations of the Lendva Creek, announce the Treaty on the change of state borders. The general discussion of the legislative proposal No 1 shall not take place at this meeting. Anyone who agrees with that, vote by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] Thank you. I declare that the visible majority of Parliament has accepted the proposal. Dear Parliament, The Fidesz Group has proposed that T/9634 on the amendment of certain migration-related and related other laws The general discussion of the number 1 proposal is not to take place at this meeting. Anyone who agrees with that, please vote by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] Thank you. I declare that the visible majority of Parliament has accepted the proposal. Dear Parliament, The Fidesz Group has proposed that decisions be taken at tomorrow's meeting not at 9:50 p.m. but at the earliest from 13:00 p.m. Anyone who agrees with that, please vote by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] Thank you. I declare that the visible majority of Parliament has accepted the proposal. Dear Parliament, We are now deciding on a proposal on the agenda put forward by the President. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts the recommendation on the agenda with the amendments adopted above. Please vote by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] Thank you. I declare that the visible majority of Parliament has accepted the proposal. [[14.10]] Dear Parliament, In the absence of consensus from the Committee, B/9308 is now a member of the Committee. We decide on the Commission's discussion and decision-making. On the basis of a motion tabled by the President, I would like to ask the Honourable Parliament whether it agrees with B/9308 B/9308 on the security of the use of nuclear power in Hungary in 2014. The Economic Committee shall decide on this. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament asked the designated committee to take its decision by 107 votes in favour, 45 against and without abstentions. Dear Parliament, A decision on a personal proposal will not take place today. Dear Parliament, It's up to you to decide on immunity issues. The immunity committee is the Budapest II. Annex II to Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 is amended in accordance with Annex II to this Regulation. Court of Justice 11 Bpk.2031/2015/3. H/9619. Mr Lajos Oláh presented a proposal for a resolution concerning the immunity of an independent Member of Parliament. The Parliament shall decide on this without debate. Before taking a decision, I will give the floor to President Imre Vejkey, who intends to explain the committee's proposal orally, within a five-minute time frame. You have the floor, Mr. President.
u2016-03-16-23	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The Budapest II. Annex II to Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 is amended in accordance with Annex II to this Regulation. Court of Justice 11 Bpk.2031/2015/3. In his transcript No.2, Dr. Lajos Oláh filed a motion to suspend his immunity for defamation on the basis of a complaint made by Áron Bbla, a citizen of Szakmagyaród. According to the complaint, the complainant presented a private initiative against Dr. Lajos Oláh on the 6th of October 2014 because he claimed on facebook.com that the stork camp organizers had persuaded the girl not to press charges and accused the accused of covering up a sexual crime. The immunity committee discussed the matter at its meeting on 7 March 2016. In the absence of powers, the immunity committee did not deal with the criminal evaluation of the act. The practice of maintaining immunity unbroken immunity in private cases aims to ensure the objective of immunity, the smooth work of the Parliament and Members of Parliament. In view of this, the immunity committee proposes to Parliament, with 4 yeses and 2 no votes, that Dr. Lajos Oláh, MP, should not suspend his immunity in the case in question. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of KDNP.]]
u2016-03-16-24	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, I will ask Mr Lajos Oláh if he wishes to make use of the opportunity to speak. [[For signal:]] Yeah. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2016-03-16-25	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, One never rejoices when it is threatened to go to court negotiations, but the case may give us an opportunity to see who Aaron Bubble is who applied for my immunity to be suspended. Áron Bubla was President of the ELTE Faculty of Law. He was President of the Bureau when, in that sad case, we all remember, a girl was raped. She went to the President of the Bureau and briefed him on this case. What happened, fellow Members? Nothing. That is almost nothing, because Áron Bubla sued the journalist who wrote this in fact-finding report and sued me, who continued this on Facebook and organized a protest against Aaron Bubla. I think this case is pretty much speaking for itself. It could be stopped right now, but there are still a few facts. At first instance, ELTE excluded Áron Bubla from the university in November 2014, in January 2015 he ruled out Áron Bubla in second degree, and in May 2015 the court approved the exclusion of Áron Bubla. At the end, a little bit of color: Áron Bubla participated in the 2014 municipal campaign in the Fidesz campaign, when he was kicked out of ELTE, then he was placed at one of the EMMI's backup institutions, and when it was discovered, he was kicked out of there as a result of the scandal. Thank you very much. [[A rare applause in the ranks of opposition parties.]]
u2016-03-16-26	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Now it's time for the decision. I would like to remind you that the committee has taken a position that the Member's immunity will not be suspended by the Parliament. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the suspension of immunity requires a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. I ask the Honourable Parliament to suspend the immunity of Parliamentary Congressman Lajos Oláh. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament has not suspended the immunity of independent MEP Lajos Oláh by 18 votes in favour, 126 against and 3 abstentions. Dear Parliament, The immunity committee is the Budapest II. Annex II to Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 is amended in accordance with Annex II to this Regulation. Court of Justice 14.Bpk.1834/2015/8. H/9598. Mr Bertalan Tóth put forward a proposal for a resolution concerning the immunity of Parliamentary MEP Tóth. The Parliament shall decide on this without debate. Before taking a decision, I will give the floor to President Imre Vejkey, who intends to give oral reasons for the committee's proposal. A five-minute time frame is available. You have the floor, Mr. President.
u2016-03-16-27	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The Budapest II. Annex II to Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 is amended in accordance with Annex II to this Regulation. Court of Justice 14.Bpk.1834/2015/8. Dr. Bertalan Tóth applied for the suspension of the immunity of the Parliamentary Representative for the offence of defamation by MET Hungary Zrt. on the basis of a complaint made by its representatives. According to the report: MET Hungary Zrt. Members of the Hungarian Socialist Party filed a complaint on the 7th of August 2015 because the so-called MET case was published on the website of the Hungarian Socialist Party on 19th June 2015. According to the complaint, the article and the press conference claim that MET Zrt. is involved or aware of the gas thefts referred to. MET Zrt. has never been involved in any gas theft, has no information in this way, has acted in compliance with the legislation in force during its operation - included in the complaint. The immunity committee discussed the matter at its meeting on 7 March 2016. Dr. Bertalan Tóth, who was present at the meeting, said that before the article and the press conference, he had carried out several requests for data or obtained opinions and based his claims on them, carried out his activities, and considered the complaint unfounded. Based on the practice of upholding immunity, followed in private cases, the immunity committee examined the matter, with 4 yeses and 2 votes against, the Committee proposes to the Parliament that Dr. Bertalan Tóth not suspend his immunity in the case in question. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A rare applause in the ranks of the KDNP.]]
u2016-03-16-28	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, I will ask Mr Bertalan Tóth if he wishes to make use of the opportunity to speak. [[For signal:]] The Member points out that he does not wish to make use of the opportunity to speak. Dear Parliament, Now it's time for the decision. I would like to remind you that the committee has taken a position that the Member's immunity will not be suspended by the Parliament. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the suspension of immunity requires a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether Bertalan Tóth is suspending his immunity. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not suspend the immunity of Mr Tóth Bertalan with 19 votes in favour, 133 against and 1 abstention. Dear Parliament, Now, at 2:19 p.m., we move on to interpellation and immediate questions. Dear Parliament, Tamás Harangozó, representative of the MSZP, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of the Interior:. Once again, law enforcement workers have been deceived, or where are the second and third pillars of the law enforcement career model? It's an address. Congressman Tamás Bellozó has the floor. [[14.20]]
u2016-03-16-29	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Secretary of State, less than a year ago, you promised a three-pillar career model to law enforcement workers. In addition to the introduction of a new system of promotion and salary, a new housing support system and a public savings insurance system were discussed. They believed that this new insurance system would provide financial protection for those who become unfit for health after several decades of their service, but before the age limit of old age, i.e. can no longer meet the physical fitness requirements expected of professional workers. This situation was previously handled by the service pension until it was abolished by the Orbán government. It is promised that the new insurance system would be designed to address the resulting problems and to alleviate unfair situations for professional workers. However, just before Christmas, on 23 December, the government surprised law enforcement workers by repealing its decision at the end of 2014 on the renewal of housing aid and the development of this new insurance scheme. The new government resolution, which was issued instead, no longer shows any evidence of previous promises. I would therefore like to ask Mr Secretary of State why the new Government decision does not include the establishment of a new housing support and insurance system. Please answer my question specifically: did the Ministry of Interior comment on the abolition of these points, or did you support it at the government meeting? Does this mean, finally, that the government has given up the plan to develop a new housing support and insurance system? To put it simply, has the government broken its promise to law enforcement workers? Please respond. Thank you.
u2016-03-16-30	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, State Secretary Károly Kontra will respond to the interpellation. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2016-03-16-31	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Congressman, you seem to be monitoring part of the government decisions because on 20 January 2016 the Government discussed this issue and commissioned the Minister of the Interior, Sándor Pintér, to present a proposal on the establishment of a system of public insurance for the purpose of saving law enforcement workers and a new system of housing aid. The presentation is being prepared. On 10 February, there was a discussion at the Ministry of the Interior where representatives of trade unions, the Faculty of Law and Orders, employers and advocacy organisations took stock of the new insurance-based system, housing support and insurance system, and there is every chance that, once the proposal is made, the government will discuss this very important issue. And good news for you: all three pillars of the career will work. The first pillar entered into force on 1 July 2015. As a result, the salary of the professional staff, nearly 60,000 persons, increased by an average of 30 per cent from 1 July 2015 and the salary of professional law enforcement workers increased by an average of 5 per cent from 1 January 2016. It will grow by 5-5 percent in 2017 and 18 and 19 as well, and we can say that the government's promise to make an average 50 percent increase by 1 January 2019 for nearly 60 thousand law enforcement professionals will be fulfilled. Honourable Congressman, I have good news for you and for the members of the professional staff: The so-called benchmarking will take effect for the first time in 2016 and we have allocated HUF 8 billion as a source in the 2016 budget. So we can spend 8 billion forints on benchmarking with 30 percent plus 5 percent salary increase. This year, on the basis of the assessment of the commanders, it shall be possible for members of the professional staff to receive this on two occasions. And let me tell you another number: We spent HUF 34 billion on the 2015 salary increase, and the government and the state budget spent HUF 93 billion on the increase in salaries in 2016. Honourable Congressman, So we have not only promised that there are three pillars of the career system, but we are also implementing it. But if we thought back on what opportunity you had between 2002 and 2010, you could have done anything, made any salary increase, implemented a career scheme, but did not do so. And, you know, Congressman, it is also odd that you are asking us to do this when, between 2006 and 10, you were in a position, as political advisor to the various socialist police ministers, to suggest that professional stocks should receive a raise, a career opportunity. I don't know if you did this, you didn't, but the point is, there was no career. Professionals were given a career opportunity two times in 2001, when the first Fidesz government extended the civil servant career program to members of the professional staff, and the new career system came into force last year, 2015 and July 1, 2015, thanks to the new Service Act. Congressman, you didn't give me a career, but you did give it to firefighters, for example. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] There has been no payment of a passing over-service fee. This was done in 2011 when we paid 7,7 billion to professional firefighters. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-03-16-32	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, I'll ask Congressman if he'll accept the Secretary of State's answer.
u2016-03-16-33	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Secretary of State, thank you very much for your historical insight. I'm sure you'll be very useful to all law enforcement personnel. You just didn't answer what I asked you again. The government's decision has disappeared, these tasks have been revoked by the government. You can tell me what you are negotiating or what you are not talking about in the Ministry of Interior, the Hungarian Government officially abolished the two promises that have been made so far and are not there. Is there any money, Mr. Secretary? The fact that you're going to tell us in Parliament what a raise the police got, that's okay, you don't have to tell us because we were here, we discussed it, we voted for it. My question was, what about the other two cases, the housing allowance and the insurance system. And he still couldn't say anything to me. It still seems that in this respect, unfortunately, the Hungarian government has deceived these people. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Strong words from a socialist politician.]] And understand, this isn't just about money. Ever since you guys took the pension away from these people, the pension system from injured cops and firefighters, you've just been on the street, which is unacceptable. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] I cannot accept your answer, and I would like to see the Government provide some kind of written guarantee that it will actually do so. Thank you very much.
u2016-03-16-34	Thank you. Dear Parliament, Congressman didn't accept the Secretary of State's answer. I ask the Honourable Parliament if it will be accepted. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply 106 yes, 44 votes not, without abstention. Dear Parliament, Dániel Z. Kárpát, representative of Jobbik, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Justice:.. How many remain on the side of the road? It's an address. Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát has the floor.
u2016-03-16-35	Mr President, Dear House, Together with the good time, a social disaster can come to Hungary, because with the end of the eviction moratorium, the axe was literally hanging over the heads of hundreds of families in terms of removing it from its home, and it can be seen that the government has not used this graceful, graceful time to settle the problem. The first alarms have already come to us, both from small settlements and from the inner districts of the capital, to the fact that evictions are already taking place this week or the next period. We also see that, although the government has also announced on billboards that it has accounted for banks, settlements and quotes - it has committed in connection with foreign exchange lenders, we see that once again the number of debtors who fail to perform or fail to perform is only 140 thousand. This ratio is about the same as before your so-called settlement, so this only figure shows that what you planned was in perfect chaos, because it actually legalized the bank free robbery, the free robbery of the banks involved. We also see an example of, let's say, in the case of car credentials, 70 percent of contracts bleed from wounds or wounds that would render it invalid. For many, the duration has doubled, so the spill-over of this problem is very likely. We also see that an investigation deserves what you're offering to the credit-damaged. [[14.30]] They recommend the National Asset Manager whose basic philosophy we do not like very much, since it takes ownership of the debtor in respect of its own property, and it is transferred to the National Asset Manager. But here you work with a quota of 35,000, and out of this quota of 35,000, 32,000 have been filled, so over the remaining 3,000 places, the victims who, as I said, have tens of thousands and are climbing to 140,000 who are unable to perform. So you can see that this does not provide a systemic solution. The so-called private failure facility along Jobbik's trail would have been a viable path along the lines of the new negotiations, cleaning up contracts from financial waste. But with only one or two hundred contracts to be concluded and put under the roof in that time, it is a laughing stock, yet again it cannot provide a solution to the masses. At the end of the eviction moratorium, 15,000 properties will continue to be auctioned, 12,000 cases have been held by the court before, but we can see now that the court proceedings may be the refuge of the victims, since the implementation will at least be suspended until then, but with a two-thirds mandate and then almost two-thirds authorisation, a system-wide solution should be placed on the table. Unfortunately, that didn't work. Jobbik has put this proposal on the table, forging loans at the rate of admission, for the victims, where the last HUF unduly taken will be regrouped, which is why the question arises. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] As long as the government doesn't commit to this, at least it's willing to extend the eviction moratorium. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2016-03-16-36	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, State Secretary Pál Völner responds to the interpellation. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2016-03-16-37	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, The Member's interpellation refers to the unsolved situation of insolvent debtors, but this is far from the case. Since 2010, a number of State debt relief measures have been adopted. I would like to mention the most important things: preferential end-payment, exchange rate barrier, establishment of a National Asset Manager, public interest subsidies, accounting of financial institutions for unfair contractual arrangements, conversion of foreign currency-based loans and financial leasing debts to HUF in consumer contracts and thus the elimination of exchange rate risk. We are talking about 3.6 million contracts, and only the accountability of banks reduced the burden of debtors by HUF 764 billion. According to the latest news, as you have mentioned, the National Asset Manager has already been able to help over 30,000 families whose housing has thus resolved and got rid of mortgage credit burdens. As far as the private institution is concerned, the government will do its best to make the relevant groups aware of this institution and its advantages in relation to enforcement and forced sale procedures. Private bankruptcy proceedings are initiated in accordance with the legal conditions, and the credit-paying family will receive bankruptcy protection within a few days, which means that it is protected from enforcement measures, as well as from forced sales, and can renegotiate its debt settlement with state aid in an orderly manner, even if it is not only owed to the bank but belongs to several parties. The territorial units of the bankruptcy service established at government offices operate customer services, where the debtor also receives professional assistance to initiate proceedings. T/9541, which was included in the series of articles on 7 March. Bill No. 1 amends the private bankruptcy law. The purpose of the amendment of the law is to extend the deadline for the initiation of debt settlement procedures at the first stage, i.e. in accordance with the rules applicable until 30 September 2016, until the end of the first phase. Recent experience shows that interest in private bankruptcy has increased in recent weeks, with 4 to 10 new cases registered daily. This shows that more and more people want to take advantage of this opportunity to save public debt. It is known that the Private Bankruptcy Act, in the context of implementations which were blocked by clearing laws, provided an additional opportunity for debtors to prevent the reopening of enforcement and forced sale. It is necessary to stress that the State grants state aid to families in private bankruptcy proceedings both outside the court and before the court, the sum of which may be up to HUF 25,000 per month. The government does not refrain from starting a new amendment by gathering six months of experience, but, in the meantime, it encourages stakeholders to make use of the current legal options. The State entrusts the people in difficulty with their own decision to consider these opportunities with private bankruptcy and to be aware of the obligations that this entails. To sum up, I believe that the government has set up a system of public institutions involved in the private bankruptcy procedure by September 2015 in a very short time in international comparison, and that the results of the work that has been done so far will certainly be shown gradually, hopefully in the next six months. I ask you, Congressman, to accept my reply. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-03-16-38	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. I ask Congressman if he will accept the Secretary of State's answer. You have the floor.
u2016-03-16-39	Mr President, Dear House, Both Secretary of State and the apparatus behind you know perfectly well what I asked you, and you know perfectly well that we are here to prevent eviction. It was also apparent that you did not say a single word about eviction. It's a shame they won't even talk about hundreds of people's disasters. You consider this to be a system malfunction, a part of the system. Yeah, at the National Asset Management, they can offer 3,000 more people to take away their apartments, housing property, and the state will take it back, and they'll be able to rent it back from you. In terms of private bankruptcy, they were able to help one or two hundred people. The pitiful situation is that the Government of Hungary would allow more people to be thrown out of its home than executives, who expect only 600 evictions this year, but you will allow more with their billings. It's amazing, it's pathetic, it's a shame what's happened here. I don't accept your answer. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2016-03-16-40	Thank you. Dear Parliament, The congressman didn't accept the Secretary of State's answer. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept it. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 106 votes in favour, 28 votes against and 4 abstentions. Dear Parliament, Szél Bernadett and István Ikotity, representatives of LMP, have submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Human Resources:. When will the schools be returned to the municipalities? It's an address. Mr István Ikotity has the floor.
u2016-03-16-41	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, The May Other Politics has said since the debate of the 2011 Public Education Act that nationalization of the school system is a dead end. It is just as extreme as when under socialist-liberal governments all responsibility was shifted to municipalities while the funds were being taken away from them. With the centralization, we fell on the other side of the horse, and now they want to control everything from Szalay Street, and they've taken away the power of authority. The last 25 years have proved that both extreme solutions have failed. The liberal model has created huge inequalities between schools, which, however, have not been balanced by fidesz centralization. Of course, this is also due to the huge withdrawal of resources from centralization. Since 2010, HUF 200 billion was withdrawn from the school system on an annual basis. In support of this, there is only one example: it is mentioned that HUF 234 billion was spent on educating wages, while a few billion forints, a few thousand forints, increased only the total amount for education. This means that such an amount has been withdrawn from the operation of education. But nationalization itself had a negative effect. To this day, the settlements have not dealt with nationalization. The capture of schools also meant the loss of identity, some of the local identity. Decades of centuries-old traditions have ceased, values have been lost. Without institutions, the scope of local democracy has also been reduced. You mustn't leave it like this. The Possibly Other is an intermediate solution: we would stop convulsing centralization, but we would not return to the former failed liberal model. We say that the municipality that asks and is able to maintain it can get its schools back together with the appropriate state resources. What we see is that the most painful thing is the loss of schools in the big cities, so we started a signature collection, and with the petition signed, the residents can take a stand to allow the city's public education institutions to become self-government reservations again. [[14.40]] Whichever municipality does not want or is not able to do so, we would leave some kind of public responsibility there, but the municipalities still need to have a say in local education, such as the selection of the director. Don't get me wrong: we're not talking about how the Klebelsberg School Maintenance Center is being dismantled, it's just defocusing a centralised system on subunites. The centralization remains, and the settlements will not be given back the opportunity to say so. Dear Secretary of State, Continued [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Are they disqualified from giving the municipalities the opportunity to get their schools back? I'm waiting for your answer.
u2016-03-16-42	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, State Secretary Bence Rétvári responds to the interpellation. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2016-03-16-43	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, I am sorry that Congresswoman Wind has not told us her own interpellation in relation to education, but you have entered her place, so it has been said. [[Agnes Kunhalmi: I miss her!]] We can see what happened at the time, honourable Member, what you are asking for when the municipalities were both the operators of the institutions and their maintainers. This was the period before 2010 when the municipalities were under-funded in many cases and, on the other hand, there were huge differences between one and the other parts of the country. And usually there, a municipality should have spent more on its school because more disadvantaged or deprived children attended classes, where, as the whole settlement was disadvantaged, he did not have the opportunity to spend any more, because he did not have any business tax revenue or any other revenue from the municipality. In fact, since they are generally poorer municipalities, they could not even borrow, they could not even issue bonds, so that they would try to maintain these institutions to a decent standard for at least a period of time. This resulted in the completion of the public education activities once and for all in 381 places between 2002 and 2010. Some of these were reopened by Fidesz-KDNP after 2010, but in the previous period 381 were locked on the doors of the school buildings. This, of course, involved the dismissal of the teachers who worked there and were there, so they put 17,000 teachers on the street. In addition, if we add that even the 13th month's wage was taken, which is HUF 17 billion a year, it means an additional HUF 80 billion withdrawal from the education system. If we add the normative reduction that was also implemented by the then government between 2002-2010, then we can see that the amount that was taken out of the system exceeds HUF 200 billion. But on the other hand, we have seen that in 20 years, while Hungary has tried such a proposal, what you have just proposed, there has been an increase in the gap between children who were born to a more difficult settlement and those you referred to here at the end of your speech, who were born to a better, richer settlement or a district in Buda. They had greater opportunities; the one who was born in a small settlement had a smaller opportunity. The scissors are open. In 20 years, differences did not decrease within the system of public education, but increased. That is why we said that this must be changed. And that is why we have created a system that is still in operation, which is still a mixed system, because you know, Congressman, that half of the schools are still run by the municipalities. And it is not significantly apparent that there are no complaints in the municipalities where the municipalities run the schools. In fact, I can tell you more: 135 municipalities - in the period after the municipal elections they have the opportunity to declare whether they operate or not their own schools - had the legal opportunity to operate their schools, but they said rather to hand them over to the KLIK operation. The reservation belongs to the state everywhere, but in 135 cases, they asked for the exact opposite of what you said, Congressman. And I would also like to say here because you and others tell me so many times what kind of withdrawals have been made: let's see how much the expenditure per student per child was in 2012 and 2014. In 2012, HUF 592 263, compared to HUF 691 326 in 2014 - from 590 thousand to 690 thousand, is what we spend on a child in Hungary. Show other governments over three years [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] they were able to achieve such an increase on a child in the system of public education, precisely because we value knowledge, and we would like to offer it to all children in Hungary. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the benches of the governing parties. Dr. István Hiller's intervention. Dr. Wind Bernadett is arriving in the room.]]
u2016-03-16-44	I thank the Secretary of State for his reply. Dear Parliament, I ask the congressman if he will accept the Secretary of State's answer. You have the floor.
u2016-03-16-45	At the end of what you have to say, the Secretary of State has admitted to this kind of reduction in resources that I have mentioned. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: 600 less than 500?]] In the past, as he began his reply, it was specifically about the fact that the municipalities were unable to maintain the educational institutions before 2010: we think the same thing, because the government at the time did not add the right source. The Secretary of State claims that this has changed, and now there is money for education. This is because it is not true that the current maintainer, KLIK, is indebted to the same way as the pre-reserving municipalities; they are constantly replacing these amounts; the KLIK needs to be helped out again and again, as it has a huge debt. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: We raised wages, that's why!]] Dear Secretary of State, With that logic, it is quite clear that you would mislead me if I accepted that answer. I can't accept your answer.
u2016-03-16-46	Thank you. Dear Parliament, The congressman didn't accept the Secretary of State's answer. I ask the Honourable Parliament if it will be accepted. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 104 votes in favour, 29 against and 3 abstentions. Dear Parliament, Győző Vinnai, representative of Fidesz, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Human Resources:, What were the results of the round table negotiations on public education? Can opposition arguments be held in the debate again on the age of compulsory education and early school leaving? It's an address. It's Mr. Vinnai, Mr. Winner.
u2016-03-16-47	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, Roundtable negotiations are ongoing on issues of public education, the participants of education are waiting for its results. Since 2011, the debate has also started to flare up again and again as to whether it is appropriate to impose schooling obligations until the age of 16 or 18. If we look at school effectiveness, who did not motivate us to study at the age of 16, it is useless to keep it on the school bench. Of course, schools at 18 years of age have an interest in ensuring that school leaving does not make the job of teachers insecure. In this respect, it is also important to improve professional efficiency, prevent falling out, motivate, learn, develop self-esteem, but we would be unfair if only teachers were to be held responsible for leaving school as if the impact of the family and the circle of friends did not prevail. But it is better for the unmotivated student to go to work and get to know the world of work and decide whether to stay or study. According to surveys, many of them return at the beginning of their 20s, because they realize that learning improves their job opportunities and their income levels. His decision to do so is far more valuable than being forced by law. We need to make sure that if he falls out of education, there's always a way back for him. From September 2016, the renewed VET bridge programme offers new opportunities and provides a way for young people to receive primary education and at least part vocational training until the age of 25. For decades, we have been waiting for a reduction in the rate of drop-out from vocational school, but this will be the first program to take back young people who drop out of secondary education beyond compulsory schooling. Often, the motive of early school leaving is to earn a young person with a social background to buy what he wants. It is therefore important for young people to be financially motivated to learn, to receive cash benefits, reimbursements or scholarships in vocational education and training bridge programmes. In addition to the obligation to study until the age of 18, the child has left school on his birthday since we delivered the upper limit of the school obligation. According to the law, the student's schooling obligation is until the end of the school year in which he reaches the age of 16, so he must complete the school year. Dear Secretary of State, What have been the results of the roundtable negotiations? How can an international comparison evaluate the age limit of the home schooling obligation? What is the EU target for early school leaving, and how is Hungary in meeting it? What measures help to reduce early school leaving? [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] I look forward to your reply. [[Applause from the benches of the governing parties.]] [[14.50]]
u2016-03-16-48	Dear Parliament, State Secretary Bence Rétvári responds to the interpellation. You have the floor.
u2016-03-16-49	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, We often hear various statistics about the number of people enrolled, the number of enrollers, and whether we look at higher education or secondary education, we always talk about these numbers. It's just as important that if you enroll, let's say, a hundred students in college, how much of that is going to do, on average, 60. If a hundred students enroll in high school, in vocational school, how much of that is done - usually 70. This is a more important number, an important indicator, and although the relationship is a little more complicated, it better indicates how effective the public education system or the higher education system is, whether one can get a degree there or not. At the same time, it is also important to ask what the Member has asked about the limits of the school obligation. We talk about many times and many times that the educational commitment limit is 16 years, 18 years, at the same time, if we look at what you have asked us to compare whether in other countries where the educational obligation limit is higher or lower, students are actually spending more time in school or less years. In English, if there is a mandatory longer period or less somewhere else, it is possible that students actually spend more time in school where less time is set, where the age limit is higher, but they are there for less time, precisely because they take it more seriously and spend more time in the system of public education. If we look at the average in Hungary in the 5-39 age group, we see that students spend 17.6 years in education, while the OECD average is 17.7 years. At the same time, in many countries with ten or less years of schooling, more than 90 percent of students attend school or kindergarten and school for at least 13-14 years. For example, in Sweden, where compulsory education starts at the age of 7 and reaches the age of 16, more than 90 percent of each age group participates in institutional education from the age of 3 to the age of 18. In the Czech Republic, where more than 90 percent of young people receive institutional education between 5 and 17 years of age, where the education obligation of citizens is lower than that of Hungarian citizens, between 6 and 15 years of age. So what we can see is that this ratio is about OECD average in Hungary, and we can also see that in other countries 10 years are prescribed, but they go to school for 13-14 years, because there are other incentives that give students real knowledge. This is even more valuable, because if you want something, you go to school because you are motivated from within and not only because you have an external compulsion, it is obviously not difficult to realize that you will have much more motivation and a much more useful, more knowledge. This issue is, of course, also on the agenda of the various discussions, it was on the agenda of the round table of public education, it is also in today's negotiations with trade unions, one of the first points is the age limit for compulsory education. It is the government's view that if we see that the amendment that has taken place in recent years worsens the drop-off rates, it is, of course, possible to take the necessary measures. But what we saw in previous consultations, the representatives of employers, the Chamber of Commerce and Industry, also said during the roundtable negotiations, that it considers this an important and useful measure, since it believes that for the country, for the labour market, a more beneficial direction for the economy is to make vocational training more flexible and to keep it at 16 years of age. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-03-16-50	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. I ask Congressman if he will accept the Secretary of State's answer.
u2016-03-16-51	Thank you for your answer, Mr. Secretary. The issues of public education must be dealt with as a matter of priority, not only because it is accompanied by a heightened battle, but also because the country's future is decided in schools, and it is very important that anyone who sits on the school bench leaves the school bench with the right degree - primary or secondary education. That is why it is important that we do our best to achieve quality education, to create opportunities and to care for talent. It's in the best interest of the children and the students. I'd put it that they can acquire knowledge that can make them a successful adult. So we need to reduce the social disadvantages that have been brought about in school - and thank you very much for the international examples of compulsory education and early school leaving. Let me point out that, according to Eurostat data, this is a downward trend. Our goal is to make this permanent. The answer is accepted. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-03-16-52	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Congressman has accepted the Secretary of State's reply. Dear Parliament, Mr. Lajos Korózs, representative of the MSZP, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Human Resources: - How many disabled people were pushed from the side of the road into the ditch? Or how many people have their incomes been taken from in the last five years? It's an address. Congressman Lajos Korózs has the floor.
u2016-03-16-53	Thank you so much for the opportunity. Dear House, Dear fellow Members, It has been four years since the government transformed the pension system, and it has also affected a very sensitive point, including the disability and accident disability pension in Hungary. Today, disability benefits, let's face it, are no more than a sickness benefit or a sickness benefit, regardless of how much work time has been completed and how much contributions have been paid. In addition, the government has tightened the eligibility criteria, even though there are several serious diseases, it is not certain that the previous health damage will be judged by the arbitration committee. In addition, the government reduced the level of benefits. The completion of the reviews was first promised by the end of 2013 and then extended twice, and now it was said to be completed by 31 December 2015. In November, however, they said that there were 30 grand in backlogs, so it looks like in two months they were able to decide the fate of 30,000 people. From what I hear, they used conveyor belts to produce the people they took care of or reduced their supply. In any case, it is interesting that in 43 months they were able to decide on 160,000 people, and now it is fleeting on 30,000 people in a month. According to EMMI's last transmission of data, almost 55,000 people have lost their disability or rehabilitation care for some reason over the last few years in respect of all the investigations, and according to the wallet, it is not possible to know how many of them have ceased their care due to the exceptional review. They said that there could be about 10 percent of those who had been reduced or deprived of their care according to their health status. The point is that, in my opinion, it is hard to believe that they really do not know exactly what kind of examination and why care was taken, or that they may deliberately not be made clear in the decisions. What we see is that on the side of social assistance, the number of beneficiaries is barely increasing, so a large number of people are left without care. Another important point is that between 2012 and 2015, 66 thousand people were rejected, for example because they did not have adequate insurance periods or because they were not considered disabled enough. So they're out on the first straw. But you can't give an accurate picture of this either, saying you don't have any information. Say that in the Ministry when, as far as I know, 1.2 billion forints were spent to build the IT system. That is why I am asking the Secretary of State how many people and for what reason have their care been stopped, how many people have been reduced, how is it possible that HUF 1.2 billion is spent on software development and that they cannot transmit accurate data. Do you find it unfair to expect a person under the same health condition to be less disabled and therefore to receive less care than before the review? Thank you very much.
u2016-03-16-54	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, State Secretary Bence Rétvári responds to the interpellation. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2016-03-16-55	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, I could quote Erika Szűcs, her former boss, Ferenc Gyurcsány or János Veres to you, but I have decided to quote you instead, honourable Member, on this subject. You said here in Parliament on 9 December 2008:, Of course I know that in the years after the change of regime, a lot of people have fled into invalid retirement, but in the long run, it cannot be possible for a society to have a perspective that if there are fluctuations in the labour market, or because its knowledge cannot be converted, or because its health is somewhat reduced, the only escape route is that we are going to the disabled pension. [[15.00]] Unfortunately, in England in the '70s, it was done by workers, and the English also realized that this was not a good direction. That is what you said, honourable Member; here are some of the criticisms, I believe, that I have answered what you said in your speech. Allow me to answer the rest. I trust that the sitting point and the position in your case do not change, so you now think the same thing from the opposition as you thought on the government side in 2008 as the secretary of state that this system had to be touched because it had internal injustices and had a wrong answer to social problems. The aim of the transformation of the healthcare system for persons with disabilities introduced in 2012 was to create a single system based on complex ratings and based on insurance principles, taking into account the medical, occupational and social aspects of the former diverse care system. By 31 December 2011, the former III. By 31 March 2012, beneficiaries of group invalidity pensions and regular social benefits were able to declare whether they were applying for a complex qualification, given that they were unable to carry out a job without rehabilitation. A total of 189 394 people made such a statement. In their case, only the reviews that had to be carried out by the end of last year can be interpreted. Those who did not make a statement admitted, in fact, that they had no such entitlement and could no longer use it. So the system adjusted itself there. [[President Tamás Sneider, Vice-President of the National Assembly.]] According to the stock statistics of January 2016, 52 215 persons are receiving disability benefits as of the age. It is important to point out that the law on the care of persons with disabilities and amending certain laws does not preclude persons with invalidity benefits who have already acquired the period of employment required for the old age pension from becoming entitled to an old-age pension. Those in receipt of invalidity benefits who have reached their retirement age may, therefore, apply for an old-age pension or may decide that, if the calculated amount of the old-age pension is lower than the amount of the invalidity benefit, they shall continue to opt for invalidity benefit. The Act also contains a further discount rule in respect of invalidity and accident disability pensions who were 57 years of age on 31 December 2011. They may also request, after the age limit for old-age pensions has been fulfilled, that the pension management body pay their invalidity benefit as an old-age pension for the same amount. The legislation currently in force states that the amount of invalidity benefit to be determined after the first complex rating of the benefit received on 31 December 2011 must not be less than the amount of benefit due for the month preceding the review, unless, of course, the person's health has changed positively. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-03-16-56	First of all, I would like to welcome my fellow Members and give the floor to Mr Lajos Korózs for a rejoinder as to whether he accepts the answer.
u2016-03-16-57	Thank you very much. I'd like to advance my refusal to accept the Secretary of State's answer. Look, Secretary of State, I don't know how much it has to do with thousands of people in the year of the change of regime getting into some system of invalid supply. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Many.]] to see what is now, in 2016. The people who ran into it 25-26 years ago in the year of the change of regime because they had no other option, disability, some kind of care, are most likely already dead. So this is about the person who suffered a disadvantage in the pension scheme that was converted after 2012 as a result of some kind of government measure. These people, who have paid social security contributions for more than 30 years, are not able to receive an old-age pension when they reach the age limit applicable to them because they are still receiving invalidity benefits. Nor did Minister or Secretary of State answer how many people and how much they reduced their supply during the reviews. I don't accept your answer. Thank you.
u2016-03-16-58	I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it will accept the answer. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the answer by 103 votes in favour, 24 against and without abstentions. Dear Parliament, László György Lukács, representative of Jobbik, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Human Resources: hospitals in Gúzs. It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2016-03-16-59	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, In 2016, Jobbik also launched a genuine national consultation in the field of health, in which the party first consults the Hungarian sectoral, professional, civil and scientific organisations. During the negotiations initiated, there is no time to mention the almost unstoppable increase in hospital debt, which is considered to be the biggest problem in health care. From the professional consultation it became apparent that one of the worst indicators of the medical emergency situation at the age of the third Orbán age was hospital debt and its evolution. The third Orbán government, inheriting the medical run of the second Orbán government, looked at it with a hospital-institutional debt of over 80 billion by the end of 2014 and by the beginning of 2015 with a one-off HUF 60 billion. Of course, it is not possible to get rid of the aid, but it is interesting to make use of the amount to be mitigated. Even unorthodox economists can agree that 80 minus 60 billion is 20 billion, so that much debt should have been included in the institution's aggregation at the end of 2015. Of course, in Hungarian health care, Hungarian health maths do not work that way. According to the records of the Treasury, by the end of December of the previous year, the hospital debt reached not only HUF 20 billion but HUF 38 billion, and increased by HUF 2.2 billion every month, and now we are halfway to 80 again. An example is the Honvéd Hospital, which owes an entire annual budget amount of HUF 2.3 billion to a medium-sized Hungarian settlement with about 15 thousand inhabitants. But we could also say that it is no wonder that the trend that has already been established is that the public health institution debt increases by HUF 2 thousand million per month, because the picture is clear. The State shall make available to health institutions a low amount of money which may no longer be covered by normal operation. So every month, the negatives put the institutions in a tight spot. Dear Secretary of State, Your fellow State Secretary, Zoltán Ónodi-Szűcs, recently noted at a conference, perhaps with a tragicomic tone, that he would give you a maximum of seven months. Some say to resign, others say, because of hospital debts, as he put it, suppliers break the door down on him. That shows two things. In 2016, there is no lump sum funding in the budget, and if we look ahead for seven months, he may also think that he will not be able to make it in 2017. In view of all this, it is time to see clearly and honestly answer some questions in order to reassure hospital workers, managers, but also patients. Can the state finally receive more awards from health institutions after their work, i.e. does the government intend to increase the fee for financing which has been frozen for eight years? Will the government not solve hospital debts in 2017 after 2016? I look forward to your substantive reply, Mr. Secretary. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-03-16-60	I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2016-03-16-61	Thank you very much for the floor. I will certainly point out how, at the beginning of last year, we managed to reduce the outflow of hospitals by HUF 60 billion, but allow me, honourable Member, to ask you a different question about health and money, perhaps, too. Healthcare has had various problems for years, decades. One is obviously the management of hospitals, for which we are offering a solution, and we will, of course, want to move forward in the future. The other is a lack of professionals. There was something interesting to find. We've talked about your corporate affairs here in the House, but let me draw the attention of this House to a case that is not connected to a company. If someone goes up and looks at the fully public database containing the registration of each domain name, they see that there is a premiumdoctors.hu website registered in 2013, last modified 2015. On the 14th of the morning, at 9:14 a.m. And this domain, this premium doctors.hu, is registered to a private individual, Dr. László György Lukács. [[Defiance.]] I don't know if you can confirm that this is you. [[15.10]] Anyone with a computer can go to this premiumdoctors.hu. [[Dr. Wind Bernadett: But what's the answer? We'd like to hear...]] There's different news on this. The first news is:, Denmark's medical and dental jobs, and the second news:, Switzerland's medical and nursing jobs ; the third news is:, England's medical posts, and the fourth news:, Germany's medical posts. [[Interjection in the ranks of Fidesz: Shame!]] the fifth news: our specialized offer We are looking for home doctors for the United States. In the following news - I might add - Austria, Sweden and many more countries are adverts. Honourable Congressman, You speak up here about the problems of Hungarian health care, and in the meantime you are registered in your own name, not in your own name, but in your own private name - at the time of your representativeship, when you stood up here in Parliament and gave similar speeches about the problems of Hungarian health care - the title of a website dealing with how doctors can be removed from Hungary, even to other continents. [[Interviews in the ranks of Fidesz: Ew! Shame!]] I'm sure you have a financial advantage in this regard. It's a little strange that you're making a profit from this, sending doctors abroad in Hungary, running a website under your own private name, talking about health problems. [[Dr. Wind Bernadett: You have a minute and a half left to answer.]] On the other hand, we have tried to solve these problems both at the hospital and at the doctor's level. We don't see business, we don't want money out of health care - as you do with this and other websites. [[István Tukacs: Answer the question!]] - but we were trying to provide additional resources. It was 60 billion forints that we provided to hospitals at the beginning of last year - this is a huge scale if you measure the debt of hospitals - so that this debt can be paid. We have secured 75 billion forints as an extra wage envelope for residents, and now we are taking over the salary burden for young specialists from hospitals, not for hospitals, but for one of our ministry's back-up institutions to pay directly so that there will be no conflict of interest between older doctors and young doctors, and not for an older specialist to feel that the young specialist or the young resident is taking away the money from his job and the hospital's financial budget. In addition, we provided additional resources to hospitals for those surgeries - hip replacements, cataract surgeries, and so on - that were most typical of long waiting lists. That is why the waiting list, which, four or five years ago, contained 70,000 people, and one and a half years ago, had more than 45,000 people on it, now contains only 34,000 names, 34,000 waiting places, not by accident, but because of the additional resources we provided for hospitals to reduce the waiting list. We still have a lot of work to do, and we will continue to do so later. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-03-16-62	I'll ask the congressman if he'll accept the answer.
u2016-03-16-63	Thank you very much for the floor. Secretary of State, I am unable to accept the answer. I am very sorry that, through my person, there is no debate on the subject, namely hospital debt, on such an important subject. [[András Tállai: Two-faced Jobbik!]] Personal attacks will, of course, continue to stand, as the subject is really important, and in any case to discuss who is responsible, who can bear the responsibility for the current state of health. What is important, however, is that I wanted to hear answers to the real problem, the question of the increase in hospital debt, the answer to which I wanted, or the answer to why it is constantly generated, how we will eliminate it, and I did not want to know what you thought the reasons or how the so-called escape-based health future was behind the escape-based health present, but I wanted to find out what the concrete plans are for the future. Unfortunately, I have not received any information about this. Maybe the government doesn't have such plans in this area. Thank you very much. [[Interjection in the ranks of Jobbik: That's right! Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-03-16-64	The congressman didn't accept the answer. I'll ask the National Assembly if he'll take it. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 100 votes in favour, 23 against and two abstentions. Dear Parliament, Attila Móring József, representative of KDNP, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Human Resources:. What measures help disadvantaged workers? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2016-03-16-65	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, For the Christian Democratic People's Party, it has always been particularly important to help disadvantaged social groups, improve their living conditions and access to work. Even today, we cannot forget these fellow humans, for many of them are now able to return to the world of work using government help. For people with disabilities, this is not only material but also moral help, and it is a legitimate social expectation. The number of people employed in Hungary has not been as high as today for 25 years, and the unemployment rate is also at an 11-year low, with only 15 percent of people with disabilities working at an active age. This ratio could be improved, improved, and, as we hear from the news, the government intends to encourage the use of people with reduced working, working and knowledge, with the involvement of large companies, offering the opportunity. The government's aim is also to encourage companies with sustainable economic activities to strengthen the process of social inclusion, so it decided to regularise the support and legally guarantee that it would pay at the end of each year to companies that would continue to employ people with changed skills in the following year. We understand that, at the end of last year, accredited companies employing people with disabilities received a one-off grant of almost one billion forints, which could be used to improve working conditions and develop their assets. Dear Secretary of State, In view of the progress and future developments that have been made, I would like to ask: what further measures are expected in this area this year? What possible further steps is the government planning to take to help workers with disabilities and improve their living conditions? I'm looking forward to your reply. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-03-16-66	I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2016-03-16-67	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, The government is committed in several directions, on the one hand we will also strive, strive, and have results, that those who are in a really difficult situation and, if they can only get a minimum wage job, will also improve their situation, and we will also strive to provide an ever-increasing opportunity for those who have changed jobs, because in Hungary, who want to work, we want to create employment opportunities for those who want to work. In this area, the rise in the minimum wage in wage increases over the last six years is almost unprecedented among OECD countries, as the increase in the gross minimum wage, this 43%, which has occurred in Hungary over the past five years, is an absolute leader and there is no other OECD country that has been able to increase to this extent, which represents an increase of almost 10 per cent per year. The minimum wage was 73 500 HUF in 2010 and 105 thousand HUF in 2015. This, as I said, represents an average increase of almost 10 percent per year. We hope that the Hungarian economy will provide the opportunity to continue to grow this way. With regard to people with disabilities, the government's primary objective is to increase the level of employment of these people and disadvantaged workers. To this end, a number of measures have been taken in recent years, and this work continues to be ongoing, and because it is successful, we would like to continue and increase results. The scheme for the employment of people with disabilities has been reformed since 2012, and accredited employers can apply for budgetary support annually, so that every year about HUF 34 billion of annual budget resources can be used to employ 30 500 people with disabilities. Employers also employ persons with disabilities with a rehabilitation card on a continuous basis. In 2015, on average, nearly 30 thousand people received the contribution allowance for the rehabilitation card on an annual basis. For the first time in December 2014 there was an opportunity to grant a one-off grant to encourage the development of rehabilitation employment, which was also a very high amount of HUF 2 billion, 670 million, which we were able to provide. The government decided last December, in December 2015 to provide a one-off grant to accredited employers with disabilities to improve employment conditions, which is currently - this is the only decision - to increase the employment level of 30 666 people with disabilities. [[15.20]] We can also say that the TÁMOP project has also been improved to serve their location. Of this, we were able to provide a source of HUF 13.7 billion under the TÁMOP 1.1.1 programme for training more than 2,600 people and 8 thousand people. Another TÁMOP project had HUF 9.8 billion in support of the development of services for people with disabilities and the strengthening of their integration into the labour market. Rehabilitation services for employment make a significant contribution to enabling people with disabilities to work in the open labour market. Therefore, we will continue to do so in the framework of the EFOP from 2016, and we trust that we will be able to make up for this in the Central Hungary region. The new Public Procurement Act is 111. Paragraph (t) of Article 3 provides, as an exception, that, in the case of the purchase of goods or services produced by persons with disabilities in the protected workplace, no procurement procedure shall be required for purchases below the Union threshold. We hope that this will also give these people a greater need for their work. That's how they could double their employment in the last five and a half years. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]] As an exception, it allows for the procurement of goods or services produced by persons with disabilities in the protected workplace not to be subject to a procurement procedure for purchases below the Union threshold. We hope that this will also give these people a greater need for their work. That's how they could double their employment in the last five and a half years. Thank you very much. (Applause from the ranks of the governing parties. )
u2016-03-16-68	I'll ask Mr. Notary if he'll accept the answer.
u2016-03-16-69	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State, It is good to see that the Government of Hungary not only assumes responsibility for members of society at the level of words, but also proves responsibility by real actions. Solidarity and opportunity are the common responsibility of all of us, because we are talking about one of the pillars of society that, without which, we cannot even talk about a functioning society. In many cases, the government has demonstrated that the burden of shared responsibility must be borne by all and that it is a learning and teaching ability. From the volunteering of young people to the responsibility of the state, everyone has the opportunity to help the weaker and the fallen. In addition to creating opportunities and opportunities, entry into the world of work gives people dignity, so it is especially important that as many people as possible can live on salaries and support themselves or their families. I accept your reply with thanks. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2016-03-16-70	Dear Parliament, The congressman accepted the answer. Ágnes Vadai and László Varju have submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Interior:. The Minister is not interested in the legal and ethical spending of public money? It's an address. Congressman László Varju has the floor.
u2016-03-16-71	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, In recent years, the Ministry of the Interior has initiated a project which, referring to the successful backyard economies of the nineties, has sought to create a situation in which economic operations are organised on peaceful lands of very high quality, otherwise known. This project could have led to the development of the region and, together with it, could have created a job opportunity for people. Prior to the 1990s, the residential area linked to the working cooperatives, integrated by them, meant ascent and growth for the people of South Peace. By the way, the reference to this, and the reference to it - it is now safe to say that it can be described as a despicable hearing - has been trying to give people the impression that it is the same thing now. The project in question could be suitable for the employment of the unemployed in a functioning economic environment, to ensure their livelihood, but, in the absence of a functioning economy, it is not an independent means of resolving the basic problems. After ten months, the Ministry abolished the project, in the absence of results, or by reference to this - in fact, obviously due to the withdrawal of funds. People feel deceived. So the whole project only shows that the public money was spent, and by the time it could have had some kind of return, the state money was no longer available, because the people there, among the users, had disappeared. In such an environment, which is in Hungary today, such programs and fake programs are not good for those who are involved, who can benefit from it, but for those who intervene as intermediate elements. This is how pigs were transported to fattening pigs, instead of selling 6-8 thousand forints for 16-18 thousand forints, and the project was overpriced. Based on all this, we must ask why this did not raise any public awareness at the Ministry of the Interior. When is it expected that the investigation will be carried out and made public? And what is the reason that after the completion of the design, construction and other work, it was suddenly closed after ten months without any investigation? Finally, let me ask you, Mr State Secretary, how much public money has been spent on Orosháza and on setting up training centres for Pusztaottlaka with only three or a few inhabitants, and whether these investments will be completed. Thank you very much. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai applauds.]]
u2016-03-16-72	I give the floor to Secretary of State Tibor Pogácsás.
u2016-03-16-73	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and The aim of public employment is clearly that people who are unable to find employment in the primary labour market cannot take up work can be helped temporarily to get into the world of work, to have a livelihood. The main aspect and main objective of public employment is to launch as many employment programmes as possible in which people do value-making work, which really help them get back to the primary labour market. Such a programme could be the re-introduction of backyard production, as you have said, the re-introduction of backyard production, and indeed a pilot program was launched to facilitate the launch of this process with usable ideas and good solutions. In fact, a program may be oversized, and if it is oversized, then the number of people must be corrected. Here, at the start of the program mentioned by you, we expect that the invested energy, invested resources, will turn back over a period of about 5-7 years, turn around, produce results and restore capital. On your specific question, I can tell you that the programme lasted until 29 February. So the process has just been completed, there has been no early closure in the program. This can be continued with a longer public employment programme. As I said, it starts as a pilot program, and then it is transferred to a normal programme, and the aim is to be able to be a programme that can work even later without adding state resources. The accounting period, the reporting period, is one month, so it is practically the end of this month when the accounts will be evaluated by the district offices. If they consider that if there is any problem or error in the programme, they will be able to take action on this. Therefore, the question of whether anyone has conducted an investigation in these matters cannot be interpreted today, as the programme has been carried out in accordance with the timetable of the public contracts and in accordance with the pre-scheduled work plan. Indeed, there have been quite a few notifications, these notifications have been subsequently investigated and the checks and the necessary measures have been taken and, in the case of aid, partial recovery has been made. If, of course, you have a specific knowledge of this, I would ask you to make your announcement and we can carry out the procedures accordingly. Within the framework of the programme It was used in Orosháza for 18,5 million forints and in Pusztaottlaka forint 21,3 million forints. Within the framework of this programme, the foil tents in which the production is taking place were built, and 36 brigades per squad, about 55 pigs per working group, have been raised. This programme is also linked to training, and will help to re-start the farm in the backyard, according to local traditions and peculiarities. [[15.30]] The question of what will become of the resources obtained from the funds: in the case of programmes financed by public employment, these instruments are the basis for the following programmes, can be used in the following programme and subsequently transferred to the social cooperative. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-03-16-74	I'll ask the congressman if he'll accept the answer.
u2016-03-16-75	Dear Secretary of State, You know that the head of this project was György Simonka, a Fidesz Member of Parliament, to whom you gave over a billion forints of support to play with this project in such a way that other people can be regarded as fools after everything they have done there. As you say, there have been numerous announcements because these funds could have been used improperly, and you should have carried out the investigation. Therefore, I expect that all that you have done so far will be made public, even to the representative of the Parliament, and it should be obvious how much repayment has been made because you have allowed this to happen incorrectly. Fidesz does this under conditions where he does countless things in land affairs that harm people. This could not happen in many Hungary, so I do not accept your answer.
u2016-03-16-76	Dear Parliament, I'm asking if you'll accept the answer. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 104 votes to 29, with no abstentions. Dear Parliament, Bernadett Szél, representative of LMP, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Agriculture:. Balaton can also be stolen by Fidesz buddies? It's an address. You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2016-03-16-77	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister, Dear Parliament, This interpellation will basically be about Lake Balaton, which is our national treasure, and I am very concerned about how to squander all sorts of dubious investments that will not benefit anyone but the person who builds it. One project will be able to destroy the eastern basin of Lake Balaton, and the other will destroy the western basin, so I would very much like the government to keep an eye on this whole case, and I would like you to stop it immediately. Minister, I would like to say that I will be able to accept your answer if Fidesz-KDNP has an attitude that one project will not be possible and the other will be immediately dismantled. I have to add that one of the projects was dreamed into the Bay of Willows by the person who thought of it: they would like to drill down 30 meters deep, into Lake Balaton, the mud, underwater hotel, freshwater diving center, water park, and, of course, not risking his own money, but is already waiting for the state and European billions for this project. The total cost of the project is EUR 5 billion, which is half of the planned Paks expansion. In addition, as I look at the concept, the plan of this amusement park in Balaton is contrary to all existing laws: on the one hand, Natura 2000 is protected, on the other hand, contrary to local construction regulations, and on the third, contrary to the Balaton law. So I think it's time to say in Parliament that this project will not be possible, that Fidesz-KDNP will not let the Lake Balaton be destroyed. The other happened in Balatonfenyves. Unfortunately, this is a pier, 500 metres into the lake, which is half a kilometer long, which, on the one hand, completely destroys the landscape of the lake and, on the other hand, muds the beach, and since then it has come to my attention that the sludge extracted is carried to the Bereg, which is also a protected area, a large-value bog. This is also contrary to my view with the Balaton law, and with all three points, yet now, as I speak of this project, it is built there, and the pier is already standing, and even swimming houses are planned there. I have received studies by experts that clearly state that if it stays that way and they start to use it and even build swimming houses there, practically the Western part of Lake Balaton can be completely destroyed, so we can say goodbye to half of Lake Balaton. I filed two charges on this issue. One of them started investigating, and then the investigation was shut down, and they claimed that the project was not contrary to HÉSZ, so local construction regulations. But please, there's a hierarchy of rights. It's still against the Balaton law! You know, Minister, for us, the May Other is totally unacceptable for Politics to have economic interest groups using our national treasures unscrupulously here. I would like to have a clear answer to my question as to whether the investment in Balatonfenyves will be stopped immediately, and on the other hand, I would like to be assured that the eastern basin of Lake Balaton will not be destroyed by all kinds of water amusement parks and 30 metres deep hotels.
u2016-03-16-78	I now give the floor to Minister Sándor Fazekas.
u2016-03-16-79	Thank you for the floor. Dear Parliament, Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and I am pleased that you have raised this issue, because it is certainly a lesson. Obviously, there is a rule of law in Hungary, the civil rule was established in 1848, and this guarantees that if citizens, their businesses, acquire rights in some form of building permit or any other procedure, they cannot lose it simply because of a parliamentary or other local government or county self-government comment. This is also important, honourable Member, because you have raised two questions here, one of which is the plan for a water amusement park in Balaton, which you claim to be contrary to all laws. You must be very qualified in the world of law, because you declare a plan that is contrary to the legislation that has not yet been submitted to environmental authorities, an application for the establishment of a water park in the Bay of Willows has not yet been submitted to government offices. So either you're a very good psychic, or you're trying to bake some kind of political steak about plans that are more like ideas for the time being, because there's no procedure in the context of the investment, and our authorities don't have any information, unless we consider press articles, but there's freedom of the press, which of course doesn't interfere with the work of the authorities. When the licensee's plan arrives, this question can be judged. With regard to the port in Balatonfenyves, I would like to remind the honourable Member of the following. First of all, the authorisation of this sailing port started in November 2013, and the competent environmental inspectorate published a notice in its office, through its website and the central system, three years ago. At the same time, the notice, the application and the annexes were sent to the notary of the municipality of Balatonfenyves for public announcement in the public area and in the local manner. No comments were received from the public; neither from the LMP nor from you. [[Defiance in the ranks of the ruling parties. Dr. Wind Bernadett: Report...]] Therefore, the local people referred to by you did not object to this investment, neither does this slight murmuring or noise, nor did the local people and local authorities object to this investment. So it seems that there are no such excuses as here in the cloud regions of politics. The environmental civil society organisations involved in the procedure were notified by the supervisory authority by electronic means, but no civil society organisation notified its intention to participate in the environmental procedure, and the information provided to them was accepted. The decision was reached, the decision was published, and no appeal was brought, so this decision became final. In other words, you may be fighting to uphold the law as a Green Party, so to speak, but the law is not respected when others accept it and do not take advantage of the opportunities provided by the law, but here in Parliament they are trying to attack and use political capital from what local people, local residents, otherwise accept. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and You were talking about breaking the law. I will tell you what you have been talking about: what you have said is a pure demagogy, honourable Member, and this is detrimental to the Balaton case, to the environment and to the protection of nature. Thank you for listening. I trust you will accept my answer. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-03-16-80	I'll ask the congresswoman if she'll accept the answer.
u2016-03-16-81	Dear Minister, I can't accept your answer. [[There's a grumble in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] Because he's bleeding from a number of wounds, he's bleeding from a number of pockets all the answers we get from Fidesz-KDNP. On the one hand, on the other hand, on the other hand, I would like to say that there are still local governments, there are still local governments who are discussing these matters. [[15.40]] By the way, if you have a problem with this Minister, you should intervene, but as long as there are local governments and they deal with such issues in substance, it is my duty to address this issue, if the local Fidesz Member who has been elected is no longer there, he has taken up this question. Otherwise, I would find the local referendum a very legitimate solution. Ask the people of Balatonalmádi and Willows if they want a hotel drilled down to a depth of 30 meters and God knows what other water park and water park there for their settlement. With regard to Fenyves: there is a petition, Minister, you are very misinformed, and a multitude of citizens have signed that they thank you, they do not ask for it, because, unlike Fidesz-KDNP, they still have common sense, and they know precisely that Lake Balaton is a national treasure, and we need not exaggerating ministerial responses, but activity, if they are already in government. Don't let them, please, destroy the Balaton! [[Intercoms from the ruling parties: Time is up!]] I would very much like to draw your attention to the fact that you have bled out the Green Authority, and that is the result. That's the result! You're ruining Lake Balaton right now! [[Sallai R. Benedict: That's right! Applause in the lines of the LMP.]]
u2016-03-16-82	Please, Congresswoman, try to keep up with the time frame. Congresswoman didn't accept the answer, so I'll ask the Parliament if she'll accept it. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the ministerial reply by 105 votes in favour, 30 against and one abstention. Dear Parliament, Mihály Witzmann, representative of Fidesz, submitted an interpellation to the Foreign Minister for Foreign Affairs and Trade:. What do the companies mentioned by the opposition as assembly plants mean to the country's national economy? You have the floor, Congressman.
u2016-03-16-83	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, The government has set Hungary's foreign economic interests as a priority for the foreign portfolio and the best possible incentive for investment. The published economic analyses also show that, in addition to the large-scale interstate agreements, the agreements that have been implemented in the automotive industry, which is the driving force of the Hungarian economy, have also had a very strong economic recovery effect in recent years. We can now safely say that the results of this kind of thinking and conscious preparatory planning are increasingly visible, since last year, in 2015 the performance of the automotive industry was about EUR 19.6 billion, which exceeded the value of almost EUR 2.4 billion a year earlier. As was said at the automotive conference organised by the National Investment Agency, last year the Hungarian automotive industry produced HUF 7833 billion in production in Hungary, which was 17,6 percent more than in the previous year, in 2014. In addition, it is also a welcome fact that only the number of people working in vehicle manufacturing in 2015 exceeded 149 thousand people. I believe that when we can report such joyful results and successful economic performance in relation to the Hungarian industry, we cannot, unfortunately, go beyond what the opposition is doing or is doing in the hope of a regular political atmosphere, and is clearly constantly trying to relativity the clear progress made in the industrial sector. Ladies and gentlemen, Unfortunately, it seems that we have now come to the point where the term so-called assembly plant has become almost a scold word for the opposition. I find it outrageous that for an opposition that thinks itself responsible and constructive, nearly 150,000 families make a solid living, and their existence does not matter that much. In addition, the opposition voices do not want to notice the values and performance of significant industrial investments, either in Győr, Kecskemét or in my constituency, as well as the high quality work of supply companies operating on the southern shore of Lake Balaton. Dear Secretary of State, I think it is safe to say that, after 2010, the Hungarian government managed correctly to address the economic challenges raised by the crisis, which, as a result of the irresponsible economic policy of the left-wing governments before 2010, have greatly hindered the development of our country, because the facts clearly show that the Hungarian economy has expanded in recent years, the Hungarian industry has strengthened, exports have increased and investments are showing clear growth. That is why I respectfully ask Mr State Secretary what the companies referred to by the opposition as assembly plants mean for the country's national economy. Thank you for your reply. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-03-16-84	I give the floor to Secretary of State István Mikola.
u2016-03-16-85	Mr President, Honourable Congressman, In 2015, the performance of the Hungarian economy increased in a balanced manner, the gross domestic product increased by 2.9 percent. Of the production sectors, industrial production increased by 7.5 percent, in particular due to the overcapacity of vehicle production, production increased by 17,6 percent compared to the previous year. Vehicle production is a safe and perspective livelihood for some 150,000 Hungarian families, thanks to the continuous development of the automotive industry. The welfare of these families is a very important result of the Hungarian automotive sector. We must not forget that the sector - the 21st century - is also a sector that is not a sector that is not a sector that is not a sector that is not a sector that is not a sector that is not a sector that is not a sector that is not a sector that is a sector that is not a sector that is not a sector that is not a sector that that is not a sector that is a sector that is not a sector that is not a sector that that is not a sector that is not a sector that that is not a sector that that is not a sector that that is not a sector that is not a sector that that is not a sector that that is not a sector that Accordingly, automotive companies are not only a assembly plant in Hungary, but their research and development and innovation activities are increasing. Large automotive companies established in Hungary strive to involve Hungarian higher education institutions, research centres, small and medium-sized enterprises in their research and development and innovation activities. These efforts are consistent with the government's objectives, so that Hungary can become not only a production centre but also an innovation centre. The existence of a large number of efficient small and medium-sized enterprises, which provide competitive production on the world market, is essential for the continued lasting growth of the Hungarian economy. It is undisputed that large automotive companies have a strong influence on the strengthening of Hungarian automotive delivery SMEs by their presence in Hungary and by connecting them to value chains. Large integrating automotive companies not only support the organizational, management and quality development of their suppliers through strict requirements, but also through active advice and training. Companies are also at the forefront of the implementation of dual training, helping young professionals to achieve high quality and marketable knowledge. In addition to its role in the growth of industrial production, vehicle production has contributed significantly to the 2015 record results of export performance. The exports of the Hungarian automotive industry have never been so great. The value of exports in 2015 was EUR 19.6 billion, which was almost 14 percent higher than a year earlier, with EUR 2.4 billion. The importance of the sector is also shown by the fact that, while 20 percent of the total Hungarian exports came from the automotive industry in 2014, this ratio rose to 21,6 percent last year. If we look at the investment figures, we can see that 17 of the 67 positive projects in 2015 included the automotive industry, which represent a total of EUR 760.8 million of invested capital and 4280 jobs for the Hungarian economy. The proposals for investment projects currently under discussion, 40 out of 169 projects, can be linked to the automotive industry, are encouraging. These can create an additional 8 000 jobs for the known parameters. These figures also indicate further growth trends and potential in the sector. The weight of the automotive industry is indicated by the fact that the government has now concluded 65 strategic cooperation agreements, 23 of which are linked to the automotive industry. Based on the agreements, the dialogue with companies aimed at continuously improving Hungary's competitiveness is important and prominent participants and contributors to the sector's companies. Honourable Congressman, Please accept my reply. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-03-16-86	I'll ask Congressman if he'll accept the answer.
u2016-03-16-87	Dear Secretary of State, Thank you very much for your detailed and accurate answer to my question. Unfortunately, we all remember that in 2010, Hungary's economy was in such a weakened state that the threat of bankruptcy threatened our country. Since then, in the five to six years since the change of government, a new economic approach, called unorthodox, or the economic policy that prioritises and represents Hungarian interests, has actually succeeded in putting economic development on an ever-growing path, and the government has managed to achieve this so much that the Hungarian economy has become one of the fastest developing economies in the EU. [[15.50]] I also consider it a significant step forward in the operation of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade to be the change of perspective that not only focuses on protocol meetings, but also seeks to establish foreign economic relations and to explore new economic opportunities. I think that these changes of views can be seen in the macroeconomic indicators of the Hungarian economy, which are constantly improving. I accept the reply of the Secretary of State and ask that you continue to assist the development of the Hungarian economy. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-03-16-88	Dear Parliament, Anita Heringes, a representative of the MSZP, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Human Resources: It's an address. You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2016-03-16-89	Thank you very much for the floor. In addition to late payment interest, the late paying party is also obliged to pay the real or presumed costs of recovery under the EU directive on recovery aid, which you have wrongly adopted. This is an amount of HUF 40, from which the parties could only possibly have missed if the directive had been adopted, but we made it mandatory. The remuneration of the recovery feemaid does not exempt from other legal consequences of the delay, such as the payment of interest on late payment. In his reply to a written question, the Minister acknowledged that KLIK did not carry out a survey on the number of contracts concluded or amended, and we also received the reply that no payment was made at the cost of EUR 40, Minister Balog replied by KLIK. That is why I am asking the Minister and the Secretary of State who is sitting here: how is it possible that a company such as KLIK does not have a contract registration system? If you don't know who and how many contracts you've signed, how could this system even work? We can see that you don't. How can KLIK follow its contractual obligations? What kind of professional control can be in KLIK? You know, managing contracts is the basis for efficient management - all entrepreneurs and every household mother know that. If there is no answer to the contracts, it is not surprising that they do not know when and what they pay: what is due to the teacher, utility companies, swimming schools or anyone with whom they are contracted. If there's no answer to this contract, there's more trouble than anyone in this country thought. We believe that the whole system you have developed must be abolished and that, because of such basic management failures, those responsible must be named. If they don't know how many contracts the organization has signed, they don't know what the risk is, they don't know what to do. Secretary of State, answer: you have adopted a directive wrong about the cost of recovery and then you do not know what kind of contracts have been concluded, how many have been modified, and whether you should pay such a price at all. If you have no detection and no system, you are operating a very, very bad system, and this is not only the case with KLIK, but also with regard to hospitals and unfortunately the whole country. I'm waiting for your answer.
u2016-03-16-90	I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2016-03-16-91	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, These questions, as you have referred to them, have already been answered in writing, and we have sent them to Bertalan Tóth's fellow Member, to all the parts that you have just said here, and we have given you an answer earlier. In short, I can tell you that this lump sum of EUR 40 has not yet been demanded by anyone from the KLIK, so this kind of payment has not been made, nor can it be made, so that this kind of obligation does not impose on KLIK. Previously, there was a fragmented system, which was concentrated in a sharepoint system by KLIK, which showed a commitment to the county in that county. I'm sure the national center of the KLIK sees the whole thing. From this, the subject matter, the rate, the payment frequency, the deadline, the expiration date were visible, and this is obviously the record that the Klebelsberg Institutional Maintenance Centre could settle from the HUF 38 billion that it received as an additional source for the settlement of its various assets and liabilities. He will make any kind of bills, outstanding amounts, contractual payment obligations, a good part of which has already been paid in the last few weeks, since the total debt owed by KLIK was HUF 17 billion a month ago. This rate is not clearly equal to the HUF 1300 billion left over after 2010 as an unpaid bill for schools, health institutions and social institutions. Despite the fact that in recent years we have made the highest level of wage development as a teacher's wage development, since from 2012 to 2013, we have increased the KLIK's salary budget by HUF 32 billion, from 2013 to 2014, followed by an additional HUF 38 billion increase from 2014 to 2015, and from last year to 2015 by HUF 34 billion, which was provided by the central budget for CLIK and educators. You remember these, the MSZ didn't vote for them. Fidesz-KDNP has always voted in favour of these increases, so it has managed to raise the wages of teachers by 40%, so it has managed to put a good part of the money back into the system of public education, which was precisely caused by wage cuts during the socialist period, by taking the 13th month's wage, by laying down the number of 17 thousand teachers, either by closing down the places of work, 381 places, or by reducing the funding provided to local governments. At the time, around 2010, the municipalities said that in many cases 50 percent of the operating costs were not covered by what the then central government, MSZP-SZDSZ, provided for schools. We wanted to change this system, obviously there are several steps involved, obviously the organization of the KLIK will not be as it is now known on September 1, 2016, and they will not really recognize it.In fact, the Klebelsberg Institutional Maintenance Center, as it exists now, will not exist on September 1, 2016, they will see a completely different system. State institution maintenance will remain, but it will end in the summer, and from 2016 another system will operate, operate and maintain schools. And the next week's task is to restore internal operation, and from this HUF 38 billion to everyone owed to KLIK, we can settle all debts, precisely so that children in schools feel nothing negative about the transformation of public education, but they feel that their teachers have much more respect for their finances. And this is already seen in the fact that the number of teachers has increased by one and a half times compared to five years ago, from 980 to 1480 people who would choose the teaching career, because it is a more attractive career today than it was five years ago. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-03-16-92	I'll ask the congresswoman if she'll accept the answer.
u2016-03-16-93	Thank you for the floor. I can't accept the answer, but I can see on the Secretary of State that he didn't protest as vehemently, and he didn't say his answer as loud as he used to. The Secretary of State knows you've made a big mistake in this, too. We're talking about 13,000 contracts, we just have to figure it out, and an elementary school student knows that 13,000 times 40 euros is a lot of money. You took this money out of the taxes, took it out of people's pockets, because the people paid you for it. What I don't know is, if you don't know what kind of contracts they've had, how much they've made, who they've made, you might pay for anything they put under their noses. The big problem, Mr. Secretary, is that you run the whole country like this. And when, a year ago, I tried to draw your attention to the cost of recovery that you had wrongly taken over an EU directive, you, in a very bold way, swept it off the table without wanting to deal with it. I think it's outrageous, they run the whole country like this, which is why they're gonna get you out of here very quickly. Thank you.
u2016-03-16-94	I'll ask the Parliament if it'll accept the Secretary of State's answer. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 102 votes in favour, 27 against and without abstentions. Dear Parliament, Gergely Kulcsár, representative of Jobbik, submitted an interpellation to the Prime Minister's Office:. How long do they tolerate politicians involved in corruption in their ranks? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2016-03-16-95	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, In advance: I am sorry that János Lázár does not answer, because the interpellation is about his appointed one, and I wanted to discuss his personal responsibility. It seems that when János Lazarus appoints someone to be Minister's Commissioner, he draws attention to himself with scandals. It has recently been discovered that Gábor Riz has not only forgotten his half a million forints of income from the Minister's Commissioner's declaration of assets, but is also suspected to be a private document forgery in order not to be found out. Since the scandal began, János Lázár's ministerial commissioners have corrected their declarations of wealth, and one after another they realize their forgetfulness. Let us not brand them for this, since ordinary people often forget that they earn half a million forints a month. But the biggest scandal is not this, but the case of the Minister's former Biharian man, István Tiba, who, according to the news, is up to his neck in the corruption case in Balmazújváros. [[16.00]] As you already know, Mayor Margit Veres of Balmazújváros took five million forints of cash in private at a dark evening hour in December 2012 from an entrepreneur whose company received a HUF 180 million grant from the local government on the same day. The notary met with István Tiba, then mayor, and gave him this amount the next day. In addition, Margit Veres received a car as a gift from the said contractor. The case is already in court, on the last two days of negotiation, they listened to the phone calls that were intercepted, and István Tiba confessed as a witness. During these negotiations, it turned out that when the people involved talked about a gift car, Tiba and Veres, it was not a bribe at all; and the five million forints that István Tiba put in his pocket were just a friendly loan, which, of course, was needed for a public purpose by the Member. Dear Secretary of State, In addition to the fact that - excuse the expression - the defendants think everyone is stupid, through journalists to the courts and voters, it's a hard-core Fidesz corruption case. Dear Secretary of State, What do you think of that? What does Minister John Lazarus have to say about this? Don't you think that your Minister's former Minister should be dismissed from his parliamentary mandate and Margit Veres from the mayor's position? Please do not speak of the presumption of innocence in your reply, since you do not know this concept by reputation, and the case of Béla Kovács is a good example. However, I would ask you to make a statement as to whether you will tolerate politicians involved in corruption in your ranks. Can we expect action from you on this matter? I look forward to your exhaustive response, which is exclusively related to the subject, without misconception. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2016-03-16-96	I give the floor to Secretary of State Nándor Csepreghy.
u2016-03-16-97	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Honourable Congressman, I will try to give a concrete answer on the subject, hoping that by abandoning political logic, you will accept the answer to your question. Allow me to respond separately in two parts: on the one hand, to the question of the pay of development Commissioners and, on the other, to the issues raised in the second half of your question. First of all, I must mention that the 2012 XXXVI. law says that if a Member was appointed Minister for Foreign Affairs, the salary would be reduced to 30 per cent of his salary; which means, for example, in your case, that if you were a ministerial commissioner, you would receive HUF 224 363 instead of HUF 747 878, even though you were doing extra work. The government, therefore, decided that the ministerial commissioners could receive so many additions to the appointment of the ministerial commissioners that their former representatives would reduce their salaries to their basic wages. So, despite the fact that the representatives carry out additional tasks in addition to their work, their salary is no more than the basic salary of their representatives, i.e. HUF 747 878. The government, I think, acted with absolute fairness in this regard: more work, equal pay. I do not see anything wrong with that, and I hope that you do not see, either, Mr President, after the answer. And the question of whether we tolerate politicians who are involved in corruption in our ranks is short and clear: no. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2016-03-16-98	I'll ask Congressman if he'll accept the answer.
u2016-03-16-99	Of course, I cannot accept Mr Secretary's reply. He hasn't said a word about corruption in Balmazújváros, but there's another thing about this case that's interesting. In court, Tiba testified that he had borrowed the money, and he later repaid the loan in two instalments. This happened on 22 December 2012. Now I'm pretty sure that István Tiba lied. Either he testified falsely in court, or he gave false information in his 2012 declaration of assets, because this debt of HUF 5 million is not included in the statement of assets. It is important to know that the statement of assets must contain data corresponding to the state of 31 December of that year and that it is completely unviable that Tiba would have repaid its alleged debt in two instalments between 23 December and 31 December. He also recently stated that no payments were made in two instalments. We will, of course, initiate a declaration of assets procedure on this matter. And I believe that anyone who accepts this answer - I do not do that - supports corruption. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2016-03-16-100	I'll ask the Parliament if it'll accept the Secretary of State's answer. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: 99 yes, 24 against and 1 abstention, the Parliament accepted the State Secretary's reply. Dear Parliament, Bernadett Szél, representative of the LMP, submitted an interpellation to the Prime Minister:. How long should we wait for the ratification of the Istanbul Convention? It's an address. On behalf of the Minister for Justice László Trócsányi, who is competent and competent under the theme, will respond to the interpellation on behalf of Prime Minister Pál Völner. You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2016-03-16-101	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Dear Parliament, Today is March 16, and on March 14, two days ago, Hungary joined the Istanbul Convention, which was not fully transposed into Hungarian law until today. Plus, they need to know that a country is guessing why not. According to our calculations, it would be possible to implement, from about HUF 8 billion, the developments needed to get the Istanbul Convention to work in this country and to know that this money should not be paid out on a whim, but could be gradually developed, but should be committed at last. To do this, the signature is not enough, and it should be ratified. In any case, we can see that the Ministry of Justice promised ratification last spring, but otherwise, at the end of 2014 there was communication from the Ministry that the country was prepared to start implementing the Convention. But then we need a national coordination body to monitor the implementation of all kinds of diversions, administrative consultations and conventions, and we need statistical data collection. So I would like to help you now, Mr Secretary, the statistics have not improved at all. In this country, violence against women ended once a week last year, one woman died in this country last year because we couldn't guarantee her protection. So in light of this, I think that the excuses we hear from the government are very strong. I can see it clearly, and the Ministry of Justice also declared this at the end of 2014 that it was only a matter of political will that the Convention should finally start operating in Hungary. There have been declarations of intent, but there are a lot of problems with that, too. On the one hand, if there is a complete agreement that should be implemented, there is no need for declarations of intent. You have this collection of national strategic goals, which has one problem, is that it is not the Istanbul Convention, and there is no action plan for it. Moreover, professional problems arise, such as the fact that it contains things in many places contrary to the Istanbul Convention. For example, the Istanbul Convention clearly states that the budget must always have the right resources, and you are satisfied with the need to provide resources as far as possible. I think that, if we talk about such an important issue, we cannot bypass the fact that we look at the budget of a country and tell them how many times they have tried to modify this budget in such a way that the Istanbul Convention will reach 8 billion forints, so that these horribly tragic statistics can finally improve. The LMP has done this, other parties have done it, but the government has voted it out as many times as it sees this initiative. I think that we should give up this gut and reject everything that comes from the opposition and mentality, at least when it comes to the interests of such parties and of all kinds of politics as the case of abused women. With all due respect, Mr Secretary of State, when will the zero tolerance principle finally prevail in relation to the abuse of women, when will Hungary finally ratify the Istanbul Convention.
u2016-03-16-102	Mr Pál Völner, Secretary of State, has the floor.
u2016-03-16-103	Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and On 7 April 2011, the Council of Europe Ministerial Committee adopted the Istanbul Convention on combating and preventing violence against women, which was opened for signature on 11 May 2011 and entered into force on 1 August 2014. The Government considers accession to the Convention an important task, as we have indicated many times and in many forms to the woman representing it. However, in order to recognise an agreement as binding on ourselves, we need to assess the internal legal environment in order not to have a regulatory element in our legal system that would be contrary to an international agreement. The scope of regulation of the Convention goes well beyond the powers of one or two ministries, since it defines material and procedural obligations in the field of violence against women and within the relationship in a complex way. The implementation of the Convention will be monitored by a separate body, the expert group on violence and violence against women, for accession states. [[16.10]] Contrary to its claim, the Ministry of Justice stressed in all its replies that the preparation of the accession required local government cooperation and the involvement of other public bodies in the works, in the light of the above. In view of this, the ministers most responsible for resolving the issue, the Minister of Public Administration and Justice, the Minister of Human Resources and the Minister of the Interior have set up a special working group to prepare for accession. After November 2013, the Task Force held several meetings and decided in January 2014 that the Convention could be signed. In the issue of the Hungarian Gazette of 3 February 2014, the Government's decision on the authorisation to finalise the text of the Convention was published. On 11 March 2014, Ambassador Ferenc Robák signed the Convention on behalf of Hungary. However, the members of the working group indicated that, when joining the Convention, there was a need for legislation and measures to be taken, which would at the same time justify the provision of budgetary resources. Only after they have been concluded can the Convention be ratified. In order to facilitate the preparation of ratification, the clarification of tasks and the timetable for implementation, the Task Force on Violence against Women was convened several times in 2015. The mapping of the measures is ongoing. The working group prepared its summary report, which was submitted to the Government, presented positions on ratification of the Convention and the necessary points of decision. On 9 April 2015, the Government started to discuss the subject and ordered further administrative consultations. Accordingly, the preparations for accession are no longer carried out in the framework of the working group, but in the framework of the administrative conciliation. In doing so, three most affected organisations, the Ministry of Interior, EMMI and the Supreme Public Prosecutor's Office, were able to express their views. We also consulted with the European Union staff on data protection. The text of the reservations necessary for accession is being drafted. The draft proposal for ratification will soon be discussed by the administration, after which the Government may decide to adopt the draft and submit it to Parliament. However, it is important to stress that only 20 of the 47 Member States of the Council of Europe have ratified the Convention. On average, two to three years have passed between signing and ratification. 19 other Member States have signed the Convention but have not ratified it. Most of these countries have not been able to ratify since 2011, i.e. five years, while Hungary has only been working for 2 years to prepare for ratification. In view of this, I ask for my answer to be accepted. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-03-16-104	I'll ask the congresswoman if she'll accept the answer.
u2016-03-16-105	I am sad to hear that you are referring to the states that are moving back in this line and do not have the ambition to catch up with those who are taking the lead in the fight against violence against women. Plus, there are some things I'd like to make up for. You say, Mr. Secretary, that there should be no conflict with the Istanbul Convention on domestic law. You have made a law that is contrary to the Istanbul Convention, that is exactly the national strategy. There are a lot of professional problems about this, and I mentioned some of them in my interpellation. Please don't refer to that. It's a special task force, a task force on violence against women, you may be dealing with it, but I've asked for your reports, and you haven't given me this. The minutes are classified. Why can't I find out exactly what you are discussing, how often, who you are here in the context of the negotiations? I can't control it, and as an opposition representative, it would be my duty to check on you. I can't verify their progress. Why are these records encrypted? Moreover, it is not true that first we need the budget and then we need the implementation. A number of countries who signed and ratified them did both at the same time. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Why can't Hungary be such a country? [[Noise in opposition benches.]] It's 8 billion forints. I ask that the government provide the necessary resources immediately.
u2016-03-16-106	I'll ask the Parliament if it'll accept the Secretary of State's answer. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: by 102 votes in favour, 26 against, without abstention, the Parliament accepted the State Secretary's reply. Dear Parliament, István Tukacs, a representative of the MSZP, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Human Resources:. The Chancellor solves the lack of money? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2016-03-16-107	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, To be more specific, I don't want to talk about the chancellors of higher education, I want to talk about a part of another brainstorm in health care. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Idea attack?]] In particular, although almost all actors in healthcare already agree that the sector needs substantial extra money, all actors already agree that the first step is to increase wages, one player disagrees: the government itself. And he wants to cure moneylessness with a variety of ideas. The new Secretary of State must perform magic tricks in order to carry out the task of inadequate curing with little money in accordance with his mandate. The Secretary of State now says that the ambulance doesn't have to arrive in 15 minutes; he says that old people in chronic interior classes can stay without curing work; he says that the Chancellor - Mr. Secretary of State, I'm sorry, I'm very focused on the essence of what I have to say. [[Defiance and interrogation in the benches of the ruling parties. György Balla: It didn't work out perfectly.]] that you don't need a significant resource, while everyone knows you need 600 billion. Now, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask the Secretary of State that, although I see that you have fallen in love with this idea of becoming Chancellor, what will this man's task be? Will it be the chancellor's job to be the one to carry out the unpleasant tasks of moneyless health care? Your job is that the government will be able to point out when a medical institution asks for money to go to the chancellor, because he's responsible for this? From what I hear, you're gonna have to take care of a sick trip. And this, Mr. Secretary, you know what? Confessing the failure of mammoth organizations in the context of excessive false sleep. It's a KLIK-II. It is about the fact that neither GYEMSZI nor GYEMSZI's successor organizations - because they were the CLIKs of health care - are unable to fulfill their task, so they will now want to plan in several hospitals, in a man who will not be able to perform his duties, because he will not have the money to do so. Dear Secretary of State, Answer what will be the job of this man in a situation where everyone knows that a 50 percent immediate increase in health care is needed. Answer what this man's job will be in the situation where an ambulance walks around the capital for hours because he doesn't know where to take the patient and the patient dies. Secretary of State, we need an answer to the questions relating to the health crisis. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2016-03-16-108	I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2016-03-16-109	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Dear House, I do not know whether you have managed to get to the essence of your speech, Mr President, but I think it is very brave to say such words to a socialist Member, a member of the Socialist Party who, as a member of the MSZP-SZDSZ coalition, has completely abandoned health care in lack of money; which has told hospitals, told doctors to collect visits, to collect hospital allowances, and to try to maintain something from the health standards that people would benefit from their contributions. You say this as a politician in support of the health government, who spent on hospital safes instead of spending on hospital equipment, and assisted through the terrible Calvary, and even helped through the then government, which can only be described in one word, HospInvest and the sanitary privatisation, which has often removed the remaining assets from hospitals that have been maintained and left behind nothing but bankruptcy, debt and unpaid bills that you believe to have been replaced by a public-funded health system. However, in the last five years, there has not been a year in which the health fund's budget has not increased to a higher degree than inflation. The last five years are a period for which a programme similar to a hospital, health infrastructure development, construction and various equipment purchase programmes of up to 500 billion would have been implemented at any time. You could not give an example of how much a Hungarian government has ever spent on health development in any era and in any form of state, such as 500 billion forints in the last five years. [[16.20]] This increased the value of the health fund from over 1400 billion to over 1900 billion forints. And we have turned to a lot of things, honourable Member, in health care. We didn't leave health care alone. We tried to help. We tried to help by paying off the debts - it was already said here today - worth HUF 60 billion at the beginning of last year. We tried to stop him, slow down the medical and nursing migration. Some people are working to get doctors to go abroad, and the Hungarian government intends to do something about it by launching the residency support programme. You know that 2,500 young doctors stayed here with more than 5 billion forints. If you look at the number of applications submitted by 3 February 2016 for the newest annual tender, you can see that there were 924 people. When you handed over government, less than 500 people started out of college as a young doctor, and now only 924 young people are included in the residency support program. Compare the situation you left behind and the situation you have now: twice as many young people start their medical activities at home as before. In 2012-2013, the trend was reversed and fewer and fewer people asked for permission to work abroad. For five years, young specialists will receive an extra HUF 151 000 to pay in order to stay at home and not reduce their wages after residency. In 2015, we tried to raise the mobile rent elements. This was achieved by 77,000 health workers out of 5.3 billion forints. We will continue this year, already available for HUF 12.8 billion. In 2012-2013, we spent 75 billion forints on the wage increase of 95 thousand health workers, and we would like to continue the wage increase policy for both elements, since this is a good wage increase of about a quarter, but it is still not enough to give real recognition to the work that Hungarian doctors are doing here. That is why we hope that the government will have a greater framework of greater economic performance in relation to the functioning of the Hungarian reforms to continue these wage increases. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-03-16-110	I'll ask Congressman if he'll accept the answer.
u2016-03-16-111	I won't accept it, Mr. President, it's perfectly natural. [[György Balla: We want safes!]] Secretary of State, I don't know if it's possible to answer what you said with polite words. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: What comes from the inside?]] I'd hate to say rude things. Although I tried my best to say it, even when I shouldn't have asked what the Chancellor was going to do, you couldn't say that magic word in four minutes. Mr. Secretary, shall I now accept your answer? I have two more comments. It is not only a matter of credibility, but also of creativity, that after six years of governance, they are still dealing with the last eight years, Mr. Secretary of State. That's one of them. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Many people remember that period!]] The second is that, Mr Secretary, you have abandoned the principle of solidarity in health care. I must inform you that health care is paid today, Mr. Secretary of State. They measure health care for money for someone who doesn't, and they don't. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2016-03-16-112	I'm asking the Parliament to accept the Secretary of State's answer. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 100 votes in favour, 30 against and 1 abstention. Ladies and gentlemen, We've reached the end of the interpellation trial. I'm ordering a break for a minute. I'm asking you to leave the room for anyone who's important and urgent. [[Move. It's a short break.]] Dear Parliament, We'll get back to work. Bertalan Tóth, representative of the MSZP, would you like to ask the President of the Hungarian National Bank an immediate question? It's an address. Mr President has appointed Vice-President Márton Nagy to respond to his urgent public mission. I would like to ask the Member whether he accepts the person who is responding, or whether he will personally ask Mr President for an answer.
u2016-03-16-113	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I do not accept the Vice-President who arrived here to reply, and I insist on György Matolcsy's reply. Thank you very much.
u2016-03-16-114	Mr President will have to answer at the hour of the third immediate question. Mr Gergely Bárándy, representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the President of the Hungarian National Bank an immediate question:. Are you ordering a salary of 5 million, Mr. President? It's an address. Mr President has appointed Vice-President Márton Nagy to respond to his urgent public mission. I would like to ask the Member whether he accepts the person who is responding, or whether he will personally ask Mr President for an answer.
u2016-03-16-115	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Since this is a personal question for Mr. President, I'd like to wait for him. Thank you very much.
u2016-03-16-116	Then you will have to answer this at the hour of the third immediate question. Csaba Tóth, representative of the MSZP, wants to ask the President of the Hungarian National Bank an immediate question:. Why doesn't the forint grow stronger? It's an address. Mr President has appointed Vice-President Márton Nagy to respond to his urgent public mission. I would like to ask the Member whether he accepts the person who is responding, or whether he will personally ask Mr President for an answer.
u2016-03-16-117	Thank you very much, Mr. President. It would also be a great honour for me if Mr Vice-President would respond, but I would like you to answer this question personally, so I would also like to wait. Thank you very much.
u2016-03-16-118	Thank you. Then you'll have the opportunity to do this three times in a while, Mr. President. Mr. Lajos Korózs, representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question:. Or how does the government continue to destroy the social security system? It's an address. Minister has appointed Secretary of State Bence Rétvári to respond to his urgent public mission. I would like to ask the Member whether he accepts the person who is responding, or whether he will personally ask the Minister for an answer.
u2016-03-16-119	Thank you, I accept.
u2016-03-16-120	All right. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2016-03-16-121	Thank you very much. Dear House, Dear fellow Members, I'm sure it's well known to you that last week, Siófok held a convention of the Hospital Association. It could also be called a meeting of the State Secretary, because the Deputy State Secretarys held their lectures one after the other, from which there was a great deal to be filtered. That is why I would like you to clarify a few questions, Mr Secretary. One of these cases was that the Deputy Secretary of State acknowledged that the basic supply in North Hungary and the North Great Plain had ceased to exist, and the shortage of professionals had practically collapsed, as regions, microregions, small regions or districts - who liked it - would be in a position to remain without basic supplies. The way I see it, there are about 400 to 500 thousand people left without basic supplies. The other announcement was to create the super hospital in Budapest. An assistant secretary of state said that it would solve most of the health problems. They're expecting a big investment at least as big as the Liget project. The third was that chronic classes would be disorganized from the health care system and transferred to the social care system. That is why I would like to ask you how many chronic beds are affected by this measure, how much money you want to save for health care by transferring this service to the social care system, and how much compensation you will collect for patients in the chronic ward.
u2016-03-16-122	I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2016-03-16-123	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, As you said, as you said, almost every State Secretary in charge of this matter was there at the hospital association conference in Siófok, because it is important for us to have a continuous consultation, continuous information that prevents the submission of legislative proposals or decisions. I am thinking about the case of the super hospital in Budapest or the question of chronic beds. This has already been mentioned here in Parliament. The government first spoke about these issues to the head of the institution, the hospital directors, but of course it also discusses this proposal in professional circles, consults the participants there, and then submits the bill to Parliament in the normal way, and then the amendments to the government regulations are launched. [[16.30]] Regarding the statement by Deputy State Secretary Beneda regarding basic care, general doctors, he told us the well-known fact that there are practices that are unfulfilled and that they perform those tasks elsewhere, of course, everyone has their care solved, but the ideal need for further doctors to appear as a family doctor. Obviously, this is also a problem in the longer term, because it will live with us for years. That's why the government has launched more programs than I hope you know. On the one hand, the government grants non-refundable subsidies for the purchase of the right to practice, which can only be used for the costs of purchasing the practice. And it also provides settlement support, which, on the other hand, helps to grant any support necessary for the establishment on the ground. If you look at it, this support is of the order of 5-10 million forints for those who have been coming there for at least a year and who have filled empty practices, where there is a circle of at least 1000 people or a circle of 500 for pediatricians. With this, we have managed to fill about 20% of the empty practices in the first year, and we hope that the results of the second annual round will be even higher, and therefore fewer and fewer practices will remain unfilled in Hungary. Thank you very much.
u2016-03-16-124	I'll give the floor to the congressman in return.
u2016-03-16-125	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary. You should answer how many beds are affected by outsourcing. I didn't get an answer to that. They should answer how much money they want to save in health care by outsourcing chronic beds into the social care system. And the third is, how much compensation will they receive from those unfortunate people who are typically placed on these chronic classes and beds because of their poor financial situation? Because these poor people simply don't have enough money to heal. I wanted answers to these three questions. For now, I understand you have a minute, Mr. Secretary. Thank you very much. [[A rare applause in the ranks of the MSZP.]]
u2016-03-16-126	The Secretary of State has the opportunity to rejoinder.
u2016-03-16-127	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, For the beds, there is no answer yet, and it does not have to be, because we are in the stage of preparation. But I can tell you that this is probably not happening in one step, but in several steps, gradually. This is a question that has been raised under all governments, but this government will be the only one to escape. After all, we know that certain parts of hospitals are not used for real hospital function, but there are simply patients who are not cured with the intensity of other patients, but rather the function of a social institution. Beds where such activities take place should be in social care, and where specific healing work is being done, of course, they should remain in the hospital. You know that the number of hospital beds per 100,000 inhabitants in Hungary is far above the OECD average. Well, even the number of chronic beds is higher than normal beds if projected to 100,000 inhabitants. So we are approaching a system that shows a standard ratio in Western Europe, and we trust that everyone will be provided with the kind of care that suits their life situation in the institution that specializes in it. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-03-16-128	Dear Parliament, President Novák, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question:. Why can the Andrew G. Vajna, a media empire of Fidesz, be built with public money? It's an address. Prime Minister Sándor Fazekas appointed Minister for Agriculture to respond to his urgent public mission. I ask the Member if he accepts the person who is responding.
u2016-03-16-129	Mr. President. I don't know, couldn't you have been hiding behind the curtain again, Prime Minister? I don't know if there's a chance to see it. [[For signal:]] In that case, I'd like to wait for you to venture forward to the answers. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare applause in the ranks of the Jobbik.]]
u2016-03-16-130	Prime Minister will have to answer this question after three times. György Szilágyi, representative of Jobbik, would you like to ask the Minister of Interior an immediate question: It's an address. The Minister appointed Secretary of State Tibor Pogácsás to respond to his urgent public mission. I ask Congressman if he accepts the Secretary of State's identity. [[For signal:]] Yeah. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2016-03-16-131	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, According to a published draft of a BM regulation, the government intends to drastically reduce the number of mandatory chimney checks, and regular inspections of certain smoke discharges would be discontinued. This can lead to hundreds of smoke or carbon monoxide poisoning accidents and chimney fires, even fatal, each year. The frequency of the current one-off chimney checks would be reduced by the government to two years for gas-fired chimneys and four years for solid-fired chimneys. The chimneys related to closed combustion devices would never be tested again if the certificate of the installation was issued in conjunction with the combustion discharge system. Same with the backup chimneys. Is this what the government's trying to save on the new chimney sweeping system? Less control would mean less work, less equipment, less equipment, less work clothes and less workers. In the opinion of the profession - and I can say that in the opinion of the profession, because the Movement for Jobbik Hungary has sat down with the National Trade Union of Kéményeszek, you do not - so according to the profession there are currently 100 to 150 thousand chimneys in life-threatening condition in Hungary. If they are left out in just one year and only 0.5 percent of them cause tragedy, hundreds of human lives are already at risk. If the government's vision is really realised, after the reduction of the rent, the people's reduction programme will come. But let's not forget: carbon monoxide kills regardless of party sympathy, so with an irresponsible decision by the government, it could put its own supporters at risk, not just in the heating season. The question is whether people would really think that we should touch the chimney sweeping service, whether we should touch this preventive service. And the question arises: is the government worth the lives of the people? I'm waiting for your answer. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-03-16-132	I give the floor to Secretary of State Tibor Pogácsás.
u2016-03-16-133	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, The safety of property owners, the safety of the people living in the apartments is a common concern for all of us. I can assure you that no measures will be taken that would endanger citizens. At the moment, the chimney sweeping service will be transferred from 1 July 2016 to disaster management, in part. After all, in the municipalities that have decided to continue to maintain the chimney sweeping public service with the organisations and companies that have carried out this activity so far, as long as the contract is in force, this will continue, and from 1 July 2016 the task will be assigned to disaster management in the areas where the municipalities have terminated the public service contract. At the moment, preparations are being made for disaster management to perform this service at the highest possible level and to the satisfaction of all, and it is being prepared to be able to do this at a high level, both technically and professionally. At the moment, legislation on the implementation of the chimney sweeping law is being prepared. Administrative and social coordination of the draft legislation has not yet started. In the course of the consultation, we will seek out all stakeholders, stakeholder organisations and professional organisations interested in the sector, and we will include their comments in the text of the norm. We consider it essential that the transitional period for chimney sweeping services, when both the public and private sectors are engaged in this activity, can continue safely without the slightest shock. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-03-16-134	I'll give the floor to Congressman in a minute.
u2016-03-16-135	Yes, Secretary of State, under the BM regulation, government measures are being taken to put people at risk, putting hundreds of thousands of families in jeopardy. After all, the fidesz arrogance, pompousness and incompetence have led to the Fidesz government being, in a calm manner, a danger to the public. And I'll tell you one more very interesting thing, Mr. Secretary. He said it was private. Maybe that's what this is all about? The whole game is that families that want to keep their loved ones safe, want to keep their wealth safe, and then turn to reliable chimney sweepers that are not yet on the market? Is it possible that Lőrinc Mészáros is already trying to set up such a chimney sweeping service company? Although Lőrinc Mészáros might otherwise have more to do with this activity, as as a gas mechanic he could have something to do with heating than to build a small railway or stadiums, say, in a village of 1800 people. So maybe this is what he's going for: they're trying to get more markets for fidesz friends and vassals - congratulations, at the cost of people's lives! [[It's a rare applause in the ranks of the Jobbik.]] [[16.40]]
u2016-03-16-136	The Secretary of State should be on the phone in a minute.
u2016-03-16-137	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, I think that knowledge of the law is absolutely necessary in order to talk about the law. You know very well that in the designation of the service provider, in the choice of the service provider, the municipality had and has a basic task and opportunity. The municipalities have decided to continue their existing contracts with existing operators or to engage in disaster protection. Where disaster management carries out this activity, it shall not be entitled to carry out any other chimney sweeping activity. So your fiction is clearly fiction. I can only repeat that, in accordance with the current rules, all fire equipment, all chimneys will be properly monitored in an appropriate number and to the extent necessary each year. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2016-03-16-138	Dear Parliament, István Ikotity, representative of the LMP, wants to ask the Prime Minister's Minister's Office an immediate question: It's an address. The Minister appointed Mr Nándor Csepreghy as State Secretary for his reply in response to an urgent public mission. I ask the Member if he accepts the person who is responding. [[István Ikotity: Yes.]] You have the floor, Congressman.
u2016-03-16-139	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, Ákos Hadházy LMP reports new corruption cases every Thursday at the Corruption Info Guide. Unfortunately, we are struggling with an abundance disturbance, and it is difficult to decide which of the more scandalous cases we bring to the walls of Parliament. Now we have a choice to drain higher education, research and development money. We find it outrageous that hundreds of millions have been spent on fake studies in the framework of TÁMOP competitions launched in 2013-2014. Some cases are worth highlighting. Out of 250 million forints, a company had to write a study for 19 million forints about the criteria for involving young PhD students in research. Another company, which had recently prepared the replacement of the lime bulbs of Viktor Orbán's son-in-law, wrote a study for HUF 30 million to follow, among other things, the quality assurance process of mycotoxin testing. Or there was also a HUF 270 million project related to the renewal of teacher training, of which 24 million were spent on stress management and self-knowledge training for HUF 1.3 million a day for 12 people. It is extremely sad that when state aid is missing 50 billion forints per year from the operation of higher education, even external funding resources are being drained and high amounts are being spent on bogus studies. There's been no money for research for decades. The competitive sphere or the rest of the world immediately smokes out talented, hardworking young people. No one's motivated me to stay in colleges and do research. Under these circumstances, that won't change. Dear Secretary of State, My question is: how long will they tolerate and even encourage systemic corruption in all areas of life through the current system of calls for proposals? I'm waiting for your answer.
u2016-03-16-140	I give the floor to Secretary of State Nándor Csepreghy.
u2016-03-16-141	Thank you, Mr. President. Honourable Congressman, You are one of the Members who, with your question, gives the impression that you know what you are asking. I'm going to advance the possibility that this is indeed the case. As a result, I ask you to accept the answer that is why we have changed the new application system. After all, in 2007 the European Commission agreed with the Government of Hungary on how to be ineffective, with poor administration, by outsourcing most of the funding to friends and using EU funds for Hungary. In 2010, at the time of the change of government, we were concerned that 70 percent of the development resources allocated to Hungary had already been committed to projects that you, among other things, now and in your previous questions. We had to decide to use the 30 percent development resource to stop the entire system from operating, to freeze the use of the tender resources for two years, and then we really write out these EU and domestic funds for development purposes that the Hungarian economy requires. The state of the budget in 2010 did not make this possible, so the government in development policy sought, between 2010 and 2014, that, despite its disagreement with the rules laid down in 2007, it would try to bring the money home under those rules and to outline for the 2014-2020 application period a development concept that serves not the Brussels ideas but the development needs of the Hungarian economy. This is why, in the new application system, applications which, according to you and your party, have been unnecessary since 2007, cannot be obtained. The most important result of the 2014 development cycle was that we brought these funds back to Hungary. If we ask the question by really supporting the most justified developments in Hungary since 2007, the answer is clearly no. If you see this as a real problem, you have a duty to support the 2014-2020 development goals. Thank you very much. [[Mátyás Firtl: Good answer! A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2016-03-16-142	I'll give the floor to the congressman in a minute.
u2016-03-16-143	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, We are in a situation where you say that a tender issued in 2013-2014 is not your responsibility, but the previous government's. Of course, I understand the process and the fact that it was created earlier, but the EMMI pointed to you, so it clearly indicated that it was not his responsibility. It is quite clear from these and from what you have said that all these proposals are therefore the responsibility of the Prime Minister's Office, so practically the NFÜ and the TIOP IH, who were its publishers, are responsible. So you're responsible for the disappearance of these funds and the migration to a place that is not the right goal, which we claim to be, so to speak. If I'm reading this right, you're admitting it, but you're suggesting that in the future this will happen differently. We'll see, but what I have here is the main thing to say and the answer to my question, is that this happened according to your notice, according to your ministry, it's your responsibility.
u2016-03-16-144	It's for the Secretary of State.
u2016-03-16-145	Thank you very much. Honourable Congressman, Leave me to believe that you know what you're asking. Because if that's the case, I can agree with the first part of what you said. In 2007, we will sign a set of rules with the European Commission. Between 2007 and 2014, applications will be submitted in accordance with these rules. Even though there was a large-scale change of government in Hungary in 2010, we did not have the opportunity to touch this system. As you will not be able to touch it by 2020, any government will receive a mandate from voters in 2018, because we have concluded an agreement with Brussels that these funds cannot be taken away from entrepreneurs. This is the system for which the government can take responsibility not only in terms of content but also in terms of form. Please take this into account, and either consider the basic statements legitimate in your own question, or accept this answer, but also face your own claims, the answers will not be accepted, the two logically clash. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2016-03-16-146	Dear Parliament, György Balla, a representative of Fidesz, wants to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question: It's an address. The Minister appointed Mr Bence Rétvári Secretary of State to respond to an urgent public task. I ask the congressman if he will accept his person for an answer. [[On the sign of György Balla:]] Yeah. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2016-03-16-147	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Fellow Members! It is undoubtedly true that one of the most important of the many problems of Hungarian health care is that Hungarian doctors work in a relatively large number of other countries of the European Union. Of course, where there is trouble, hyenas immediately appear, and companies that feed themselves from helping these doctors work abroad. From this they make good money for themselves, in Hungarian, doctors who take up work abroad, they even pay well. One of these companies is Doctors Abroad Medical, Health Consultant and Services Ltd. The main source of income of this company is that it transmits Hungarian doctors abroad. In Hungarian: while there is a shortage of doctors in Hungary, this company deals with getting as many people out as possible, because it will benefit as much as possible. Ladies and gentlemen, György Lukács had a stake in this company, the number one health politician of Jobbik. [[Adam Mirkóczki: Ask him!]] While Congressman Luke here in Parliament is fighting in a sanctimonious manner [[Dr. László György Lukács: Come on!]] Against the Exodus of Doctors [[Lajos Rig: What have you done for him?]] Meanwhile, he was interested in leaving Hungary as many doctors as possible. [[Dr. László Kács: You know that's not true!]] has become richer by helping as many doctors as possible [[Intercom from Jobbik's benches: That's not true!]] Get a job elsewhere, abroad. Ladies and gentlemen, The fact is that my colleagues and I have looked at a number of comments by Congressman Luke. [[Márton Gyöngyösi: Just one second!]] [[16.50]] Now, I can't quote this because the time is running out, but let me ask you a few questions, Mr. President. Is it true that Congressman György Lukács had a stake in this company? [[There are constant interruptions from Jobbik's ranks.]] Is it true that travel of doctors abroad is the main source of income for this company? How much money did Congressman make out of this? Is it true that this company still works? [[Interview from Jobbik's ranks: Time!]] Is it true that your brother now owns it?
u2016-03-16-148	Congressman, please keep the time frame.
u2016-03-16-149	That's what I'm looking forward to, Mr. Secretary. [[Applause in the ranks of Fidesz.]]
u2016-03-16-150	I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2016-03-16-151	Thank you very much. The better László György Lukács was his company, the worse it is for Hungarian health care, and the worse it is for Hungarian health care, the better it is for György Lukács's former company. I would quote from Congressman Luke, on 16 November last year he said: "The lack of a doctor exists today in our country, and more than that, a burning problem. Over the last seven and a half years, over eight thousand doctors and dentists and over two and a half thousand nurses and midwives left the country and went to work abroad. László György Lukács says. Jobbik's program also shows that migration is visible, and their health development plan talks about seduction. But what does László György Lukács' company write on its website, which he has owned for years? Hungarian residents, doctors, dentists, specialist candidates, specialists and doctors with multiple exams provide job placements to 18 countries at professional level. This is what your own website says. Afghanistan, Australia, Austria, Azerbaijan, Bahrain, Belgium, Dubai, United Arab Emirates, United Kingdom, Ireland, Kuwait, Germany, Switzerland, Sweden, Saudi Arabia, Singapore and New Zealand. [[Dr. Sándor Fazekas: The Real Face of Jobbik!]] - in all these countries, it improves the quality of medicine and medicine, and in Hungary it worsens it. Doctors Abroad Kft. Jobbik's HospInvest; the company that was interested in making healthcare of lower quality in Hungary. He takes the money out of health care, he takes it out for years, millions of dollars in turnover, millions in balance, millions in pre-tax results of this company in the years when he wasn't his kin, he was the owner of this, he took the money out of health care, and they took the doctors out of the country. All this was done like the SDS, doing business, making money from health care, profiting. Thank you very much. [[Interview from Jobbik's ranks: Now continue from here. Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-03-16-152	I give the floor to the congressman in return.
u2016-03-16-153	Thank you very much. Congressman Luke himself said that in the election campaign, he entrusted his mother's company with 300,000 forints for legal advice because he didn't know the law, but we can see that he was qualified to travel abroad. [[Dr. László György Lukács: I never said that!]] The thing is, I think we should really talk about this, and stop lying about that ordenar. [[An uproar in Jobbik's ranks.]] I am not willing to believe any of the Members that, while they need help in the election campaign, their parents are doing it for money. I refuse to assume, and I refuse to believe this about any congressman. [[Adam Mirkóczki: You don't do it!]] They really expect me to imagine this conversation: Mother, I need help, you know better than I do; all right, son, I'll just send you the bill. You think that's gonna happen? It's quite simply that someone likes to go through public money, he hasn't been a congressman yet, he thought that he could use this 300 thousand forints. This is much more believable than sending someone's mother an invoice for helping with the campaign. Shame on you, Congressman, for putting your own mother in such an impossible position. [[Dr. László György Lukács: Shame on you!]] Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-03-16-154	I give the floor to Secretary Bence Rétvári.
u2016-03-16-155	Thank you very much for the floor. Honourable Congressman, Why health is a business for some better politicians and their families, and why they strive to make a good living by making it a little harder for hospitals to organise the work of doctors, well, whether Jobbik HospInvestje, Doctors A Broad Kft. For this purpose, he has created himself, exposing himself, as he has posted his own credo on his own website. The company says, "Kft." was established with the aim of helping Hungarian doctors in England, Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland work for the first time in Hungary. Our founders and employees want to facilitate and facilitate the early start of new workers with professional expertise and multi-annual work experience. The purpose of the company's establishment was, therefore, what is written on their website, so that as many Hungarian doctors work abroad and as few Hungarian doctors as possible heal Hungarian people. They wanted to live well in health care, they took millions out of this company, and they didn't mind doing so in order to help less doctors heal Hungarian people. Thank you very much. [[Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks. Applause in the ranks of Fidesz.]]
u2016-03-16-156	Dear Parliament, Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, a representative of the MSZP, wants to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question:. Do you think that only the parents of Csepel are to blame? It's an address. Mr. Minister has appointed Mr. Bence Rétvári as Secretary of State to respond to his urgent public service. I'll ask Congresswoman if she'll accept her identity. [[For signal:]] Yeah. You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2016-03-16-157	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, We were shocked to hear Szilárd Németh speak in Parliament last week about how he distributed parents who protested against the conditions in public education on Monday 29 February without allowing their children to go to school. According to the Rezsiharker, the protesters did not think that the lunch had to be canceled that day, causing serious damage to the country; Csepel had said for HUF 598 210, but since then it has been said that the Hungarian parents have done some HUF 100 million damage throughout Hungary. As a former mayor, I listened to Szilárd Németh's explanation, because the experts working in public catering know very well that every Monday is a special day, because we are starting a new week, and between Friday and Monday, it will be two days, Saturday and Sunday, and even a national flu epidemic can break out, so basically, we cannot take into account the data on Friday. To add, it was nothing new for the public companies to know what was going to happen on Monday. At 8:00 a.m. the teaching started, a normal, well-functioning public company lets a phone go to schools, asks how many children attended the school that day, and then nothing goes wrong.By 8:15 everyone in Hungary knows how many children went to school that day. [[In the notary seat, Dezső Believing is replaced by Loránt Hegedűs.]] Or I can ask the question, you accused the Hungarian parents of not having done so. Moreover, this raises serious questions. How could Szilárd Németh ask the Mayor of Csepel for these data so precisely? Has there been a request for data from other representatives of the government or from parliamentary representatives that Szilárd Németh was able to say so precisely? I would like to ask you whether these public companies are working well at all in Hungary, if they cannot perform such a simple task, that they do not know how many children there are in a public institution at 8:15. I look forward to your reply, Mr. Secretary.
u2016-03-16-158	I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2016-03-16-159	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, Your speech took my thoughts in two directions. One of them is the basics. So when someone wants to object to government policy, they have countless opportunities. You can write articles, organize demonstrations, marches, demonstrations [[Intervention from the lines of the MSZP: People's vote?]] , collect signatures, launch a web support sheet, issue a communication, and there are many other options. Is it right to use children because of expressing their own displeasure or political intentions? [[Bangóné Borbély Ildikó: We did not use it!]] And children are used as a means of exerting pressure on the government when, by the way, there is no need to put pressure on the government, as the government has expressed that it is open to debate on all matters of public education, and not only did the government say that, but the head of the Democratic Trade Union of Teachers who visited one meeting at the time, László Mendrey, said that there was no taboo, everything could be talked about. So there is such a situation, when the government does not have taboo issues, it reopens all questions, it can be agreed in everything. Is it right to use a child at a time like this? There were classes, obviously you read about it, so let's say the first grade kids didn't go in 90 percent. Does that freshman kid know why he doesn't go to school? [[Ildikó Bangóné Barbély: Yes!]] He embraces the questions of the system of public education [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: Yes, but that was not the question!]] And can you decide whether she wants to go to school or not? Because to tell someone that the school system is broken, there are still ten, a hundred, or a thousand ways to do it. Is it right to use the child to express it, and will children become as tools in this matter? The other question is completely independent of this, which is the issue of catering, because instead of the HUF 29 billion you spend on this area, this year we are going to spend HUF 72 billion on this, and for the smallest children, 318 thousand children are eating free of charge, and here we are really going to ask, not only on this day, but also on other days, that we should continue to value everyone's food, even if they receive it free, not only on this day, but also on other days, and we must make sure that they do not cook more than they need. [[Interview from the ranks of the MSZP: Time!]] Thank you very much. [[17.00]]
u2016-03-16-160	I now give the floor to the congresswoman for a rejoinder.
u2016-03-16-161	Thank you, Mr. President. But, Mr. Secretary, that's not what I asked. I asked if a publicising company would carry out its task if such a simple problem could not be solved on Monday morning. You should've let go of one phone call. It's just a question to me that this really happened or didn't happen. [[Dr. János Latorcai, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]] In autumn 2014, Viktor Orbán urged his own representatives to humble themselves after the municipal elections because they lost the election in some major cities. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that a study has been published by István Stumpf, and this is written by their own constitutional lawyer:. Many well-trained professionals and young people leave the country and seek work abroad. Civic virtues are increasingly replaced by unbridled desire for careers and the pursuit of wealth. Definitely, value-based commitment is replaced by unconditional loyalty, and rational reasoning is backed up by sometimes demagogued populism. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] That's what the constitutional lawyer, the judge of the constitution, said about you. I think it would be instructive to read this study, and it would be good to have a lot of filming. Thank you.
u2016-03-16-162	Thank you, Congresswoman. I would like to welcome my fellow Members. Mr. Secretary of State Bence Rétvári will be here for a moment. Here you go.
u2016-03-16-163	Thank you very much for the floor. I am sorry that you did not express your position as to whether it is right to use children as a tool in a political demonstration [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: That is not what I asked, Minister of State.]] and whether keeping them away from school is the best way to get the government to invite the teachers' representatives to the negotiating table to call the teachers' representatives to the negotiating table - if that sentence could be followed for you. So I think that there is as much openness on the part of the government as there may have been in the last twenty or twenty-five years on the part of any government, and then, at that time, to advertise such an action, which, even involving parents in support of the case, is trying to solve this by keeping the children away and using the child as an instrument, I think they might say that this was the most controversial instrument, and we believe that it was a tool that should not have been used in reality. And what's particularly interesting and juicy is that you, all of you who attacked Stumpf István at his committee hearing, [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] and they also made a formal mistake as to why it is impossible to elect a constitutional judge. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: Opinions about themselves, not about us.]] Then they declared that they were not in favour of his election, and now suddenly they consider him a 100% oracle, so this is a rather rapid change in the opinion of the MSZP. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-03-16-164	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Congressman Lajos Rig, representative of Jobbik, would like to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question:. 21st century? A consult with the title 2.0. Mr. Minister has appointed Mr. Bence Rétvári as Secretary of State to respond to an urgent public task. I respectfully ask the Member whether he accepts the person of the response or waits for the Minister when he can appear.
u2016-03-16-165	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Since I have had a lot of discussions with Mr Secretary of State on health, and we have heard here in his previous reply how deeply he is involved in the health care system problems, I respectfully accept the person of the State Secretary. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: I'm flattered.]]
u2016-03-16-166	Thank you very much. Congressman Rig has the floor. Here you go, Congressman. [[Dr. Lajos Szűcs in the notary seat will be replaced by Attila Gelencsér.]]
u2016-03-16-167	Dear Secretary of State, The Prime Minister has also said in several speeches here and in several speeches by pro-government Members that Mr. The health care system and healthcare facilities of the century are waiting for those who wish to heal. Indeed, 500 billion were invested in hospital development, hospital reconstruction, energy applications, and function-changing hospitals. I think if we look outside hospitals, rural hospitals, it's really a XXI. We're facing a company hospital. Let's cross the threshold, we're about to take part in a time travel. There are several hospitals whose interior equipment, whether beds or machinery, is considered, let alone XXI. It's the 20th century, and it's still the 20th century. It doesn't fit in the first century. In my district, I have two hospitals, Ajka and Tapolca, which have benefited from these renovation costs, but Ajka has done the hospital so well from the outside, but they have not taken into account the director's request for increased patient traffic and therefore the diagnostic background needs to be improved, so he asked for digital X-ray equipment. And what do you do? It was pulled down and offered five bedpan washing machines; a bedpan washing machine that does not yet have its place, nor does it fit in the institution. I don't think it's a XXI. It's a century-old thought. The principal's request for this development to take place where it is needed should have been taken into account, not taking away the needs of other hospitals. When you look at the XXI. Squadron, let's just fly back in time again: resterilization. Single-use devices are sterilized again, although they are not infected with secretions, nor have they ever encountered them, but according to the rules of asepsis, this is forbidden. So hospitals are prohibited in order to ensure their operation. I ask Mr. Secretary, is that all right? [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-03-16-168	Thank you very much, Congressman. Two minutes from now, Secretary of State Bence Rétvári will have the floor. Here you go.
u2016-03-16-169	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, We were finally able to agree on what was at the beginning of his speech, which was about how much help rural hospitals in Hungary were, in particular, the 500 billion forints that have been available in recent years, and indeed many hospitals have been able to renew from the outside and from the inside. What you said, energy upgrades, improvements were even more than 500 billion sources, and in many places, CT and MR equipment could be upgraded from energy sources, because due to the lower energy consumption of the new ones, we also developed a construction for hospitals that enabled the exchange of instruments not only on a medical professional basis, but also on an energy basis. This meant even serious billions, tens of billions, to many hospitals, beyond the fact that basic modernisations and energy modernisations have generally renewed the external facade of hospitals. Within the 500 billion people themselves, it was more than 100 billion forints, if I remember correctly, that could be used to buy assets, precisely for the purposes that the Member has listed, and there are still certain goals that have not yet been achieved. Therefore, we will continue to develop health in the new 2014-2020 development cycle, in the framework of the EFOP programme we will continue the TIOP and partly TÁMOP projects that ran in hospitals, but obviously the TIOP was important and important for hospital infrastructure. The announcement of these will take place in various constructions this year, and there will be addition of women's hostel construction and other programmes, precisely because what has not been achieved from the previous 500 billion will be done with this new amount. I myself met hospital equipment that was 40 years old when it was replaced. This also shows that this is not a problem of the past 5 or 10 years, which has been in health care, not in the last 5-10 years the tools that have been replaced have become obsolete, not even in 20 years, but, where appropriate, they have been replaced with almost a lifetime, at least a generation ago machines with new, modern equipment, and we will continue to do so in the new development cycle. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-03-16-170	Thank you very much. Congressman Lajos Rig has the floor for a one-minute rejoinder.
u2016-03-16-171	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, Here comes the cold reality. A lot of hospitals and municipalities have to resort to Germany to the use of its equipment at the age of 10 but still in good condition and functioning XXI. Change it to the 100th-century hardware park. In the same way, two hospitals, Tapolca and Ajka, used this option in my constituency. Regensburg has offered equipment that, although 10 years old, is functional. In the Regensburg, where Prince Géza's son, Stephen, went for his wife, we will go for hospital supplies, which we will thank them with great respect and gratitude on Tapolca's day. I think they have respect and thanks, and you have shame and a black dot. [[Interviews from Jobbik and LMP: That's right! Applause in the ranks of Jobbik and LMP.]]
u2016-03-16-172	Thank you very much. State Secretary Bence Rétvári has the floor.
u2016-03-16-173	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Dear House, The hospital in Tapolca had 2.3 billion forints. [[Lajos Rig: Three!]] Two of these objectives were achieved, the extension of day-to-day surgical care, the development of enhanced outpatient care and the maintenance of chronic care and rehabilitation services providing quality services. Within this project, a new, state-of-the-art Tapolca rescue station was established, and lung and cardiological rehabilitation services have also been developed. So billions have also been used to improve the hospital in Tapolca, and I am sure that this will also be achieved in the next development period. Fortunately, we can now bid on each other with the honourable Member on where we managed two billion, where we managed three, where we managed ten. It's not about where it was closed, where it was reduced, where it was withdrawn, but one hospital had three, the other had four, and it was better for the one who had four. Let us hope that the more we have four, and this is a very good positive competition, let us hope that in the coming years this will be more typical for health care. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[17.10]]
u2016-03-16-174	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Congressman Sallai R. Benedek, a representative of the LMP, wishes to ask the Minister of the Interior an immediate question, "Why are you giving up on settling the situation of small settlements?" It's an address. The Minister has appointed Secretary of State Tibor Pogácsás to respond to his urgent public mission. I respectfully ask the Member whether he accepts the person who is responding.
u2016-03-16-175	If, unlike your colleagues, you're capable of a normal response, I'll accept it without further ado. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Always depends on the question! It's grumpy.]]
u2016-03-16-176	Congressman! Now I have to reprimand you for your comment, because in principle you have to answer yes or no, you can't even explain...
u2016-03-16-177	This jerk could be yes, amine...
u2016-03-16-178	Congressman, I will not open a debate, but I cannot accept such an answer. You have the floor, please.
u2016-03-16-179	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, You are also aware of the fact that the Constitutional Court, due to the request of small settlements, decided last year that, due to the constitutional breach of the institutional system of the common municipal offices established in the framework of administrative integration, Parliament should have adopted legislation by 15 December 2015 in order to allow small settlements to participate in the opinion of the establishment of joint municipalities. In this case, the government submitted a proposal at the end of last year, obviously an unacceptable proposal, because in a relatively arrogant way all they wanted to put into the legislation was to ask the municipalities for their opinion, but there was no guarantee, no legal background to take them into account at least. Both Jobbik and LMP have made use of an amendment in this case. With the minimum guarantees, we wanted this legislation to be born. And we wanted the municipalities concerned, which have failed to settle their duties together, to open up as soon as possible a way to establish joint offices with a constitutional background. Obviously, this is not enough, because a number of other offices are also dissatisfied, but they have been forced into various common offices and want to open up the opportunity for them to rethink who they want to work with. However, since 15 December, Parliament has done nothing to ensure that this legislation is adopted in accordance with the Constitutional Court's decision. I had no other option, waiting for more than two months, and now for three months, we have tabled the proposal as a motion for amendment. My question to the Honourable Secretary of State is whether there is any chance that the Government will examine this in substance, and this constitutional breach, which he has maintained since 15 December, by not bringing before Parliament legislation that the Constitutional Court has obliged him to do, is to take action in this regard. And if this is the case, it would be good to pay the mayors of small towns. [[János Pócs: He took the bread of István Happy!]] I'm asking the Honourable Secretary of State if there's a chance. Thank you very much.
u2016-03-16-180	Thank you very much. The answer will be given by Secretary of State Tibor Pogácsás. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2016-03-16-181	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, The Mötv. regulates that municipal authorities may decide, after a municipal election, in what constellation, which, in cooperation with other municipalities, they intend to operate the office of the municipality in the event that the legal conditions or obligations of the operation of the joint office otherwise exist. So this is essential, and I think that the starting point in the line of thought itself is already essential, and I would also suggest to the Member that he take this into account, because the bodies of representatives, the municipalities, decide. This is a joint decision in which the seat settlement is selected and decisions are taken on the settlements cooperating in the joint office. It is true that the Constitutional Court found a formal error in this legal provision, but the Constitutional Court did not say it, nor can it say that a common office can only be established if all parties agree to do so. Obviously, if they cannot agree, it is necessary to decide which settlements should be the headquarters or which settlements should cooperate. And there is also a rational and realistic legal way to go through this today, as the proposal that we are proposing is that when the settlements are not able to agree at all, when they are unable to choose their seat, and when it is about local government leaders who do not want to work with each other, then obviously, if all the opportunities have been exhausted, there is no consensus, then someone has to say what their seat should be and how they work together. To avoid this by giving everyone a chance to veto, there's no way [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] There's no possibility. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2016-03-16-182	Thank you very much. A one-minute rejoinder from Congressman Sallai R. Benedict.
u2016-03-16-183	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary. Answer the specific question: how long does Parliament maintain this constitutional breach? When will it be possible to change this legislation? Practically nothing has been done since this amendment was made. When's the move? How long will this condition last? And in his reply, he completely ignored my question about the incomes and salaries of small town mayors. [[János Pócs: The Bread of István Happy!]] When several individual representatives, including István Happy, have also taken initiatives to ensure that there is some rehabilitation and that there is no lack of respect for the leaders of small settlements. When's the move? I'm asking you to be specific. Since December 15, a constitutional infringement law has been in force in Hungary. It's Parliament's job to make this right. The LMP has made its amendment, which has been tabled. Can the government support it or take action on its own? Thank you very much.
u2016-03-16-184	Thank you very much, Congressman. A one-minute rejoinder is for Secretary of State Tibor Pogácsás.
u2016-03-16-185	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, The government has submitted the proposal. The opposition didn't support it, you didn't support it. So it is clear that this violation situation exists, among other things, that you are responsible, because you are trying to establish conditions that are unacceptable. But the enlightenment in your case is extremely great about the mayor's wages, because it was your faction that was the strongest protester against raising and changing the wages of the mayors of small settlements. Recall the outbursts of his group leader, who considered it a wavering of democracy that, after the elections, an approved Mötv., following an adopted law, the wages of small town mayors would be increased. And when the law was in front of this House, you voted against it. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] The majority of the government voted in favour of the law. [[Sallai R. Benedict: Lies...]] You and the other opposition representatives against the salary increase of small town mayors [[Impressive Dezső: You reduced...]] voted. Thank you very much. [[Dr. János Fónagy: That's right! Applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2016-03-16-186	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Congressman Mátyás Firtl, representative of KDNP, wants to ask the Minister for National Development an immediate question: å Can students and teachers of Aladár Porpáczy High School in Fertőd start the school year at a new school? It's an address. The Minister has appointed Mr János Fónagy Secretary of State to respond to his urgent public mission. I respectfully ask the Member whether he accepts the person who is responding.
u2016-03-16-187	I'll take it.
u2016-03-16-188	Congressman says he'll take it. Congressman Mátyás Firtl has the floor. Here you go.
u2016-03-16-189	Thank you for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, The Ministry of National Development recently announced that 24 classrooms, 25 gymnasiums, 24 schoolhouses and 5 complete school buildings could be built out of more than HUF 38 billion by the end of the next academic year. The development of Porpáczy Aladár Secondary School in Fertőd can also begin in the national public education infrastructure development programme. Thanks to the government's support, the National Sport Centres and the Municipality of Fertőd implement the deficit replacement development, which was required by the fact that the institution in Esterházy Castle had to find a new property suitable for educational and educational activities after the large-scale renovation of the castle. With the development, the school receives a high-quality property that meets all the modern requirements, which provides all the conditions for quality education. The new school building is also important because the development of the Esterházy Castle in Fertőd, the establishment and operation of the Eszterháza Centre, has a positive impact on the tourism revival of the city of Fertőd and the whole region, while the training of the vocational secondary school includes tourism organizer and sales manager training. The Porpáczy school can therefore be the basis of a mutually-based education system that, in cooperation with the Eszterháza Centre, further expands the system of the educational institution, partly because the Eszterháza Center cooperates with the University of West Hungary for the training of tourism professionals. On the other hand, the site is also decisive, the Fertő-Hanság National Park itself is a World Heritage Site rich in natural values. [[17.20]] Dear Secretary of State, We're talking about building a school for a long time. I respectfully ask whether Porpáczy Aladár High School students and teachers can take possession of the new school this year thanks to the investment. I'm looking forward to your reply. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2016-03-16-190	Thank you very much, Congressman. The answer, as we have heard, will be given by Secretary of State János Fónagy. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2016-03-16-191	Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, It is also a great pleasure for us to have 24 classrooms, 25 gymnasiums, 24 schoolhouses and 5 complete schools, including the Sopron Vocational Training Center Porpáczy Aladár High School, College and General Cultural Centre, from 38 billion forints. On 1 April 2015, the Ministry of National Development took over the implementation of the programme. Last spring, the government decided to provide additional resources in order not only to build a new school but also a new gym in Fertőd. Of the five new schools, the infected are the first to start and the construction works are already underway. On 9 February this year, the National Sport Centres of Construction signed the contract with the successful undertaking in the public procurement procedure, and on 15 February the transfer of the work area was also carried out. In response to your question: according to the contract, students and teachers of Porpáczy Aladár High School in Fertőd can take possession of the new ten classroom schools and gymnasium at the end of 2016, so this year. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2016-03-16-192	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. A one-minute rejoinder from Congressman Mátyás Firtl. Here you go.
u2016-03-16-193	Thank you for the floor and thank you for your reply to the Secretary of State. But this time I would also like to thank the government for actually providing the resources from which the school was built. At the same place, we should also thank the municipality of Fertőd for actually providing the land and for doing everything possible to keep his high school in Fertőd. Here, in front of the public of Parliament, of course, we should thank the Porpáczys students, the teachers, who have been patient about the condition until they have been able to attend a suitable school; and indeed also parents and teachers for believing in what the government has promised to build a new school. In their name too, I thank the government for keeping his word, and indeed a new school will be built in Fertőd, Porpáczy High School. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2016-03-16-194	Thank you very much, Congressman. A one-minute rejoinder is also due to Mr. Secretary of State. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2016-03-16-195	Thank you, Mr. President. For the sake of completeness: the investment series of 78 projects of the National Public Education Infrastructure Development Programme, worth HUF 38 billion, takes place entirely from central budgetary sources, at the initiative of the Ministry of Development. The municipalities, including the infected, do not have to pay their own share to carry out the projects. I wish you a lot of pleasure in the completed school, gymnasium and other facilities. Thank you, Mr. President. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2016-03-16-196	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, That concludes the hour of immediate questioning. Now we've got negotiating material. Dear Parliament, Coming up next is the Justice Committee 6/2014-2018. Ü/9367 concerning the rejection of IUB's ad hoc resolution. Submitted by the Group of the LMP. The debate will be the first to be heard by a Member of the Group proposing a decision, and then by the rapporteur of the Judicial Committee. The other representatives will then take part. For the first time in a five-minute time frame, I give the floor on behalf of the Group of the LMP to Mr Sallai R. Benedek. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-03-16-197	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I am here on a very embarrassing matter, because I was hoping that it would not be necessary to talk about it before Parliament, because it is in principle respectful of the President and Vice-Presidents of Parliament, and there are very, very few cases where there may be an attitude to be spoken about and it is worth talking about. In particular, in the submission concerned, certain maladministration and non-equality treatment were felt in some cases and it would have been good if this had been corrected. In the case of the submission, it was presented that Dániel Z. Kárpát asked the government on a specific matter concerning the right to housing, and then, in the confusion of the State Secretary, he read a completely different answer, and for five minutes we listened to the answers to the emigration problems. It's gonna go away, everyone's gonna be wrong, we're human. I wanted to address this matter in order of business, in order to tell you that shortly before [[János Pócs intervenes.]] I was once withdrawn from the floor by the same leading president, and once László Varju withdrew the floor from his speech after the agenda because he had deviated from the subject. [[János Pócs intervenes. The president's ringing the bell.]] This case has clearly shown that, as long as a State Secretary can give a completely different answer and deviate completely from the issue, opposition representatives may have a warning. But like I said, error is human, and it's okay. However, it was difficult for me to accept that, while the House Rule was relatively clear that, in a point of order, the vice-president could not take the floor - only after a first warning - in this case, the acting vice-president withdrew without further delay and turned off the microphone. After that, in order to make this point and to read the relevant sections of the house rules, I asked for a word once again in order of business, when the president-in-Office said that there was no way in which to criticise conduct in any form, and that there was therefore no legal breach. That is why I was confident that the committee concerned would at least draw attention to the fact that it would be necessary to apply house rules consistently in these matters and that the need for neutral and impartial leadership could be made for the executive presidents as well as for all other cases. Fortunately, there are few cases, so I would not like to suggest to the honourable Parliament that this is a common, permanent case or phenomenon. Nevertheless, it should be said that until, in the case of opposition representatives, even in the case of an interpellation, if it differs, let us say, from the literal reading, which it does not otherwise have any obligation, since the house rules say that it cannot differ in substance or say that it cannot discover a new fact, nevertheless, there were several times that the minister decided whether he wanted to give an answer or not. I would have liked to have the committee responsible, in the form of a discussion, given the opportunity to notify these house rules to the governing presidents. In addition to keeping all our respect for the downsizing, since it is often not easy to carry out this task, it would have been good to have an impartial, neutral downsizing. However, whatever the house rules say, despite the fact that they cannot take the floor in order of business, the committee responsible said that it would not accept this submission and would not accept the complaint in this regard, which we find difficult to accept, since we thought that the House Rules would tie the head of the house to every standard of conduct as well as to the Members, and that communication in this respect could be expected to take place. That is why we have asked this House to at least make a substantive decision on this matter, and to give a feedback to the authorities that the need for neutral and impartial conduct can rightly be formulated in everyone, especially if the house rules contain written standards. I ask your support in this. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2016-03-16-198	Thank you very much, Congressman. I am now speaking to President György Rubovszky, Chairman of the Judicial Committee, for a five-minute period. Here you go, Mr. President.
u2016-03-16-199	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, I swear, I don't understand the speech, because that's not in the context of LMP's submission. I don't know what you're talking about here, Congressman, about asking the committee to listen. There was a committee meeting, the committee listened to everyone, took a decision stating that the chairman had the right to consider the speeches. That's one point. The second point is that the Committee concluded that there should not be any difference in content between the text of the interpellation and the speech. [[17 .30]] The complaint in writing is about you asking for a general instead of a case-by-case resolution, but it is not written. If there is such a request, I promise you I will bring it to the committee and we will deal with it. But as long as we have met the demand, it is incomprehensible to me why they wish it to be rejected. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-03-16-200	Thank you, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, Now, one representative per group of representatives can speak in a two-minute time frame and the first independent representative can also speak in a two-minute time frame and present the group's position. First, I give the floor to Mr President Novak of the Jobbik Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-03-16-201	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, I would just like to express my sympathy to the Group of the LMP on behalf of Jobbik on this matter, as we can see on many occasions that unfortunately, due to the extremely biased leadership practice, the members of the government and the members of the government themselves may deviate from the issue. An example of this is what is included in the present submission, in the LMP's submission, when Z. Kárpát Dániel is my fellow group member who is being forced abroad? Who will remain on the side of the road? Mr Péter Cseresnyés, State Secretary for the labour market and training, spoke before the agenda on housing rental prices and housing difficulties in Budapest, in response to him, for minutes, in fact, to the issue, by way of a discussion on international migration, without the head of the meeting calling his attention to this, warning him about the subject. Indeed, this is a common problem, and they abuse the fact that, in most cases, opposition representatives are no longer able to respond, and they abuse the fact that in their response to the government they are giving new arguments, facts, personalities that often do not correspond to reality at all, but cannot be heard, at the most because of personal involvement, much later and to a much more limited extent. I therefore think that the government would act more bravely and more caraly if, on the one hand, it did not withdraw from the debates and not only lived with the closing word, and otherwise this was true not only for the government, but for every member of the government, if he is present as a national; unfortunately, this is not very much given to us, since we are being swept off the table and our proposals are not included in the agenda. But we would rightly expect government representatives to take part in the debate and not abuse it by saying, as a closing point, only thoughts that we do not have the opportunity to respond to at that time, taking advantage of them. [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] that the managing president does not even warn the government representative of the often house-breaking behaviour. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-03-16-202	Thank you very much, Congressman. The next speaker from the MSZP Group is Mr Gergely Bárándy. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-03-16-203	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, We wanted to divide this resolution into two, because there was a part of it that we agreed with; I would not talk about it, but about what I would not talk about. I'm sorry I couldn't split you up. A recurring problem in front of this House is the freedom of the President to decide who to withdraw from. Ladies and gentlemen, When you are now in the position that the leading president has full freedom of discretion in this regard, i.e. full discretion, then I think that you are on a very wrong path, because there is no accident that this possibility of revision has been included, because there are situations of life where partiality can be objectively achieved. This was, by the way, my own case in an earlier submission, which we also challenged, and it was rejected by the government side for the same reasons as it is now. So, ladies and gentlemen, when a senior president, let's say, does not withdraw the floor from a secretary of state when he talks about something, but when I respond to the same thing that he didn't take the floor from him, and I'm cut off because I'm off the subject, I think it must have been a mistake, because he either made a mistake when he didn't take the floor from the Secretary of State because of the deviation from the matter, or when he cut it off from me. This situation reflects a similar case, in Hungarian: you are about the same position as the known joke in primary school, you know: (1) the leading president is always right; (2) if he is not, point 1 will automatically take effect. Now, I think it's an inappropriate attitude. I believe that in any case, there is no way to say that the president will be the president. [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] its right of discretion is complete and undisputed, so we cannot accept and support this decision. Thank you very much.
u2016-03-16-204	Thank you very much, Congressman. I respectfully ask my fellow Members if anyone else wishes to speak. One person from each faction can speak. [[No one's reporting.]] No. Then I will ask Mr Sallai R. Benedek if he wishes to respond to what has been said in the debate. [[For signal:]] Congressman's got the floor in two minutes. Here you go.
u2016-03-16-205	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. First of all, I thank the speakers for their understanding of the problem and for their sympathy on this matter. This is a very, very embarrassing matter, because I really do not want to be disrespectful about the Vice-President's office in any way, but, in some cases, there are very extreme examples of this, in the case, in order not to fall on everyone of the Vice-Presidents, I must name: it is Vice-President István Jakab, for whom the submission has been made. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: He was with me too!]] This problem arose in connection with him, so obviously this should be mentioned. For the president. I totally understand if you don't understand, but that's why you have to read what I'm giving you, and then it makes it easier to understand, because it's perfectly clear here what I'm telling you. I approached the paragraph in my pleading:. The problem was: without warning the Parliamentary Act 49. § (1) would not have allowed you to withdraw the floor in a point of order. It's a white and black thing, just like it's a white and black thing if the parliamentary law is 46. § (1) we look at the fact that the President warns you of any deviation from the subject; the legislation does not provide an opportunity. I respect and can give more freedom to the Vice-Presidents and to the senior presidents, but then it must be transposed into the law and put in such a way; the current legislative text does not allow this to happen. And obviously I came here on purpose with such a professional case as the interpellation mentioned, because the kind that we have heard today, and what they did here against one of our better fellow Members, would have been unworthy to bring to this House. In agreement with my fellow Member, Barándy, I would not like to limit the discretion of the chairmen in any way on how to lead the meeting. All I ask is that this consideration be consistent and uniform, and it is okay to do so within the framework of the legislation. I just wanted to ask that this be adopted, and I regret that the committee has not been able to consider this. Now I'm asking the Parliament not to accept this report for this reason. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2016-03-16-206	Thank you very much, Congressman. I am now asking Mr. György Rubovszky, Chairman of the Justice Committee. [[Dr. György Rubovszky on signal:]] He doesn't want to comment. He'd have a chance to answer, but he doesn't want to answer. Ladies and gentlemen, With this debate closed, the decision will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, It is now time for a series of proposals to be discussed. The MSZP Group has proposed that the Parliament decide on certain government measures for the provision of non-refundable energy efficiency development resources for the population H/8285. Proposal for a decision on inclusion in the scope of this Regulation. The series of articles was rejected by the Economic Committee. [[For signal:]] Congressman Bertalan Tóth, thank you very much. First, I give the floor on behalf of the rapporteur, Mr Bertalan Tóth, from the MSZP Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-03-16-207	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, I can't believe the government's attitude towards building energy investments, because such a programme, which could start from European Union or domestic sources, could only do good for the entire economic sphere. It could be good for households, since their energy consumption could be reduced by 30-40 percent, and it is well known that the cheapest energy is the energy that is not consumed, which should not be consumed by families, consumers who could renovate their own properties, apartments, family homes, condominiums, and would not have to pay for this extra energy cost. This could be a sustainable reduction of the costs of using this word. [[17.40]] But it would also be good for the construction industry, since the launch of a serious programme could also move the funds from which such a programme can be launched, but it could also move in lending and in the construction sector, since these apartments and condos should be renovated. This could be a huge opportunity for the Hungarian construction industry, as small and medium-sized enterprises in Hungary could participate in the building of the windows, heating or insulation. But it could also be a major step forward in employment, as if the ordering stock of the construction industry were to increase, the number of workers could also increase. In the case of a more serious programme, as the Hungarian Academy of Sciences outlined a long-term programme at a conference, thousands of jobs could be created in Hungary in the construction sector and could place orders for small and medium-sized enterprises in Hungary. This is why, for example, it was joyful when we read the government's EU programme, which would have allocated HUF 88 billion from EU funds to launch such a programme, but we were deeply disappointed when János Lázár announced that he did not want to spend this amount on energy efficiency investments for the general public, but he intends to use this amount for public and municipal investments and to develop a so-called reimbursable support programme, which is said to be the first proposals in July. This means, however, that the amount of aid must be repaid, so that only families in a better way could take advantage of it again, since they will have and have an income relationship in order to participate in such an aid scheme, since at the end of a certain period of time this money must be repaid. This proposal for a resolution, which I ask for to be discussed and discussed in Parliament, is precisely about the government developing a programme for the population, which would help not only the wealthy, but also those who are in the most vulnerable situation. I would like to remind you that at the beginning of the winter 2015-2016, 99 thousand households were turned off due to district heating, electricity or gas charges. So start a programme that is obviously feasible from the sources of the state, obviously the European Union, and do not spend a thousand billion on new purchases, an infrastructure purchase that is completely unnecessary, because it is a regulated market, but try to think about developing a programme that benefits the population, the economy, the construction industry, employment, and the Parliament will discuss and launch such a project. All the more so, because in comparison, we can see that Western European households consume 30-40 percent less energy than Hungarian households, and we can also see that there are already countries in Central Europe where energy is used much more efficiently. So I ask that you support this proposal for a resolution and that the government bring us a programme that can only benefit all Hungarians. Thank you very much.
u2016-03-16-208	Thank you very much, Congressman. Now, one Member per group of Members can present his group's position in a two-minute speech, and, of course, the same option has been given to independent Members. First from the MSZP Group is Mr Bertalan Tóth. [[Dr. Bertalan Tóth: I'm not.]] I'm sorry, I'm working on the material. [[Dr. Bertalan Tóth: After clicking the button.]] Then I'll ask for a button push. Then it's Congressman Lajos Kepli from Jobbik.
u2016-03-16-209	Thank you very much, Mr. President. It is very clear from the government's approach to public energy efficiency subsidies, how serious it is about reducing costs and how much it thinks of it as a political marketing product. In addition to the latter, we are voting for the government's intention to do so, in fact, when it created this term, this political product, that it is a reduction in rent. If you were serious, then the HUF 88 billion that my colleague Bertalan Tóth spoke about would not have been taken away from the population, but would continue to be available, and the money originally intended for that purpose could indeed be used for the energy modernisation of family homes. We really need this. Four million flats, as well as the well-known energy modernisation in Hungary, could achieve huge costs, 40-50 percent cost reductions, so we are not talking about a 10 percent reduction, but we are talking about saving up to 40-50 percent heating costs if this money were actually available, and even greater resources. That's part of the story. The other part, which is included in the MSZP decision proposal, is that this should be done against the cost of buying back the strategic energy sector into public property, is no longer necessarily to be supported by the Jobbik Hungary Movement, since Jobbik has always insisted that the strategic energy sector's facilities should be owned by the state and maintained by the state. We will also continue to endure, although the government is once again implementing these buy-backs in a way that raises many, many questions, and there are corruption-prone transactions surrounding these transactions, but the principle is that the strategic energy sector is state-owned, on our part to support. This proposal for a decision will be supported if the MSZP is willing to accept this amendment. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2016-03-16-210	Thank you very much, Congressman. The opinion of the MSZP Group is presented by Mr Nándor Gúr, the notary of the Parliament. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-03-16-211	Thank you very much, Mr. President. With one sentence, it could be said that the proposal that has been tabled is, in my view, acceptable as a logical proposal from each Member within the walls of Parliament, because it is all about the building energy renovation of residential property and its necessity. It is about what my fellow Member, Bertalan Tóth, has already said that the cheapest energy is the energy that we do not consume, and in order not to consume less or much less, we obviously need such renovations and investments. The effectiveness of these renovations and investments is accompanied by the achievement of approximately 30-50 percent energy use. This is practically a terrifyingly large cost savings for people, but it is not only this, but obviously also important that this contributes to changing quality of life, since energy is not the main source of energy in families that do not have to spend a very, very large share of the wealth they acquire. On the other hand, it is estimated that the labour market could create 20-30 thousand new jobs, jobs combined with real value creation and profit, not those which, if any, are happening in Hungary for a very large number of tens of thousands of jobs. The reduction in energy consumption would obviously produce positive results in terms of the greenhouse effect and many others, and would obviously also receive a positive confirmation in terms of prices. That's why I'm asking you and suggesting you support this series of articles. Mr. President, thank you very much.
u2016-03-16-212	Thank you very much, Congressman. The opinion of the LMP Group will be presented by Mr Sallai R. Benedek. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-03-16-213	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Why shouldn't we support him? Why shouldn't we talk about these matters here, and why shouldn't it be a matter of perhaps complementing our suggestions if we don't agree with them in every way? - let's say we disagree. This is a very, very important subject. Basically, there will be a real reduction in the costs if, as the previous speaker has said, we can reduce the amount of use and provide the population with as much financial assistance as possible. The proposal itself, the proposal for a resolution, is entirely the same as the mission consciousness of the LMP. We think that it would be necessary for the Parliament to deal with this in substance, and it would be very, very good if, in return for our fellow members of the governing party, we could, as a result of a meaningful knowledge-dissemination and attitude-forming work, have the view that the wider the scope of our assistance to society, the wider the population, and the more we can modernise the apartments, the greater we can achieve. [[17.50]] The proposal for a decision itself does not exclude or even supports the possibility that what has been said for a long time is that in rural areas, where the family is typical and there are many small crap houses adjacent to each other, there is no longer any other solution than the complete renovation of these. The proposal for a decision creates the opportunity, the government has the potential to make substantial progress in this, so we think that this is really the place to do it, to discuss it, to discuss it and to complement it if necessary. Come before the Parliament, we support the motion. Thank you very much.
u2016-03-16-214	Thank you very much, Congressman. I would like to ask my fellow Members if anyone else would like to speak in the debate. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. I will ask Mr Bertalan Tóth if he wishes to respond on behalf of the authors. [[Dr. Bertalan Tóth: Yes.]] Here you are, Congressman, two minutes on schedule.
u2016-03-16-215	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Once again, I am not disappointed, since neither the Fidesz nor the KDNP have the fellow Members even praised this proposal for a resolution. However, I thank the two opposition parties for their support. What I would like to say to Jobbik is that it should be included in a series of subjects so that we can discuss this more deeply and change the proposal itself. I would ask you to consider supporting this series of articles. It is quite clear, although we could not hear the opinion of Fidesz between the lines now, but we know from the announcement of János Lázár that the HUF 88 billion that was intended for residential renovation is intended to be used by the public and municipal investments. I can't help but think that, once again, they want to keep the use of this amount in their own hands; they don't want the public to be able to choose contractors without public procurement, in clean, open conditions. What you need is to be set aside in your own system, and probably the economic companies close to you, the fidesz economic lunar station, will put your hands on this amount, because we know who is the main player in these public investments. All we can think about is this one reason why they want to keep this money in the hands of the government and the state. This could be discussed. An application for a series of articles is about having the opportunity to talk about this in Parliament at all, because, as my fellow Members have said, the proposal is extremely important and forward-looking. Thank you very much.
u2016-03-16-216	Thank you very much, Congressman. The decision will take place on our meeting tomorrow. Dear Parliament, The MSZP Group has proposed that the Parliament decide to implement the 2013 LIV on the implementation of reductions in oil and gas prices on the world market. T/8527. Bill No. 1 on inclusion in the series of articles. The series of articles was rejected by the Economic Committee. First, I would like to give the floor to Mr Bertalan Tóth, a five-minute time frame. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-03-16-217	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I am bringing this bill here for the third time, as we have initiated for the third time in the last year to deliver to consumers, thanks to world market developments, the benefits of cheaper energy sources. That's what this bill is about. I would like to point out that, over the last year, we have heard various reasons why this cannot happen. Their main reason is how many times previous governments have raised energy prices. I really can't accept this because it's cheaper now, so I could give it cheaper now. The other is that the oil price hardly affects the purchase price of the gas. Then they talked about exchange rates. Over the last year, analysts, market figures, economic operators of all kinds have said that energy prices have been decreasing steadily and drastically, and gas prices on the world market. If we're just talking about the price of oil, we can see that the price has dropped from $110 to $30, 70%. The price of Russian imported gas is $400 to $200, so it's down by half. So the gas that's now being delivered from the east side costs half as much. I ask why we have to give 58 forints and pay people so much for the cubic meter of natural gas when the purchase price is only 50 forints. In particular, our proposal is to reduce the price of gas by 20 per cent up to average consumption, the price of electricity by 10 per cent and the price of district heating by 10 per cent - up to average consumption. This means that small consumers will receive a discount of at least the same magnitude as larger consumers and larger consumers will not be able to obtain a higher discount. On the previous agenda, I spoke about the importance of sustainability, the sustainability of this price reduction, the reduction of overhead costs. I am talking now about ensuring that this aid scheme is fair, this system of discounts, so that consumers can benefit more from the benefits up to the average consumption. It is totally unacceptable that the money that is now growing in public companies does not reach the Hungarian people, and Hungarian people cannot pay less when it costs less. So you buy and sell gas cheaper today in Hungary. This has now been acknowledged by all analysts, your former State Secretary, and said in an article that there is a lasting price reduction, there is a serious fall in prices, so it is time for consumers to see this. Again, I would like to refer to the fact that almost 100,000 households are cut off from the energy supply. They could also have a more favourable price to re-use these services. But you are shutting down, constantly pointing to the past, and refusing to accept the law of the market: if something is cheaper, you will give it cheaper. There are obviously two reasons for this: there is no other reason why you are sitting on this huge amount of money - because we are talking about hundreds of billions of forints now - or that in your needy position next year, when the elections are approaching, you will re-use the miracle weapon and, of course, only and only thanks to Viktor Orbán, you will start a new reduction campaign. The other thing is that, after public companies are making a profit at this discounted price, at a cheap price, they do not want to give this to Hungarian people, but they also want to steal this, they want to give it to their own business community. Remember the period 2011-2014 when, against a government decree, cheap gas from Austria was not delivered to the public, not to district heating providers, but to an offshore company with an economic interest close to you, MET Zrt., which was able to use this cheap gas. Let this not be the process, let this be the end and give this money to Hungarian consumers, because what is due is due. If it's bought at a cheaper price, it's cheaper, and don't profit on the Hungarian people! Thank you very much.
u2016-03-16-218	Thank you very much, Congressman. One representative per group of Members and the first independent Member to speak can now present his position within a two-minute time frame. I respectfully ask the MSZP who this person will be, because I have Bertalan Tóth in the script. [[Nándor Gúr reporting.]] In that case, I give the floor to Congressman Nándor Gúr. Here you go.
u2016-03-16-219	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The amount of public utility charges is more than twice as high as it was in 2009. More than 99 thousand households have fees. As a result, electricity, gas or district heating is interrupted in many cases. Meanwhile, as my colleague Bertalan Tóth said, as an example, oil prices have decreased by about 70 percent or even a little more than 70 percent. There is a huge price reduction, but from this huge price reduction, the population does not enjoy anything, but pays the same thing as before, when it was not 30, but 120 dollars a barrel of oil, a balloon oil. We're talking about a reduction in your rent. [[18.00]] They're talking about a reduction in rent, while they're not giving people what they're entitled to as a result of falling prices. She'd go out, but she can't. On the other hand, a much fairer system should be put in place and subsidies should be given where it is most needed. So, as we have just said, the principle of justice should be followed. You don't do that. We want international oil and imported natural gas to reduce prices for the population's right to fall, both in terms of electricity and district heating prices. As has been said, we propose a reduction of 20 per cent for gas and 10 per cent for electricity and district heating, and we would like an official reduction. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[A rare applause in the ranks of the MSZP.]]
u2016-03-16-220	Thank you very much, Congressman. The opinion of the Jobbik Group is presented by Mr Lajos Kepli. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-03-16-221	Thank you very much, Mr. President. We support the inclusion of the presentation of the Hungarian Socialist Party. We support it because we support the inclusion of all proposals from wherever they come from, which aim to ensure a more proportionate transmission to the Hungarian population of the reduction in energy prices that has occurred in recent years, and most of which will benefit the Hungarian population. At the moment, the Hungarian population is the victim of a reduction of gas prices and energy prices, which is purely politically beneficial and unthinkable, so to speak, since in all sectors of society there has been an equal reduction in gas prices and energy prices, which has not produced a real result at exactly the level that would be most needed. Of course, the rich have benefited from this, as we have seen in the government's initiatives recently. With a fairer, proportionate reduction in prices and in the light of proposals that better indicate the evolution of world market prices on public yellow cheques and bills, I think a much fairer system could be developed in Hungary. The amount of public utility debt would not increase year after year, and in Hungary the scissors that should be reduced would not open as wide as possible between certain layers of society. The aim would be to ensure that everyone gets the same benefits, achieving the same overall result, so that the more efficient and richer sections of society will be supported to a lesser extent, while the falling layers and the less affluent layers will receive higher rates of public support. Indeed, this is covered by the fact that the government may currently have a significant amount available for this, as world market energy prices have decreased significantly. So we're in favour of entering the series of subjects. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-03-16-222	Thank you very much, Congressman. The position of the LMP Group is presented by Mr Sallai R. Benedek. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-03-16-223	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, Basically, we are obviously in favour of inclusion in the series. Here we need to talk about evaluating from time to time the different experiences regarding the reduction of the rent that Fidesz-KDNP announced. After all, society is beginning to sense that the communication nature of everything, although it was strong, was not accompanied by real feelings. The centralisation of different utility services is not only the everyday difficulties, as new charges have been introduced, in relation to the cost of transporting utility waste as well as in relation to water supply, and the process of everything is felt in society. It is felt that you will not spend virtually a third of what is collected from various excise duties and tolls on this item to maintain the road. Here, too, every additional cost is a cost to families, as each bearing change or any vehicle repair or shock absorber occurs there. There is no difference, of course, with the area concerned, where it is obvious that Fidesz-KDNP wants to give to its friends the price difference between 2009 and 2016 so that it can benefit from it through some channels as far as possible. This is for the Hungarian people, and it is not a good government that wins over its own citizens. This confrontation must take place, and this inclusion would create the opportunity to talk about real facts about the experience of the reduction of costs so far, and to look at what would be able to reduce the cost of energy and energy to a sustainable extent for the general public. For this reason, we ask the Honourable Parliament to support this series of articles. Thank you very much.
u2016-03-16-224	Thank you very much, Congressman. I will ask my fellow Members if anyone else wishes to speak in the debate. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. Then I would like to address Mr Bertalan Tóth, who would like to respond to what was said in the debate. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-03-16-225	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would be very happy to respond if there was any debate on the current series of subjects. Unfortunately, this has not happened again, we have not heard a pro-government opinion on the bill. I called the government for an open debate, and, of course, Szilárd Németh, who was the High Commissioner for this matter, did not appear in the Economic Committee either. So you don't think it's important for the Parliament to discuss this. By the way, the Parliament should not be discussing this, because the energy office has the opportunity to assess the costs of the service providers and their reduction, since it is certain that their costs have fallen, to set a price that is less than now, and to deliver this benefit to consumers of cheaper energy. By the way, I would like to draw attention once again to the philosophy of the bill, referring back to the previous series of articles. Sustainability was one of the important criteria that could reduce the consumption of Hungarian families, reduce their spending, and make it fair that the discount would be up to average consumption. You said, as a counter-argument, that and what would happen if the price of energy on the world market would increase. This discount would still remain for small consumers. This, in addition to the fact that there is a reduction now, would be a guarantee for small consumers that they are always better off than large consumers, no matter what happens to the energy price. I think that would be fair, that would be the thing to do. I thank the factions for their support for this proposal, or at least for its discussion, and I am sorry that Fidesz once again has not said a word. Thank you very much. [[A rare applause in the ranks of the MSZP.]]
u2016-03-16-226	Thank you very much, Congressman. The decision will take place on our meeting tomorrow. Dear Parliament, The Jobbik Group has proposed that the Parliament decide on the introduction of the H/8660 on the basis of voluntary military training. Proposal for a decision on inclusion in the scope of this Regulation. The series of articles was rejected by the Defence and Police Committee. First, I would like to give the floor to Mr President Novak, on behalf of the authors, in a five-minute time frame. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-03-16-227	Dear Parliament, According to the Fundamental Law, every Hungarian citizen is obliged to protect the country. However, let us add that, unfortunately, the state does not provide the basic training required for this, even for those who would learn it voluntarily. That is why we needed to put forward a replacement proposal with my fellow Member Gergely Kulcsár and Ádám Mirkóczki to introduce the basic training for the voluntary military training. We think that there are many who want to learn the basic knowledge of defence that, normally, young people could learn in public education as part of the National Basic Learning Plan, through a patriotic mission, a manly challenge, a need for change in the environment, or even through general education. At present, however, many other and less beneficial things are being filled with young people's heads. This would be necessary, since, as we have learned from the Minister of Defence's reply to my recent written question, not only thousands of people are missing from the voluntary operational reserve system in Hungary, but the number of people under 45 is 515. Now imagine the border protection where there are more immigrants arriving one day and besieging the Hungarian border than the number of volunteers under 45 could face them. I think we can all see that this staff is not enough. There is therefore also a need for change, organisation and incentives. After all, it is clear that the organisational change in itself can also be an incentive if, instead of the current system called the voluntary operational reserve, we were to create a truly dormant stock that could not be called in to the current reserveers for two months of actual service per year. That's what the system looks like right now. These are what we call reserve workers today, who, if needed or not, are typically invited to serve as barracks for two months a year. [[18.10]] A lot of people can't do this for family, work or other reasons, or even don't want to do it, but they want to get a basic training free of charge on a voluntary basis. It must be concluded that we would not allow the volunteers to be conducted in particular in the missions outside the territory of our country, but, of course, also the Hungarian soldiers, so on the day after 15 March, I think that it is appropriate to rephrase this claim of 12 points, so that our Hungarian soldiers should not be taken abroad, and, for example, Hungarian soldiers should not be involved in the occupation of Afghanistan, but should even look at the Hungarian border against the besieging Afghans. This would be their task, and in order to have the necessary number, we would also include incentives to facilitate the repayment of student loans to former higher education students by making them free of interest, or to provide an advantage for higher education students, like the language examination, or to account for the period of service in certain sectors and training as traineeships. I think that many changes are necessary, because the military service that had previously been terminated has been a serious blow to our country's self-defense force, since the suppliers of its task system have not been fully replaced. No wonder, then, that László Kövér and Lajos Kósa have also brought forward in recent weeks with the remandation of the military service. Jobbik, however, believes that it would be more a voluntary military service, to be precise: it would require a voluntary military basic training to acquire the skills that could be used to fulfil the mandatory national security obligations imposed by the Fundamental Law. Unfortunately, despite two written questions in this regard, Minister has not even formally replied to whether he is in favour of this proposal. Even though he attended a meeting of the Defence Committee, he disappeared quickly when he could have been given an opinion on this. I also asked him an immediate question, tried to get his opinion in two separate speeches, but neither he nor the Secretary of State representing him could say that he was supporting him or was not supporting him, even though that is the title of the last question. We couldn't have had an answer, and we would have expected a braver attitude in such a critical situation, and if that was required by the Defense Act 1. § (1) that defence is a national matter, we would expect a greater rise, not some jealousy, that if Jobbik submitted a proposal, it could not be supported by principle. Or you can say what the problem with this proposal is, because it might be possible to amend it even after the series of articles, but if there is a conflict of principle on the part of the government, for which it is not even willing to include it in a series of objects, then say it in karakan and bravely, but it must be said that it is not enough in the Fundamental Law to require all Hungarian citizens to defend their country, to do so, there must also be a state guarantee of the conditions. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]] If it were a national matter, then we would expect a greater rise, not some jealousy, that if Jobbik submitted a proposal, it could not be supported by principle. Or you can say what the problem with this proposal is, because it might be possible to amend it even after the series of articles, but if there is a conflict of principle on the part of the government, for which it is not even willing to include it in a series of objects, then say it in karakan and bravely, but it must be said that it is not enough in the Fundamental Law to require all Hungarian citizens to defend their country, to do so, there must also be a state guarantee of the conditions. Thank you for your attention. (Applause in Jobbik's ranks. )
u2016-03-16-228	Thank you very much, Congressman. One representative per group of representatives and the first independent representative to speak can now speak within a two-minute time frame. I would like to take the floor first from the MSZP Group to Congresswoman Márta Demeter. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2016-03-16-229	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, These two minutes are extremely short on this subject. I'm going to mention two things that you can agree on. One is that defence is a national matter and the other is that it is really necessary to bring the matter of defence closer to young people. That's what we could agree on. If we are talking about volunteering for military service, but you do not want to do so in contractual or professional personnel, there is a voluntary reserve system in Hungary. It is a fact that there are many criticisms about this, but former pensioners have been forced into this system, but the fact that young people have access to it can still receive basic training under the reserve system. After six months of probation, the Hungarian Defence Organisation, the State itself, has the opportunity to determine whether it is possible to keep the volunteer reserve system in stock, and it is natural that there are expectations, because if someone is given basic training, then we can expect him to perform the service afterwards. The fact that incentives could be expanded in the current system compared to the current one, it is necessary to find the motivation to involve young people in the current system. I would just like to say very briefly that the Hungarian Defence Agency is already in a huge shortage of staff, so the foundation would be that the 5500 people's shortage should be filled as soon as possible, and it is necessary to provide resources for this, and of course, a perspective for which young people who are committed to serving their country can serve for a lifetime. But one thing is not permissible, to give basic training to young people or anyone without knowing what they will do with this knowledge. He gets out of the system, disappears from the sight of the defense, and don't give me a god. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] , so they could receive basic training if we supported it - we will not support inclusion in the series of subjects - who might fail all other screenings. I think that this is not acceptable and would be a huge risk. Thank you very much.
u2016-03-16-230	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. From the Fidesz Group, Mr Simon Miklós is next. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-03-16-231	Thank you very much. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The proposal for a decision on the introduction of the basic voluntary military training, submitted by Jobbik representatives, was also discussed by the Defence and Police Committee and was considered not eligible by the Committee. There are several reasons for this. The draft contains a number of issues which are publically uncertain or which may be detrimental to citizens who wish to participate voluntarily, for which we have not proposed supporting it at the time. In its present form, the proposal raises a number of fundamental legal and professional issues and is not sufficiently limited and does not adequately identify specific objectives and policy options. As an example, I would like to mention the status, callability, criminal and liability of volunteers, but also a number of other concerns. The draft sets out proposals for which, however, the existence of the necessary impact assessments cannot be seen neither in terms of defence capabilities nor in terms of the national economy. Without carrying out impact assessments, a responsible decision on the budgetary eligibility of the draft cannot be reached. The voluntary participation raised in the proposal is a national-related issue affecting a significant proportion of Hungarian citizens within the territory, for which a number of issues need to be examined and decided in detail. Thank you very much.
u2016-03-16-232	Thank you very much, Congressman. Now I have to ask you again, because both names are listed, so President Novak and Gregory Kulcsár, but I think Gregory Kulcsár will speak. [[Novak Foreman nodds.]] So it is up to Congressman Gergely Kulcsár to speak in two minutes from the Jobbik Group. Here you go.
u2016-03-16-233	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, The Jobbik faction, of course, supports the application for a series of articles, all the more so because we have been pushing this issue for a long time, President Gábor Vona, President Novak and I have also raised this topic between the walls of this House and in other forums. As Előd Novák has just said, Fidesz and the government have not responded in substance to these points, and I think that there is some contradiction in the rare cases where the governing party or Fidesz has passed on or a beta on to this question, because the Fidesz MEP who has just spoken rejected the series of articles from the ground up, when the inclusion in the series is all about whether or not the Parliament should discuss this at all. That they had objections could have been said in the debate after being put on the agenda, but it is a very important issue, which belongs within the walls of this House. I would like to say, however, that at the five-party meeting in January, we presented this proposal to Minister Simicskó and he said that this proposal could be supported, and he even said at a later press event that he was planning to set up an organisation to address young people in a more effective way. Among other things, it has been suggested that young people aged 18 and over can participate in a one-month basic training course on a voluntary basis. This is somewhat in line with our proposal, obviously we were not talking about a month - the details were explained by my fellow Member, Mr President Novák - but if the minister is thinking about such a proposal, it is incomprehensible why this issue is being swept down in committee. [[18.20]] In order to restore the appreciation of the defence, to make the military career popular again, it is essential to debate this issue in the church of the nation, and I would ask the pro-government representatives to reconsider our position, to support the inclusion of our proposal for a resolution in the series of subjects, and then to change the points in which we may have disagreement with their amending proposals and majority in Parliament. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2016-03-16-234	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr Sallai R. Benedek is coming from the LMP Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-03-16-235	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, That is what I would urge my fellow Member, Dr Simon, to support the inclusion in the series, and these concerns can be discussed and amended without further delay after inclusion in the series. So if the Fidesz fraction has professionals who can improve such a proposal, why don't they do it, why don't they create it? It was Julius Caesar's saying - I think - that if you want peace, prepare for war, but I do not want to get to the point of preparing for war, and the LMP is basically a pacifist party, and does not like violence organisations, but it is quite clear that the Fidesz government, among its many, many inability to manage the country, is also inadequate in its defence-related tasks. This is supported not only by the extremely small size and lack of technical equipment of our current defence, but also by the fact that the government does not want to deal with it. The government doesn't regret making 300 million billboard campaigns to stimulate immigrants, but it regrets spending the same amount of money on technical improvements or strengthening the defence. If we look at the international experience well, then with some differences in what we think could be weeded, this would provide Hungary with an opportunity similar to a Swiss system, when it could in practice be decided who will receive the basic training, which makes it suitable for the constitutional obligation that the Fundamental Law, the Fundamental Law that you have adopted, makes compulsory for all citizens at the moment. It is so in the Fundamental Law that the multitude of people in today's system, unlike me, did not hold arms, and is not fit to do anything to protect their nation. For all these reasons, we believe that inclusion in the series of subjects is justified, that it is worth discussing, that today's political situation should be discussed, and that we ask the pro-government majority to support inclusion in the series of subjects. Thank you.
u2016-03-16-236	Thank you very much, Congressman. I will ask my fellow Members if anyone else wishes to speak. [[There's no candidate.]] He doesn't want to. I would like to ask Mr President Novák, on behalf of the authors, if he wishes to respond to what has been said. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-03-16-237	Dear fellow Members, Thank you very much for your comments, thank you, Ms Márta Demeter, for drawing our attention to the potential of the voluntary reserve system. We don't need to be introduced, I'm a contract reserveer myself, of course, we know how to get basic military training. But the problem I have outlined is that, on the one hand, many do not know, I do not want to take up a job for family or work reasons, when today it is called a reserve man who typically has to go to barracks for two months a year. Let's not call this a backup system. We would create a dormant stock, the mobilisation of which would be linked to a qualified situation. So we're talking about something else, we're talking about a basic voluntary military training, about which he made some kind of vague reference to why it's a problem, if it's done today at all by young people who might not even be in the army in a year or two. Maybe Balliberal about the Wolf, or I'm sorry, but lately it's been more of a right-liberal hysteria rhyme. I think that civil society initiatives are being created because the state is not doing its job. The state requires that all Hungarian citizens are obliged to protect the country, but does not provide the basic training required for this purpose. Of course, a Hungarian Guard would have been created, or it would have worked if it hadn't been the government's main job to chase him with fire and iron! That's not your job. Your job is to ensure basic defence skills, even within the framework of public education and public education, and also to ensure the basic training of voluntary military personnel. I welcome Miklós Simon here, too bad he wasn't at the committee meeting. Compared to this, he spoke confidently about why he did not support this proposal. I'm glad to hear your arguments. It is difficult to expect an impact assessment from an opposition party, as this could even result in a survey of military secrets, but I think that the defence would otherwise be able to provide basic training at some level. You can also argue about the conditions that we've had so far, but how many push-ups and what they give us, let's say, in the hands of the Homelanders, this, I think, should be an internal matter of defense leaders. Although we ourselves regularly meet with military leaders, precisely in order to broaden the current reserve system, on which it seems that Minister István Simicskó has promised only five-party negotiations. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] in fact, discreetly and cowardly stays away from this proposal and from this debate. And we do not know what the government intends to do in order to change the present unblessed situation. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2016-03-16-238	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, The decision will take place on tomorrow's meeting. The Commission's report on the amendment of certain laws concerning dog breeding is now under discussion. The government referral is T/9299. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the parliamentary IT network. I will now ask Mr István Nagy, on behalf of the authors, if he wishes to speak. [[For signal:]] [[For signal:]] He doesn't want to. I ask my fellow Members who would like to speak in the debate. Since the designated Committee on Agriculture did not present a rapporteur, it is therefore possible to speak directly to its representatives. (To be indicated:) I give the floor first from the Jobbik Group to MEP Zoltán Magyar. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-03-16-239	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Fellow Members! I have already had the opportunity to criticise this proposal here in the context of the general debate and in the Committee on Agriculture, and I would like to call on the Government and the members of the Government not to vote for this legislation in the end tomorrow. Of course, I urge everyone to vote in favour of my amendment, which ultimately means the same thing, because if my amendment were accepted, it would ultimately mean that this amendment would be meaningless. That's what I'm going to do in this case, because that was the goal and the intention of this amendment to stop the kind of madness that the government is starting with this amendment of the law. I find it quite amazing that I have admitted that government representatives, ex-ministers of state, current secretary of state, have admitted that the MEOE, MEOESZ, who has been blackmailing the governments for decades, has not complied with the various laws, which would apply to them as the current form of organisation, we are talking about court-martial judgments, and I am talking about extortion of state ministers at all times, this association does not respect them. Then the state ignores all of this and says that we cannot obtain international licenses from them, from now on we do not deal with domestic dog breeding, the Hungarian state withdraws from full supervision, except for the Hungarian dog breeds. This obviously raises discrimination between the various breed societies, but this will be decided by the President of the Republic or the Constitutional Court on how right we are. In any case, I find it amazing and outrageous that, so far, fair organizations who have worked for domestic dog breeding are virtually nullified, ignored, and continue to promote this unsustainable, unsustainable state, and even now we are cementing it on a legal level. We have said our many concerns about the issue of the fact that the state is going to withdraw from dog breeding at this level, of course we have already received answers in the debate, in the committee debate and here in the parliamentary debate, but they all go against the previous position. We have also said that this law was before us twice in the previous cycle, or a draft law in this regard, and I am not talking about the amendment of this legislation, and every time the Hungarian dogs were given an opportunity after the last to settle this dispute between themselves. And we can see that it didn't work out very well, that the international licenses are still in this one organization. But he believes that Jobbik and professional organisations, as well as honest breeders, are of the opinion that the solution to this is not that the state will give up the fight, and from now on, in the absence of an international licence, he says that you should resolve it among yourselves, because it has not succeeded under public supervision, it is clearly not going to succeed after a state exit, we cannot accept this capitulation in this way, and I continue to encourage all my fellow Members not to accept this amendment. The substantive technical proposals that we made in previous debates could not be included as amendments to this legislation, because they cannot be interpreted, could not be added from a codification point of view, because there was no reason for it, because it would have been difficult for us to smuggle it into this, for example, to ensure the difficulties for law enforcement bodies or even for the handling of dangerous dogs, because of this amendment. [[18.30]] Thus, I can only say that this draft should be withdrawn, that Parliament should draw up a law that is acceptable to honest dog farmers after the factions have been agreed. It is also not true that my fellow members of the Government say that there is no such supervision in other countries of Europe. Indeed, there are countries where there are none, and there are many other examples where there is public supervision, especially in a country that is unfortunately famous, but I prefer to say that it is rumored that there are a significant number of propagating material here. We would like to adopt a law that draws a sharp line between a fair breeder and unscrupulous reproductive material, and therefore divides the number of people working with dogs, rather than seeing a kind of exodus, where, once again, this distinction cannot be resolved, and the state does not have any guarantee of how the future of the Hungarian breeding will be, of the way in which it sees it. It is certain that we have not managed to find the right path so far, neither the dogs, nor domestic breeding, nor our country, nor the Hungarian state, have had any positive development in this war that has been going on for decades, but it is also certain that the government has chosen the worst possible version when it leaves this area. So once again, I would like to ask my fellow Members to accept the amendment to Jobbik and not to adopt this legislation tomorrow. We still have time to develop one that can be a suitable solution for honest breeders, dogs and Hungary. Thank you. [[It's a rare round of applause from the Jobbik benches.]]
u2016-03-16-240	Thank you very much, Congressman. The next speaker was Mrs Márta Demeter, from the MSZP Group. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2016-03-16-241	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, It has already been said in the previous debate, as my fellow Member has said before me, that it is a matter of fact that the state should be involved in dog breeding, and there have been a great deal of problems to be solved in recent years, and it is actually a question of how, if these problems, the growing complaints, could not be resolved by public supervision at all, they will actually function without effective supervision. The question is what organisations can do between themselves, how they can reach consensus, how much interest they can pursue. The discrimination that this proposal reflects is very interesting, since it not only differentiates between organisations, but also between dogs themselves, as it clearly favours Hungarian breeds, which is about 3-5 percent in the field of dog breeding, and about 95-97 percent applies to all other varieties. So it is a question of what will happen to these breeders, and what will happen to the dogs that will otherwise be affected by this kind of action. So it is certainly not a solution that, when we see, in all other areas of life, that the government is almost a pawn, that it is doing nationalisation, but unfortunately we do not see it in the positive sense of the word, in this area, simply pulling off its shoulders, not solving complaints, developing the signalling system, developing cooperation, trying to develop a solution, but really simply leaving the area. It is very important for dog farmers to be able to work with appropriate guarantees, for those who will buy dogs, and it is extremely important that their activities are carried out in compliance with legal requirements. In essence, the supervision of this will therefore be impossible for about 95-97 percent of the said. So clearly the proposal that lies before us from the government is not eligible. The fact that we need to deal with the current situation would be a much more thoughtful, more thoughtful proposal, because the fact that we are trying to remedy the current situation to some extent, to find solutions, would be absolutely eligible, but in the form that lies before us, by no means. So it is clear to us, too, that we should definitely rethink this and reject it in its current form. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare applause from the benches of the MSZP. Hungarian Zoltán applauds.]]
u2016-03-16-242	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Mr Sallai R. Benedek is coming from the LMP Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-03-16-243	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, Since I've been here in Parliament, this is the most shameful capitulation of government activities. So at this level I have not seen the Fidesz government admit to something that it cannot cope with a problem, because this is nothing more than a recognition that the Hungarian government is unfit to participate actively in the tasks related to registration and in matters related to dog farming and dog breeding. Obviously, this issue of competence is whether the government is competent to carry out tasks in such matters with appropriate professionalism, and it is obvious that if it cannot and cannot do so, then how can we trust it with more important questions, if the issue of dog stock accounting is about it. We basically share Jobbik's concerns about constitutionality. We have very serious reservations that such a waiver of a binding task, a transfer of such a task to a civil society organization, which has a history of very, very many stains that have caused inconvenience and problems for a lot of dog farmers, is a wise move. But what's obvious about all this is that the government wants to get rid of the problems. I would like to ask the Secretary of State to think that in today's mood, when there has been a recent protest on animal protection, I am very pleased that both the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Agriculture have expressed their intention to take the necessary steps in the field of animal protection, and to withdraw the state from the registration system, the farming system. At the moment, there are a lot of problems for animal defenders - and I know that you are aware of that - how the identification of the different individuals found, how their chirping has been carried out, how the various breedings can be recorded, and how the civil rights aspects of everything that is tied to property can be achieved. For all these reasons, giving up this is not a wise move, it is not a practical step. A greater public engagement would be needed. It is unacceptable for me that in areas where there is no need for government intervention and that we should allow society to work at levels of self-organization, the government wants to intervene, while in areas where the past decades prove that there is a need to establish a wise and strong system, but it wants to back off completely and to give up the task that the citizens of the state are absolutely right to expect. Both dog farmers and keepers in general have a fundamental right to expect the government to carry out the necessary tasks in this matter and to assist in breeding work. I think that Mr Secretary of State is aware, given his own profession, that, even if there is no quality animal farming without government intervention in respect of pet animals, there is no quality breeding without the government's involvement in it at some level, and this obscurity that he would now do with this amendment of legislation will in no way help in the long term the issue of dog breeding in Hungary. I would very much like you to consider this, because in matters of your field, it would be good if this could remain a completely professional subject. No one would like to make a political issue out of this, but the proposal is therefore unacceptable on the basis of professional judgement. Please withdraw and do not be supported tomorrow. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Hungarian Zoltán applauds.]]
u2016-03-16-244	Thank you very much, Congressman. I would like to ask my fellow Members who would like to speak on the remaining timeframes. [[For signal:]] From the MSZP Group, Mr Zsolt Lény applied for a speech. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-03-16-245	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I really want to focus very briefly on one thing. My fellow Members have already mentioned professional concerns about the bill. I, of course, share most of these. What I would like to highlight, as Congresswoman Márta Demeter has already said, is that we understand that Viktor Orbán and his government act as enthusiastic freedom fighters in many cases, but we do not think it is a good thing that this should result in, say, highlighting these nine indigenous Hungarian breeds in the field of dog breeding, and, in relation to other dog breedings, the varieties, let us say, being discriminated against or discriminated against. I think this is not a good solution, this is not a good solution, and, of course, this is why dog breeding organisations and professional organisations have already spoken out. I hope you can hear that up to the wheel, not to the sky, just to the wheel. [[18.40]] I hope that this can be heard to the government - not to the sky, only to the government - and I hope that this can be changed in some way, because if there were no such discrimination in the bill, it might even be good. Of course, we still have a lot of, let's just say, professional concerns. At the same time, I think that this, in turn, is taking the bill in the wrong direction. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2016-03-16-246	Thank you very much, Congressman. From the Fidesz Group, Mr Zsolt V. Németh is next. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-03-16-247	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Anyone who has been following up on the dog breeding issue over the last decade and a half can see that the bill that has just been tabled is the only possible solution, especially if we raise international experience. Of course, this legislation alone would not be sufficient if it only decided to remove it from the law and do nothing else except for the old Hungarian dog breeds. In the case of varieties where we have much greater responsibility, there is a positive discrimination here, if any, because there is a much greater responsibility for Hungarian varieties, the responsibility of the state. If he didn't do anything else, we'd be wrong. However, we have developed a programme for these nine types of dogs, where, of course, the breeding authority, Nébih, within the Ministry of Agriculture, will continue to do its job, but it will also be up to the Gödöllő Farming Center to coordinate this activity; and with the help of Hungarian national parks and forestry farms, we will create a genetic pool that we hope will be able to produce a non-compromising stock. In the same way as other dog breeds, the Hungarian dog races had an amazing process: 20 years ago, 4,500 cottages were registered, and now 175. So, in addition to all of this, not only its number, but also the genetic stock has been amazingly degraded, and signs of kinship are obviously also discovered on the surveys, so there must also be an explanation for, say, why a co-condo can be driven away with a circle and why its master should be bitten by the co-condo. So it can be seen that in recent times, they have been paying attention to the outside and, in the least, to the characteristics that should be maintained. Most of the Hungarian dogs are working dogs, and the skills and skills that have evolved over the centuries should be maintained in their natural place during work. That's what they're gonna do at national parks. We'd like to be able to keep it up just as long as we're herding dogs or guardians. I'd like to say a few sentences about the program. What has already been achieved is that we have started to set up expert groups by variety, group of varieties, and I would like to stress that, of course, in cooperation with breeding organisations. I myself called up the breeding organisations and assured them that the state here does not want to enter this market, but wants to create a non-compromising stock both in live flocks and in terms of reproductive material. We would like to implement a programme that aims at increasing genetic diversity for all breeds and we would like to create breeding work based on DNA tests, which, let's face it, has not been the case for the most prepared breeding organisations. So we believe that, in addition to keeping the 9 old Hungarian dog breeds, there may also be the possibility of genetic rescue in the case of landscape types, such as the sinka or the birddogs. So with these additions, I suggest we accept this program. Obviously, in a few years we will be able to learn from both Hungarian dog breeds and other dog breeds. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-03-16-248	Thank you very much. With all due respect, I would like to draw everyone's attention to the fact that the Commission's report is being debated now and not to repeat the general debate. Under these conditions, I give the floor from the Jobbik Group to MEP Zoltán Magyar.
u2016-03-16-249	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. The subject was also discussed at the committee meeting, so I can respond very briefly to the Secretary of State. We wouldn't have a big problem if 9 Hungarian dogs had a state-named responsible for one of the national parks. I understand they'll be divided into different national parks. I wouldn't have a problem with that, but we didn't get an answer to what will happen to the Hungarian dog breeds with the breeders' organisations who have done their job fairly so far, and I would also like to draw the attention of the Secretary of State to the fact that this is about co-animals. So it is very nice and good to try to preserve the original properties of these dogs and to maintain the right quality and quality in their working dog nature, but here, let's not strip the story just to preserve genes. These varieties may, without exception, be introduced to different degrees in accordance with Article XXI. In this respect, I do not want the government to give up on them, and we have not received any answers in the presentation. After all, I believe that the height and working capacity of the national parks will be properly followed, and that will be checked from generation to generation, although I suppose that will be provided by some additional source and specialist, because at present it is unimaginable for all national parks that I know. In advance of receiving this from the state, I would like to draw attention to the fact that this is not primarily a conservation of genes, because, apart from the landscapes, such problems have not yet been raised, thank God. So I hope that decent breeders' organisations will also be reassured about what will happen to their future, who have been working on the care of Hungarian breeds for decades, at an appropriate professional level. Thank you.
u2016-03-16-250	Thank you, Congressman. From the group of the LMP, Mr Zsolt Lány is next. Here you go, Congressman. [[Zsolt Legány: LMP or MSZP? Sallai R. Benedek: He's MSZP, I'm the LMP.]] What? Congressman, I gave the floor to Zsolt Bachelor, he's next. [[Nándor Gúr: Only he is MSZP!]]
u2016-03-16-251	It's okay. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. In accordance with Mr President's views on the conduct of a meeting, I, too, should like to highlight just two more sentences. I, Mr V. Németh, have no argument that we are trying to highlight these nine Hungarians or to increase their number. I have spoken or asked to speak, rather, that there should be no discrimination in relation to the other varieties. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2016-03-16-252	Thank you very much. I will follow Mr Zsolt Legény, a representative of the MSZP; if I had not said that, but said the LMP, I would also apologize to the LMP, then I was wrong and the President was entitled to the right of error. However, because I looked at Mr Sallai R. Benedict, who is indisputably a member of the LMP Group, he is next. Here you go.
u2016-03-16-253	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I have the joyful opportunity to speak that I agree with everything that Parliamentary Secretary Zsolt V. Németh has said, because what he says about indigenous Hungarian breeds is all true. The one thing I am arguing with is that from what he has said and what I have said, I agree with everything, it does not follow that we should give up on all other kinds and do not have to participate in the rest. The fact that the FM now needs to participate in these programmes in addition to nature conservation tasks, with the cooperation of national parks, is very, very good. But who said, let's say, that it is not important for BM to maintain the quality of the breeding of the German Shepherd? Who said that the Hungarian society, where who knows how many accidents occur each year, because the breeding work has become a poor breeding ground, let's say that the different dogs, otherwise bred for fighting, are no longer in compliance, and there is no responsibility for this for the state? He'd have the same responsibility. What you are saying is very, very useful, and the direction you want to represent with the Hungarian dog breeds is very, very good, but you cannot withdraw from the control of the breeding of all other, primarily working dog breeds, and it is equally important that we say that a palotapic should not be bitchy, false, and I can list examples where there is a social benefit to the state's control tasks. That's what I wanted to add. Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. [[18.50]]
u2016-03-16-254	Thank you very much, Congressman. I would like to ask my fellow Members if anyone else would like to speak in the debate. [[No one's reporting.]] If not, the debate is closed. I will ask Mr István Nagy, State Secretary, if he wishes to respond to what has been said in the debate. [[Dr. István Nagy: Yes.]] Mr. Secretary, you have a ten-minute time frame because you didn't use anything at the beginning. Here you go.
u2016-03-16-255	Thank you very much. Your Honour, Mr. President. Dear fellow Members, I would like to share a few thoughts very briefly with you. Allow me to tell you the experience that surprised me. It is that in every speech, they practically formed an opinion on the work of civil society organisations and formed an opinion on the state's work. It is interesting to learn this lesson, since civil society organisations have been criticised and the government's work has been recognised. I am listening to this with a very good heart, but let me say from the government side that we have much more confidence in the work and opportunities of civil society organisations than our opposition fellow Members would mention. Let's see it in a row. My fellow Member, Zoltán Magyar, indicated that it would be pointless to accept the amendment, since it is contrary to the law itself. I can't argue with that. I totally agree. I also agree with what you said about the need to distinguish between breeders and breeders. In fact, with the strictest possibilities of the law, it is necessary to combat the degradation of genetic material in any breed of dog bred in Hungary. But I must say to you, and I would very much like to emphasise that this is not a unique example in Hungary. In many and even most countries around the world, this model works, as the government would like to introduce now, and it does not operate directly by public intervention. Trust me, this system works fine there. So I ask my fellow Members to trust in the strength, integrity, work and expertise of civil society associations and organisations, so that they can also carry out this task. My fellow Member, Mr Demeter, says that there is discrimination between organisations. I think not at all, because the government gives all organisations the same opportunity to do so along with their respective breeding programme. I must say that these organisations and their members will finally be forced to speak with each other. After all, it is no longer possible to point the finger at the state as a factor of power, but to decide and solve these tasks on their own. "Give adequate guarantees to breeders and buyers," said the congresswoman. Yeah. This is what we want practically to do, so that everyone who buys can buy that kind of dog and that genetic material in the same quality as they want. It was very interesting to mention 3 and 97 percent of each other. I think we have something to think about here, too, in Hungary, because, yes, only 3 percent of Hungarian dog breeds are held by people. There is work in the marketing area, and we have work in the breeding area, I think that is precisely why, because the Hungarian breeds of dogs are really threatened, because there are only 3 percent breeding animals in Hungary. We really need to make sure that these dog breeds can be bred and preserved in sufficient quantity and quality for the future, as we hope that they will come back to fashion or again in the yard of many houses, barking and serving. My colleague Sallai R. Benedict says it's a shameful capitulation. I think he expressed very far-reaching thoughts in his speech. I'm asking you to trust civil society organisations a lot more. It is precisely the LMP who directs his policy, establishment, organization, his entire work to the cooperation of civil society organisations. I ask you to put much more faith in the expertise and work of these organisations. He listed the important things to do. It has escaped the attention of my fellow Members that it is not only an amendment to this Act, but also an amendment to the Animal Welfare Act. Thus, an organic unit will be a matter of dog breeding and dog breeding with appropriate guarantees. Indeed, I would very much like my fellow Members to be able to distinguish between keeping or breeding a hobby and a breeding animal, because in the case of a dog, we can and must treat a hobby. Zsolt Legény spoke, who twisted the whole thing and said that otherwise the law could be adopted if the nine types of dogs were not taken out of the system. I believe that these opinions also prove, in practice, that the government is on the right path when it intends to regulate dog breeding in Hungary. Allow me, at the very end, to dissemble a misconception based on Internet forums: there is a rumor on the Internet, my fellow Members, because many people say that the state will withdraw from dog breeding, and only nine Hungarian dogs can be registered in Hungary. Let us disperse this misconception here, and this is not the case, since the breeding and registration of dogs continues to take place in Hungary. It is all about the Hungarian state wanting to interfere with the breeding rules of the nine native Hungarian breeds of dogs, while entrusting the breeding of all other hobby dogs to civil society organisations as it has been in Hungary, and it will be their responsibility to define all the professional parameters. So I wanted to remove the doubt that there will no longer be registration in Hungary for the rest of the dogs. Yes, you will. I also ask the breeders to filter out all the bad breeders and breeders who destroy and subdue the Hungarian breed of dogs because they only do harm. I believe that civil society organisations now have a good opportunity to do so. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2016-03-16-256	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that the decisions will take place on our meeting tomorrow. The general debate on the proposal for a decision to commemorate the 225th anniversary of the birth of Count István Széchenyi will now follow. The submission submitted by János Lázár and László L. Simon Fideszes and our fellow Members with Mátyás Firtl KDNP H/9446. The Parliament's IT network is accessible to all. First, I give the floor to Mr L. Simon László, the rapporteur on the agenda, within a 30-minute time frame. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-03-16-257	Thank you very much. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, * Respect the past so that you can understand the present and work on the future. István Széchenyi was born 225 years ago, one of the most important representatives of National Progressivity. István Széchenyi is an example of the scientific and economic development of the country, art, transport, politics or sport, which is always to be quoted for posterity because of his thoughts and his wide range of oeuvres. In a short time, his figure became a symbol, one of the creators and symbolic national heroes of modern civil Hungary. Its diverse activities and achievements are a message for all members of society, especially young people, today. We also need role models, examples of heroes such as Széchenyi, the main elements, values and achievements of his activities for young people today are values and models to follow. That is why I say that István Széchenyi is the most important representative of national progressivity, and that progressivity and interpretation that can be formulated in the context of a review of his life's work can be a meaningful framework for future generations. [[19.00]] Today's government also wants a country and a world like that which István Széchenyi wanted, where national consciousness, love of country, will to do, intellectual discourse, the importance of spirit, honor, national progress, faith, wisdom, self-confidence, respect for the past, social sensitivity, solidarity; that whoever has it will sacrifice it for the benefit of the public, as Széchenyi once sacrificed his own wealth on the altar of the community. Count István Széchenyi, before entering political careers, traveled around the world, gained experience, came home and realized his dreams, realized all his ideas, which changed the framework, history, the country's economy, culture and science for a long time, even to this day. Yet, in those days, the country was not even as advanced as it is now, so, in truth, it left a medium and returned to a medium where world vision was much more important, the smallness of communication compared to today has made it just more difficult to see and learn the kind of world view that seems natural for young people in the world of the Internet today, even without physical change. This kind of approach, that he has traveled around the world, gained experience, and that approach should still be a current example for young people. Our government is being attacked countless times by not taking enough steps to ensure that young people do not leave the country. We have already stated here several times, on the debate day on this issue, that it is fortunate for young people to see the world and to gain experience, to return home with other cultures and other customs, and to use their knowledge for the nation and their own narrower environment and for their families. Allow me to read you a quote, and I quote, "A lot of well-trained professionals and young people leave the country and look for work abroad." The place of civic virtues, diligence, appreciation of talent and knowledge, moderation and decency is increasingly taken over by the pursuit of unbridled career desire and enrichment. Value-based commitment is replaced by unconditional loyalty, and rational reasoning is backed up by sometimes demagogued populism. Here's the end of the quote. This quote, ladies and gentlemen, my fellow Members, is not from Count István Széchenyi, but from István Stumpf, and today's press has picked up this quote and picked up several other details of his study, setting this study as if it were a powerful government criticism. Of course, the former minister of the first Orbán government also has the right to pass judgment on the current government, but if we start from this quote, we can say that there are also people in our camp, in our spiritual and political community who do not necessarily see the situation well. After all, I am referring to Széchenyi, starting from his example, that young people should see the world, learn, strengthen their faith, strengthen their spiritual strength, and then wait for them to be the engines of progress, be they who really create a value-based community, and truly live their lives along civil virtues instead of pursuing unbridled careers and enrichment. Now a quote from Széchenyi, which, of course, in hearing what you just said, seems to be up to date. He wrote in 1823, "In a country where the community spirit is as small as ours, where everyone cares about themselves and does not think about it, I believe that the beginning of some unification is of substantial benefit: because it is easy for many people to have an enterprise that is simply impossible for the single. Here's the end of the quote. Yes, we need to start from Széchenyi's example, experience and guidance, strengthen community spirit, build communities, be it a narrower community, be it a wider community, or even the solidarity of the national community. [[President Tamás Sneider, Vice-President of the National Assembly.]] We know from Széchenyi's work and example how important education and the strengthening of vocational training have been for him, and we must speak of it in a calm way. In recent months' educational debates, we can only see that it is the calmness, the meeting with the negotiating table that creates the opportunity for a valuable, meaningful debate that can then correct the problems of the system that is struggling with mistakes. We have also seen that there is indeed one of the educational decisions of the past period that needs to be reformed, and that, in addition to the system, time has passed, and therefore a change is needed. When we talk about change, we need to change in the way that Széchenyi suggested it at the time, for example; we need a change based on a sensible, plan-like, constructive debate. Széchenyi was part of the creation of the press, he played a role in the creation of the civil press in the modern sense, he brought intellectuals around him, he participated in the construction of modern-day Hungary. Indeed, it also required responsible people in intellectual discourse to shape the country's fate and politics. Between intellectual discourse and political discourse, there was not a gap as deep as today, in the world of politics, there was also an active participation of spirit people. Unfortunately, there is little left of these intellectual discourses today, which is why we need to do everything we can to ensure that XX. After the 20th century, the 21st century By continuing meaningful dialogues in the century, let us shape our common affairs. There is indeed something to be done, because we Hungarians experience that decades of communism have inexcusably destroyed national consciousness, national commitment, and that is why we need to do everything we can to save our spiritual and physical values by showing examples such as Széchenyi, and by continuing meaningful dialogue with everyone, we try to pass on to posterity the values that Széchenyi and its dominant spiritual and political leaders have claimed to have. If you'll allow me, let me read a quote from Széchenyi in 1833 about one of his Parliament's speeches: "I am fully convinced, and I say, in my faith, the reason for all our remainings lies there to sacrifice itself to the principium, we are on the wrong roads, we are falling down, we are hitting our bodies blue; but let us! It's just the principium. Our small population is consumed by the deadly steaming of our swamps, our unlimited waters; this is nothing: there is a principium! The Second Reason for Our Resurrection is that we think that real patriotism is good liberality if we always form an opposito against the government. The bereavement with which the wood is cut shall wear away its edge. This is also the case of oppositio, which, by the way, is properly used, but a great barrier to self-absorbedness. The end of the quote from Széchenyi. Indeed, ladies and gentlemen, this quote is also instructive. Indeed, it is very important that, in order to protect the democratic institutional system, they express their criticism, both by the opposition and by intellectuals and thinkers, one step away from the political world. There is indeed a need for a moderate opposition, an opposition, as Széchenyi put it, because it can be used correctly as a barrier to self-indulgent. [[19.10]] But we live here in Hungary today in a world where everyone wants to see self-consciousness everywhere, in the ranks of the opposition, without seeing the forest from the tree. For them, it is an important warning that unbridled liberalism has no place, no meaning. If a person constantly forms an opposition against the government, he will walk like the bereavement with which they cut wood, his edge will fade away, says Széchenyi. New fault lines have appeared in the inner circles of power - this is another quote, I will start from here again, quote:. New fault lines have appeared in the inner circles of power, the new generation of Fidesz has been meaningless by the community value and experience of the professional college period. For many of them, the holding of power, the enhancement of symbolic and material possessions were significantly more motivating than the experience of belonging to the political community and the ethos of the service of national affairs. - end of quote. Indeed, this quote comes from István Stumpf again, and I had to raise it here after the previous quote from Széchenyi in 1833 to see how misinterpretable everything that is happening today can be. It is perfectly natural that, for example, for our age, the community value and experience of the professional college period seems remote, since we were in high school at the time. But indeed, the age group that has asked for a place in today's policy leaders and in the country's governance is showing how important value-based politics is, how important the experience of belonging to the political community is, how important it is for all of us to have an ethos for the service of national affairs. The reason we raise Széchenyi as an example is that on the 225th anniversary of his birth we call his attention to the topicality of the Széchenyi life's work of the country's public opinion, because for all of us who are in the pro-government group and the government, the experience of belonging to the community, the service of national affairs is of paramount importance, and this is the focus of our work. We agree with István Széchenyi's political creed, we believe that this creed should also be followed for posterity politicians and intellectuals. I quote Széchenyi: "I have lived every moment of our country's advancement, its growth, and I will devote it to the development of a nobler, and my breath will cease. - end of quote. Another quote from him:, Let us work together to ensure that no man in Hungary is without bread and clothing, without floor and skill, and that no man lacks moral education. - end of quote. Indeed, ladies and gentlemen, these two ideas, which can also be seen as a motto, are very important to the ruling party today, and we trust that our fellow Members in opposition benches, as we must devote our energy to the advancement and growth of our country throughout our work, and indeed to all of us who have been given by voters to represent them here, within the walls of this House, we must work together to ensure that there is no one in our country without bread and clothing, as Széchenyi said, without floors and expertise, and that no one lacks moral education. I am saying all this, therefore, fellow Members, because it is a mistake or a mistake if someone sees that the new generation of Fidesz no longer means anything to them, the value and experience, the community of values that was the foundation of our political community, which was decisive in the genetics of our political party and family. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, In the spirit of all these thoughts, my fellow Members have presented to this House the proposal for a resolution, which also refers back to the Széchenyi cult between the two world wars, and we also quote the text of one of the significant symbolic laws of that time in the proposal for a resolution. We would like to commemorate István Széchenyi in this way, but the government also wants to remember the largest Hungarian with practical action and the organisation of concrete programs. It is a great pleasure for me and for all of us that the Hungarian Government has decided by decision on the Széchenyi cult and on the renovation of the Nagycenk Széchenyi memorial site. This was the Government Decision 1918/2015. The Hungarian government therefore wishes to celebrate the 225th anniversary of the birth of István Széchenyi in a worthy manner. I am pleased to inform my fellow Members this year that, according to the Government decision on the Széchenyi cult and the renovation of the Nagycenk Széchenyi memorial site, adopted last December, I have already talked about this in Parliament about one of my fellow Members' questions or his speech before the agenda, so until 21 September this year, the reconstruction of the Nagycenk castle chapel and the new permanent exhibition of the Széchenyi István Memorial Museum will be completed until the birthday. For these two tasks, Hungary's Government provided a total of HUF 300 million to the Széchenyi Castle, the Eszterháza Centre, which operated the Széchenyi Castle Ensemble in Nagycenk, the Eszterháza Center, which has already renovated the Mausoleum in Nagycenk to a very high standard last year. The exhibition, which will be created after the demolition of part of the old exhibition, in its place, aims to commemorate the life's work of István Széchenyi in such a way that today's young people, today's children, have an experience. So, to refer back to what was said at the beginning of my speech, so that young people today can look at Széchenyi as an example of the greatest Hungarian in his activity, to see the progressiveness, the innovation that is truly characteristic today in this technologicalized world, and which is attractive to young people. In order to achieve all these goals, the Prime Minister's Office has established a memorial committee of renowned scientists and historians. They are the ones who, with their knowledge and expertise, help to present Széchenyi's oeuvre as fully as possible. The main task of the scientific body is to prepare the concept of the renewed permanent exhibition of the Széchenyi István Memorial Museum. This work is already under way. Our goal is to bring the greatest Hungarian versatile person and work closer to visitors, young people, children, through authentic, well-selected artifacts and documents that Széchenyi has dreamed of, and which he has not only dreamed of, but also realized. Members of the Memorial Committee: Professor Dr. András Gergely, who is also the leader of the research group and the expert group; Dr. János Estók, Director General of the Hungarian Agricultural Museum and Library, Zoltán Fónagy, scientific associate of the Institute of History of the Academy of Sciences, Dr. Tamás Dobszay, professor of the University of Humanities and professor of the University of Eötvös Loránd. I think that this group of experts is a guarantee that there will indeed be a high-quality exhibition here. Count István Széchenyi, in connection with the 225th anniversary of his birth, we will organize and hold important events on 8 April. So not only will we focus on the date of birth, on 21 September, but on 8 April, which is the day of his death, the anniversary of his death, we are already organizing programs. The State Secretary of the Prime Minister's Office, led by me, is therefore the responsible and the Eszterháza Centre, and we hope that Magyar Posta will also play a major role in this work. [[19.20]] The initiative of Magyar Posta's involvement was included in the proposal for a resolution for a reason. In addition to the opening ceremony planned to be held there, in addition to the fact that we will be holding a wreath and commemoration at the Széchenyi Mausoleum, which was renovated last year, a mini professional conference will be held in the castle with the members of the Memorial Committee, which is actually intended to draw the attention of the professional and wider audience to the new permanent exhibition opening on 21 September. So the lectures of the members of the Memorial Committee will be closely linked to the professional concept of the renewable exhibition. On the same day, Magyar Posta issues a commemorative stamp, on the occasion of which the first-day stamp will be made at the Nagycenk Castle in the framework of the opening ceremony. An invitation to tender for the reconstruction of the Chapel of Széchenyi Castle will soon be published as a result of the government decision already mentioned. We have a very limited deadline here, as we would also like to fix the chapel for the 21st of September, for the birthday. I was just going over the visuals today. We will reconstruct the former chapel space used as a carpentry workshop, projector, social block, and everything that we can reconstruct authentically. This reconstruction process fits into the spiritual process of which many examples have been set out and we are planning to present it in the coming time. During the period of communism, we restore de-sacred, de-sacred places, castle chapels and castle chapels. I can account for some of these very successful examples. The Castle of Diósgyőr was destroyed not in the period of socialism, but in the previous centuries, but it is a positive example that there we rebuilt a former sacral space and refilled it with content. This is one of Miskolc's favorite wedding venues today, and it's only been two years since we handed it over. But I could continue with the examples of Eszterháza, Gödöllő and others; and, of course, we will also have to reach the destroyed castle chapel of the Castle of Buda. In this beautiful process, where we want to restore the desquaralized, destroyed, destroyed, disfigured, desecrated spaces, a very important station will be the restoration and repair of the Great Cenk chapel. We've searched for the remaining equipment that's been dismantled. Thanks to God, the original altar, altarpiece, pulpit and a bench have been found. These are already restored, the excellent restoration professionals are working on it, and after the renovation they will be returned to their original location. At the same time, we have plans beyond that, big plans beyond the Memorial Year. I would like to draw attention to our medium-term tasks. It is important that an integrated monument ensemble is created that can serve the Hungarian culture, Hungarian education and Hungarian tourism effectively in the management of the Eszterháza Center. During the period ahead, we want to integrate the existing horseguard into the tourist offer, creating an organic relationship with the rest of the castle to show the Széchenyi heritage, since the Hungarian horse breeding and horse sports are inseparable from Széchenyi's heritage. By the way, as my fellow Members know, the Nagycenk real estate ensemble has also been included in the national castle programme, creating the theoretical possibility for the monument to receive up to HUF 3 billion of EU funds as a world heritage site through the tourism application of the Economic Development Innovation Operational Programme. My colleagues are working on this application, and it will be ready, and we will submit it in the near future. Hopefully, by receiving serious support, this monument complex, which is of major importance for Hungarian culture, will be able to get another great boost. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, Let me conclude by saying that this fantastic life course, this fantastic oeuvre that started 225 years ago, and then ended in 1860 in Dobling in mourning, so that this year we would like to give the young people a good memory of Széchenyi's personality and attitude as an example, and, in the midst of today's political battles, stopping for a moment, the attention of the members of the political community to the fact that in our common history there are persons whose work can serve as a guiding example for all of us. Ladies and gentlemen, Since I will have to leave because of another task of public interest, my fellow Member, Mátyás Firtl, will respond to the arguments and points raised in the debate, and he will be the one who will say the closing word at the end of the debate. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-03-16-258	I now give the floor to Secretary Peter Hoppál on behalf of the government.
u2016-03-16-259	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, The government supports the parliamentary proposal for a resolution on the commemoration of the 225th anniversary of the birth of Count István Széchenyi, and a motion of its own representatives. Mr L. Simon László, my fellow Member and his fellow Member, has arguments that, I think, are guiding the political forces in both the horseshoes of Parliament and putting us all in the same community. It is clear that István Széchenyi and his legacy of his age have contributed to the fact that the framework, conditions and circumstances of today's Hungary, which we can call civil Hungary, are at our disposal. Today's active generation owes eternal gratitude to the period of reform, the legacy of 48-49, if they have built the framework and opportunities of Hungarian science, Hungarian culture, Hungarian politics and civil society, as well as the economy for the late posterity. In this sense, we believe that it is appropriate and worthy that Count István Széchenyi's round anniversary, the 225th anniversary, will be included in the resolution by the Parliament in such a symbolic act. And, of course, we consider it important, as my fellow Member L. Simon László mentioned in detail, that the government should also take care of the Memorial Year, because the aim is to promote the intellectual heritage of István Széchenyi and his age. We would like the renovation of these objects, the organisation of exhibitions and the organization of programs to help the young generation today and the active older generation to rethink what has been done, what we have received as a spiritual legacy from Count István Széchenyi's legacy, which are the objects and which are the values from which we can still gain direction and strength today. That is why I am pleased that the Members of Parliament who are before us today have been able to prevent a separate motion by the government decision on the Széchenyi cult and the renovation of the Nagycenk Széchenyi memorial site in December, which takes some measures and allocates state resources to this. It is natural, however, that this should not only be the responsibility of the government, and not only in the context of a parliamentary resolution, it must be a question supported by all political forces, but we would like the broadest possible layers of society to be involved in the processing of its 48 heritage and Széchenyi István's legacy. That is why we consider it particularly important that this year, which is not an official commemorative year, but the 225th anniversary is a round date, its events become open to the wider public as well as to contribute to the reliving of the heritage by renovating some of the objects mentioned by my fellow Member as rapporteur. [[19.30]] As a symbolic chance, the motion is being discussed today by the Parliament. After all, we can remember that at the end of 2014 the National Assembly decided that today, the 16th of March, is the day of the Hungarian flag and coat of arms in our national calendar. We can say that the Parliament is still in a kind of debt repayment, even a quarter of a century after the change of regime. After all, in Western societies, countries where the country's coats of arms were not ravaged by a 45-year-old communist dictatorship, and where symbols have value, and where the existence of national identity has not been trampled, where they have not replaced with communist coats of arms, these nations naturally celebrate and organise a huge celebration for the day of the national flag and coat of arms. It is worth examining the traditions of Western societies in this respect. We can therefore experience very exciting traditions and celebrations in the region of Western Europe and Scandinavia as well as overseas. It is appropriate and worthy that the Hungarian Parliament paid this debt just 14-15 months ago. 25 years after the change of regime, Hungarian society was strong enough to send delegates to the Hungarian Parliament on such a matter, who considered this debt repayment important. So this is how today, the day of the Hungarian flag and coat of arms, the legacy of our 48th anniversary and of our reform, comes together with the proper care of the legacy of István Széchenyi. I am pleased that with this symbolic act, the Hungarian Parliament can also contribute to the fact that the knowledge and maintenance of the greatest Hungarian unparalleled oeuvre and intellectual legacy will be a reality for the entire Hungarian society. Thank you for the worthy work of the authors, and I trust that you will receive broad support for the presentation. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-03-16-260	Ladies and gentlemen, Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. I give the floor to Attila Petneházy, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2016-03-16-261	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear fellow Members, Dear House, One day after our greatest national celebration, and indeed, as the Secretary of State said, on the day of our symbols, marked by the coat of arms and the day of the Hungarian flag, I think the most honourable moment is to say the name of Count István Széchenyi among these walls, in contrast to this painting. I think we really are living at a time when we are short of role models, and perhaps that is the word that has become a bit embarrassing. That is why it is of great importance that on such issues, we ourselves, the representatives of the Hungarian Parliament, give a parliamentary level and raise the main course to parliamentary level. What else do you have to say for a lot of things that you said, Secretary of State? I think it is very important for us politicians as well what Széchenyi himself says; Széchenyi's life, Széchenyi's responsibility, Széchenyi's responsibility as a politician, Széchenyi's responsibility as a human being. At the meeting of the Committee on National Inclusion, where my fellow Member Mátyás Firtl was already present, we had the pleasure of discussing this proposal for a resolution, of course, I say once again underlined, of course, and I am pleased to say this, all members, pro-government and opposition, have adopted this resolution. So I think that we here in Parliament can really make us worthy of this great moment, which has already been praised in many ways by the speakers before me. In any case, as a member of Parliament, it is a reason for my pride to speak before you here in this House on this subject. Not multiplying the word, and trusting that national cohesion is really important for all of us, both outside and within the borders, and we all want to contribute to the growing importance of the experience of national cohesion in our country and within and outside the borders, I hope you all agree. Each individual can decide for himself what he can do in his own constituency, I can do in Nyíregyháza and as a member of the National Assembly Committee across the border. I wish you all a glorious, elevated work for this memorial year. Thank you for the floor. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-03-16-262	I now give the floor to Matthias Firtl, the lead speaker of the KDNP Group.
u2016-03-16-263	Mr President, Dear House, In the front, allow me a personal thought. I came from the Széchenyi land, and I live there, so I consider it particularly important to remember the count's 225th anniversary of István Széchenyi's birth and to talk about it in connection with the parliamentary resolution. I come from where every day we perceive the strength and the lasting present results of the Széchenyi's past presence and activity, in Nagycenken, Fertőszéplak, Sopronhorpács, Fertőbod, Sopron, where we can all see the castles, churches, chapel, lindenwood, cemetery, horseyard, wine cellar, church of grace, where his parents swore and many other facilities, railway, and more personal items in the memorial museum, the last worn clothing and final resting place in the family tomb. That is why we live every day the inheritance we are responsible for. We are responsible in a number of ways. On the one hand, this sense of responsibility is more than respect for the Széchenyi, because it requires action in all of this, which means the preservation, development and public domain of Széchenyi's tangible and intellectual heritage. On the other hand, this responsibility also obliges us to act to work on the completion and strengthening of civil Hungary with the spirit and determination that István Széchenyi set an example in public life as a politician, a statesman and a private person living in faith. First of all, I would like to thank the Government of Hungary, Prime Minister Viktor Orbán personally, for the fact that the Orbán government, for the first time in the period after the regime change, considers it important for the Széchenyi heritage to be restored and developed in a manner worthy of the spirit that led to the 19th anniversary of the 19th century. In the 18th century, civil Hungary was born. Yes, we who live in Széchenyi's inheritance are, therefore, in a special way, heirs of the Széchenyi, in a spiritual sense. Therefore, this spirituality is manifested in the attitude of the people of Sopron County in the vicinity of Fertő, Cenk, to public life, which can be derived from the Széchenyi's love of home and nation. Yes, we Sopron County are proud of the greatest Hungarian. As József Östör, representative of the National Assembly of Sopron County, who was also known as Széchenyi-researcher, wrote in the 20s of the last century: "The divine providence divided our grandmothers in different parts of Hungary. Upper Hungary has Ference Rákóczi and Lajosa Kossuth, Gábor Bethlen and Mihalya Teleki of Transylvania, Ference Deák, István Tisza of the county of Zala, to stay only with the statesmen, so we have the thousand-year Hungarians of the county of Sopron, Count István Széchenyi. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. [[19.40]] We can say that István Széchenyi belongs to the whole country, but we of Sopron County are making a strange contribution to it. If we were living in Christendom's heroic age, I think he would have chosen Sopron as his patron. And vice versa, the Széchenyi István, who spent the decisive years of his life in Cenken and Sopron, put his life in the service of the Hungarian country and the nation. As the leader of the reform era, one of the greatest political figures ever lived. The main gentleman who identified himself with his nation wanted to reform the entire Hungarians based on the ideas he had created. It also developed a unique concept for creating civil relations in Europe, to which the whole community could become the winner. As he put it, one can only be a winner if the village is a winner. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Ladies and gentlemen, Count István Széchenyi is celebrating the 225th anniversary of his birth on 21 September 2016. On 2 January 2016, in connection with the Széchenyi heritage, the high priest's Mass opened the series of local events of the Memorial Year in Nagycenk, in the parish church of Szent István. We could start the Széchenyi Jubilee year in Nagycen by having concrete results from the government's focus on the Széchenyi memorial sites in Nagycenk, as I have already mentioned, thanks to the current Orbán government. Within the framework of the developments, the roof structure and the outer, northern facade of the Széchenyi Memorial Museum were renovated, and the Széchenyi Mauzoleum was renovated. It reflects the values of faith that in the Jubilee year the Széchenyi Chapel can be restored to the dignity of the values that established Széchenyi's entire life, career and nation service. Széchenyi's own chapel is the place where the remains of the Earth brought home from Döbling were sustained until he found his final resting place. The 225-year anniversary may once again be the place of prayer, so that we can restore the sacred place in dignity, with the commitment and respect that the Christian values of faith and the greatness of Széchenyi owe to posterity. Ladies and gentlemen, Széchenyi's spiritual legacy, the driving force of his life's work, his lifelong idea of patriotism. Therefore, Széchenyi's oeuvre is timely in 2016. As Gyula Illyés puts it, the spiritual legacy of István Széchenyi is an inheritance that, in the life-changing moments of the nation, has always been a spiritual resource for the community, as a testimony to the fact that his life's work has affected Hungarian public thinking to the extent that the intention to seek a way out can draw guidance from it. The commemoration of the 225th anniversary of the birth of the largest Hungarian is intended to serve as an example of our current work and performance of our duties, and to transfer it to the full as a spiritual resource for future generations as an example of our ability to act. Ladies and gentlemen, The developments that have started on Nagycen since 2014 serve as a place of pilgrimage for the greatest Hungarian intellectual heritage of his life's monuments and facilities. Yesterday we celebrated the anniversary of the 1848 Revolution. Széchenyi served the transformation differently in 1848 compared to Kossuth, but, as history acknowledges, his intentions and actions fed on the same nation consciousness and nation love, and had common points. On our national holiday, we can also consider it a March of the young revolutionary youth of the 48th to be a national pilgrimage place for young people to make our Nagycen and the Széchenyi heritage sites, so that all young people, including foreigners, can reach Széchenyi's resting place at least once in their life and all the places that represent the Széchenyi's presence. CHAPTER XXI The Hungarian nation, who lived through the process of the beginning of the century, needs Széchenyi István's view of life, the spiritual resource as well as its practical guidance. Széchenyi's credibility is proven by his actions, his still lasting works, which stand firm, powerful, useful, valuable; they still work and form. The Chain Bridge and the Tunnel, the Academy of Sciences, live and work, horse breeding, horse racing, social associations, the regulation of civil society organisations, Al-Duna and Tisza, steam sailing on the Danube, Lake Balaton, mills and rail transport, savings banks, trade. To date, he has driven Hungary into motion and development with all this dust and mud; he has started industrialization and civil development. Since then, the results of his incredible efforts have brought further results. One can only be a winner if the village is a winner. "You," said he, making the community a winner in every field. This victory gave meaning to the revolution. Although the fight for freedom was defeated, Széchenyi's work brought a new era to Hungary. After the settlement, we Hungarians could do a miracle in fifty years. Industry has soared, agriculture has lived in its prime, the nation has grown stronger in its identity, we have become strong, we have become educated, we have grown. In this sense, this Hungary needs, like Széchenyi, concrete action to ensure that the strong and civilized Hungary is fully developed in our communities and protects the community and the individual. It is our duty to make his immeasurable heritage a public treasure of the village, i.e. the community, by any means and in any way possible. This parliamentary decision and the year of Jubilee started should also be an opportunity for us to get to know his thoughts and activities more thoroughly and more deeply, and for everyone to consciously seek his mission in the spirit of Széchenyi and to carry out his day-to-day duties. . Work, work on the footstone of the national economy!-- writes Széchenyi in the Credit. Explore where modern statesman and model to follow, whose teaching and principles are fully in line with his busy life, his lasting creations - mission consciousness, courage, moral strength to act. His life's work, his active patriotism and his nation's love is a timely and up-to-date example, as he served the interests, benefit and future of the nation as a result of the power of the value-creating spirit. The most sacred of all honest hearts is the home. What simple, understandable and consistent guidance for economic policy, social policy, culture, foreign policy, or even for the treatment of the invasion of the population:. The most sacred of all honest hearts is the home. Széchenyi's true, solid moral life, Széchenyi's creative and value-creating life, is today bound. It forces all of us to act for the good of our country; for the sake of our family, our small communities, our city and our country, for the protection of our faith and our culture. You could say patriotism is a duty. Parliament has a resolution, the significance of which is given by the work of Count István Széchenyi, and much more so by everything that has shaped the Hungarian nation, it has defined centuries in Hungarian public thinking and development. Széchenyi's life will be appreciated in many qualities, but the most important thing is that his life's work is the love of the country. It is a common denominator that is the basis for development, cooperation, future building, calm construction and strengthening the nation. Ladies and gentlemen, And the nation must express its special forces, recognize its mission, fulfill its mission. [[19.50]] All this is not for its strength and prosperity to be self-serving, but for its national existence, its work to serve the individual and the nation's development, prosperity, and the glory of God. In the 225th year of Széchenyi's birth, in the spirit of this idealism, I wish to complete Hungary with Széchenyi's words: the first word, the second word; and just like that, the man, the patriot, stands in the front. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Dear House, I trust, in the knowledge of Széchenyi's oeuvre and its human and political size, that this House will unanimously adopt the Parliamentary resolution proposal at the time of its vote. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-03-16-264	I now give the floor to Zoltán Magyar, the lead speaker of Jobbik's group.
u2016-03-16-265	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Fellow Members! I would also like to begin with a quote: "Let us be great, and indeed not so difficult, but let us be wise at the same time." 'The largest Hungarian, too,' said he. I will not be surprised that the Jobbik Movement for Hungary will be able to support this resolution proposal, as we can also support the government in similar cases. There will also be no debate about the objectives of the proposal for a decision itself or about the achievement of the tasks to be achieved. I am very confident that the reconstruction of the Nagycenk real estate ensemble at an accelerated rate, involving more serious resources, will indeed be launched. Here, we were pleased to hear that EU funds and even 3 billion forints could be considered. This would indeed be very necessary, since there is progress in this regard. No one contested this, but at a far from sufficient pace and in many cases rather slipping, so it was really good news to hear. I think that in relation to István Széchenyi, we can say that from Mosonmagyaróvár to Csíkszereda or even from Dunaszerdahely to Osijek, and we can even call a passerby on the street, and if he is a Hungarian man and we ask him to name the greatest personalities from our history, who have had the greatest positive influence on our nation's history, then he will certainly mention Széchenyi among the first ones. That's okay, that's okay, and that's okay, and that's okay. At the same time, if we ask this passerby to present in some thought what kind of actions Széchenyi has done, what steps he has taken to deserve this merit, then we have something to do, and through education and education, the government has a responsibility to make significant progress in this too. Thus, in the year 225, we will celebrate the 225th year of his birth, and it will be the 21st of September, until we can do this properly, these tasks must begin. We hope that the government will be a partner in this, too. Especially here as a Member of Parliament, I think that we should heed the lessons of Széchenyi's way of life and heritage, and not just in the way the government does. What we can see is that in the hands of some of us today, the main estates are now concentrated in Hungary, which we often criticize from the benches of Jobbik, but the great difference between the estates of that time and the estates of the present Archenemy is that the nobles of that time still performed such great deeds, and often served the country so much with their actions and the work of their entire lives, which we rightly remember to this day, we are proud of. Unfortunately, the owners of today's noble estates are far from the opposite. As I have already said, Jobbik supports any initiative that seeks to create and frame a worthy commemorative year in a way that is not about wasting public money, and that really embodies the goal that was rightly described in this proposal. But we have talked about rail, mill, water regulation, horse racing, civil society organisations or even rowing, sport, in which all Széchenyi was an unavoidable player of his time, and it would be good for you to follow Széchenyi and his work, and not only in words, but not only in a commemorative year. For example, it would be good if the railway had not been decommissioned in recent decades in Hungary if, let us say, the privatisation of rail freight had not occurred in relation to the previous government, and the current one had kept its promises and dealt with this problem. It was sad to read a month ago that one of the last Hungarian milles was closing, and with this, the previously famous Hungarian mill industry was virtually partially repressed. It would be good if we could talk about the fact that, like Széchenyi's age, water regulation will make sense again in Hungary, and we should not be talking here, in Parliament's walls, about the drought in the third week following the roof of the year of the historic flood, because that is what Széchenyi thought when he raised these problems here in Parliament. It would be good to talk about the state of domestic horse breeding, and why only a well-defined government-related circle of friends benefit from this area. Let us not talk about civil society organisations, as there has been a lot of talk about the way the Hungarian government treats civil society organisations and does not carry on the Széchenyi heritage. You could again be criticized for rowing and sport, since virtually all sports are now held by some pro-government politician or someone who is well connected to you. This issue is also not dealt with in accordance with the Széchenyi heritage. But this is all an actual policy, and believe me, we would be the happiest if we could put all of this aside in connection with the debate of such a commemorative year, such a resolution proposal, because then it would mean that the government is really preparing properly, and so would the pro-government representatives for this commemorative year. As I said, Jobbik is very interested in this, and I have called attention to this in this debate, so that we should not only be able to bring up his legacy and his thoughts in such a pathetic debate and make him our own, but also keep him with us during the weekdays, and continue to take into account his thoughts and values in our actions and votes, and then perhaps the problems I have raised will not occur in the future. Under these circumstances, if the current public status is maintained, I think this Széchenyi year will be more worthy of Széchenyi's legacy only in words and communication, but certainly not in terms of the state of the country. With these terms and conditions, as I have said, Jobbik supports this resolution proposal. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2016-03-16-266	I'll ask if anyone from the LMP wants to comment. [[For signal:]] Congressman Sallai has the floor.
u2016-03-16-267	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Yes, I would like to, because István Széchenyi's work is far from worthy of honoring it within the walls of Parliament, although it is obviously the reason why this has come up, it can raise a number of questions. It is, of course, an honor to talk about his work, and first of all, I can assure the authors that the May Other is in favour of the adoption of the proposal and that he considers the proposals to be appropriate for the commemorative year. István Széchenyi's work and heritage, and its architectural and cultural heritage revitalized - even at museum level - will be an opportunity. All this is a pleasure, and all this is a pleasure, that you have brought a proposal that is acceptable to the opposition, but, at the same time, about what we have heard about the proposal so far, let me tell you a few thoughts. He praised the work of István Széchenyi in half an hour, which is very, very little to appreciate this oeuvre, and I believe that if all opposition representatives and pro-government representatives would do the same, it would be a short time to respond to all the greatness he has achieved with his work; then the representative of the government for another 15 minutes, then the representative of Fidesz, then the representative of the KDNP, and it is a great pleasure to remain silent. The only question is how István Széchenyi's work fits in with the fact that they can participate in all of this at this rate; however, in Hungary, poverty, the state of the roads, the state of health, education cannot give rise to the feeling that you should speak. There have been a series of articles here today without a representative from the government speaking. There was only one where a KDNP representative spoke on behalf of the committee. There are suggestions of public interest that you will not speak until you think for an hour that you must do this, which I am very, very happy to do, but that you do not do in other matters. [[20.00]] They do not do so in matters that affect people's daily lives and have a direct impact on their daily lives, and it is obviously important to talk about this, because if we are talking about István Széchenyi, we cannot do that without talking about what his work tells us today. My fellow Member, Zoltán Magyar, set the example that if we ask a person on the street, every person will mention the name of István Széchenyi among the first people, and the level of activity he has contributed to the development of Hungarians has fallen into the Hungarian public consciousness. However, if we were to ask the same passersby about the parallel between the work of the Hungarian government and István Széchenyi, I believe that this would give up the lesson, and that requires a fidesz Member of Parliament to find such a parallel. Let's go through a few things just so we can remember them properly. Let's talk horse-breeding. At the moment, a significant proportion of our native species already have larger populations abroad than in Hungary. Please see what Széchenyi did. He went out and bought his own money to improve the Hungarian stock, how he could turn the best English thoroughbreds into Hungarian public breeding, and how he could improve the Hungarian population in public breeding. What does the Hungarian government do? In five years, how many stallions did the FM buy, and how many stallions in the main culture are available to improve the populations of Hungarian breeds? Nothing. Are you bringing anything home to protect this reduced mare population? No. What have you done for the culture of horse sports? Let's look at the support systems: we have developed infrastructure, while Olympic athletes do not have the basic conditions to cope with these. So Széchenyi's work gives us a lot of work to do, what we have to do for these things. István Széchenyi and his work did a great deal not only in horse racing but also in the establishment of the livestock farming company, as besides horse farming, he often pointed out the size of Hungarian livestock farming, since a significant part of our conditions before river water regulations at that time created the opportunity to ensure rural employment in areas with the largest possible grazing stock in the area of extensive livestock farming. In this he played a decisive role in how he dealt with his own serfdom. Please, let's see how you gave your own to the little ones, the fallen, what you did to get to the ground. What do your new aristocrats do now? What does Lawrence the Butcher do and their friends like him? They take the community property to help the little ones, and they get themselves to grow. This difference, this is what István Széchenyi's work shows us, what we should do, what we should do with the billions that Hungarian billionaires have acquired in connection with public procurement. And obviously there is something to be done so that the Hungarian government can take an example of what the Széchenyi István Memorial Year can teach us. It is also obvious that everyone knows that in 1791 in the year of the birth of István Széchenyi, the establishment and establishment of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences began, but at the same time the law that facilitated its creation was born in 1827. Obviously, if we are talking about the Academy of Sciences, we can ask how the Hungarian government is dealing with science at the moment. We need to look at the Fundamental Law, we need to look at the activity, we need to see that - I apologize for coming from my own field - the Minister of Agriculture is proclaiming at European Union level, let us say, the Hungarian acacia is not an existing species. Or what he preaches about the achievements of science, for which - here I don't know how many hundred meters from the Academy of Sciences - all his knowledge is not used by the Hungarian government in order for that knowledge to be built into the everyday work of government. There's science here, and we don't need science to cut science, but we need it to make use of it. We don't want the achievements that age creates for us. You're bringing in a XX. Mid-century technology by developing Paks while the 21st century was developing Paks. The scientific achievements of the century that are ahead of us and available to us are being ignored. What does Széchenyi teach? István Széchenyi looked forward. He went to Europe to learn and bring knowledge here. And my fellow Member, Mr Simon, gives an example of the Hungarian migration issue, by which I mean the people who are migrating from Hungary, because he says how good it is to get out there and learn. Yeah, that's right. István Széchenyi and many of the greats of the Reform Day went out to learn culture, technology and a lot of other things out there. But those who go out of Hungary now, who buy their cane, take their stuff with a bag tied on their backs and move towards Western Europe, they do not go to study art, they do not go to museums to learn culture and bring it home. They're not going there to learn some technology and enrich their home community with it. No! To leave the country. What does Széchenyi teach? It means you have to come home. But are the conditions suitable for this? Does the government create the conditions for communication? Obviously, it would be nice if it were, but it's not. It is very, very interesting to create the National Casino from 1827 because Széchenyi thought that it was very, very important for thinking people to exchange ideas. The level of discussion no longer exists. The current government does not want to know what the opposition thinks. You don't want to know what kind of suggestions we'd have. The series of articles fall into line, they don't want to discuss anything in substance. They do not want us to sit down and talk about the quality of governance, those concerns outside the Parliament or anywhere. They don't want the country's leading economic experts, the representatives of the Academy to deliver everything to you. No, because the kind of superior arrogance that some members of the government think they know everything better and know everything better is what characterizes the current political culture. Would Széchenyi do so these days? Would he behave the same way with Hungarian intellectuals? Would it send a message to the Hungarian teachers, as our fellow Member Kósa, Mr. Group leader, said today, that it is purely political, and that there is no need to deal with education, because everything is okay? What would Széchenyi do today in these situations? Obviously, the creation of the Chain Bridge and the ten-year work, which has been supervised and very, very much worked in it since 1839, is another important question, because I would be very curious to know who would win public procurement now, if it were to be built now, how much buffer costs in public procurement would be, what additional, ancillary, communication costs would be, because it is certain that this would now be a downsizing, like so much. And it is no coincidence that what are our inheritances are the heritage of this age and of the subsequent ages, because then exactly the political culture you are talking about would have prevented them from interfering to such an extent as they are doing now. And since the issue of the regulation of the Tisza has already been raised, another very, very interesting topical policy issue is, let's face it, what Fidesz has done for flood security during its five-year governance or slowly six-year-old governance. He built dams. When? There was a flood. But what will you do for sustainable water management? The Széchenyi wanted not only to protect society and the earth against the flood, but also to create a predictable water supply, and obviously also to gain a field. Today, all of Europe is going in the opposite direction. See what happens to the Po or the Rhine. The corners that were cut then, and Széchenyi brought it to Europe, as it was, that this would be a good direction, and rejected the plans of Paleocapa, an engineer of Po regulation, and instead built plans of Vásárhelyi technocratica, because that's what Europe did... - we're not following Europe. We don't do deadbeat rehabilitation on rivers, we don't do anything, we don't do water management. We don't farm water. The water's coming down and we're gonna take it down. With a view to learning from Europe, what Széchenyi has done, we are not taking this opportunity to the full. This, too, can obviously be taught by the Széchenyi Memorial Year, and when we need to talk about its work, we need to consider how worthy the political elite of today is to refer to its work as an example, because it is necessary to refer to it as an example, but whether it learns from it itself, who mentions it, is an important question. Let me turn to one more question, as you have done a great deal by acting as Minister of Transport to reach the country's rural areas. I've had the opportunity to talk about this in Parliament once today. It is very, very important to mention what is happening these days. Technically, under your governance, very, very many public services have been centralised, district offices have been established; against the closure of small schools, which I would not accidentally like to put into your account, which has begun in the 2002-2010 government, there has been no rehabilitation. As a result, schools, financial services, postal services were introduced into larger cities. Today, in settlements under ten thousand people, there is hardly any public service that is worthy of supplying a community. A multitude of specialist medical benefits have gone into district centres and county seats. But on the other hand, what the Széchenyi initiated was called public transport, and now community transport is not developing with this centralisation, using a common transport word. And not only does this not only improve public transport, but the fact that the vast majority of rural families are condemned to need to maintain a family vehicle because they want to reach public services, but it is already necessary to go to work, because commuting has become part of the everyday life of many people, but we cannot maintain the roads necessary for them. [[20.10]] Between 2011-15 - I asked the Minister for National Development exactly for the data - you have collected 3300 billion from excise duty on fuels and road charges for road maintenance, but not a thousand billion have been used, less than one third have been used to maintain this road infrastructure. What can we learn from Széchenyi? What should we do to get access to the countryside? What must we do to enable rural people to live their lives with the same quality of life as any district in the capital? And when it comes to the fact that, on several occasions, Member L. Simon has specifically said about the creation of moral literacy, it must also contribute to what the government has done for moral education. What is the political culture that the daily functioning of Parliament suggests? What are you suggesting as a congressman by your everyday activities? How do you feel about the worthy activity of István Széchenyi? Is the debate culture, the other hearing, the other belief that he probably means well, do you have it in you? There are a lot of questions that arise when we talk about István Széchenyi, and I do not want to be disrespectful in any way to his work by quoting for a long time the activities with which I believe your government and government are crushing the ideas, the views that this greatest Hungarian has expressed every day. Obviously, despite all of this, I can say that we are pleased with the commemoration year that will be realized in this respect, we are pleased with the development opportunities in the region, and we would be happy to see that everyone is better acquainted with the work of Count István Széchenyi, and therefore we will support the resolution proposal. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-03-16-268	We have reached the end of the speech, and now we have a two-minute speech. In this context, I give the floor to Congressman Attila Petneházy.
u2016-03-16-269	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Our opposition fellow Members, listening to the voice of the evil siren, could not resist the temptation, and therefore they have just pulled this item down to the level of the actual policy. At first, I listened to Zoltán Magyar's suggestions a little bit more, but then Mr Benedek rejected everything, blew away compared to those raised by Zoltán Magyar, because I think - and I'm sorry to call on the jokes, a little anesthetic - because I think my fellow Member Sallai R. Benedek presented the kind of speech where it is actually unnecessary to give the title of an agenda, because he will get from everywhere to smack the government and smack the Fidesz in some way, in fact, to an unworthy level. That's exactly what I was talking about, which he was concerned about, what is the responsibility of the politician, whether, at a moment like this, we can allow this temptation to throw everything at the audience, or we need to stay a little bit higher. I think it's up to everyone to decide for themselves, but I think it's an unworthy level. Thank you for listening.
u2016-03-16-270	There will be two-minute speeches. First, I give the floor to Congressman Sallai R. Benedek.
u2016-03-16-271	I would like to thank Congressman Petneházy with respect for sharing these concerns with Parliament. Obviously, I could share these concerns, but the problem is that if the author is able to compare the Fidesz administration to the work of István Széchenyi, there is no alternative but to respond to it. You shouldn't have done that. Secretary of State Hoppál specifically said that it is a worthy work that has been explained in this regard. Please, it's not like that. If they could have stopped to raise their own work to István Széchenyi, there would have been no word that would have been unworthy and related to their activities. I reacted to nothing but the work of István Széchenyi. I didn't say anything else, and there's a long list of activities that I don't agree with in your administration. I only reacted to the fact that Széchenyi's activities at that time were paralleled with the activities of your government, and I wonder what he would think now. Believe me, my fellow Member, that it is very, very bad to be in this role, because although it is acknowledged that the opposition has an opponent role in the work of István Széchenyi, in the sense that you must be confronted with your own activities and what you have said, I have done nothing but, in accordance with the spirit of István Széchenyi, this confrontation, by remaining on the ground of constructivity, and I have assured you that we support the rapporteur in everything and vote in favour of the submission. I believe that this is what István Széchenyi's message meant to us as an opposition. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-03-16-272	I now give the floor to Congressman Zoltán Magyar in two minutes.
u2016-03-16-273	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I have to respond very briefly to Attila Petneházy. I also believe that we have done nothing else that Széchenyi would not otherwise have done in the walls of this House. Those fine words and communication dishes that have been made here for the last hour on government work have otherwise not been worthy of Széchenyi's legacy and the Széchenyi's work, at all, of the Memorial Year. We opposition representatives obviously had to respond to this. And what's really amazing is that they're trying to compare the government's work to Széchenyi's activities and make them almost equal. If Széchenyi were alive, he would be critical of the Government's work on a number of issues, at least 90 percent in my opinion, and he would have proposals that my opposition colleagues often do here. I certainly do not feel that it is unworthy to mention these criticisms, especially after such a government introduction, would be unworthy of the Memorial Year or even of the resolution proposal. As I said, and with what I started, Jobbik naturally supports, as with all similar initiatives, but step by step, what has been said here in relation to Széchenyi's work, can also be criticised, and as an opposition representative, it is also my duty, because otherwise they face what Széchenyi represented, and to say it, to underline it and to confront it with your leadership, I do not find it unworthy of this debate at all. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of Jobbik and LMP.]]
u2016-03-16-274	We now have Congressman Nándor Gúr, who has applied for two minutes and a normal time frame. I don't know if we can stay in line for the congressman to say it in a normal time frame. [[Nándor Gúr: Two minutes.]] Two minutes, and then there'll be a normal time frame. All right, so it's two minutes.
u2016-03-16-275	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'd split it up because one is a reflection and the other is a connection to the previous circle. The reflection, obviously, when we talk about the commemoration of the 225th anniversary of the birth of Count István Széchenyi, can only be spoken in a positive tone and upbeat, and can be spoken by everyone. But I would like to point out, as two of my fellow Members have said, that the introduction that took place from L. Simon László's side, and then Mr. Secretary of State Hoppál joined him, is not worthy, or rather, I say that it is unworthy of the story. Yeah, I'm gonna need to read the minutes. By relying on the past decades, by reference, many other things, misguided and wrongless, while... - [[Dr. Peter Hoppál: Your address?]] Mr. Secretary. -... while I would like to say that they are making comparisons in relation to Széchenyi's work and their own governance, in respect of which there are direct contradictions, direct contradictions, not overlaps, not identities, but opposites. So, it is not the limit of good taste, it is the opposite of what is being done in this regard, and I think it is right that my fellow Members from the opposition benches do that they are instigated against it, and, if necessary, they support it with a multitude of examples of why this is not correct. I think you should have avoided this, and we should have talked more about what it was worth remembering on the 225th anniversary of Széchenyi's birth. Mr. President, thank you very much. [[20.20]]
u2016-03-16-276	Now, after this two-minute reflection, it is possible to make a 15-minute contribution to my fellow Member, Mr Nándor Gúr, so you have the floor again.
u2016-03-16-277	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'm not gonna talk to you for 15 minutes. I just want to record a few basics. I do not wish to repeat, especially not the sentences of my fellow Members on the opposition side, because there is agreement between us in this respect. There may also be differences in identity between parties, where appropriate, but in terms of the thoughts that have been expressed, I can say with a calm spirit, I can confirm. On the occasion of the 225th anniversary of the birth of Count István Széchenyi, the draft parliamentary resolution that was entered into the walls of the House, on the part of the Hungarian Socialist Party, with a calm spirit, is clearly supported. There is also support for the development and investment ideas that L. Simon László spoke about, so there is no problem with them, as I said in my two-minute sentences; I would not repeat them now. They can be supported, because remembering the greatness of the Reform Day appears behind all of this, in fact the respect and recognition of the work that can be revealed behind the back of István Széchenyi. He obviously created many things - I say, I do not go to the scene of repetitions - for the sake of our nation, from the regulation of the Tisza through the construction of the Chain Bridge, through the implementation of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences, many things are attached to his name, it is no accident that he can bear the title of the largest Hungarian. I had a feeling about this draft parliamentary resolution, which is why it could not be an example of a proposal based on a five-party consensus between Parliament's walls. Why is it always the expropriation that manifests itself on the part of pro-government representatives or on the part of the government in such matters? The story could have been much higher, in my opinion, if, say, this draft Parliamentary resolution had been drawn up with regard to a five-party joint proposal. I am only saying this because I believe and hope that there will still be draft parliamentary resolutions and legislative proposals within the walls of Parliament, on which I definitely consider this to be worthwhile. I would like to say one more sentence or thought, which, in a two-minute frame, leans towards it in some way, and this is what stands between Széchenyi's wearing and the wearing of people close to the government today, or it can be interpreted as the difference between it. We all know Széchenyi sacrificed a lot of his own. Once again, Széchenyi has sacrificed a great deal of his own. Today's government's actors and today's government's actors are taking away a lot of public wealth. These two are incredibly far apart. It's a terrifying distance from each other. Secretary Hoppál is shaking his head, and I'll give you an example of this head swing. [[Dr. Peter Hoppál: See how many places I donate!]] I'll give you an example. I'm not telling you personally, I'm telling you for example. [[Dr. Peter Hoppál: Thank you, I appreciate it. I consider it an apology.]] We are talking about Lőrinc Mészáros - who pockets a dividend of HUF 800 million in a given year, in this year he employs 225 people, and the total cost of HUF 157 million is paid to 225 people. I gave this example only because it was Lőrinc Mészáros who may not have said things literally, but in his content he said that everything that is happening and what is happening is because of the Good God and Viktor Orbán. [[Dr. Peter Hoppál: And capitalism and Ferenc Gyurcsány.]] And if so, it is clear what processes are taking place in terms of proximity to government and access to wealth, and the types of donations associated with the acquisition of these goods. I have just given examples based on concrete figures, and there are concrete traces of this, so I am not speaking to the air. With this example, I just wanted to make it clear and repeat that the comparison between Széchenyi and today's government and the moonyard associated with today's government is such a value that we are, together with what has been confirmed through Széchenyi's actions, a very controversial and very ugly claim against Széchenyi. I would like to ask you not to make such comparisons on the occasion of the 225th anniversary of the birth of István Széchenyi, because from here on out, my fellow Members in the opposition benches will not be surprised to hear the multitude of their thoughts not focused on commemoration, but to reveal exactly the contradictions. But my summary sentence - because I do not want to add any more - is that the Hungarian Socialist Party is talking about the draft parliamentary resolution that has been tabled, and the development projects, if I may say so, which have been spoken about, can support it with a good heart, once again, with the condition that it would have been much higher, the story would have happened if, say, a five-party joint referral had been made about what we talked about here tonight. And my last sentence, with all due respect, is the request I have made, but I am going to make it very clear: I would like to ask you with great respect that if we are to commemorate our greats at any time later, you should, if possible, try not to bring this to life in an expropriated form within the walls of Parliament, but on the basis of a five-party agreement. Thank you very much for your attention, and I hope that I will also gain your understanding. Thank you very much.
u2016-03-16-278	I now give the floor to Congressman Ander Balázs for a two-minute comment.
u2016-03-16-279	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, As I explained at the meeting of the National Assembly Committee, Jobbik can support this resolution proposal, all the more I could argue for personal reasons, because as a history teacher, when I graduated, Széchenyi was never absent from the series. When I was talking about coming from Széchenyi's land, South Somogy, I guess I expressed the feelings of a lot of people living there, local patriot, because if we looked around, it wouldn't be South Somogy without Széchenyi's. They have made a great deal of water and wildlife, a cultural landscape of the area destroyed by the Turks again in that region, so we can support this proposal. However, I felt that my fellow Member Petneházy's indignation was somewhat artificial in that the opposition here has now dragged it down into the swamp of party politics. It can be verified according to protocol: L. Simon László was the first to use this proposal for a resolution for party policy purposes. We feel that while you drink wine, you preach water, and that is not right. For when it comes to Széchenyi, it should be mentioned that he was a member of a family where his father, Ferenc Széchényi, founded a museum, but one of your main people, his emblematic figure, takes pictures from another museum. He founded a casino in Széchenyi, while your other chief man iconically realizes a huge tax profit from casinos and fills his pockets. [[20.30]] In any case, Széchenyi became one of the largest figures of the Hungarian historical pantheon [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] He could be exalted for all that he had done in this country. Lajos Kossuth called him the greatest Hungarian for a reason, and if you only think of his spiritual creations, [[The president's ringing again.]] To the Credit, the World, to the Stadium, John Arany - pardon me, Mr President - could have said that they were pyramids going to heaven. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2016-03-16-280	I am asking my fellow Members if there is anyone else who would like to comment on the point. [[No one's reporting.]] I don't see a candidate. I'll ask the author, Mátyás Firtl, if you'd like to comment. [[For signal:]] You have the floor, Congressman.
u2016-03-16-281	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Thank you all for your contributions. I don't want to argue with Ander Balázs, the history teacher, but indeed, he also said his thoughts in the National Assembly Committee. And what goes backwards for the five-party, I can say that, despite the established government criticism, everyone's opinion was, and I would also ask you to support this proposal unanimously in the vote, of course. I would like to ask you this as a Member of Parliament in the region, and when we may be discussing matters of government here, I would like to say that I have known you for many decades, I have seen what happened there, on Nagycken, or what has not happened. That is why I can say that in the past period, the attempt to commemorate the greatest Hungarian was made by taking care of the Széchenyi Castle in the Eszterháza Centre, and the only thing that started it was that he was the right owner of the Széchenyi Castle and the Széchenyi cult. And what Mr. Simon, State Secretary has said in recent times, and Péter Hoppál, State Secretary, has assured me, as a Member and author of the region, that the intention is indeed here, indeed, we have the intention to open up further opportunities that this is the right source that we can provide or provide from European Union sources, yet it makes it possible to develop the Széchenyi memorial place into a pilgrim's place; and indeed, in the coming time, we will provide the youth with an opportunity to give the greatest Hungarian the opportunity in the most dignified environment. As the renovation of the mausoleum reflects, my fellow Members, because the person who was there could see the state in which he was in. This also reflects the fact that the government and the Members who have spoken here - and you, too, who have spoken - are truly committed to supporting this commemoration of Széchenyi, the largest Hungarian on its 225th anniversary. And the fact that the criticism has been formulated, I know that it is the opposition's job, as it has been said here, to try to express their own thoughts as criticism when there is an opportunity. But what cannot be taken away, my fellow Members, is that what the government is trying to achieve in relation to the Széchenyi heritage is actually doing, it can provide the right support for what no government has done in recent years, just because, yet, I say, I have lived there for decades, I see what happened in those times. That is why, as I said in my speech, in my keynote speech, we can only thank you for the work you have done over the past period, and for what you are doing this year on the one hand, and, on the other hand, as you said from the Secretary of State, it is indeed a way of developing further education and training for young people so that they can get an adequate picture of what it is, what the Széchenyi Heritage is that everyone is talking about. And everyone also talked about what the government should do to compare with the government, but, as Congressman Nándor Gúr put it, another said so, Széchenyi did it out of his own property, first and not the government. He also spoke in the Hungarian National Assembly at the same time and did, as an example, everything that had to be done. But he didn't expect it from the government, but if the government couldn't do it, he did. Ladies and gentlemen, I think that what they have said once again is indeed the task of an opposition representative to express it, but thank you to each faction for your support for the resolution proposal, and I would also ask you to do so in the forthcoming vote, and if, unanimously, the groups can support it, it will actually be worth a five-party grant. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-03-16-282	Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Monday. A general debate on the draft law on the implementation of EU customs law is now taking place until closure. The government referral is T/9601. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I declare that the presentation will be discussed as an EU item on the agenda by the Parliament. First, I give the floor to Mr András Tállai, State Secretary of the Ministry of National Economy, the rapporteur of the item on the agenda.
u2016-03-16-283	Mr President, Dear Parliament, The elements of the customs union, which is the economic basis of the European Union, are regulatory issues which have been given little attention in the national parliament since our membership of the Union due to the implementation of the EU's legislative competence. The bill before you now indirectly focuses our attention on a modernisation process that has lasted almost ten years. As a result, as of 1 May 2016, the full renewal of the procedural legislation which gives one of the most important elements of the customs union will take place with the entry into force of the Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council on the establishment of the Union Customs Code and the related Commission Regulations and the establishment of national supplementary regulations. The most important objective of the new EU customs legislation is Article XXI. Mapping of the digital economy in the 20th century into the customs territory. Regulatory-based IT developments should be developed in the Member States by 2020 with a timetable for a specific work programme. From that date on, communication between farmers and customs authorities and the customs authorities of the Member States and administrative administration shall take place throughout the single internal market, subject to specific requirements. In competition with the world economy, the current rules are replaced by simpler legislation for farmers, which eliminates national differences, in order to increase Europe's competitiveness. However, a transitional period should be provided for this change in order to allow farmers' systems, contractual relations and to ensure their optimal business operation, for which the EU legislation sets a three-year interval. The Hungarian customs service operates with outstanding results in European comparison, it plays an important role in the control of goods at external borders. With the application of our IT systems, export and import clearance is done by nearly 100 percent electronically, and customs control also supports the legality of the application of the law with good results. Dear Parliament, Customs legislation is specific in that a significant part of the regulation is the Union's customs rules applicable with direct effect. In this context, national rules can only be established on the basis of explicit authorisation or in order to designate the provisions of competence and to interpret EU rules in order to facilitate the application of the law. The subjects of the national implementing rules at national level are, on the one hand, the designation of an organisation acting as customs authorities in Hungary, on the basis of which the National Tax and Customs Office will continue to be this body; on the other hand, the placing of customs procedure rules in national law. With regard to the interpretation of EU provisions, national legislation seeks to reflect only the most necessary provisions at the level of law. [[20.40]] These appear mainly as guarantee rules protecting customer interests, or as procedural rules to assist national law enforcement, or lay down criteria and conditions for the uniform implementation of decision-making powers granted to customs under Union law. In addition, we have been specifically authorised by Member States to establish national rules for customs representation and rules for the collection of national sanctions and customs duties within the framework of EU customs legislation. Ladies and gentlemen, As a law establishing a comprehensive new national regulation, please allow me to briefly present the government's intention to regulate the main regulatory aspects of this proposal. The new Customs Code allows Member States to determine, in accordance with Union law, the conditions under which a customs representative may provide services in the Member State in which he is established. The customs representation shall cover, inter alia, the lodging of customs declarations, licence applications and applications for review by a third party in the cases of persons before the customs authorities. This form of representation shall not affect the organisational representation of entities under company law, but shall apply to representatives acting in the interest of the principal in the order of business. A representative system based on a Ministry register, based on professional qualifications requirements and continuous training obligations, will be introduced in the light of the proposal of customs interest representatives and the knowledge of the practices of other Member States and the model for tax advisors. Most of the tariff preferences are subject to so-called authorised status, the acquisition of which is based on strict conditions. The application shall, inter alia, be subject to the condition that no serious or repeated infringement of customs legislation and tax rules can be established for the applicant. To this end, national ceilings for serious or repeated breaches of customs legislation and tax rules should be set at national level. We have the Member States' legislative powers expressed in respect of the customs sanction, and the Union customs law only defines the types of sanctions, such as the imposition of fines or the withdrawal, suspension or modification of the authorisation held by the data subject. The starting point for drawing up sanctions remains the separation of customs infringements and administrative infringements. Of these, in the case of infringements causing a customs deficit, the penalty shall constitute the imposition of a penalty equal to 50 per cent of the duty deficit in the basic case. The imposition of a duty-free fine on non-tariff infringements is based on the seriousness of the infringements, as is the case of infringements assigned to the general envelope or threatened with a fine. The main innovation of the regulation is that it will create a much simpler and greater advantage compared to the current one for farmers who voluntarily identify the infringement and are proactive in restoring the legal status. A warning may be used for the first mistake and shall be exempted from the imposition of fines by self-checking economic operators prior to the start of the inspection of the authority. In the case of cooperation after the initiation of official controls, only 50% of the original fine and 25% of the duty deficit shall be paid. It can therefore be reasonably stated that the Hungarian national customs legislation grants a serious benefit to law-abiding farmers, whether with a zero-percent fine, creating a competitive advantage over farmers who are not actively involved in the recovery of the legal situation. It is worth noting that the scope of the already proven accelerated procedure has been extended and will be generally applicable to any non-Union goods found during on-the-spot checks which have been unlawfully introduced into the customs territory of the Union. The possibility of seizure and confiscation measures for an infringement of excise goods has also been retained. The National Tax and Customs Office will ensure the uniform management of customs and tax accounts from 2016 onwards, but special rules for the entry and settlement of customs amounts should be maintained in order to ensure that the precise analysis of EU own resources revenue and the timeframe for their fulfilment to the Union is established. Central customs clearance is one of the new simplifications of EU customs legislation. The authorised economic operators shall be allowed to carry out administrative formalities with the customs authorities of the Member State in which they are established in the course of their customs operations covering several Member States and to carry out physical and safety checks by the customs authorities of the Member State in which the goods are imported. Given that the Hungarian customs authorities can act in both roles on the ground of our external borders and that the place of taxation will not necessarily be the place of taxation, it is therefore necessary to provide for the submission of a tax declaration, on the one hand, and, on the other hand, the practical arrangements for the sharing of customs revenue from the Member States and the implementation of central customs clearance, when Hungary is involved in the authorisation. The rules of procedure for the designation of free zones are not laid down in Union law at all. At the same time, in the case of this customs administration, the examination of the interests of the national economy is given particular attention, which can be guaranteed through the authorisation procedure at ministerial level. With regard to the rules on the sharing of customs secrets, the proposal extends the obligation to retain all the secrets protected by law. This also applies to tax secrets, taking into account the fact that the National Tax and Customs Office designated as customs authorities also acts as tax authorities and, on the basis of the integration of the bodies, each territorial body is familiar with both protected secrets and is thus obliged to retain them. In addition to the above, in a narrower sense, it is necessary to amend other laws in the context of the new customs legislation, the scope of which is summarised in a separate chapter of the bill before you. In addition to the exchange of references to the former national customs law, it is also necessary to amend other laws because of the introduction of new sources of EU law. Dear Parliament, This proposal is based on extensive consultation, in consultation with representatives of the customs authorities of several Member States, taking into account the opinion of the professional representatives of the farmers involved in customs activities and keeping the best practices of the Hungarian customs authorities so far. It offers complex rules on matters that can be carried out under national competence, in particular through a system of sanctions to promote competitiveness and encourage voluntary enforcement, and by requiring the professional reputation of the actors involved in the procedures before the customs authorities. Ladies and gentlemen, Thank you very much for your attention. Please support the bill. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2016-03-16-284	Ladies and gentlemen, Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. I give the floor to Roland Mengyi, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2016-03-16-285	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, The aim of this proposal is to establish national legislation at Member State level for the new EU Customs Code applicable from 1 May 2016 and for the delegated and implementing regulations drawn up by the European Commission. A significant part of the regulation is the Union's customs legislation, for which national rules can only be established on the basis of specific authorisation or in order to designate the provisions of competence and to interpret Union rules in order to facilitate the application of the law. [[20.50]] The most important objective of the new EU customs legislation is Article XXI. The application of the digital economy in the 20th century to the customs territory of the Union in relation to the mandatory and all relevant customs activities of electronic systems, which have been standardised at Union level. The Customs Code states that it is a fundamental competence of the Member States to designate an organisation acting as customs authorities for which the National Tax and Customs Office will continue to act as customs authorities in Hungary. The Code sets out national rules for customs representation in Hungary, the system of penalties and rules on the collection of customs duties. With regard to the interpretation of EU provisions, national legislation seeks to reflect only the most necessary provisions at the level of law. These are very important guarantee rules for the protection of customers, as well as information on customs secrecy or the exercise of the right to be heard. Rules of procedure such as handling of applications for a decision by the customs authorities, time limits for customs checks or deadlines for redress procedures are also specified. The proposal also establishes the discretion of the customs authorities. On this basis, the Authority shall also lay down the conditions for serious or repeated breaches of customs and tax legislation, as well as the conditions for granting payment facilitations and non-guarantees. The main regulatory aspects of the proposal are the following. The new customs code of the Union gives Member States the opportunity to determine the conditions under which the customs representative may provide services in the Member State in which he is established. Most of the tariff preferences are linked to the so-called authorised status of an economic operator, the acquisition of which is based on strict conditions. EU legislation already provides for professional qualifications requirements. Customs sanctions have specific legislative powers in the Member States, and Union customs law only determines the types of sanctions. The fact that regulation creates a much simpler and greater advantage for farmers who voluntarily identify the infringement compared to the current one can be a great relief. As with the tax procedure, there is also a qualified case for a customs fine. The scope of the already proven accelerated procedure is also extended. The possibility of seizure and confiscation measures applicable to infringements detected during on-the-spot checks will also be generally applicable. In order to establish an accurate analysis of the Union's own source of customs revenue and to ensure the timeframes for its implementation to the Union, the National Tax and Customs Office will ensure a uniform management of customs and tax accounts from 2016. Central customs clearance is one of the new simplifications of Union customs legislation, which allows authorised farmers to carry out administrative duties with the customs authorities of their home Member State in their customs operations covering several Member States. The proposal extends the obligation to retain the rules on the sharing of customs secrets to all secrets protected by law. Amendment of other laws other than customs legislation in the context of the new customs legislation, which is set out in a separate chapter in the proposal. Dear House, The new EU customs legislation will simplify trade procedures, allow more efficient customs controls, reduce costs and administrative burdens for businesses. In addition, the legislation encourages enforcement and imposes proportionate penalties on infringements, taking from tax sanctions a higher penalty rate for bad faith behaviour. In view of all this, I ask that you support the proposal. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-03-16-286	I give the floor to Nándor Gúr, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group.
u2016-03-16-287	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Within the European Union, there are four fundamental rights, or, if not so put, one of the four is the free movement of goods in terms of the principle of freedom. In addition, there is free movement of capital, services, the free movement of individuals or the labour force, but we are talking about the fourth item, the free movement of goods and the issue of customs law in the EU. With regard to the free movement of goods, as I see it, within the framework of this draft law, it is a renewable customs code that spells out and harmonises everything that needs to be harmonised. If my memoirs do not deceive me, then by relying on a regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council, with reference, and, as Mr Secretary of State has said, all of this will be brought to life as a result of a 10-year series of negotiations. This is brought to life, taking into account the necessary domestic peculiarities, and in parallel, bringing them into a uniform legal framework. With regard to entry into force: as has been said, the entry into force of this year will take place on 1 May, at least in respect of the essential parts, and the implementation of the other sections will take place by 1 May 2019 at the latest. Here I have some doubts as to why there is such a long exit time, yet another three years, concerning the entry into force of each part. And it is also questionable that if my memories do not deceive me, its full IT support will be given in 2020. Well, that's a long way to go, I understand, Mr. Secretary, but if you don't, you'll correct or clarify what you have to say. In terms of objectives, the first thing to do is to increase the security of international trade, which, in my view, is perfectly fine, as in other tax thinking, a positive discrimination, a positive discrimination, has already been shown to the most reliable in the past. Electronic relations are applied in customs procedures, which, in my view, is certainly useful, and Member States will be provided with a common risk analysis system. These are the main objectives and I think they are eligible. As regards the Customs Code, we have felt that it is clear that customs procedures will be simplified on a single issue of authorisation, re-regulation, re-alignment, and that the extension of the application of paper-free e-duty can be considered positive, whether for decisions or for payment of the customs duty itself. In this sense, these are positive displacements. The fact that the possibility of self-checking is also positive in customs procedures is because errors that may have been made can be corrected. Exemption of safeguards for movements on Danube waterways, for the transport of goods or for the new customs procedure rules in free circulation form part of the new customs code for exports or special procedures. But what is most important, I think, is that the establishment of a new control system will ultimately bring about what my fellow Member Mengyi said in his last sentences, thus strengthening the security in terms of traceability and much more. [[21.00]] It also helps to establish a mandatory information system and to tighten the conditions for customs representation. These, in my opinion, are all forward-looking. I do not want to overwhelm the story, so perhaps I could put it in a sentence that is adapted to the free movement of goods, which is obviously about the fact that for reasons of safety, public health or environmental protection, or other definite reasons, the kind of consideration that exists for Member States is based on what existed earlier, that they have the right to make virtually no admission of a product to the relevant markets, or that they may actually impose a tax on it. All of these, I think, are well placed and manageable within the framework of the new Customs Code. [[Dr. István Hiller, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]] All in all, it is, in effect, what is formulated within the framework of the renewable customs code, as a result of the already mentioned ten-year, long-term tap-and-step series, the 952, if I recall correctly, according to a regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council, in this way, the Hungarian Socialist Party can be supported in accordance with the draft law. Thank you very much for your attention. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2016-03-16-288	Welcome, good evening. We'll get back to work. As a spokesperson, Mr Tibor Bana has the floor. The representative of Jobbik is next. Here you go.
u2016-03-16-289	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to start with the background to the bill before us. The change in experience of international trade and the global environment over the last decades, such as major technological developments, has made it increasingly necessary to create a completely new Community legislative environment. The EU Customs Code, which was published on 10 October 2013, replaces more than 20 years of legislation. However, the introduction of the new Customs Code is a IT challenge for the National Tax and Customs Office, and therefore the date of 1 May 2016 does not indicate the final date for full implementation, as the current tools for exchanging information and storing data other than electronic data processing techniques will remain applicable until a transitional date, no later than 31 December 2020, if the electronic systems necessary for the application of the provisions of the EU Customs Code are not yet operational. Soon, farmers carrying out export and import duties will have to expect changes to the extent that have not occurred in decades. The new Customs Code contains a number of simplifications and also eliminates or renames certain customs procedures. Serious changes will affect farmers who already hold an AEO certificate for authorised economic operators and those who intend to acquire this status only in the future. The most important of these changes is that, as a new condition for obtaining and maintaining the status of authorised economic operator, farmers must demonstrate that the tax rules have not been seriously or repeatedly infringed, ensure strict control of their trade in goods and demonstrate that employees have sufficient expertise or professional qualifications. This is definitely a good step towards reducing the black and grey economy. Dear Parliament, Although the conditionality is tightening, there are certain advantages for those who require this certificate. Among other things, they are the only ones who have the opportunity to apply central customs clearance, customs simplification and benefits in relation to the provision of guarantees. It is important to point out that the AEO certificates already obtained do not lose their validity, but that the customs authorities will review their compliance with the newly established requirements. The Hungarian proposal that has finally been included in the Code has yet to be highlighted. According to this, the new customs code eliminates the discrimination of Danube shipping. So far, only the Rhine waterways could have been used by carriers without having to put down a customs security, and in the future the exemption will apply to the Danube. This is certainly a welcome and positive result. The new legislation is expected to increase the economic growth and competitiveness of the continent within the EU. However, in order for Hungary to remain in this competition, it is necessary to have the legal and economic conditions at home. In Hungary, there is an extremely high proportion of the black economy in the market for certain products, such as dairy products, vegetables or fruit, bakery goods and sugar. As long as the VAT on these products is largely different from that of the neighbouring countries, the amended Customs Code will not increase our competitiveness in these areas. It is outrageous that just a week ago, the majority of the Economic Commission for Government swept down Jobbik's amendments in this direction without a substantive debate. My fellow political groups have submitted these proposals in more detail and, unfortunately, in the committee responsible, as I have referred to them, they have been rejected without a substantive debate, although the reduction in VAT and the steps in this direction would certainly be important. We are a leader, unfortunately in a bad way, with the world's highest VAT rate. The Hungarian-European Business Council was our guest today at the meeting of the Committee on European Affairs. Each year, members of this organisation prepare their report, and they have visited our committee and reported on this particular report, which contains a great deal of useful information, and they have made important proposals, which I would definitely recommend to the government for consideration. Indeed, the ideas that were formulated were largely agreed upon. I also said that, of course, there are differences in our basic jobs, because I am much more skeptical about the functioning of the European Union, regardless of which I share, and this is linked to the proposal before us, that if we look at all of this in greater perspective, that there is a need for a country strategy. After all, in recent years we have seen that without transparency and without a meaningful action plan, the processes took place, and instead ad hoc legislation was characteristic here in the Parliament. Otherwise, they would need predictable economic environment and planning not only for large companies but also for Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprises, of course. That's what we better men would consider to be of great importance. So this is the direction we need to move in. And when such proposals come before us, which, of course, we can support for ourselves, it is also worth talking about the fact that it would be important, in the seven-year EU planning cycle ahead of us, that these grants not only reach a narrow circle, as Professor Attila Chikán pointed out, that this would not in any way lead to a positive outcome for the Hungarian economy. The important thing, on the other hand, is that, in the future, I ask the Secretary of State to see that, after proper preparation and consultation, we will have the legislative proposals that will actually be able to turn the Hungarian economy upside down in the context of such proposals implemented under international law. Of course, it would also be important to say that the area of health, the area of education or the issue of research and development should be given more emphasis when drawing up the budget. We will therefore be working on an alternative budget proposal, but, of course, we will also be presenting amendments over time. So I would not only like to say the concerns that we have expressed here, and I would like to ask the representative of the government not only to consider them, but also the thoughts expressed by the HEBC, the Hungarian-European Business Council. Because I think that if these were to be taken into account and incorporated into their work, it would indeed be fair to say that the Hungarian economy could finally enter a growing path, and that would also be to the satisfaction of the Hungarians. That is all I wanted to say, and as I referred to it, the bill itself can, of course, be supported by our group. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-03-16-290	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. There's no independent congressman in the room. I will ask if anyone else wishes to take the opportunity to speak. [[There's no candidate.]] I'm gonna say no. As no one has made any further comments, the general debate is closed. I'll ask the Secretary of State if he wants to react. [[For signal:]] Mr. Tallai Secretary of State. Here you go. [[21.10]]
u2016-03-16-291	Mr President, Dear Parliament, I would like to thank the speakers of the one pro-government and two opposition groups for their support and opinions. Actually, it wasn't critical of the bill. There were critical words, but I don't think that was for the bill. All I can tell you about the bill is that the employees of the National Tax and Customs Office, their customs and finance officers are prepared, of course, from the new Customs Act, they are aware of the task ahead of them. Three thousand people in the National Tax and Customs Office work in a position to perform customs duties in part or in full-time jobs. I think that there is a very great lesson to be learned from other aspects of this bill, since it gives guidance in some respects to the drafting and drafting of a law on taxation. The first is that, as in the customs territory, the tax area should aim at introducing the entire IT system, in my opinion. It is very important that the new Customs Act introduces very humane rules against those who make a mistake, because for the first time there is no penalty, it provides for self-control, it can also be an important guide to the new law, or it itself is the introduction of a customs-approved representative system, perhaps this should also be considered in the area of taxation. I agree with the speakers who say that the adoption of this law strengthens the Hungarian economy and makes it transparent. I trust that the Parliament will be able to accept it shortly, and that, as required by the European Union, the bill will be able to come into force as of 1 May. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2016-03-16-292	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that the amendment proposals can be submitted by 16:00 on Monday. Dear Parliament, The 2011 CXCV on public finances follows. General discussion of the bill amending the law until closure. The government referral is T/9372. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I would like to inform you that during the trial of the bill, the government is represented by the Minister of National Economy. First, I give the floor to Mr András Tállai, State Secretary of the Ministry of National Economy, the rapporteur of the item on the agenda. Here you go.
u2016-03-16-293	Mr President, Dear Parliament, The proposal to amend the Public Finance Act aims to provide an opportunity to perform public tasks faster and more efficiently than currently. The use of savings in appropriations can thus be made easier and more effective where specific expenditure is actually needed to carry out government tasks. This objective is to be achieved by the fact that, if the government decides to carry out a public task, it is possible to take a decision even if, at the moment of the government's decision, there is not enough resources available at the given allocation, or there may not yet be an appropriation for the implementation of the new public task. On the basis of the Government's decision, the Minister for Public Finance shall arrange for the redeployment of appropriations related to the commitment to other resources within the government's budget heading. In this context, it is necessary to emphasise the following. Neither the Government nor the Minister for Public Finance, which provides the resources necessary for the performance of his duties, can decide on a matter or take any measure which would affect the Parliament's right to set up budgets and other relevant powers of the Board of Budgets. The new regulation is currently being implemented within the framework of chapter and title additions to the government, as well as amending and redeploying appropriations, so there is no new regulation in this sense. The provision of resources can only be done through the use of existing savings and through their redeployment and, therefore, by means of measures to increase the deficit, the public service mission cannot be ensured. This ensures that the cost of the public service mission undertaken does not result in a commitment that may or may not have the necessary resources. According to the new rules, the commitment will not remain hidden in the public finance register system, the commitment should be recorded under the relevant rules and, if the new public service mission is to be implemented as a source of new appropriations, it should be established by the government in accordance with the Public Finance Act by supplementing the budget heading. At the same time, the regulation does not exclude the possibility that it is immediately possible to provide the public service resources at the time of the government decision. The government should decide on its own transfer of public service appropriations under the general rules. Dear Parliament, We are convinced that the bill serves the intention to implement and implement an effective fiscal policy within the framework of the rule of law, without prejudice to Parliament's budgetary rights, without compromising the annual deficit target. I ask the Parliament to support the bill. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-03-16-294	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. I would like to give the floor first to Mr Lajos Szűcs, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group. Here.
u2016-03-16-295	Your Honour, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, We're talking about a bill that could create a strange situation here in this House that we're not used to. In practice, this proposal is about a situation where the Minister for Public Finance and the Government felt that, fortunately, they had more revenue for the state budget than they had done in the planning of the budget, unlike in the previous period, where we had to work with ongoing deficits and have had to absolve and absolve, this is a joyful thing. This amendment is small, but I think it is very important, and it has come to the legislative table with three amendments to the Public Finance Act in it. The motion submitted on behalf of the Government by the Prime Minister's Office proposes that a decision on the performance of a priority public mission may be taken by the Government even if the necessary appropriations can be provided later. In recent years, a number of cases have occurred where the government has had to act quickly and has had to decide that the provision of funds for these public tasks was not possible from a budgetary point of view at the time of the decision. If you look back, for example, the decisions on the migrant crisis were like this last year. The new element of the amendment is that the commitment may take place without the appropriations provided for in the budget and that the resources will have to be provided by the date specified in the Government Decision, but not later than the actual payment. Ladies and gentlemen, As can be read in the detailed explanation, the Government cannot decide on a measure to remove the budgetary rights of Parliament and the associated powers of the Fiscal Council, and the source insurance by the Minister responsible for public finances can only be done by using existing savings or additional revenues, not by measures to increase the deficit. In other words, it is about how the government can use the monthly budget balance. Of course, in the case of the regrouping of appropriations from the reserve for extraordinary government measures, the Minister for Public Finance remains bound to its 40 per cent use limit for the first half of the year. Therefore, on behalf of the Fidesz Group, I would like to ask you to support this legislative amendment proposal. Thank you, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[21.20]]
u2016-03-16-296	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr László Szakács, lead speaker for the group of the MSZP.
u2016-03-16-297	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Dear House, We don't think much about this stuff. At the moment, there is a preparation for regulation governance. You say that one appropriation can be transferred from one budget to another. Are you sure that with the appropriation, the commitment to it, the task to be carried out there, you will always achieve the goal before you take the money from it to spend it on someone else you think is important? They're gonna spend what you think you're gonna do, and they're gonna take it from where you might need it, but you thought we were done with this. Then they don't plan the budget well. Then they don't plan well the budget they're putting in front of us. It is true that, as early as June, I think it should be accepted again, and accordingly, they are free to have these funds. And it also undermines Parliament's right to draw up budgets, and it also undermines the powers of the Fiscal Council, even if you say it a thousand times that you do not. You spend the money first, or at least tell me what you're spending money for, tell me how much you're spending, and someday you're gonna get an estimate like this, for the sake of accounting. Gentlemen, you're confusing closing accounts with budgets. I'm sure he'll be all right numerically. I'm sure there are excellent experts in the ministry. That the principles that we have taken so far about transparency, transparency, the clean administration of public funds, the nature of public money, the nature of public money, I think that you are now beginning to think very, very differently. I am pleased that my fellow Member, Mr Lajos Szűcs, has brought us joyful news that the NGM has faced a surplus in the budget, contrary to what has been done so far. However, this news was so joyful, honourable Members, that it was the Prime Minister's Office who presented this proposal and not the NGM. I do not dispute the law from the Prime Minister's Office, but Mihály Varga, the Minister of NGM, is so pleased that he forgot to write such a proposal, and even asked János Lázár to write such a proposal. If we've been watching the press in this case, we've been watching them, and they've said things that, first of all, at NGM, you could see that they're not necessarily enthusiastic about the idea that someone would figure something out, most of them who are sitting in the government, that this is a very, very important goal that we need to achieve. They'll tell you how much this costs, and they'll have to do it quickly. And the task of the NGM staff, especially its political leaders, is to find this money quickly in a month or two, figure out which appropriations have already been provided; where has the task been done; where should we take the money? This is what it is about: what we should take money from the budget we set and what we will give it for, which we will make up at the time. That's what this proposal is all about. Of course, I saw the reactions when I started talking about regulation governance. But let us remind ourselves: first it started with the Hungarian Development Bank. The members of the majority of the government of the Hungarian Development Bank first broadened their procedural powers, and then they included it under the Prime Minister's Office, as the Hungarian National Bank can now acquire any assets, and it does not need Parliament, not even the majority of Parliament. The only thing that needs to be done is the decree of John Lazarus. He points out something, and the Hungarian Development Bank can get money; it can take credit; it can form a project firm; it can buy some company - for now they want to acquire any economic operator for money. But all it takes is a decree, no amendment of the property law, no introduction of laws on the management of assets, and perhaps even the Minister of the Prime Minister's Office will report on his activities. Now they're pulling the budget out of this. And, ladies and gentlemen, who are not very many here to follow this debate, do you not feel that you are actually taking it out of your hands? The opposition does not usually support the government's aspirations, especially because we disagree with them. But you will now have to support the efforts to get the decision out of your hands so that you can at least express your opinion at a committee meeting or express your opinion here in Parliament. Well, if you do not need this, then it is likely that a regulation will suffice; the signing of Viktor Orbán will be sufficient. In my opinion, this is going to be a rush. We will always have to confront and confront you if you want to withdraw money for a new, fictional or real task created by you from any task you have previously planned, and you want to commit to a commitment, without any appropriations, that, on the one hand, you have not planned it well and, on the other hand, that you have not completed the previous task. I can't believe that there's a reserve on any kind of budget that couldn't be made more beautiful and better in this country. Is it just what you're trying to figure out that this is a matter for the national economy? And what you're trying to understand right now is a series of extraordinary government measures. It was raised last year, we even supported it. We would have preferred it if it hadn't gotten into such a big, bottomless bucket, where it might have been feared that the police or soldiers' wages, which they would have either asked for back or not about availability, wouldn't have become an Olympics, or a water polo hall again, or anything in the world. We want budgetary management to be carried out in a transparent and traceable manner. Now it's not working, they want more space. The framework of extraordinary government measures is not enough, they want the entire budget. Wherever there is a forint, they will put their hands on it, and they will now give themselves the authority to do so. Of course, we do not support this. I also believe that the pro-government representatives should not support the fact that sometimes weeks, sometimes months later, they will find out what your government has spent the money for, and then you will have no choice but to approve what I think, then, not with the name of János Lázár, but with the name of the Minister of National Economy, they will bring us here to vote for you. I believe that sufficient reserves could have been created. In each debate, we discussed whether the reserve was enough or not; whether it was enough for extraordinary government measures; whether the reserve was enough for unexpected events. They've always said you're not the Secretary of State, but the Secretary of State Banai always said that the reserve is enough. Then why do you have to touch the others now? Why do you suddenly need a much bigger bite of this? First, the nature of the public funds of the MNB disappears. The public finances of the budget will soon cease to exist. Other times, they're gonna make laws in one day, like we're gonna do one of these tomorrow. You're welcome to bring him into the walls of this House. Reason, convince each other, not just voting machines, and then change the budget in the normal course of the legislative process. I believe that this can be done, that this kind of leeway cannot be given to a government, this is a system of regulation governance. I ask this House not to support it, we will not. Thank you for your attention.
u2016-03-16-298	Thank you very much. Mr János Harghitai, lead speaker of the KDNP. Here you go. [[21.30]]
u2016-03-16-299	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Undoubtedly, the referral has caused major storms in the press, and economists with knowledge days ago, but who have entered political careers, have spoken in a spirit about this kind of spirit, as Congressman Cook has just done. Of course, it is natural for an opposition representative to say that if we accept this amendment to the Public Finance Act, which really changes the order of the commitment, then the government will introduce the rule of law and, by the way, withdraw the Parliament's budgetary right. Anyone who doesn't know the law, of course, can say that, but those who read it know that there's no such thing as that. Before I begin to make a point, we must state that this government cannot be accused of the fact that since the Orbán government has been on the government, for several times now that it has once let go of the budget, it has once had an irresponsible fiscal policy; but with those who now say that the government of the regulation is coming and that we have taken away the Parliament's budgetary rights, they have always created budgets of which no part has been respected, the government has raised the current lack of public finances into the stars, we have started on the debt path, and the tragic budgetary situation has occurred that the Orbán government has had to remedy. We're out of the scope of the excessive deficit procedure. A single opposition representative cannot say to the Orbán government that he would not always follow a strict fiscal policy. What's written here? That's what the Secretary of State in his expo was about. That the government is asking for greater flexibility when it sees this as justified and therefore intends to amend the rules of the Public Finance Act on commitments. What's the general rule that doesn't change now? The head of a budgetary body may and may continue to commit to the future if he has free appropriations. If it weren't, the whole thing would obviously be untidy, and the debt I was just talking about would happen during the period of the Socialist Government. It has been and will be possible in the future to commit not only to free appropriations to the head of a budgetary body, because sometimes there are constraints. To give examples, and this comes from the appropriate sections of the Public Finance Act, sometimes external forces tell me, head of a budgetary body, to comply with this obligation, enforceable, Commission decision, official decision. In such a case, the head of the budgetary body cannot even consider whether he has free appropriations, since the court obliges him to transfer such an amount here and here, let's say, a fine. What does the government say now? He wants to increase the exceptional procedures and says that the government should also have the opportunity to raise funds to finance public tasks in an exceptional situation within a short period of time even if there is not enough free appropriations in that area, it was planned for a title of the expenditure, but there is not enough free appropriations. In this case, we would now give the government the authority to yes, if it considers this to be justified, to spend on the free allocation, and with transfers, the Minister of National Economy would obviously make the appropriation of extra resources, since the Minister of National Economy is tied to what the Parliament has set out in the budget, the extent of the deficit, is tied to the debt brake. So you can't start an irresponsible budget. There is one more thing that this amendment says, and it is also possible that we do not see something in the planning of the budget. Let's not pretend that budget planning is a scripture, we can anticipate everything, every item of expenditure, never an unexpected situation. So it may be possible to spend on something without an estimate, but it has to be spent because of the need. So far, I think we've had to run those unnecessary circles, that we have to come to the Parliament, that we have to represent a title, and then the government can spend on it. Here we would give the government greater authority to act flexibly in these areas. So is the Parliament's budget law violated? We are well aware that the government has a decisive opportunity to shape the budget. It prepares the budget, presents it to Parliament, the Parliament accepts it, and then checks with a closing act that the government has complied with this budget. This did not have any practical benefits during the period of socialist governance, because they always deviated from it, and the socialist representatives then approved it. There is no such danger, because the Orbán government has now confirmed with ten years' budget that it is pursuing a very strict fiscal policy. But obviously, the right to close accounts remains with Parliament. Between closing accounts and the creation of the law, the government has had the opportunity to make such transfers in its own institutional world, since the government was the leader of the executive power, the majority of the budget law was already in control, there it could make such transfers between chapters. So nothing extraordinary is happening, but we are creating, in my view, an opportunity in a different way of redeployment, which does not jeopardise the fact that the government is withdrawing Parliament's budgetary rights. The Budget Act records the items the government can't touch anyway. It's out of the question that the government wants to do something in this area. For example, the government does not touch the Parliament's budget. The Government does not touch the Constitutional Court's budget. Or if he wants to, the way he's gonna bring it in to the Parliament, the Parliament is gonna make a correction on the budget. So only in the area in which the government has been able to move, will the government continue to move only to give it a more flexible procedure. The other charge, in addition to the allegations of regulation governance, is that the government can do this here hidden from everyone in the background. He can't do it, because this regulation is also about it, and Mr Secretary of State has also said that public finances have an IT system, which includes every commitment made in this system. This will continue to be the case in the future, in Hungarian, it will be traceable. If the government makes such a decision that they want to make use of these possibilities of the Public Finance Act, which we set out for them, that - once again, I say the two that are worthy here - they want to spend on free appropriations, or they want to spend on an area for which they could not initially plan an appropriation, because they did not expect the item of expenditure, I note that in this case the government is the one that creates this appropriation, and they will tell you what to spend on it, they will be recorded in this information system that I have talked about, they will be known to the public from this point of view, only technically the Minister of Public Finance will make the transfers that need to be made in such a case. I think that's what this is about, nothing more. It is certain that there is no question that Parliament's budgetary rights would be compromised by the government and a kind of regulation governance would be created. I think these are allegations that are politically motivated, but these cannot be justified in the light of the text of the law. Thank you for your attention. [[It's a rare round of applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2016-03-16-300	Thank you very much. Congresswoman Loránt Hegedűs, notary of the Parliament, lead speaker of the Jobbik. Here you go.
u2016-03-16-301	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, Honestly, I'm a little disappointed. I very much expected that one of János Lázár and one of the officers of the Prime Minister's Office, one of his State Secretarys, would come here and try to defend this bill, and then he would argue for the professionalism of this bill, and not exactly the ministry whose minister is practically placed in the parentheses of this bill. Because by adopting this bill, Mihály Varga will be practically the last person in Hungary to know what and how much money the various ministries will want to spend, because we know that government resolutions, government decrees that will allow this extra budget or extra spending, whether it will be possible to sign a minister or a minister leading the Prime Minister's Office or the Prime Minister's Office without a government decision. So in Hungarian, the Minister of Finance will be the last person to know what Hungary's money will actually be spent on. [[21.40]] Anyway, you were sent in by the government to try to protect the unprotected. A lot has just been said here in favour of regulation governance, against regulation governance. There was a pro-government representative who was eager to defend how good this regulation is, in fact, or far less dangerous, as we see, because what the government decides will have to be made public. Now, let me briefly refer to the historical history of regulation governance, just to see what the public is worth on this issue. Those rulers, those Habsburg rulers who considered Hungary to be a colony, used this tool at a time in our history, but also in the communist era, a political product of the People's Republic was the legislative decree. All of these had to be made public about what was in it, but only in hindsight, just without anyone being able to make a meaningful decision about it, where appropriate, let's say, a police assembly or anyone actually could have interfered. I think that this is a weapon, such an insufferable political instrument, regulation governance, and we know that, as we have just said here, what other laws of this kind have been introduced by the government, but let us admit that, in relation to other sectoral laws, not only the financial policy, the budget, but, in the context of a number of sectoral laws, the government has already used this instrument, which, by the way, is a government that lies itself as a national and a Christian, which, as a whole, we believe should be rejected. What we are looking at in this amendment to the Public Finance Act is that it actually allows the government to make unlimited commitments, and not only with regard to the spending of extraordinary government reserves, but also with regard to how and beyond. You say that the remnant is what the government can spend one way or another. Let me tell you, in any case, the remains have been freely used by the government. You've been free to decide about the remains so far. Then why don't you tell me why you're amending the Public Finance Act? Just do me a favor, Mr. Secretary. You're gonna have to come up with something special, okay? [[András Tállai: I told you already!]] No, that's not exactly what you were talking about, Mr. Secretary, I was absolutely listening. [[András Tállai: I told you!]] I tried to let myself be convinced, but I couldn't. I will tell you, Mr Secretary, that the arguments you have listed have by no means been sufficient, and I will go on, without cover, this amendment will also provide for unlimited commitment. Overall, I consider this to be small-time, cowardly, and thirdly weak. It's small, because I don't know if you like to remember, Mr. Secretary of State, when a great liar, Ferenc Gyurcsány, said that he had to live with hundreds of tricks in connection with the patching of budget holes. But you don't seem to be able to follow Rodolfo's best political student in Hungary in that sense, and you can't even take on this tool, but you're secretly, cowardly, hiding, trying to sort out these questions in some way. So this bill is a coward, because it dares not take up political debates, dares not take on the public of Parliament, but even from the good advice of the Fiscal Council, rather from its comments. And it is weak because it is because Hungary is not performing better, but Hungary is performing worse. [[András Tállai is on his way to Dr. János Harghitai and they will consult each other.]] I know, Mr Secretary, it's hard for you to listen to this, and you're running away from this House, but I have to say, however hard it is to bear the truth. It is because there is no remnant here, I ask you with respect, but rather that there is a significant shortage of public finances. János Lázár said that the government asked for an additional licence in connection with the spending of certain extra money. We're talking about an extra shortage here. We know that the budgetary institutions, the health institutions, the KLIK are struggling with a terrible debt ratio, every month that it rolls before it - and I am talking first of all about overdue debts - so the government is asking for help in this sense to solve this impossible situation. But in addition, I think that, overall, this is a proposal for an attic sweep. Why is that? Our colleague, Mr Lajos Szűcs, said that the 40% limit will continue to apply to use. To date, the commitment was subject to a 40 per cent limit, which concerns the fact that 40 per cent of the reserve can only be charged with a commitment in the first half of the year. But the word commitment and the word "use" have two completely different themes with absolutely different consequences. In this sense, the commitment can be released and 100 percent of the reserve can be covered in the first month. Yeah, we're not that far away now. So two full months of the year have passed, and the commitment is already very close to that certain 40 percent limit, but again, here the government will free itself in this sense. Here, read it. Here, read it. I'll help you find out which one. Article 2 §, please respectfully, and within that point there is this small amendment, it is hardly noticeable, but anyone who reads it carefully will find the error in it. In this sense, I have to say that, in fact, what is enshrined in the basic law, for example, in Hungarian, Parliament could not adopt a law, a fiscal law that would result in public debt being more than 50 per cent of the current GDP, or, for example, that the principles of the basic law, the budgetary principles, are fixed in such a way that transparency, sustainability and balance must be ensured. The word transparency itself is included in the basic law seven times in total, but in the light of this bill, I must say, it is quite funny. What's the point of having a budget law debate here, why pretend we're trying to present Parliament here to the people, when in fact the budget law here can be overwritten by the government with just one pen stroke? ! Such as transparency, balance, it is safe to say that in the future it will no longer be expected, it will not be, and that is what this bill, which we reject in its entirety, is really about. Thank you so much for listening. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2016-03-16-302	Thank you very much. Congressman Sallai R. Benedek, lead speaker for the LMP, please.
u2016-03-16-303	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, Mr. Secretary, if I may, I'd like to begin with a question as to how you thought that again. How do you bring one of these here? The scandalous amendment of national banking legislation goes through, and then they come here in a week with another one of these. It is absolutely amazing, and obviously my fellow opposition Members here have already mentioned the implementation of the regulation, which my fellow Member from KDNP has denied, but it is actually happening, and we have seen the culture of this in recent months. What else was land privatization, if not this, when practically an NFA law overrides the sale of state property by a decree? What else is going on if this isn't what they're doing? As has been said here in previous speeches, outside the Kádár system, it is worth mentioning the Bach era on 16 March, a typical tool of which was the implementation of such governance, which you are now practically bringing into culture, into Hungarian public life. Please, my fellow Member from Harghita asked if we would read this entire motion. We are reading it, yes, but it seems as if you are reading only the justification, because it is not in a thank-you relationship with the effectiveness and transparency that has been said, and I do not know, because it is what the legislative amendment itself allows. Please, what is happening here is that, by reducing the powers of the Parliament, funds are practically used freely. Not just residual amounts, but the interesting thing is that budget surplus. So if there is a surplus of resources in any sector, then from then on, with the authorisation of this legislation to be amended, the government will place it wherever it wants. He said it was very nice to say that my fellow Member from Harghita was financing a public task. But please, this term of public service funding has become synonymous with theft in the last five to six years. What does that mean? That we're gonna give Antal Rogán's neighbor another hundred million jobs for a poster campaign? What is public service funding, as you understand it? What we can certainly see is that it is not education, not health, not environmental protection, it is not basically road maintenance, but it is worth talking about all of them. [[21.50]] It's strange because with this amendment, they say that if they were to say that the National Assembly would power the government to tear down every house in Budapest, and then put it in the justification that, in fact, it only wants to break down under 6 Orange Street, let's be calm. Who's gonna believe that? You want to take advantage of this! From now on, it is in your interest to plan the budget badly and to submerge the revenue, because with this tool, if you do so, you are free to use resources without any control. And why wouldn't they? Who believes you're planning a credible and fair budget? Because obviously the whole regulation is the basis for this. If they were able to plan the budget accurately and precisely, this would not be the case, and the overall background of this, the motivation of all this, is to exclude the transparency of the budget from the competence of the Parliament, which is basically the continuation of the kind of political culture that is now being performed more and more strongly over the past period. And so, as I have heard from my fellow chef, they really do act as if some of the budget resources that have not been earmarked for revenue or generated as a surplus would lose the nature of public money and you would put it back where you would want it within the allocation, because you obviously know better why this is necessary. We obviously have concerns about this loss of public money, because the trust that you are asking of Parliament is already allowed, but at least it is completely lacking by the opposition, because it has not been given such confidence in its activities so far. It is also very, very interesting, my fellow Member from Harghita has long described the responsible budgetary planning and responsible budget of Fidesz-KDNP governance, but believe me, Member, this is a question of an approach, because I do not think it is a responsible budget where we spend money on completely secondary tasks - and I do not want to give examples that do not say demagogy - while we are underfunded by the most important public services, while there is no basic source of funding for basic conditions for the functioning of society's everyday life, health, public transport, access to work, education and all this. So you can say that this is a responsible budget, governance, and I say that this is irresponsible, because it is practically not suitable for providing the necessary budgetary resources for everyday social operation, and it is therefore very, very difficult to accept that in this part the transfer within the allocation would be useful. Let me give you an example. I have already told Parliament today, but I am very concerned about what is happening with the fact that millions of our countrymen are practically on roads that destroy their vehicles. Now, not only the three and four-digit roads, but also a significant part of the two-digit roads, have such quality problems that they cannot be walked on, and at the same time you can see that you have collected 3300 billion from budget resources from excise duties on fuels and road maintenance charges for the purpose of maintaining them, and less than 1000 billion have been spent on this in five years. Please, this irresponsible budget planning, when we collect the resources needed to carry out the tasks for some purpose, and then we fail to fulfil those resources, we leave the roads in such a way that we cannot walk on it, and we use the money for someone else, and now you want additional authorization to do so, so that you can do so. This is what I think a responsible Parliament should not contribute in any form and should not be supported. The impact of this legislation on political culture is basically the most important, since the process that has been started in the last one or two years, or which has been spectacularly started after 2013, is reinforced by this whole proposal, which I believe the Parliament should not support, and, as has already been said in the debate, the responsibility of pro-government representatives is much greater than that of the government, because the government here, if you like, was against the main representative body, the Parliament, because the government wants to have freedom over resources, wants to put the money where it wants to be effectively and quickly, but that would not be the task of the Parliament. You are completely forgetting that Hungary is still a democratic state, you are elected representatives of your constituency, all of you, because I am unfortunately here as a list representative, but you all, all of you, in principle, represent the voters who live in your residential areas. How does this serve their interests? How is the minimum indicator of representative democracy achieved by giving you, as Members of Parliament, the right to exercise some form of control over government spending? The reduction in the powers that this amendment is making has a clear negative impact both on democracy and on the security of the budget and on public service funding, and therefore, in my view, it cannot be supported responsibly. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2016-03-16-304	Thank you very much, Congressman. We have reached the end of the lead speaker's round, with two-minute speeches. Congressman Nándor Gúr, MSZP, here you go.
u2016-03-16-305	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My fellow Member from Harghita says that this flexibility is necessary to ensure that measures can be taken in a calm manner. Look, the way I see it, people don't have unfounded fears about your type of action. It is not unfounded, since public information or denial of information of general interest, access to it has been made difficult over the past period, and their access has been restricted. In connection with the use of public funds, transparency has almost been abolished, here with its shameful bill forints 260 billion of the National Bank, with the title of the loss of public money, something has been done that no one has done in this country in the last 26 years. I don't know why this legislative proposal, if there's a general reserve, there's an emergency reserve, there's a lot of things that give a government free space. I don't know how you really think there's transparency, there's transparency, if you make the processes opaque, that you've made a commitment to anything with the signature of Lazarus or Orbán, and Varga will make sure that this is available later. You know, back in the day, when I was running a budget agency, not just me, but anyone who did this, it's an uncovered commitment to the Btk. It was in conflict with its category of criminal code. So it doesn't matter whether we're talking about the budget or about a budget body's own budget and the use of money, we're committed to not having the cover before it and not to being represented by the people. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] approve - well! Mr. President, thank you very much.
u2016-03-16-306	Thank you. Congressman Lajos Szűcs, Fidesz, in two minutes.
u2016-03-16-307	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I'd like to read a regulation text called the XIII. The district government shall lay down the rules for the implementation of the 2016 budget. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. The body of representatives shall also authorise the mayor to amend the revenue and expenditure included in the budget of the municipality, to transfer between expenditures, to transfer between priority appropriations for expenditure, to change entitlement, to revenue entered in the titles of central grants, to put the additional revenue in the operational reserve of this item and to account for the reduction of revenue and operating provisions. Within the priority appropriations, the mayor shall be entitled to transfer between headings on the basis of the mandate of the Regulation. What are we talking about? [[Mrs Loránt Hegedűs: About public finances, about this.]] What are we talking about? We're talking about creating this opportunity, which already exists. Anyone who worked in a local government world knows that this is an opportunity. If you want, I'll read to you the 14th. the organisational and operational elements of the district municipality on a similar subject. If they were transparent, there would be a similar commitment opportunity in Salgótarján and Szeged in the municipalities where you are or, for example, in Ozdon. This option is about nothing else but to create this flexibility that Congressman Harghitai has said, and obviously the most important element is that it is transparent, because not only in the current accounts, but it is possible to keep track of these commitments, so I think you are on the wrong track, fellow Members.
u2016-03-16-308	Thank you. Congressman János Harghitai, KDNP. [[22.00]]
u2016-03-16-309	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr Cook has already seen many budgets, and I know his activities as a baranya representative, so when he says that we are moving to regulation governance, I know that he is saying a political slogan, and that is okay with that side. In the case of Congressman Sallai Benedek, I am no longer sure that he is speaking a political slogan, and I can imagine that he is serious when he accuses us of a kind of regulation governance. The government does not have any means of regulation in relation to the budget. Parliament has drawn up a budget law, and there is no regulation against it anyway. The government is making only one individual decision, as it did yesterday when it transferred me where it was able to redeploy yesterday. Once again, we didn't come up with the Spanish wax, the government didn't create the law, because it would be mandatory for everyone, but it would make a specific decision, which is binding only on the controlled one. You had that opportunity yesterday. There's nothing new about this, novum, but you can do it differently, you can do it more flexibly. Then I'm going to make the rules of law, so I'm going to raise the matter to the level of the Constitution. According to Article 37 (1) of the Fundamental Law, the Government implements or ensures the central budget in a legal, practical manner, with the effective management of public funds, in a transparent manner. To transparency, I said that the government could not hide anything when making such a unique decision, because the head of any budgetary body who is committed anywhere in the large-large system of the government, that commitment to the IT system I was talking about is part of it, it records it, it becomes public in this respect. So there's no cover-up. But this Fundamental Law also says that you, government, handle public money effectively and effectively. We need tools to do this. When there's a migrant crisis, or the good shit knows what's coming on us, which we can't prepare for, the government needs tools to do that. That's all this proposal is about, in my opinion.
u2016-03-16-310	Congressman Sallai R. Benedek will be here in two minutes.
u2016-03-16-311	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, First of all, I would like to thank Mr Harghitai for his words with all due respect; indeed, here with the members of the government, it seems to me regularly that they have their hands behind their backs when they speak; I do not really think what I am saying, obviously because, as you know or perhaps you know, I am afraid of what we are authorising. I don't want to give you that kind of authority. Understand my concern, which is a democratic concern - forgive me, forgive me -: I do not trust your government, not at all. And I certainly don't trust financial performance. And the fact that public money is being handled well, and I certainly don't trust it at all, because that's what life has taught me over the years, despite my upbringing, which, by the way, should bring me closer ideologically to this government, but that's not how it works, because we don't have that trust. So please forgive me for this. And to my fellow Member, Mr Lajos Szűcs, I congratulate you on the excellent example, Mr XIII. He said district council. You can also find them, and the Socialist Workers' Party had the same ones, and you can read them, and you can even find something that is unnecessary to argue with the opposition. You'll find such things a lot more, the question is that the XIII. The legal hierarchy in which the district government makes it compulsory for the Hungarian Parliament to act in the same way, because the fact that it would make something transparent is very difficult to believe. I don't remember what a silly American movie is when he spends a huge fortune with two dildos, and he's always put in an envelope that he owes, he owes, he owes, he owes, and he's losing millions of dollars, but now you're trying to give the government permission to put in a box where the money was put, which one day someone could see where it went. Basically, they should understand that they also limit their own rights and the powers of their own representatives, because no ex post approval after an activity has been carried out will no longer make possible a possible wrong and defective use of money, while now there is the possibility of Parliament and we would like to maintain it. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2016-03-16-312	Thank you very much. Congresswoman Loránt Violin's next, Jobbik.
u2016-03-16-313	I would like to reply briefly to my fellow Member from Harghita. Yes, the government decides in an individual decision - shorten it, simplify it, because there are few of us, it is late, so let's not waste time - it is committed to spending practically without funding. He's committed to this in his decision. And then there is the regulation, because if you continue to read the bill that is now in front of us, then it also includes that the government, with the exceptions set out in its decree, must, at the latest by 31 December of the financial year, cover this unfunded commitment with some kind of money. And if you don't, because the government will say in their decree that I'm going to build a stadium on Mugarög in 2020? 'Cause you can do that. And the other: Let me reply to my fellow Member, Szűcs, that what you have just read to us - I welcome you on board - is in the Aht. and in Ávr. practically. They may have added a little more in the district, but that's basically what's in the current law, that's for sure. What's the surprise? Well? Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-03-16-314	We will now return to the normal speeches, and anyone who wishes to speak again in two minutes can do so in the next round. It's not encouraging, it's just a statement. Mr László Szakács is next, as a normal speaker.
u2016-03-16-315	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Not alive, of course, with the time of this House, but I can't leave a thing or two unspoken. One is that, of course, the municipalities make their budget regulations, and they pass all kinds of legality checks. I am sure that after you have appointed every one of your specialists there, on the one hand, you would have been able to put this problem in its place if you had seen it, and on the other hand, I think you could have found examples of this in right-wing authorities. [[Dr. Lajos Szűcs: I wasn't looking there on purpose!]] I believe that's exactly what you were looking for. There is a difference in our perception with my fellow Member from Harghita. I think that we have worked together in Baranya County enough to respect each other's work, and in fact, what we think differently about is that we believe that the word of this government is not Scriptural, because it has proved this to us many times before. To quote right-wing politician - I will not do that much - I can quote László Kövér that we have much more experience than we have left. Let us make a distinction between a budgetary body, say a court, obliging something, and the government's view that it is right, because I believe that the court's binding power, the court's word and the court's judgment and respect for the law are more likely to be believed than the government's view of something right. It's always a debate. It is always a debate about what is at the centre of the priority. I am not going to revive budget debates here late at night, we are debating a lot about what we think is right, what you think is right, and this debate is right here. Instead, there will be someone who will decide for us - called the government - that he will consider it right and then make a presentation later. I am pleased that the government is finally going to make proposals, and it is likely that the amending budget will not be brought in as an individual motion by its representatives, such as, say, the Fundamental Law, and then it will have a social impact assessment, and then it will have an appropriate standard control and proper socialisation. So I am pleased, in itself, with what my fellow Member Harghitai is saying, while we are at it, all these are the things that have destroyed the public confidence, which, I think, should be the government, and to contrast it with the fact that the court, based on respect for the law, conscience and practice, is making some kind of decision - I know that this is an example taken, but I also want to highlight it so that we can show the attitude in some way - I think that we will certainly not be able to find a common denominator in this. My fellow Members, tomorrow we will make a law in one day. I'm sure your faction will vote for you. Whatever we tell you about him, whatever we told you about him at the committee meeting, we're gonna make a lawsuit in one day. There is no easier way to change the budget than that! They bring him in here, at least we know what the money's going to do, and it's your decision to make, and it's your responsibility to decide. I think that's right, but at least the power of the public doesn't push you in hindsight, but on the day they decide, and I think it would be a legitimate expectation in a rule of law that they refer to so much. We will certainly need to confront these speeches with one or two spendings of the government faction, which you thought would not happen at the time. I'm thinking, gentlemen, how will it be? [[22.10]] There will be things they won't be proud of, something they'll be proud of. Let us put one more thing right, and let us not forget this: of course, the government has taken decisions so far. The government has also taken budgetary decisions against extraordinary government measures, against the reserve, but not on any of the appropriations, especially on an appropriation that is not available, not on any of them. Then there will be one, and then we'll see what happens. I believe that the frameworks that we have now were sufficient for the government. There is an appropriate parliamentary majority, there is a very flexible parliamentary function: The week, week B, changes without us following it, nor can it be. [[Dr. Lajos Szűcs: Nothing changes.]] We can hold a committee meeting whenever we want, and we can make laws in one day. I believe that flexibility, speed and simplicity are aspects of cooking, but they are not aspects of budget management. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2016-03-16-316	Thank you very much. You asked for a two-minute speech, Mr Harghitai, KDNP, here.
u2016-03-16-317	Thank you. I promise you this is the last time. To help Congresswoman Hegedűs, not to be confused by the fact that the term "Regulation" in itself is included in a draft law or in her statement of reasons, she should not see any horrors. Undoubtedly, it does appear, but the decree you refer to in this way, or strongly gestrated, is the executive decree of the Public Finance Act, Ávr. That's all the government says. And then, to help you further, because it's a complicated genre: so if you make a commitment, you have to countersign it, you have to voucher it. These rules are not written in the Aht., but in this so-called implementing regulation. Now that the government can commit, on the basis of our mandate, let us say, to free appropriations, the role of the countersigner, who has so far had to examine whether there is a free allocation, is clearly becoming incomprehensible, so it is necessary to enter this regulation. That's what this proposal is about, and it's not about the government throwing away the budget law as it pleases or as someone wants it, starting to govern by decree. Congresswoman! I wanted to convince you of that. I know it's hopeless, because it doesn't listen to me, it doesn't have a particular scene, I'm just saying, don't be disturbed by the words that are written here, because here only the government refers to the executive decree, and it doesn't want individual decisions in its form, in its legal form, against the Parliament to enforce its will. Thank you for your patience. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-03-16-318	Congressman Sallai R. Benedek will be here in two minutes.
u2016-03-16-319	Thank you very much. Not even that, because I would just like to ask Mr Tállai, Secretary of State, to take part in this debate on behalf of the Government, to address our concerns. I don't know why my fellow Member from Harghita is pulling this on himself. It wouldn't hurt the government to defend their position. I think it will be the sentence of the day that you do not disturb the words that are written down. We try not to be disturbed by these words, but we try to interpret them with understanding reading, and they don't suggest anything good. It would be good if the representative of the government who is sitting here, apart from reading what was written to him, might participate in the debate, which is basically about the fact that the Hungarian Parliament's activity is to maintain the appearance of democracy, how it will be possible to achieve it. [[András Tállai: Very good for self-checking.]] Please, Mr Secretary, take part in this debate, and not in a closed manner - when we will no longer be able to respond - tell us the small speeches you have been written. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[András Tállai: It's not a land auction, that's the problem.]]
u2016-03-16-320	Thank you very much. Thank you very much for encouraging each other - not me. I simply ask if anyone wishes to make use of the opportunity to speak. [[Sallai R. Benedict intervenes.]] I'm gonna say no. As no one has applied for further speeches, the debate is closed. I'll ask the Secretary of State. [[For signal:]] It indicates that you want to react. Here you go.
u2016-03-16-321	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, I would really like to answer some of the questions. The first question is why the Prime Minister's Office is bringing it to Parliament. There is a very simple reason for this, after the Prime Minister's Office has put it in place for the government meeting, after all, it will change the power of the government, if you like, to extend this bill, so let the Minister in charge of the Prime Minister's Office present it, and, of course, in Parliament, the Public Finance Act is the responsibility of the Ministry of National Economy, which is why I represent the Ministry. [[Dr. László Kács: Wasn't it the NGM's idea?]] As far as the content of the proposal is concerned, I would like to give an example and make it clear. When the closing of a budget year ends on 31 December and only in the autumn of the following year comes before Parliament, there is a very interesting period between the two times, since the budget year ends without anyone knowing that the budget now, thank God, has had additional revenue in recent years, but in fact, how much additional revenue. Therefore, after the end of the year, the government spends its last year's completion, i.e. its remnant, with any unbelievable government decisions or government decisions. The rules of the current Public Finance Act say that the remnant is spent by the government with a government decision. Indeed, this may hurt you that the current government has realised to speed up the efficient use of money for public tasks, just as Sallai R. Benedek has set up as an example, the government spends a resource, can commit to any body, institution, which is not a remnant yet, but simply a surplus income, or even a saving of an appropriation. So it doesn't become permanent to spend it, it's a savings, a savings during a year, or an entirely obvious surplus income. Don't worry about this government's irresponsible management and that it will cause a shortage. Congressman Harghitai has also said that this government has brought the country out of the excessive deficit procedure, and especially the socialists should not be afraid that this government will spend its resources either here or there, and not transparently, because in this you were the Grand Masters, you could not simply meet the budget deficit. Don't hurt this government! Don't be afraid of the Prime Minister and the Minister of National Economy to spend this country's money irresponsiblely. I think it's also a completely unfounded accusation that the government spends money inconspicuously, because what's the closing accounting law about? This source, all the numbers of this money, all the forints of it will also be included in the closing accounting law, but not on the residual line and as an obligation to the remnant, but already as an income from the budget under obligation. Nothing else happens, as I said, but we do not wait for a remnant from one source, but the government spends it with responsibility - because the Fundamental Law does put the implementation of the budget in the hands of the government and does not put the budget into the hands of the opposition and not the Parliament, but the government - and nothing else happens here but that there is a change to the implementation of the budget in order for the government to have greater power to spend resources more precisely, more accurately, more quickly and more efficiently. I am pleased that my fellow Member from Harghita has put the regulation in order. I would just like to say one sentence: to bring such examples from the dictatorship, when instead of laws, instead of parliamentary meetings, did the rulers in power make decrees instead of democracy? Mixing that up, I think, is a complete political mistake. I am sure that this will make the use of the budget more efficient and that it is in the interests of the country that the government can decide ahead of time on resources that will be in the interests of the country and in the interests of the people. I do hope that the majority of Parliament will vote in favour of this bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]] [[22.20]]
u2016-03-16-322	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that the amendment proposals can be submitted by 16:00 on Monday. Dear Parliament, It follows from the 1996 LXXXI on corporate tax and dividend tax. a general debate on the draft law amending Law No I of 2004 on sport until closure. Presentation by MEPs Erik Bánki and Jenő Manninger, Fidesz, T/9621. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Congressman Erik Bánki, the rapporteur of the item on the agenda. Here you go.
u2016-03-16-323	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and Gentlemen, Since the change in the system, no government has been able to make significant progress in the field of sport finance, as the government of national cooperation, which is now the rule of law, has increased the level of costs for sport more than tenfold since 2010. I think this is no coincidence, because Prime Minister Viktor Orbán himself declared sport as a strategic sector in the election campaign before 2010. The past period, ladies and gentlemen, shows that every forint investment in the field of sport has been useful, because if we look at the number of certified competitors, we can see that it has increased by more than 60 percent since 2010, now as a certified athlete, 360,000 children and adults practice and compete every day almost every week, thus setting an example for their own community, their own family, acquaintances and children who, growing up, choose sports either as a lifestyle or as a hobby. In the field of five visual team sports, which includes football, water polo, basketball, handball and hockey sports, alternative sources within the public finance sub-schemes have been opened up in this area by amending the corporate tax law providing support and adopting the related legislation. The aim was, ladies and gentlemen, even when the law was adopted, to bring businesses closer to the sport support system through the corporate tax relief system, and sooner or later to establish a sports economy in Hungary. I am pleased to say that the examples of the past period show that the corporate tax relief scheme has also given rise to sponsorship support, since today there is much more external support in the sport world than ever in the years preceding 2010. Developments and investments are made year after year that include not only subsidies within the framework of the corporate tax system, but also local municipal resources or subsidies from external companies to finance self-force. So the government's intention was also fulfilled to involve additional resources in funding sport, and here I can talk not only about improvements, but also about operating grants. Not to mention, my fellow Members, that not only the number of sports subsidies has increased in terms of visual team sports, but the government - again in a unique way - has entered into individual agreements with 16 sports professional associations on priority sports, resulting in a much larger number of competitors in this area as well, that re-supply training also works on a much higher level with the involvement of many more children in these areas. The strategic objective of developing a corporate tax relief system is to increase the quality of both school and student sports, to increase sports opportunities in Hungary in general, and to increase the willingness and demand of the population for regular sport activities. Ladies and Gentlemen, You may remember that in 2009 we said from the opposition on several occasions, it is untenable that Hungary was the 27th of the 27 Member States of the European Union in terms of the number of regular physical activity citizens in 2009. Nine percent of Hungarian society regularly played sports, which means that at least 45 minutes a week. The corporate tax relief system has also helped this, since today we can say that more than 16 percent of society is playing sports. Well, there is still room for improvement, because in order to reach the forefront of Europe, we should reach Sweden or Finland, where 40 percent of society regularly sports at least 45 minutes twice a week. But let us not be insatiable, this has also been an outstanding development, and I trust that by 2020, we will be able to cross the 20 percent dream limit in this area, which means that there will be more than double the number of Hungarian citizens in regular exercise, which I think is a very good result. View team sports are also of paramount importance from a social point of view, as they contribute to the development of healthy lifestyle conditions among growing generations and to understanding the values of community life through the eligibility of replacement training tasks. The beneficiaries may use resources from grants to invest in tangible assets and to finance staff costs and training costs in order to carry out their replacement training and competitive tendering tasks. The support system will also increase the social base of recreational sport by promoting the participation of young generations and promoting sporty lifestyles. View team sports are also of major importance from a social point of view, as they contribute to the development of healthy lifestyles and community values among growing generations, for example by means of replacement training tasks and the eligibility of the development of sports facilities. The point here is that not only competitions certified in visual team sports can use the facilities that have been implemented and built through the corporate tax relief system, but the law explicitly states that at least 20% of the operating time must be issued under preferential conditions for which children can be accepted from the territory of other sports and that they are explicitly inspired by the law to do so. Let us talk about the bill before us. Otherwise, the bill contains basically technical amendments. We are talking about a package of proposals, ladies and gentlemen, whose amendments to the corporate tax law have been united in all the five visual team sports associations, so I think that its justification is realistic in itself. That is why I ask you to support the bill before us. The 1996 LXXXI. The amendment of the law also addresses interpretation and other administrative problems in connection with the support of visual team sports. The 2011 CXCVI on national assets. As an exception to the registration of mortgage law, we propose real estate belonging to the tribe property of the local government, thereby facilitating the creation of value-enhancing investments on municipal property by setting it as a guarantee condition: it is only possible to cancel the registration of mortgage rights for the benefit of the State or to waive the registration of mortgage rights if the municipal property concerned belongs to the local government's capital. I think this provides a sufficient guarantee that, after improvements in these properties, their operation and operation can be maintained for at least 15 years. The provision on tax can also be used for visual team sports support 24/A. In the case of post-financed aid, the amendment settles the rules for the transfer by requiring, as a guarantee provision, the use of the aid in the event of the use of a renewal title for the investment in tangible assets for the development of sports property may be made only in a manner proportionate to the gradual implementation of the investment, after the submission and acceptance of the sub-accounts for each stage. In other words, ladies and gentlemen, the aided organisation can obtain tax support and its use only after acceptance of the partial clearance issued for proper use and submitted to the inspection body. The amendment also clarifies the rules on the transfer of costs related to the performance of control tasks, as, for example, in the case of the Hungarian Olympic Committee, only the Ministry of Human Resources as a control body can pay the 1% cost to carry out control tasks. I would also like to say a few words about the amendment of the sports law. In respect of the Sports Act, the Ket will enter into force on 1 January 2016. Therefore, due to the entry into force of the Act on Administrative Procedures, the aid scheme for visual team sports would cause problems in maintaining the continuation of previous procedures. [[22.30]] For this reason, for example, smaller sports organisations, but, in the case of larger investments, sports associations have had the opportunity to suspend so far in the event that they have not been able to attach any certificates in time, or, for example, construction permits for investments have not been in order. This is the Ket. According to its new rules of procedure, it would not be possible from 1 January 2016, so the associations think, and their concern, I think it should be accepted that the Ket. These procedures should be excluded from its rules of procedure in order to enable aid applications for as many sports organisations as possible to be assessed on a material basis and to give them the opportunity to meet the deficiencies in the meantime. Well, ladies and gentlemen, I think that the justification also shows that the proposal contains technical amendments that allow for a better and more efficient system of evaluation and use for associations, foundations and sports associations operating under the auspices of sports associations and sports associations. So I'm asking you to support this amendment. Thank you very much for your attention. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-03-16-324	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The main speakers will now be followed, first by Mr László Varga.
u2016-03-16-325	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President...
u2016-03-16-326	But before I give the floor, I must amend myself, because I forgot to ask the Secretary of State if she would like to speak now. [[For signal:]] As Secretary of State Szabó wishes to speak, I ask for your patience with Congressman Varga. That way, you'll be more excited to see what you're going to say. Madam Secretary, I'm sorry, you're next.
u2016-03-16-327	Thank you for the floor. Mr. Speaker, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen. Tao is one of the most important measures of the government in the field of visual team sports in 2011. It was the introduction of a tax relief of law. This enabled businesses to spend up to 75% of their profits on sports for the five visual team sports. With the support system, intensive sports development has started, and its results are already showing. After all, it has already been said that the number of certified competitors has increased to more than 350 thousand, in the pre-tao period it was 260 thousand, which is a significant increase mainly in replacement age. Furthermore, within the Tao Support system nearly 300 new Hungarian sports properties were built and nearly 500 renewed. Swimming pools, sports halls, stadiums, sports fields and ice halls have been handed over and renovated, which can be used not only by representatives of the five sports teams, but also by participants in almost all sports, who also perceive the positive effects of Tao. Compared to recent years, the number of sports organisations has increased by more than 5 percent and there are 30 percent more professionals in the sector. The system is therefore clearly successful and the possibilities of the sports concerned have reached unprecedented levels. The development of sports has also generated social and economic positive changes, as well as its impact on healthy lifestyles by promoting a rich lifestyle, by daily sporting and creating opportunities for young people. The grants may be granted to all sports organisations, sports schools and re-educational foundations belonging to the sports sectors, the approval of which will be decided by the professional associations of sports. Thus, the Tao system is transparent, well-followed, subject to strict restrictions under control laws and regulations. The current aid scheme runs until 30 June 2017. This has already been examined by the sports secretary of state and has already started to consult and evaluate the system with sports organisations. The aim is to develop, rethink and evaluate the experience of a new Tao system, taking into account practical experience. The amendment before you clarifies the main legal aspects of this system of sport funding, as Congressman Erik Bánki said, and focuses primarily on dealing with situations of interpretation. Changes are necessary because the legal provisions applicable in practice require more specific legal wording. These legislative amendments will result in even more efficient operation and use. The amendment concerns two laws, namely the 1996 LXXXI on the promotion of visual team sport. It also contains amendments to Law No. 1 of 2004 on Sport. On the basis of this, the government supports legislative amendments, as these additions and amendments are designed to address practical interpretation and other administrative problems with the support of visual team sports. According to this, 22/C. The amendment of §2 is a technical interpretation. Here, the rules for the calculation of additional support for the development of sport are amended. Congressman Bánki told me that. Paragraph 6 of the same section is added, which concerns real estate belonging to the municipality's core assets, as it primarily facilitates the realisation of value-enhancing investments on these real estates by setting guarantee conditions. Only if the municipal property concerned belongs to the tribal property of the local government may be excluded from the mortgage registrations for the benefit of the State. After the amendment, it also settles the rules of the transfer in the case of offers, post-financing and grants, if the proposal is voted on, as the provision on the tax is amended and supplemented, which can also be used to support visual team sport 24/A. §. In the case of investment in tangible assets for the development of real estate for sport purposes and the use of a renewal title, the aid needs to be met only in a manner proportionate to the gradual implementation of the investment. The amendment also contains technical amendments to the law, clarifications on the costs associated with the performance of control tasks. It also provides for the amendment of Law I of 2004 on Sport, including four subjects. On the one hand, the 2004 CXL on general rules for administrative procedures and services Law, the Ket. This year, due to its amendment, which entered into force on 1 January, and on the other hand, is affected by Tao. Law 24/A In addition, it contains a number of clarifications on the performance of the tasks related to the tax reduction under §2 of the Act, and finally clarifies the rules for the protection of the Olympic symbols. As a justification for the subjects listed above, on the one hand, the Ket. The amendment, which entered into force in January this year, concerns the provisions concerning the time-limit for administration, according to which the decision, the order terminating the procedure and the order of the authorities which have taken the decision of the first instance to annul and order a new procedure must be taken within 21 days of receipt of the application by the authority and must ensure that the decision is communicated. A shorter deadline may be set by any legislation and longer only and only by law. On the basis of this amendment, legislation in the legislative hierarchy is lower than the law, so no decree of the government can determine the Ket. a procedural period longer than its general provisions. [[22.40]] As a result, 107/2011 on the issue, use of aid certificates to support visual team sport, rules on the clearance and control of the aid and the reimbursement of the aid. the provisions of the government decree are in conflict with the Ket. the provisions in force in the Ket. a time limit of more than 21 days will be granted. The purpose of the amendment is to ensure that up to now the administrative deadlines for support for visual team sport regulated by the Government Decree are the Ket. In accordance with its provisions, instead of the level of regulation, they should be able to obtain legislation at legal level so as to allow for a longer period of administration. It is also important to stress that the Ket. In order to reduce the harm and disadvantages caused to the client by the undue extension of the time limit for administration, it generally provides for the possibility of agreeing to the silence, but this allows for a derogation from the sectoral legislation. In view of the fact that national sports associations operating in visual team sports are the Ket during the criticism of sports development programmes. they often make decisions in complex, complex cases, such as the examination of the existence of building permits, the examination of the merits of professional programmes and their associated costs, and therefore these decisions justify the amendment. Therefore, the provision would impose a disproportionate burden on them and accordingly, the entity entitled to receive the aid on the basis of the amendment should not be entitled to the automatic exercise of the requested right. Another important element is that the amendment extends the scope of the Sports Act to Tao. Law 24/A §2 of the Act and clarifies the Tao. the rules of competence between the Law and the Sport Act as regards the duties of the Minister responsible for sport policy and the specialised association in visual team sport in relation to the tax reduction. Further elements of the amendment specify the legal references to which sports disciplines may be sought for judicial redress. The amendment therefore contains an untranslated numbering clarification. Finally, the amendment of the law among the tasks of the Hungarian Olympic Committee in relation to the Olympic movement protects the Olympic symbols and symbols, which are necessary for the preservation of the Olympic ideals, for the preservation of authenticity and discrimination, and for the authentic information of fans and buyers. The Hungarian Olympic Committee may grant permission to use the Olympic symbols and names only with the approval of the NOB under certain conditions. Thus, in order to ensure adequate domestic protection of the Olympic symbols and names, it is of particular importance that the relevant Hungarian legislation reflects the regulations, provisions and intentions of the rightholder, the International Olympic Committee, in view of their obligations under the Sports Act, according to which the MOB implements the objectives and tasks set out in the Statutes and other regulations of the International Olympic Committee. Mr President, Dear House, The Government supports the practical interpretation and other administrative additions to the corporate tax law, as well as the amendment and addition of the Sport Act I. So please support the bill amendment proposal. Thank you. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2016-03-16-328	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary. Dear Parliament, The keynote speakers are now taking place. First up is Congressman László Varga, head speaker of the MSZP. Here you go.
u2016-03-16-329	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, It is difficult for you to find the genre because the amendments are indeed technical and, let's say, these parts obviously have a smaller role to play in both the head of State Secretary and what the rapporteur has to say. We have debated many times about the amendment of the Company Tax Act in Parliament. It's been a constant topic for a good five years. We could do this briefly and for a long time. I thought this was going to be shorter, but we also heard success reports, so I'm going to have to make my point longer. Technical amendments proposed by professional associations are indeed desirable, although they could have been considered sooner. But the voices that were about you completely resolved the situation of Hungarian sports in the entire verticicum of Olympic sports and, by the way, the Hungarians are playing sports, so obviously they raise questions about me as well. For example, the question of gymnasiums, the conditions of everyday physical education in this country are rather deplorable. Let us consider that the corporate tax relief system you consider to be a huge success in the field of visual team sports has provided 11 billion resources, for example, to the academy of replacements in the Highway, which, for example, in the fight against Diósgyőr - let me tell you about this - with only one player who was raised in this supply academy. So if we compare 11 billion with one player and how many out of 11 billion gymnasiums could have been built, renewed in this country in order to give thousands of children even more opportunities to play sports, then I think that what was created in Felcsút reflects the value crisis you are presenting in this respect. I'm not even talking about it, even though I'm not going to tell you this for the first time, but I'm going to tell you right now that the pre-2010 period is obviously a false picture. Of course, things worked differently, of course, the municipalities, where they thought it was important, found the resources for this, and otherwise the governments supported these investments. I would mention four such investments in Miskolc. I'd be happy to mention the last six years, but I can't, because there hasn't been such an improvement. A competition swimming pool was established in Miskolc before 2010, the sports hall was renewed, the ice hall was built. This is also one of the foundations for today's success in hockey as a sport in Miskolc. By the way, the team of the DVTK Miskolc Ice Bears will lead to 3:0 in the four victory finals. But I don't feel that there are resources behind this, sponsors that would be necessary in connection with such a high level of sports performance. DVTK Stadium was also developed then, and today, there hasn't been a single cut in six years. So I think that it is not possible to consider a system of support that is worthy of successful sports organisations and academies with a long history of replacements in large cities to be successful, to develop gymnasiums, to support school sports not enough, and to create something that demonstrates a distorted choice of value that is on Felcsú. I know it's always an attack, but I think it's obviously a distorted spending of resources. Support for Olympic sports has been said about how well the five visual team sports have improved. I would also like that very much, and we proposed it at the beginning, and I personally tabled such an amendment. I do not think that there would be a disproportionate burden on the budget if all Olympic sports were given this opportunity. Unfortunately, there are four-year cycles here, and we see that we do not stand by quotas as Hungary does with the Olympic quotas. I think that if the proposal on the Tao discount system was proposed in 2011 differently, taking into account opposition proposals, this would not be the case today. So it would be more desirable to consider the extension to Olympic sports, but only if it is transparent. Because talking about how transparent this system is after the last amendment proposal extended the possibility of Tao support to the Olympic tender, I have a problem with that. At first it was 19 billion, and then it was taken out of the proposal, obviously, so that it could be further advanced. At the last minute before the House's decision, there will be an amendment on the fact that, in fact, such resources, the resources allocated to the competent company are not public funds and do not apply to them. [[22.50]] Thus, it cannot be integrated into the system of public procurement, there is no public interest data request, and other forms of control cannot take place. So we talk about transparency with regard to Taós resources, and I have a problem with that, and the Olympic proposal doesn't even have a logo. So I think this is a serious problem. So this is a technical amendment. I would say - and I do not give up my faith in this - that there are serious sports values in Hungary that need greater support. I once again drew attention to my city and my district. Here I would mention the Miskolc Ice Bears, the DVTK family, and a number of sports values that would need support in Miskolc, but will not get a fraction of the opportunity that the High School Academy, for example, has. This is a problem because, together with believing that I have a lot of opposition fellows who are very interested in the issue of Hungarian sport and would like to participate in the joint creation of legislation that could really help with concentration, both in mass sports and in competition sports, I feel that there is a serious criticism in society about these decisions and legislation, about their transparency, and that is bad for Hungarian sport. If you've introduced yourself a little longer, that's all I'd like to add, anyway, that I'm not going to give up on this belief, and I'm waiting for the Tao. II, which will obviously be discussed in Brussels. I hope that the circle of people supported can be broadened, transparency deepened, because at the moment this is not guaranteed, and we will somehow succeed in making decisions that will restore social support to this story, because today it is not there, and I feel that, and as a sports-loving person, I sincerely regret this. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2016-03-16-330	Thank you. We're going to continue the lead speakerial round. Congressman György Szilágyi, Jobbik.
u2016-03-16-331	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, First of all, I would like to welcome and welcome both Erik Bánki and Mrs State Secretary. I'm also saying this because it's the last Tao. At the trial of the law, I made it clear that none of you were here. By the way, Mr. András Tállai represented the profession here. I think there is a qualitative change now, and besides, both of you would have been stabbed by the Secretary of State of Tallas, and all of us here, because here you said that this amendment is what we are talking about here, and that is what we are talking about in this House, and we are talking about sport and the Olympics and such. And now, both in Erik Bánki's speech and in the statement by the Secretary of State, there has been a lot of talk about sport, which in principle is not actually about this law, but it is about this law, because Tao discounts and everything else are closely linked to sport. If you'll allow me, I'll also start a little further from the legal amendment, because I looked at it, and I wrote it down correctly, Erik Bánki said at 6 minutes and 20 seconds that we should talk about the bill before us, so I still have some time to talk about sports; and it's really important anyway. I have always said and said that the Jobbik Movement for Hungary is that the Tao is indeed an important support system for sport, we have recognised it. Our problem is only that, as Congressman Varga said, when it has been seen over the years that the Tao has not only positives - because you always say positives - but also that it has negatives, there are abuses and similar things through the Tao, and perhaps some stadium constructions have gone a little too far, then this should be re-evaluated. So we should really try to make this tao even better, that the negatives that, by the way, in society are really causing huge grudges - and that is not good, but bad for sport, by the way - we are trying to cut them down or cut them down. After all, when people meet that, thanks to the Tao, if someone in Budapest - I think there is no other such city in the world - leaves from Kerepesi Road to Üllő Road on that roughly two-kilometer stretch, and will meet three stadiums, because the Puskás will stand, the MTK will be built, it will reach the Üllői út Groupama Arena, which is a bit repulsive. Especially when people see that stadiums are built here for billions of dollars, while the government is chasing people out of the stadiums with its provisions and its lake figures. These stadiums are tinkering with emptiness. So if we look at the last two or three years, where most people were at the Hungarian championship match at the same time, what are we meeting with? In the NB III, the stadium in Csepel, which was not otherwise renovated, there were more than ten thousand people at the moment in the match between Ferencváros II and Csepel. It was a football festivities. While in the Groupama Arena the average spectators are usually 3-4 thousand people, and they even improve it. If you look at it, these ten thousand people meant as many people as the number of people on all the tracks in the first NB I round. There is something that needs to be changed, because in vain you build stadiums - and this is the negative - if from there the people to whom you built these stadiums are excluded and not allowed in. This is also one of the negative side effects of Tao discounts, in my opinion. And then in the last year, I don't know if you know how many times we're going to change this law, sixth time. So, six times in one year, we amended this law; it was either tabled by a representative or a government or a committee. So there have been four amendments so far, there is an amendment pending, which is the amendment tabled by the Defence Committee, and we are now in the sixth amendment. And although the issues did not always affect the same regulatory sphere, it is able to undermine legal certainty to the maximum extent, and to make the regulation completely opaque to the law-abiding citizen by more than two or three amendments per year. And once again, we are talking about the sixth amendment. Not to mention that some of the problems of regulation could have been dealt with with with foresight, and also with a few amendments, but there is also confusion, the haste that has always been touched by another body and person, and this proposal has been dealt with over the past year. Indeed, it is possible to say that this has been said several times, and I would not like to read through what this law is changing at the moment. It is, in fact, legislative amendments, we could also say that it is creating problems of coherence, and I really say that it is justified at the moment to amend them, I just say that it is a question of whether it sounds good now that Tao is. We've changed the law six times this year. In my opinion, no. And then there's a part here that I absolutely don't understand, and actually, there wasn't a half sentence about it in the general explanation, it's already in the detailed explanation, but I don't really get it here, and that's why we had to change the part about the Olympic symbols and the Olympic symbols. In the detailed explanation, you write that the Hungarian Olympic Committee, hereinafter referred to as the MOB, protects the Olympic symbols and symbols for the sake of the Olympic movement. The protection of Olympic symbols is necessary in order to preserve the ideals of the Olympics, to preserve originality, discrimination and a credible orientation of fans and buyers. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. It's understandable so far, but it's always been the case. It has always been the case that these symbols belonged to the Hungarian Olympic Commission. Yes, indeed, this is about Merchandising rights, there has never been any change in this, so it has been. It is then written that the MOB may issue authorisation for the use of Olympic symbols and names only with the approval of the International Olympic Committee, subject to certain conditions. That's how it was. In order to ensure the proper protection of the Olympic symbols and names in Hungary, it is of the utmost importance that the relevant Hungarian legislation reflects the regulations, regulations and intentions of the rightholder, the NOB. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. [[23.00]] Hasn't it been mirrored so far? So the treatment of these symbols and symbols has not been in line with the regulations and regulations of the International Olympic Committee? Because now the change... I really don't see any significant change in it. If you look at it in a textual way and say we put the existing and amended proposal together, then you can see here that it is a little larger in length, but from an interpretation I think both are about the same thing. So I would like to ask you if you can answer that question, why this change was necessary, and how this will be linked to the previous amendment, since it is the previous Tao. András Tállai was here on behalf of the government at the time, who could not give us much of an answer on this issue, how the company created jointly by the Municipality of Budapest, the capital of Budapest and the Committee of the Hungarian Olympics, will now be linked to this change, which is intended to carry out the preparation of the Olympic tender and the conduct of the entire project. In all the publications of this company, in the design of logos, in the design of websites, various souvenirs, so I tell you, here in Merchandising rights, you probably have to have these symbols and symbols - if I just think that when the first phase of our Olympic application was handed down now, these symbols had to appear - how will it be connected to this law that this company has these rights. The Hungarian Olympic Committee, since it is the owner of this company, but only 50 percent, will probably hand it over, but that would interest me, because this may be an interesting question of this law. I'm telling you, the rest of it is, in fact, primarily full of technical changes. I say, too, that the Movement for Jobbik Hungary and I myself look forward to the Tao with excitement. II. I am also pleased that discussions are being held with the sports associations, as the Secretary of State said. But I really think that the main discussion should not be with the sports professional associations, but with the European Union, so that we should start with what they are going to give us as quickly as possible, because, unfortunately, at the moment, our great economic and all other freedom fights look like we need to keep asking the European Union for permission when we can breathe and when we can't, but we understand it. Regardless of the fact that if something is useful to the country and I stress once again that tao is useful to the country, it is useful for Hungarian sport, it should also be examined, and I would ask the Secretary of State to place great emphasis on this. II. that this control system should somehow be made much stricter. We should filter out those loopholes, filter out those people, associations, or sports associations who are abusing this situation. Everyone who lives in sport and who is active in sport should be happy that there is such an opportunity, there is such an facilitation, but then let us not play this by saying that negative feedback may ruin the results that we need. Indeed, the money that is spent, say, on a case-by-case basis, is not for the purpose of Tao, so not for the development of sports or for the supply of supplies, that money is missing from Hungarian sports. So the goal would be to keep as much as possible the amount that different companies, companies or even the government spend on sport, as it can be developed. So, please, let us look very carefully at the possibility of making tao controls much, much stricter so that there are no abuses in this regard. I feel that there is no, at least I have not seen any part of this current amendment that the Jobbik Movement for Hungary cannot support, so we believe that we will support this amendment in the final vote. Thank you for listening. [[It's a rare round of applause from the Jobbik benches.]]
u2016-03-16-332	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. I will ask if anyone else wishes to take the opportunity to speak. [[There's no candidate.]] I'm gonna say no. As no one has made any further comments, the general debate is closed. I would like to ask the rapporteur, Mr President, if you would like to respond to what has been said in the debate. [[For signal:]] Member Erik Bánki as rapporteur. Here you go.
u2016-03-16-333	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, I am pleased that my fellow opposition Members are predicting in the debate that they are in favour of the bill that we have tabled. And I am particularly pleased that they will always find a way to get along with proper government criticism, even though they support it. That reminds me of, or I think of, the saying that shows the comparison between the critic and the gynecologist. A critic is like a gynecologist, looking for trouble where there's a difference in joy. So here's what I see. [[Noise, interruptions from the opposition benches.]] That you're trying to find trouble in a success story...
u2016-03-16-334	With all due respect, I understand... stop! I understand the late hour, and I understand that we're in a family circle. [[István Apáti: Who is he?]] I respectfully ask you to choose your metaphors so I don't have to interrupt. Okay? It's actually right for you to have a sip of water right now.
u2016-03-16-335	And when it's fasting season, all I can drink is water, I can't even afford a good spritzer. So, I think, Mr. President, that was a fitting metaphor. If anyone doesn't like it, I apologize, but the truth is the truth.
u2016-03-16-336	It's okay. I didn't like it, and since I'm chairing it, I can intervene. So we'll continue. Okay?
u2016-03-16-337	Okay, I understand that, and the Member cannot criticise the president's sitting, so I accept the criticism, Mr President, thank you very much. So I would like to answer to my fellow Member, László Varga, for those matters in Miskolc. Obviously, Mr. Congressman was able to act with sufficient lobbying power during the Socialist Government, despite the fact that in the last year, in the 2010 budget adopted by the Bajnai Government, the amount of support for sport did not reach HUF 16 billion, and now we are well, thank God, above HUF 100 billion. So there is a strong difference between the two governments' sports policies. There may have been developments in Diósgyőr and Miskolc during that period. I don't think there can be any complaints about this right now. And if we look back at past socialist developments and sports developments, among other things, then Madam Secretary of State could tell us how much trouble the government was in, by the time they reviewed the contracts of swimming pools and sports halls built in the PPP scheme, because, honourable Member, you know exactly that there were no real PPPs there, so there were partnerships, but there was virtually a free robbery when they imposed unsustainable amounts and burdens on the municipalities and through it on the state, because, after a while, the municipalities saw that they could not maintain this, that the Orbán government could not do anything but buy out these constructions and eliminate them, because they were non-viable. Miskolc is also getting very serious improvements now, as the development of Diósgyőr Stadium after long preparations, but finally it will start, and a very serious supply base will be built. I went to Miskolc myself and checked. So, in addition to congratulating you on your expected hockey championship, I don't think you need to be blushing about football. And speaking of hockey, the hockey hockey is the most successful one for the last five years, as the number of certified racers has more than doubled here. The proportion of the ice surface has increased to the greatest extent, by the way. Of course, we can say that we started from a deep start, that is true, but I think that the last five years have been very successful in this area, too. And in terms of transparency, I do not understand the criticism. If the Member goes up to the website of any association, he will find it everywhere, not only the list of winning proposals, but also the standards which the associations themselves have established. So there's no question now. Proposals are obviously taking place, but despite the fact that there is no need to carry out a public procurement procedure, so the associations, foundations or even sports companies receiving grants can choose their contractors with a three-offer invitation, but each sports professional association sets out in advance the limits that cannot be exceeded. So I think that, after sufficiently thorough preparations, there is sufficient transparency in this area. I do not think that there is a problem, just as the controls have shown in recent times that anything has been done here in secret or under inappropriate circumstances. The limit, which the Member has mentioned, has indeed been removed from the law, but the European Union has determined that we can spend a maximum of HUF 20 plus 1 billion per year on subsidies within the corporate tax relief scheme. [[23.10]] We will have to deal with this now, because the five years will expire, and the last tendering period will be launched in April. Then we have to account for the Union. I think that this will be successful, and I very much hope that we will be able to start another five-year cycle after this. I would like to thank Congressman György Szilágyi for the words of appreciation that he has put towards and towards the Secretary of State. We're not used to this from the opposition side. Your criticism of the stadium investments, Congressman, I must say that I know that Groupama is an emotional issue for you, but I must say to you, which is objective. [[There are constant interruptions from Jobbik's representatives.]] : is among the world's five best-run stadiums. This is obviously not due to the government, it is not necessarily due to the leadership of Ferencváros, but certainly to the company that operates this stadium with appropriate European experience. It's a fraction of the events there, by the way, that make up sports events. And I know we tend to quickly forget recent events. I'd like to give you a couple of hits on Groupama's operation in 2015. Ferencváros-Debrecen, 10 463 spectators; Ferencváros-Diósgyőr, 25 April, 10 114 spectators; Ferencváros-Újpest, 12 April, 20 217 spectators; Ferencváros-MTK, which is not an outstanding match, on 22 March, 8900 spectators; Fradi-Győr, 7 March, 8692 spectators. So I really sign that the Csepel fiesta was an outstanding event, because in NB III matches, not only ten thousand spectators, even the thousand spectators seem to be quite a decent number, but I think that if you look at Groupama's numbers and compare them to the last season played by the team in the old stadium on Üllői út, then the average spectator growth is more than 30 percent.... [[To the intervention of György Szilágyi:]] Congressman, I'm telling you about the access system. I don't know if there's anything going on. Given the strict nature of the access system, I don't think it was possible to get into that. So, I think that the stadium investments that have been made in Hungary are viable in all cases. It will obviously be the result of a longer process, until a new audience is formed, which creates a new and different atmosphere with a completely different cheering morale, especially for families, children and women, as well as for matches. Some people like it; some people like it less. Time will decide what's right. In any case, I will give you a European number, honourable Member: in Germany, thanks to stadium renovations, the average number of viewers has increased by 40 percent, virtually every stadium has a full house. What is very interesting is that half of the 40 percent increase is women, so it's plus 20 percent. So in Hungarian: where the environment was organised and the quality and quality of the stadiums changed, families, ladies and children actually visit the matches, which I think is an example in the long term. So what I expect from the bill before us, as I have already said in the expo, is that it will make the system of corporate tax relief even better, even more smoother, more effective, which, I think, has been an exemplary achievement at European level in the last five years. Thank you very much for your support in advance, and obviously we will not be without political debates in this House - I think that is why we are here. Thank you very much for your attention and for the floor, Mr President. [[Applause from the benches of the governing parties. Dr. László Varga: Even if there is no mediation...]]
u2016-03-16-338	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that the amendment proposals can be submitted by 16:00 on Monday. Dear Parliament, A joint debate on the proposal on the recovery cost balance will follow. Presentation by Mr Lajos Kósa and Mr Imre Vas, Fidesz, T/9538. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I would like to inform you that according to the House Rules adopted, a total of 15 minutes for opening speech and closing speech, 10 minutes for a statement by the representatives of the government, 6 minutes for a statement by the Legislative Committee, 3 minutes for the presentation of the minority opinion, 10 minutes for the speeches of the political groups, 3 minutes for the speeches of the independent Members. Dear Parliament, I now give the floor to Congressman Vas Imre, the rapporteur on the agenda. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that you have a total of 15 minutes to speak in the debate and to present a possible closing phrase. Here you go.
u2016-03-16-339	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Directive 2011/7/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council provides for the fight against late payment in commercial operations. As the general explanatory statement of the bill points out, the directive's openly undertaken objective is to strengthen payment discipline, to which I add that this is a key issue in the EU's competitiveness. The bill before us is intended to comply with Article 6 of that directive. Of course, compliance with this directive has been targeted by the Ptk. both the codification committee and the Parliament when adopting the new civil code, but in practice from the very beginning, there have been a number of problems that we are obliged to improve. The aim of the legislative proposal before us and the renewal of the regulation must therefore be to meet the requirements of the directive, without imposing an unnecessary administrative burden on businesses or contracting authorities. I would like to point out that there is a flaw in the opposition interpretation that the ruling parties have only just perceived the practical problem and that their proposals would simply have been swept off. The Ptk. LXXI 2015 including the amendment to Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by Member States of the Commission's exercise of implementing powers (OJ L 55, 28.2.2011, p. 1). Law 26 §2 of the Act states that the debtor or the contracting authority shall not be obliged to pay the recovery fee reduction if, in the course of the enforcement of the claim to that effect, it saves its delay. As far as this amending provision is concerned, the legislator has already assumed that the obligation to pay the recovery fee is subject to the imposition of a charge. The bill before us, based on the practical difficulties and annoyances, aims to treat the recovery costs diminution as a legal institution in sui generis, and puts the issue in its own legal form. Therefore, as the general justification states, the proposal assumes, as a new element of the legislation on the transposition of the directive, that it is justified to spare the Ptk. from the poor institution of recovery costs which are difficult to fit into its system and to lay down provisions concerning this institution in a separate law. This would not only prevent Ptk. from having a negative impact on the enforcement problems that have arisen in connection with the institution and which cause widespread dissatisfaction, but will spare Ptk. any changes to the scope of the Directive that may have been made to this subject. For the purposes stated, the bill sets out the scope for payment transactions for which the provisions on the recovery costs are applicable. Commercial transactions therefore constitute transactions between undertakings or between the undertaking and the contracting authority which are the subject of the sale of goods or the provision of services against payment. I consider that the most important element of the bill is that, in future, the rightholder has the right to claim the recovery fee, but he is free to decide whether he wishes to make use of it, i.e. whether he requires the debtor to comply with his claim in this regard. I stress that a prior notice from the rightholder is not required to enforce the claim in question. However, in the absence of voluntary performance, where the holder claims a flat-rate contribution, the debtor shall be called upon. The recovery costs may be applied within a period of one year from this point, i.e. the date of the debtor's delay. However, in order to ensure that, in the event of a delay in the application of the proposal as a result of its entry into force as a law, the rights and legitimate interests of the claimants do not prejudice the claim of the claimants on the amount of the recovery charge, the normal text provides that the limitation period for the enforcement of the recovery cost shall be calculated from the date of entry into force of the law. [[23.20]] I would like to point out that the proposal introduces a transitional rule on previous delays for those who have shown in their books an obligation to collect costs due to a flat rate of recovery in the light of previous rules. According to this, these undertakings will terminate their obligations as regards the reimbursement fee imposed by the rightholder at the time of the entry into force of the new rule, which has not been claimed by that date, in relation to other revenues. This exempts them from the obligation to control both from accounting and from taxation. I trust that the bill before us will make everyday life easier for businesses as a whole, and will do so by further strengthening payment discipline and fully complying with EU rules. I would like your support for this, and I would like to thank the factions that have contributed to the departure from the house rule. Thank you for listening.
u2016-03-16-340	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I'm going to ask if there's anyone who wants to speak on behalf of the government right now, Mr. Secretary of State.
u2016-03-16-341	Yeah, he's got it.
u2016-03-16-342	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, The position of the Legislative Committee will now be presented, and I will give the floor to Mr Vas Imre as rapporteur in this capacity, within a six-minute time frame. There's no need to exhaust it, but that's all you have.
u2016-03-16-343	Thank you very much. At today's meeting, the Legislative Committee discussed the proposal and supported both the summarised amendment and the summary report by 33 votes in favour, with zero votes and zero abstentions. Thank you for listening.
u2016-03-16-344	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, It is now time for the speeches by its representatives. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that there is a maximum of 10-10 minutes for the factions and a total of 3 minutes for the independent Members. First, a speech by the Members who have applied in writing, Mr Simon Róbert, first of all, Fidesz. Here you go.
u2016-03-16-345	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, As a Member of Parliament, I am convinced that it is also a basic principle that a politician's important task is to make people's daily lives easier. This is the fundamental purpose of the bill that we are discussing. And I felt it was my duty to tell you, as I have done in the case of the law on bureaucracy. The bill on recovery costs is nothing more than to relieve businesses of unnecessary administrative burdens. I know it's the 21st. In the first century, a company in Hungary has to meet a number of conditions and comply with them while also focusing on its substantive activities, and even improving its competitiveness. I am sure that cutting red tape already implemented and ongoing in the public administration will not only have a positive impact on individuals' everyday lives, but also allow legal persons to operate in a more pleasant environment. In my view, the proposal we are discussing here can be seen as a small but important element of bureaucracy reduction. At the same time, it should be noted that, in addition to ensuring the viability of businesses, the country's national economy is also in a fundamental interest, and one of the keys to our competitiveness is to ensure that payment discipline in commercial transactions is improved and that a chain of late payments is not created. This aspect must also be taken into account when adopting the bill. In agreement with what has been said in the rapporteur's speech, I believe that the most important element of the proposal is that, in future, the rightholder will remain entitled to the claim of the recovery fee girl, but he is free to decide whether he wishes to make use of it, i.e. whether he requires the debtor to comply with the claim in question. With this solution, I hope that the legislator will allow sufficient flexibility in the settlement of businesses' commercial transactions, and that the life of accountants will be significantly facilitated by this regulation. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the bill continues to state that the contractual clause excluding or setting the recovery cost ratio at a rate of less than EUR 40 is null and void. I also consider it to be an important rule that the recovery fee may be claimed by the rightholder within a limitation period of one year from the date of the delay. The due date of the claim shall be the date of voluntary delivery and, in the absence of voluntary delivery, the date of the first request for performance. The transitional rules, as has been said earlier, also address the current situation in a satisfactory manner. The bill serves to comply with Article 6 of Directive 2011/7/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council on combating late payment in commercial transactions, on which I am convinced it will fully comply. I would add that if there may be a debate on this, as the practice has shown so far, we will not run away from it. Our aim is to make life easier for Hungarian businesses, to free entrepreneurs from unnecessary annoyance, and to do so with clear and clear regulation. Ladies and gentlemen, I need your support for this. As has already been said, the Fidesz fraction fully supports the amendment of the law. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2016-03-16-346	Thank you very much, Congressman. Congresswoman Anita Heringes is next, MSZP.
u2016-03-16-347	Thank you very much for the floor, even if we are here at this late hour with such an important law. I am not surprised that we will be discussing this as our last agenda, because it is rather unpleasant, I think, for the Fidesz-KDNP fraction, this proposal. My good faith and my naivety are probably contributing to my shock even today, to the fact that in a year's time, they will be able to make the exact opposite of one of their claims. My only pleasure is that there are still Members among you - they are not here today - who will also admit at a committee meeting that they made the opposite statement without blinking a year ago. That is precisely because a year ago, I came before the Justice Committee and asked you to amend this law, as several auditors and accountants in my host hour indicated to me that there was a problem with this proposal, because you, the Ministry of Administration and Justice, misinterpreted the European Union directive and made this cost reduction compulsory. They may say that it was not mandatory, but that the adoption of the directive in the text of their proposal at the time looked literally as if the debtor was late, that he was obliged to pay at least EUR 40 to cover the recovery costs of the claimant's claim according to the official foreign exchange central rate of the Hungarian National Bank on the starting day of the interest payment obligation, so he is obliged. If you are obliged, you can't be elected, my honourable fellow Members. I tabled this amendment just a year ago, where it was swept down in the Judicial Committee, and it was not even discussed, and it was not allowed to be before Parliament, even though a year ago we could have solved this problem, a year ago we could have made it easier for both the accounting companies, businesses, and, as it has been said since then, the lives of the KLIK and other large state companies, if, say, the puddle would not rule your group, and sometimes they would be willing to listen to the proposals of opposition representatives, or they would only sometimes be willing to think about what we say, propose or submit amendments. It is also okay to say that you immediately get up in the morning by your own name, say, Vas Imre, and immediately you think that you will present this amendment in your own name on that day. That would be acceptable, too. But it took a year for everyone to realize that there is a real problem with this bill. Ferenc Papcsák wiped it out a year ago by accepting that it was mandatory, and this directive had to be adopted in this way, and why we didn't consult with the Ministry and Professor Vékás, since we understand that they worked for years on the Ptk. and in this area, so I'm sure that's okay. [[23.30]] It is just that, you know, fellow Members, the shocking thing is that when it comes to people's problems, the problems of businesses, they do not deal with the need to improve or improve a proposal. I would like to further confirm that there really is a problem or a problem in communication between you or that you are not willing to deal with what really affects people and makes everyday life difficult, because your fellow Member in the Justice Committee has literally said - who was still a Secretary of State at the time - and I would now quote the committee, Secretary of State Répássy Róbert, who said that, of course, for reasons of political discipline, I would like to make a clown of myself, but the truth is that it is really the way Anita Heringes said it is, and since 2013 we have defended the regulation of the civil code as a lion continuously, claiming that, according to the knowledgeers of European Union law, the directive, to which the general justification also refers to, provides a mandatory minimum for this particular cost balance. Of course, I say that if someone convinces me of this and I am not here to insult Imre Vas, represented by the rapporteur, I would be very curious about the opinion of the European Union experts, especially those who convinced us two years ago to do the opposite. So I'm telling you, for the Committee's sake of seriousness and perhaps for the MPs, I want an explanation of what happened, who didn't know exactly about EU law. I would very much like to amend my position, so that we can only find out how the whole Parliament has been kept in the belief that it is a binding cost. You know, fellow Members, during the morning, I drew your attention to the fact that the KLIK itself does not know what kind of contracts it has, how much, who it has concluded this contract with. Today, Mr. Secretary of State, Bence Rétvári, could not answer me whether KLIK had paid for a reimbursement fee at all, had not paid for anyone, had noticed that there was one or that it was necessary at all. There's chaos in your mind, apparently. It is strongly felt that they only deal with what they own, what concerns people, what affects small businesses, which affects people who struggle every day to make a living, are not important. If they really have some good feelings for people, then they should keep open ears at committee meetings, hear the opposition proposals, not just because it's an opposition-enhancing proposal, sweeping them off the table and not putting them in a series of objects, because then we might have solved a problem a year ago. We therefore supported the urgency that, at last, if we were to resolve it after a year, and we will also support your proposal, they would only stand up once and say that, yes, we have made a mistake. It is not so difficult, fellow Members. Thank you.
u2016-03-16-348	Thank you very much. Congressman István Apáti, Jobbik!
u2016-03-16-349	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, Indeed, it is as our colleague Anita Heringes said, and Fidesz, represented by Imre Vas and Imre Vas, is unable to admit that if he made a mistake, although it was actually said from the mouth of the former Secretary of State for Justice at the Justice Committee meeting last week - to quote literally - that I am ready to make a clown out of myself on account of the faction discipline, but then it should be decided what the correct interpretation of the EU directive is, that it is mandatory to apply this margin of costs, or that it belongs only to the possible category of. It has been said very precisely before us that businesses may have a relationship between themselves and between the authority and the undertaking, when one party is late in payment, it is possible to apply a recovery fee to cover the costs related to the implementation of the claim in a amount of EUR 40. And here is the difference compared to the previous regulation that it is not mandatory to classify it as a non-binding category, so it is not compulsory to charge the 40 euros at the MNB's central rate or calculated, but depends on the holder whether he requires this price reduction within a one-year limitation period, or does not require it, or if the debtor has the possibility of bailing out, if he makes the delay credible, he shall be exempt from payment of the cost transfer girl. It is also well established in the reasoning that, in comparison to the interest rate on late payment, the difference is that the interest on late payment must be paid to the debtor even if he has otherwise saved the delay, in this case this does not constitute an exemption, in contrast, in the case of the recovery fee girl, it is possible to save this kind of payment obligation in the event of an appropriate reason or not to pay it. So the fact is that a serious professional apparatus was working on this legislation at the time, and it seems that either there was a technical translation or an error in interpretation of the law, or both at the same time, and not necessarily a blatant error, or if they had already made a mistake, it would be good to acknowledge that a large amount of work had to be done in an excellent quality, and that there might be errors in professional translations or interpretations, especially in such a large amount of work. There would be no particular problem if they were able to acknowledge that we did, honourable opposition, respected profession, respected stakeholders, we made a mistake, we did indeed misinterpreted it, and so far we have misapplied it - although it is also a question of how much it has been applied, how much it has been applied or how much, how many of these costs have been applied - and we will clear this mistake or this damage after a few years. And it doesn't matter whether socialist, LMP or better Members put forward proposals - in this case, our socialist fellow Member submitted this a year ago - it should be acknowledged that it was a mistake, then, to sweep off the motion for it in a pompous way, because, well, it's been just over a year, and here we are at the trial of this bill. Of course, the story is so much nicer for you that it was not submitted by an opposition representative, but by a pro-government representative on the petitioner's or authorial side. Of course, since this is the case, it is indeed already in line with the relevant EU directive, which is likely to be based on proper professional translation and interpretation, and raises the application of this recovery price as an option rather than as an obligation. By the way, in the final vote, we will also support it, but please admit that they have made mistakes for years, that they have maintained an illegal state contrary to an EU directive. Believe me, take it from me, not only would they be less, but perhaps even a little more successful in raising their otherwise very, very corrupted authority to the general public, to the profession or to the opposition. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-03-16-350	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I'll ask if anyone else wants to speak in the remaining time frame. [[No signal.]] I'm gonna say no. The consolidated debate is closed. I will ask the rapporteur, Mr Vas, if he wishes to respond in his remaining time frame, which is 8 minutes 22 seconds.
u2016-03-16-351	Yes, thank you very much for the floor. I have again looked at the T/3536 bill of Anita Heringes, but there is a very small overlap between the bill tabled by T/9538 and my fellow Member before us. Well, then, by the way, [[Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks.]] It's right in front of me, so I see that the solution they choose - we said that then, as I recall - doesn't comply with the EU directives. In my opinion, the solution we have just chosen is a good one, so we have to prescribe the cost balance. What we were able to give in to is, on the one hand, the statute of limitations, the so far, Ptk. We have changed the general limitation period of five years for one year and we consider it a limitation period. On the other hand, we can say that he can demand it, not that he is obliged to pay it. [[23.40]] Thirdly, in reply to the fact that we did not do anything: in March 2015 my fellow Member submitted it, we adopted the 2015 LXXI. law, which gave me a reason to save him, so if he's tied the expense margin to a liability, it's Pt's. I have specifically said this in my speech, but it seems that my fellow Member has not been paying attention or understanding it. [[Anita Beringes: Say that I blame you, it would be easier for you too!]] The other thing that is very important to accountants is that we have amended the Accounting Act with this proposal 177. We added a paragraph (56) to Article 56 of the Act, so we believe that the EU Directive is also in line with the bill, contrary to the bill tabled by our fellow Member, Anita Heringes, and we hope that this bill will not cause unnecessary burdens for businesses and accountants. So please support the adoption of the bill.
u2016-03-16-352	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that the decision will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the discussion of our agendas today. It is now time for the speeches after the agenda. First, I give the floor to Congressman Ander Balázs. You have five minutes. Here you go.
u2016-03-16-353	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, During the debate on the government's education policy, I quoted István Nahalka, who basically called this brutal reduction in public knowledge as a bankruptcy. On behalf of my fellow members of the Government, there was a slight snort, saying that a better Member could refer to István Nahalka. Well, please, just as we say, Viktor Orbán did in his year-end review when he quoted from his book Esterházy Kis magyar pornography. So perhaps once again, my fellow members of the governing party with a doctrine will be surprised, because I quote from an unexpected place, nothing more than the novel of György Spiro's Wife Competition, which takes place in the imaginary, anti-utopia-like Hungary of the future, and telling about the school of the future is actually about painting the current school of sheep. Well, the quote is that for those jobs that required some education, it has not been possible to create a workforce. The Hungarian students at the end of the primary school are c. 80 percent were unable to read a single newspaper page in four hours with a verbal report in ten minutes. The majority of Hungarian children were unable to read and write, and enthusiastic teachers invented Hungarian image writing, which consisted of 500 signs. In the elite school, the teacher was responsible and graded, and the student could not appeal against the grade. The normal school, on the other hand, represented the popular view, called democratic, that it was not about acquiring knowledge, but about not interfering with the personality of children. If the majority of children in such a school voted that the sun revolved around the Earth, then the teacher in that class had to accept this view. It was also possible to vote on mathematical formulas, physical and chemical transformations. Well, so far, the sarcasm-sharking quote, which is, let's say, a perfect reflection of reality, since most of the students enrolled in the vocational school are suffering from the most basic lack of education, their basic skills, their social, logical counting and reading skills - as the various surveys show - are astonishingly incomplete. The lack of these basic skills, on the other hand, undermines adaptability to such a degree that their long-term position on the labour market will later become almost impossible, as even the interpretation of more basic instructions in writing is seriously difficult for many. As 75 percent of skilled workers have reached a level of 1 in text understanding tasks and counting tests, it is logical that the development of vocational school training determines the long-term chances of disadvantaged students. The question is, therefore, whether the current direction, the shortening of basic skills, does not preserve social inequalities and, in the long term, does not regenerate unemployment for those with low education. In addition to Spiro, not exactly Balliberian Jean-Paul Brighelli condemned sheep school spirit in his study entitled "Programmed Death of Schools." "Sitting an hour listening to the teacher by force against an equal student," he writes. This is what is needed in the classroom, phony exercises, pointless research on the web, random interventions, group work where a child works, scissored materials tied together and covered, experimental, inductive feelers. Strangely enough, in elite schools, they continue to teach the old way, and with the same great success as in the old days, he writes bitterly. This is what it is said to have found and sunk, because in recent decades they have made vocational schools a child preserver, and thus their knowledge-transmitting, norm- and culture-receiving role has almost disappeared in spite of Don Quixote's windmilling of teachers there. However, some basic truths can be stated in closing: technical and technological progress can only be pursued with solid basic skills and competences and the ability to learn. The current, severely reduced public knowledge classes contradict this. However, every integration failure cannot be pinned on the neck of the school, the vocational training, as there has never been a single group - Gypsy in Hungary, let's say - to be raised from the outside. All changes can start from within the group, only by radically transforming the retreating traditions and behaviour, by abandoning the culture of self-execution. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-03-16-354	Thank you very much. Hungarian Congressman Zoltán is next in five minutes, Jobbik. Here you go.
u2016-03-16-355	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Council, Dear fellow Member of the LMP, In the absence of evidence, the investigation into tax fraud launched in 2012 was terminated on 4 January - this news came about the Kapuvar Meat Factory. It's not the first time I've dealt with the subject in the walls of the House, and I'm sorry that from the level of government again the interest - literally - is the kind of interest that shows up.At the end of 2015, the last news about the Kapuvár Meat Factory appeared, then Bosnian trucks were released and the last usable machines were removed from the factory. By the way, as proved subsequently, the NAV itself played a catalyst role in the bankruptcy, since, as is now clear, the accounts of the meat factory were closed and were placed in bankruptcy without any justification, and neither the NAV nor the government has given us nor the Kapuvar-based information about this. In addition, I have mentioned several times the case of Kapuvar and the situation of the meat factory here in Parliament, because it is not an unprecedented case. Of course, this is what concerns me most, because it is my constituency, because in Kapuvár it was a traditional old plant, where families there were very happy to work for several generations. We have also mentioned it many times because it is not a unique case: Pápa, Zalaegerszeg, Gyula, Törökszentmiklós, Kaposvár, and it is possible to continue the line that marked the process under suspicious circumstances during a few years, when these plants were quite simply, for such reasons or for such reasons, but ceased to exist in Hungary. The reasons may have been different, but the ulterior motive, the interest of which it was most beneficial to close these plants, is one and the same, well-defined. The few large, traditional plants that remain are grouped around these few interests. The plants of the settlements listed above are either permanently closed, and the lines of machinery are virtually gone, or they are still operating with local government help, with a lot of public money involved, often operating in unsustainable ways. It is a good indicator of the untenable situation already at the beginning of the second Orbán government, when - you may remember - the German pork was found with dioxins, and then the government was quite right to introduce an embargo on German pork, and indeed what God gives you, imagine that the Germans did not protest the most against the ban on imports of German pork, but the large Hungarian brands that produce their world famous products sold to Hungarians. This beautiful little Hungarian absurd shows that the national capital to whom Fidesz constantly refers and who is constantly trying to show up as saviors of the Hungarian economy is in fact not interested in the revival of the Hungarian economy in many cases, but if they receive half-carcases cheaper with a few euro cents, they will bring this raw material in from Germany or from anywhere else. [[23.50]] The same interest appeared both in closed plants and, as I mentioned, as owner of the remaining plants, and in closed plants as a kind of catalyst, either by exerting pressure on the NAV or on the government. It was very sad to hear that when we pushed him on several occasions either at the local government level in Kaputvár or at the Győr-Moson-Sopron county level, or even here in the National Assembly, there were such typical fidesz puddles and condescending responses that were quite amazing. In answer to me, the reason you don't have to deal with the Kapuvar meat factory and its cause is because the border is close and the Kapuvar people go out to work in Austria is unacceptable. I believe that this is the right answer in fidesz circles, but believe me, the Kapuvars are absolutely not satisfied with it. Neither is accountability. There have been many attempts to pin this problem on previous governments. I know that the MSZP-Fidesz government The plant had its own calvary at its time, and unfortunately the situation was not revealed, but this is again the fault of the current government, because here, too, serious accountability has been promised, as in many other areas in the country, but this has not happened either. Overall, unfortunately, the previous question remains. In the light of the new court ruling and the facts, the question is all the more urgent and I would like to expect an immediate substantive and decisive answer: did the Hungarian government deliberately contribute to the destruction of the Kapuvar meat factory, or did it simply commit a failure to bleed it out? I'd expect a meaningful answer. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-03-16-356	Thank you very much. Congressman Sallai R. Benedek, LMP, has applied for a post-meeting speech. Here you go.
u2016-03-16-357	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Please excuse me for wandering away from my own specialty again, but the last time I spoke about my three daughters, the Orbán government is personally responsible for more female violence in the country than all the migrants together, due to the composition of the government. I must now draw the attention of the Parliament to a similar subject, and I believe that there has been no meaningful reaction from the government. The problem hasn't been long. In November 2010, Ilona Ékes Fideszes, Member of Parliament, asked the Minister of the Interior about child prostitution in Hungary. He wrote: "I am convinced that in the case of minors, we cannot talk about voluntary activity, most of the time young girls are on the streets because of threats, coercion and violence. Well, the sensitivity of the Minister of the Interior was commendable at the same time, broadly stating that there is no child prostitution in Hungary, and in cases where there is a principle, children choose it voluntarily. Literally, he said that, unfortunately, more and more girls are willing to sell their bodies with financial intent. You would think that, after this was said in 2010, something changed, since the Ombudsman responsible for fundamental rights examined a year later. At the time, the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights stated in his report that the signal system had not yet responded in any form to the suspicion of sexual exploitation, and that evidence was usually received late. The system cannot act effectively against child prostitution, because there is no internal cooperation, knowledge, professional guidance, procedures, and procedures, says the report and adds: "The investigation also revealed that, in the absence of special knowledge, professional protocols, practical guidelines, professionals in child protection are unable to act in good time and effectiveness in order to prevent it, and they are unable to provide adequate assistance to children who are victims of prostitution. Well, it's been a few more years, and we'd think there's been a change in the situation. Unfortunately, however, the change is not favourable, as Europol statistics say today that one in five victims of child prostitution was Hungarian to European traffickers between 2009 and 2013, and unfortunately this trend is changing negatively. About what happens every day, we get it from the press. If you look at the Hungarian Nation or the Index, you can see that a 12-year-old girl recently reported: she met a 45-year-old man on Facebook, who nominated her based on her profile picture, she re-signed her, because she was very happy that for a 12-year-old, someone wrote to her how beautiful she was. From then on, they chatted a lot, and then he talked her into moving in with him. Based on the current situation, Brigi set off on a bike at night to move there. It's a complete coincidence that none of this happened. Her brother noticed the girl's bicycle disappearance, the police went out, but it turned out that Brigi had already been sold and sold on the Western European market, where customers were waiting for her. If anyone thinks this is an isolated case, they are wrong, because right now we are talking about thousands of Hungarian children who are missing in different Western European countries over the age of 12. The number of 14-23-year-old girls and boys who are lured to Western Europe with such a promising vision can be estimated to be at least 8,000, so a small settlement. They're taking their victims to countries where only running is forbidden, but prostitution itself isn't. This is how they end up in Germany, Austria, Belgium, the Netherlands, the United Kingdom, France, Switzerland and Italy, where in most cases they are forced to prostitute on three shifts seven days a week. We can be shocked by the data, but let's look again at the statistics on what happened in practice. In Hungary, my fellow Member Bernadett Szél asked the Minister of the Interior with a written question to ask how many proceedings will be opened in such cases. In the second half of 2013, there were zero cases, four cases in 2014, and four cases in the first half of 2015. This is important because it proves that it's the Btk. its amendments and restrictions are of no value in the absence of procedural, investigative and incriminating intent. As a reference, the European Commission found that in 2010-12 only 30 146 victims were registered in the EU, who were employed in various aggressions. This is still happening today, while the Hungarian government has been waiting almost a year for the implementation of the Istanbul Convention in Hungary, and there is no meaningful step to ensure that the supply system is able to deal with these problems and that real steps are taken to eradicate the crimes. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-03-16-358	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches after the agenda. Thank you for your work. Parliament will resume its meeting at 9:00 a.m. tomorrow morning. Meeting day's closed. Good night, everyone. [[Meeting ended at 11:57 p.m.]]
