u2016-05-02-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] Good afternoon, everyone. The 21st day of the Spring Session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that István Tiba and Ádám Mirkóczki will be in charge of the meeting to help me. I welcome all those who monitor our work. Dear Parliament, We will begin our work with speeches before the agenda today, from 11:50 a.m. to 13:20 a.m. for questions, and then from approximately 13:20 a.m. to 14:20 a.m. for instant questions and answers, and then we will have a political debate, and we will conclude the Parliament's session with speeches after the agenda. Dear Parliament, Mr András Schiffer, leader of the LMP Group, applied for a pre-meeting speech:. When the sky and earth fall apart. Here you go.
u2016-05-02-1	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Sportyness wishes me to acknowledge that thanks to the socialists, but this morning it came to light that György Matolcsy personally participated in decisions on various foundation benefits. I can only congratulate you on this, and I would ask the Secretary of State to draw the passage from his prepared reply that even the curatoriums are independent of the central bank, not only the central bank is independent of Parliament. [[András Tállai intervenes.]] Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, In the last few days, it has occurred to the government that György Matolcsy is exposed to all kinds of unkind attacks because we want to attack his otherwise successful monetary policy. Then I'd like to clear some things up before Secretary Csepreghy nods a lot. György Matolcsy's monetary policy is considered correct by the LMP - and I think we are not entirely alone on the opposition side. Earlier, when András Simor led the central bank, we ourselves demanded a change of direction from the central bank, which György Matolcsy implemented, such an anti-inflationary policy, which involves weakening the forint and reducing interest rates. The problem, however, is that this monetary policy or this change in monetary policy has led to the creation of a profit for the central bank. If György Matolcsy were to pursue a responsible monetary policy, then this profit should serve, among other things, to ensure that, in the event that winds occur, for reasons other than reasons within Hungary, the profits generated by it, resulting from the gap between the higher and the low exchange rate, should be a reserve. The irresponsible spending that the central bank is doing today is precisely a risk to the success of the otherwise correct monetary policy. Because if this anti-inflationary cycle passes, the central bank will be forced to turn to the budget. So, to be clear: the money that is being applauded today by relatives, the money that is being spent today on paintings and offshore palaces, will be missing when this anti-inflationary cycle is over, and it will have to be taken out of people's pockets. Of course, we also consider domestic credit recovery to be the right thing to do. Another issue is that 70 percent of the growth credit programme has otherwise gone out to repay loans. The question is, if you're trying to help your domestic capital-building skills, then why do you trade offshore companies? Thirdly, of course, we also welcome the fact that if one of the Hungarian economists today finally realizes that the neoliberal sovereignty that marked economic policy over the last decades cannot be maintained. The problem is that this person is the President of the Central Bank and not the Rector of the University of Economics. Of course, it would be worth a mass that, if such an end to orthodoxism is the goal of Matolcsy foundations, how could one of these Matolcsy foundations have supported, among other things, the Free Market Foundation, represented by the independent representative and extremist neoliberal representative Zoltán Készt. Where such orbital things come to light in the book of the Free Market Foundation, such as: public money is a waste of social benefits. In this book, which was supported by the Free Market Foundation, there is a chapter - I think it's the only thing that is right and suitable for support - it says: "The politicians have stolen your future, but you can have it back. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Dear Parliament, The situation is that there is an otherwise correct monetary policy - this irresponsible and otherwise illegal spending is putting this success at risk - and there is a central bank law. This is the central bank law under Article 4 (1) (a) of Regulation (EU) No 575/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 December 2013 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council - clearly stating that the central bank can only carry out tasks assigned to it by law. In vain, the Central Bank Act says 162. Paragraph (2) of Article 4 of the Act provides that the central bank may set up companies or commission foundations. Paragraph 11 of the Act makes it possible to do so only for statutory purposes. There is no legal purpose that would make these kinships legal. And from here on out, the Criminal Code of 376 comes up. §2 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, the fact that a person has been entrusted with the management of foreign assets [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] And by violating his duty to do so, he will be a property disadvantage, and he will commit unfaithful treatment. That's what happened at the central bank right now. György Matolcsy must go, exactly what he has followed. [[The president's ringing again.]] the success of the correct monetary policy. Thank you very much.
u2016-05-02-2	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Government, Mr András Tállai, State Secretary, responds. Here.
u2016-05-02-3	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Chief of Staff, The essence of the speech before the agenda is that the group will give its opinion on a particular issue, such as the monetary policy and management of the Hungarian National Bank, and the member of the government will respond. Before I reply, I would like to reiterate that the government is not in any subordination relationship with the Hungarian National Bank. [[Dr. András Schiffer: This is last week's...]] do not give instructions, the Hungarian National Bank may not accept instructions. [[Rumble in the lines of the LMP.]] So when you want an answer from the government, you need to be aware of that. And the Ministry of National Economy - the shares of MNB are all state-owned and represented by the Minister for Public Finance - on this issue only the establishment and amendment of the articles of incorporation, the selection and recall of auditors, and the determination of the remuneration of the auditor falls under the responsibility of the Ministry of National Economy, the Minister. [[Dr. Wind Bernadett: We have to call him back. There he is!]] As regards the substance of your speech, first of all, I thank you for your speech, because in the four-fifth part of your speech you gave a commendable speech on the monetary policy of the Hungarian National Bank. It was commendable of the activity that the Hungarian National Bank has done since the 2013 change. [[Dr. András Schiffer: Is it possible to steal now?]] for the Hungarian economy and for the Hungarian monetary policy. Thus, among other things, it must be acknowledged that the Magyar Nemzeti Bank produces profits [[Dr. András Schiffer: Is it okay to steal?]] that its foreign reserves are constantly increasing, that public debt is falling, that inflation in Hungary has basically ceased, and that it had a specific programme, the growth credit programme, which is unique in the European Union as well. [[11.10]] We believe that this helped the Hungarian economy, helped out businesses operating in Hungary [[Dr. Wind Bernadett's intervention.]] which the Hungarian commercial banks did not do. [[Dr. András Schiffer: Family bank!]] He helped foreign exchange lenders with the liquidation of the foreign exchange credit system, he was a great help to Hungarian people in forinting that foreign exchange loans could be redeemed and converted into forints. What you are debating and criticizing the National Bank of Hungary is that, after it is profitable, you expect it to be paid into the budget and not placed in a reserve by yourself. [[Dr. András Schiffer: And the Feds!]] - which is otherwise desirable - and not fundraiser management [[Dr. András Schiffer: Don't put it in your pocket.]] You should spend it. I also think that this debate can come to a standstill. [[Dr. András Schiffer: Sure!]] because you said in your speech that, of course, when the activity of the National Bank changes and becomes loss-making, the budget must be added. [[Dr. András Schiffer: I didn't say that!]] [[Dr. András Schiffer: I didn't say that!]] The goal is exactly that (Dr. András Schiffer: I didn't say that!) that when it is profitable, the Hungarian National Bank should reserve and not call for the state budget's help. Now it's profitable, now it can save, and when the time comes, it can't be profitable. [[Dr. András Schiffer: He doesn't reserve it because it's stolen!]] then you can complement it yourself from this reserve and do not have to call for the help of the budget. [[Dr. András Schiffer: Who does he reserve? With the family!]] He welcomed several things in the monetary policy of the Hungarian National Bank. I think we agree on that, and the Hungarian National Bank [[Dr. András Schiffer: When do we call the police?]] this is the first and most important issue in its assessment. [[Dr. Wind Bernadett: Stealing is what's important!]] whether it helps Hungarian businesses, whether it helps Hungarian monetary policy, financial policy, and I think we agree on that. [[Erzsébet Schmuck: You're talking about something else, Secretary of State.]] As regards the foundational support and management of the Hungarian National Bank [[Dr. András Schiffer: The family bank!]] the foundations are independent legal persons with an appropriate leading body, the board of directors. Obviously, decisions on farming are essentially their responsibility. [[István Tukacs: The State is the owner!]] And again, it's not the government's. [[Dr. Wind Bernadett: But you can call him back.]] And the fact that the head of the LMP faction takes over the role of the prosecution and the police and now suspects me is obviously a political declaration that doesn't make any sense in Parliament. [[Dr. András Schiffer: No! Parliament is this way! A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2016-05-02-4	Thank you very much. [[András Tállai to Dr. Andras Schiffer: According to you! Give me a break with your bullshit.]] Dear Parliament, János Latorcai, Member of the KDNP, Vice-President of the Parliament, asked for a pre-meeting address with the title of solidarity between Tamás Solomon-Rácz and the Hungarian-Polish-Polish. Mr. Vice President, please.
u2016-05-02-5	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear fellow Members, The friendship and bond that characterizes the historical history of the Polish and Hungarian peoples until today is unprecedented. Our common saints, our kings and heroes, the sacrifice for each other's freedom, the Hungarian help to the Poles after the First World War, the history of Polish refugees accepted during the Second World War and the history of Hungarian refugees accepted after 1956 is an eternal link in the lives of the two nations. This solidarity between our nations will shape the fate of our countries to this day, but it will only have a real impact on our future if we preserve the memory of our common heroes and use their sacrifice for ourselves. In 2007 the Polish and Hungarian Parliament adopted a joint resolution proposal to celebrate the day of Polish-Hungarian friendship, leading to the need for joint commemoration, and in 2014 the one that honors the actions of József Antall and Henryk Sławik the older, and that is why this year, 2016 could also be declared a year of Hungarian-Polish solidarity. The decisions have been made, our task is to fill them with real content, messages to the present and the future, and not to forget our heroes. Mr President, Dear fellow Members, Today we remember a man who was able to openly stand up for solidarity with the Polish people when it could have cost him his life. We remember a man who was undeservedly forgotten by posterity, unfortunately we, today's offspring, too. Tamás Solomon-Rácz is an official of the Hungarian-Polish Chamber of Commerce during the Second World War, then secretary of the Hungarian-Polish Asylum Commission, who in this capacity helped the location and integration of Polish refugees arriving in our country, and earned inexorable merit in the escape of Polish refugees, civilians and soldiers from our southern borders. The Poles among themselves called him only a Dráva sailor with a slightly special pronunciation, as he was one of the organizers of the action in which fishermen from Dráva took the refugees from the Hungarian side to the Yugoslav side. Thanks to its activities, nearly 60-70,000 Polish soldiers fled to Hungary, so they left the green border and began to reorganize the Polish army. In 1943, the emigrant government of London awarded him the military officer's cross of the Polish Order of Merit, which he could not take over at the time. It is our duty not to let the dust of history fade its merits and conceal its memory. On the afternoon of today, we will take the first step in this area, too, by making a memorial plaque in his former residence. The importance of the inauguration of the plaque is greatly increased by the fact that the Marshal of the Polish Senate, Mr Stanisłav Karczewski, also pays tribute to the position of Tamás Solomon-Rácz, and on a day of special importance in the lives of the Poles, since on 2 May Poland commemorates all those who have sacrificed their lives for the independence of their country, for Polish freedom, the great national tragedies, remembering the horrors of the Second World War, Katyń, the uprising of Warsaw and Auschwitz. But they remember Henryk Sławik, József Antall Sr., and Tamás Solomon-Rácz from today. In these days, let us also remember the Polish heroes who, at the risk of everything, fought for Hungarian freedom, but let us never forget those Poles who live in our country who have increased and increased our country by their hardworking, often almost undetectable, everyday work, strengthening our historical relations with a thousand threads. God bless Polish-Hungarian friendship! Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause from the benches of the governing parties and the MSZP.]]
u2016-05-02-6	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Before I give the floor to the State Secretary Bence Rétvári, on your behalf, I welcome the students of the Óbuda High School and of Sándor Cserháti's Vocational Training School and College of Nagykanizsa, as well as the teachers' colleagues. I'm glad you're here. Good afternoon. Now it's time for Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Here you go.
u2016-05-02-7	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr. Congressman, Mr. Vice President, Dear House, The tomb of József Antall Sr. has the following inscription:. Polonia semper fidelis, which means that Poland is forever loyal. For us Hungarians, I believe that the Polish has always been perhaps the nation that has always formed a brotherly, friendly relationship with us. [[11.20]] We owe them so much in our history, and so do we. The history of the two countries was connected and connected everywhere with the struggles for three parts, national independence, opposition to dictatorships coming from the East and the West. We can also say that Hungarian patriotism is part of Polish friendship, it has always been and will always be a part of it, because of the common history of the two countries. Thank you, Mr Vice-President, for remembering the Dráva sailor, Tamás Solomon-Rácz, here in Parliament, and perhaps not unimaginable, whether we are thinking about the preparatory period of World War II or the worst period, or even the XIX. The events of the 20th century, that we can almost always find Hungarians and Poles who are decisive for Polish-Hungarian friendship, and we could probably open every week a sitting day by remembering a person who has done much for the friendship of Hungarians and Poles. Here you mentioned Henryk Sławik and József Antall Sr., but if you think back, How much Pope John Paul did for the breakdown of communism and for the freedom of the peoples of Central Europe, then he was a great confirmation of this. And it is clear that in historical times, when we notice a turning point, an era, a continent, then the V4 cooperation, Polish-Hungarian cooperation, the cooperation of Central European peoples and nations are always stronger, because not only our interests are the same, but also our values, and thus it is easier to find a common voice between one and another. We pay tribute to those people who, as Poles, did for Hungarian freedom or fought for Polish freedom as Hungarians. Many have even sacrificed their lives for the independence of the homeland or the brotherhood. Special thanks to those who fought here in Hungary. It is our duty to preserve their memory. With regard to the Poles now living here and to all other nationalities, we can say that if we do an account on Hungary's national policy, we can see that in the last six years the opportunities of all Hungarian ethnicities have been greatly expanded, since their support has increased by two and a half times in six years, from HUF 3.2 billion to HUF 8 billion. In ethnic education, the number of educational institutions has multiplied by five, and the number of students has tripled, and now the speakers of Poles and others can sit here and speak in Parliament. It is an important step in our 1,000-year history that the advocate of Polishism can sit here in the Hungarian Parliament and express his opinion on the issues in which they feel competent. The number of Poles also increased, as while there were 5144 many ten years ago, at the last census 7001 people considered themselves Polish. It is also noteworthy that many people in Hungary study in Polish, and in Poland there are several universities that can study Hungarian, Hungarian, Hungarian literature and Hungarian history. It is also important in the light of today's news, that the attacks that hit Hungary a few years ago seem to be moving partly to Poland, as Poland is being attacked several times on the European stage, and the Poles can count on the Hungarians now, not for their gun friendship, but for the Hungarians' stand-up and solidarity. We will not allow repeated Polish-Hungarian friendships to be damaged in any way, but in matters that are important to the Polish and Hungarian people, we will also stand up for our Polish friends on the European stage. This is important not only for Polish-Hungarian friendship, but also for the future of Europe. We cannot go without saying that this year is an important 60-year anniversary for both Polish freedom fights and Hungarian freedom fights. For this reason, it is important for us to have several Polish-Hungarian joint commemorations of the anniversary of the 1956 Revolution and the War of Independence. So we plan to organize a conference at the Wyszyń University, which is about Polish and Hungarian events in 1956, and will also take place with the support of the 56 Memorial Committee, so that two brothers' settlements between Csepel and Szczecin, which stood side by side in 1956 - the Szczecini primarily gave blood, sold stamps - will be organized in the two countries. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-05-02-8	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Dániel Z. Kárpát, representative of Jobbik, applied for a pre-meeting speech:. Why does the government destroy with napalm on the side of the road? It's an address. Here you go.
u2016-05-02-9	Mr President, Dear House, This government not only likes to appear as a family-friendly government in its billboards, but also in its propaganda. It can now do so from a propaganda framework of more than ten times, as the budget budget earmarked for government communication for the propaganda industry is already over 15 billion, and it should be somewhere else. But the point is, according to the news of the last few days, I think it is surprising to you, too, but not unexpectedly, in two months some 545 Hungarian families have been evicted from their homes. In 545 cases, families were torn apart, destroyed, and their lives made impossible by the family-friendly government. I would like to stress that in two months as many people have been thrown out of their homes as in the previous year. All of this, despite your promises, despite your billboards promising bank accountability. You have brought a social disaster to Hungary! They will take the consequences of this because they knew very well that this would happen! We warned you two or three weeks ago, when the leaders of the organisations protecting credit victims in Western Square organised a very large demonstration. We invited them here to Parliament, and in an interpelling, immediate period of questioning, we asked you whether you were afraid of a similar disaster. The fact is that 545 Hungarian families were evicted from their homes with your consent, because of your impotence, because they were unable to handle an otherwise manageable situation. Although you promised not to leave anyone on the side of the road, you destroyed them with napalm on the side of the road, because it will be very difficult to get these families to the conditions of normal life, but we will try to do so at the same time. Let us also add that the series of scandals about the Hungarian National Bank is constantly at the heart of the news these days. Let's just say once again that the MNB foundations here spend money on foreign exchange credit victims. They are spending the surplus that has accumulated from the so-called settlement and settlement of credit victims to a conversion process. The resulting surplus of more than 134 billion dollars - at least this, if not over HUF 200 billion - Jobbik wants to group them into a compensation fund, which we could now help from the compensation fund those who are destroyed by napalm even from the side of the road, because they will not be tolerated there, they will be evicted from their homes, and, yes, in the case of 545 families, this has already happened in two months. 255 families had to leave their homes by court order, 244 families were thrown out of their homes by bailiffs, and in six cases the bank sold the property with a noble simplicity above the owner's head, probably at a depressed price, because it could do so thanks to your legal environment. Here, thanks to the, it is, of course, to be understood as a quotation mark. The incredibly dehydrated economic model you've created cannot handle this situation. I would ask the Secretary of State not to explain to the National Asset Manager, which could provide a solution to another 3,000 families. But what's the solution to taking their property and then renting back their own apartment? Also, do not refer to private bankruptcy, which would have been a very good construction if it had not been called debt slavery, and they did not lay down such harsh conditions that only one or two hundred people dared to enter into this adventure, which could not be considered an adventure, but rather a tragedy. And now the time is coming when, in the case of exchange barriers, the huge extra burden on the collector's account will fall into the neck of families, triggering a series of further national disasters and spirals in Hungary. What you should be testifying about is the pact you made with the EBRD last year, which means you simply refuse to burden the banking system any longer. What pact has been concluded with the Banking Association, where it has been stated in detail that the banks concerned will not be subject to any additional burden in order to resolve the situation of the victims? It should also be said how they can tolerate Hungary to develop a climate when one of the leaders of the Curia goes to the banks. There's a verdict that's good for the victim, but they're not gonna see it as a guide, and it's gonna get out to the public - there's no consequence of that? Therefore, if you have any sense of responsibility left, immediately extend the eviction moratorium. Finally, by HUFing loans at the rate of admission, the situation could still be resolved, but we see that you have little willingness to do so. We can promise you this: Jobbik will be there, Jobbik will document the evictions, and not in a bloody way, but in a fair, but with steel hardness, we will have everyone involved in this whole series of assassinations accounted for. I can assure you of that. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-05-02-10	Thank you very much. State Secretary Pál Völner responds on behalf of the government. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. [[11.30]]
u2016-05-02-11	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear House, Honourable Congressman, It is very regrettable that Jobbik lacks not only the ability to govern, the experience of government, but also the ability to study the existing legislation objectively. Indeed, the legislator has dealt with the situation of those indebted and how it can protect them from the risks of changing the exchange rate. Indeed, if you had observed these, the use of these tools - the asset manager, which gave over 32 thousand families the opportunity to ease their situation, or even the debt settlement law, which, in the absence of an emergency situation, has been used only a few hundred families - is all about the government, the parliament, being prepared and creating a legislative environment that allows these difficult families to be helped, and, in most of them, the solution to their situation. It is very unfortunate that you are demagogically trying to use the families in whose situation the implementation phase has arrived. We must not confuse economics, the market economy, social policy, budgetary issues, because from what Mr. Congressman has said, obviously a set of data came out, an atmosphere [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: Don't say it to me, but to the csaåláds!]] and do not take into account the circumstances, the legislation that has been adopted in the past. Since 2003, the so-called winter eviction moratorium has existed in the Hungarian legal system, which contains precisely the eviction moratorium from 1 December to 1 March, in the light of the seasonal conditions and the winter weather, but with this in mind, the current government and the previous government, which has been Regent since 2010 have ensured from 11 August 2010 that the enforcement procedure should not take place to remove residential property affected by the foreign exchange credit problem. You know that very well, Congressman. He also knows that this is an infinitely unsustainable condition, because lending is needed in the housing market, in the private sector. But when the collateral is not a guarantee for banks or creditors in the end, or let us think of private creditors, if a representative had a loan with a mortgage, he would never have access to his claim in life if we were to use the legal instruments that you raise. Therefore, I was in the debt resolution legislation, which was practically extended from 1 March 2016 to those who exceeded it, can also use it, bankruptcy services are available, the asset manager is available. So the statement that there are families left on the side of the road, and, if I remember correctly, the Member mentioned napalm, may not remember the horrors of the Vietnam war from his time, where this instrument was indeed used, but between our relations in Hungary, an image disorder that you apply to the handling of this issue, which should be discussed calmly and calmly, not aroused. I say it is very regrettable that they are trying to use the most vulnerable people here, they are talking about steel hardness, when there is a solid rule of law in Hungary, there is a social policy, there are the means to help. However, it should also be borne in mind that what you mention here in relation to banks is that the role of banks is necessary for the functioning of the economy, both in companies operating on the market and in residential lending. The kind of ideological system inherited from communism to pay the banks - but whose money is in the banks? The public's money is in the banks. If we can't turn those money into a market economy, we can practically knock down the entire economy, the budget, then there won't be any social policy here, there won't be any asset manager, there won't be 25 thousand HUF per month in debt settlement for those involved in this. If you were to go through the consequences of the roads that you are setting out for us, you would see that you do not have to run for office, because you must not go to government with such a programme, because this would result in a certain failure and a country's economic decline. I hope I've been able to convince you of what's been said, and they're going to reverse their views. Thank you for your attention. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-05-02-12	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Before the agenda, Mr. Bertalan Tóth, representative of the MSZP, spoke with the title of the wolf of the bank. Here you go.
u2016-05-02-13	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, A lot of people must have seen that American movie called The Wolf of Wall Street. This film, very simplistically based on the memoirs of an American stockbroker, presented the way an unscrupulous, money-hungry broker uses illegal means for himself, his relatives, and his friends to make unimaginably great fortunes. However, since nothing lasts forever, the protagonists of the story have been caught, confiscated, and they have gone to prison. György Matolcsy's series of scandals revealed in recent weeks is very similar to the previous story in many respects, with the exception that taxpayers' money is being spent and stolen here and the money of the foreign exchange crooked. And you can see that the story isn't over yet. What can be seen is that since 2010, the HUF/euro exchange rate has deteriorated from 265 HUF to 310 HUF, and György Matolcsy did not want a stronger forint. With the deterioration of the forint, he was able to raise the HUF 266 billion of public money that is now being treated and spent as their own. It was believed that this money would lose the character of public money if it was given to the foundations they managed and founded. They thought that after that they would no longer know what they had spent these huge sums of money on. They're wrong, they're busted. It can be seen that billions of HUF 266 billion have been spent on building their own media empire. Tens of billions were spent getting their own commercial banks. With unnecessary orders, they're making huge hundreds of millions for relatives and friendly companies. And for a few billion forints, they also thought about the small-taffirunging of the companies of the people associated with the Prime Minister. Of course, the rules of responsible money management have been constantly violated and no procurement procedure has been used in any public procurement. György Matolcsy and the founding leaders appointed by him did not act according to the principle of, but rather according to the principle of. This, in turn, is a very different game, which may have serious consequences. It has also turned out, ladies and gentlemen, today that the National Bank, led by György Matolcsy, financed the Hungarian budget by a sum of 0.7 per cent of GDP through its foundations. We have tried to clarify this suspicion, but so far no government rebuttal has been received. In fact, some government officials have confirmed today that the National Bank has not acted illegally here and has not violated the prohibition of monetary financing. And as it turns out on the basis of a document, based on a series of documents, the foundations are not independent of the central bank. In the case of one of the foundations, it was not the curatorium who made decisions, but the right-hand man of Viktor Orbán, György Matolcsy and a member of the board appointed by him. Once again, I want everyone to understand that György Matolcsy has actually made a decision on how much money will be committed to his cousin's bank when they buy public debt from his cousin's bank. [[Zoltán Grimlock: Lajos Kósa, how about this?]] This scandal is the greatest national banking scandal of all time, in which it still cannot be fully understood. The fact that György Matolcsy and his friends are still hiding a great deal of data of public interest prevents discernment, and the prime head of the prosecutor's office for the investigation of such cases may be involved through his wife and will not open an investigation. It also does not help to clarify the situation that the Prime Minister could have known everything. At the same time, we will continue to do everything we can to uncover this scandal in its entirety and demonstrate to the public the illegal and harmful activities of the wolf of the central bank. This is what the six-point package, which we have already presented to the State Audit Office, to the Public Procurement Authority, to the Public Prosecutor's Office, to the Committee on Budgets, has been initiated, and we demand that the remaining data of public interest be released, not to hide what individuals have received millions of grants, million contracts from the central bank. We will process the materials from week to week, and we will show the public what happened during the Hungarian national bank robbery. Thank you for your attention. [[11.40]]
u2016-05-02-14	Thank you very much. Mr András Tállai, State Secretary, responds. Here.
u2016-05-02-15	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Let us examine the substantive functioning of the Magyar Nemzeti Bank since 2013 and for the period before 2013. Compare the Hungarian National Bank... [[Interviews from the ranks of the MSZP, including Dr. Bertalan Tóth: Don't compare it, András! Zoltán Grimlock: No! The president's ringing the bell.]] Compare your monetary policy to how it worked during the Hungarian Socialist Party and how it works for the current President of the Hungarian National Bank [[Interview from the ranks of the MSZP: Sit down!]] under your control. Yeah, well, that's when it worked. [[Interjection from the ranks of the MSZP: How?]] András Simor was the president who was voted and supported by the MSZPs [[Lajos Korózs: Talk about Matolcsy, András!]] that the country was bankrupt, that the country was insolvent, and that the IMF had to call for the help of an unconditional surrender of arms, so that the government of our country, the then Gyurcsány government, would not announce the bankruptcy of the Hungarian state. [[Dr. István Józsa intervenes.]] The current situation is that, on the other hand, the monetary policy of the Hungarian National Bank helps to reduce Hungarian government debt [[Interviews from the lines of the MSZP, including Ágnes Kunhalmi laughing: Promotes!]] that the management of the Hungarian National Bank is effective and profitable, unlike in the previous period. [[Interviews from the ranks of the MSZP, among other things: Really not like that! Defiance in the ranks of the MSZP.]] You do not know what it feels like when the Magyar Nemzeti Bank makes a profit, because in your time it did not generate a profit, but created a loss by the Magyar Nemzeti Bank and the loss. [[Zoltán Haughty interrupts.]] His assets have been significantly reduced. If we compare Magyar Nemzeti Bank's inflation activity and policy, then we can see that there was a significantly high inflation before 2013, after 2013, the monitoring of the changes in price increases took place correctly and well, and basically inflation in Hungary ceased. But let's see if we can compare the two Presidents of the National Bank. While in the pre-2013 period, the President of the National Bank had such a bad monetary policy, economic and inflation policy, his monthly salary was HUF 8 million, which was outstanding in the European Union as well. [[Intercom from the lines of the MSZP: But the Matolcsy added the three he received!]] until then, the current President of the Central Bank, whose national banking policy is very effective, has just been told that the political leader of one of the opposition parties has acknowledged that, even if you cannot do this, the monthly income of the President of the Hungarian National Bank is significantly below the salary of András Simor. [[Interview from the ranks of the MSZP: And to all the nurses!]] As far as fundraisers are concerned, you obviously do not know this because there was no source of funding for foundations and foundations at the time; I see that the MSZP does not play a opposition party role [[Interviews from the ranks of the MSZP.]] [[Interviews from the ranks of the MSZP.]] but as the investigating authority of the foundations, as a prosecutor, and has already taken over the role of the court because it has already ruled on the management of the foundations. I recommend reading the Civil Code, what it says about the activities and management of foundations, the legality of which is controlled by the Public Prosecutor's Office, and its management is controlled by the State Audit Office under the Hungarian National Bank Act adopted the other day, and of course by all other Hungarian authorities. (Intercoms from the lines of the MSZP. ) These authorities have the right to control the foundations and to say that it is legal or not legal, not the faction of the Hungarian Socialist Party [[There are constant interruptions from the lines of the MSZP.]] which has already stated that this farming is illegal. As regards the purchase of Hungarian government bonds, no one, the European Central Bank, has said that this is illegal and illegal. [[Interjection from the ranks of the MSZP: Yes, you can.]] He didn't say it. I recommend reading the report of the European Central Bank, 2014 and 2015, and reading the ECB's report before anyone speaks in Parliament and says so, and I have read it; the ECB's report does not mention this at all, in any of its annual reports. So all the allegations about the illegal management of foundations are, and hopefully will remain, nothing more than a political action attack. [[Interviews from the lines of the MSZP: For now? For now, Andrew?! Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-05-02-16	Dear Parliament, Mr Lajos Kósa, Head of Group, representative of Fidesz, asked for a pre-meeting address on the collection of harmful and harmful signatures for workers. Here you go.
u2016-05-02-17	Mr. President. Dear House, The Socialists initiated the collection of referendum signatures to withdraw the legislation prohibiting Sunday work. Parliament has recently decided to withdraw the legislation, and it can be said that the collection of signatures has become obsolete, since the legal effects it intended to replace have occurred. After the law on the referendum determines that the collection of signatures cannot be for self-serving or merely for political purposes, it is the purpose that makes the collection of signatures legal and legitimate, and the commitment to the purpose has ceased, so it is safe to say that the collection of signatures by the socialists is illegitimate. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: That's right!]] does not comply with the rules [[Lajos Korózs: It's all right!]] Moreover, on the basis of this collection of signatures, a referendum cannot be issued, but the socialists collect signatures until the end. One wonders why, and the fact is that the socialists know precisely that they have put their question in such a way that if the effects occur, then the trade worker [[Zoltán Grimlock: You're lying! He's lying!]] About 250,000 people are at extreme disadvantage. [[Zoltán Grimlock: He's lying!]] Quite simply because, after three years of the effectiveness of the referendum, no legal amendment can be made to the legislation. [[Zoltán Grimlock: The Code of Work, right? He's lying!]] which affects the legal effects of the referendum, i.e. the original regulation prohibiting Sunday work. By the way, 250,000 people working in trade are tragically disadvantaged for at least three years. [[Dr. Bence of Rétvári: That's right! Zoltán Grimlock: Louis, you're lying! You're lying!]] The socialists knew exactly, and obviously, because they know some Hungarian, if not exactly, that, as they put the question, it also means that today, even on the holidays, so on national holidays, there is no day off for the workers, because otherwise in the regulation, it was strange that if anyone wants to open on 15 March or on Monday or Monday Easter, they can open it, because this was also out of the regulation. That's how they asked the question. [[Zoltán Pride: That's another lie!]] Of course, they knew exactly what they were doing, which is why the government has made the right decision to initiate the withdrawal of the law at the House, because it opens the door to not abandoning those 250,000 people. The Socialists [[Zoltán Grimlock: Lajos! Doesn't the sky fall on you?]] This was not an item, because for them, the interest of the multinationals is far ahead of any kind of employee representation. [[Zoltán Gőgös: The amendment to the Code of Work is submitted, it must be voted!]] However, we can say that, and the Fidesz faction has negotiated with the trade unions concerned, the Independent Trade Workers' Union, and it was clear that the situation cannot remain that way, but let us record the fact that until the socialists have stopped collecting signatures that are illegal and, by the way, misleading people, or until the Constitutional Court says that a referendum cannot be initiated on the basis of the question of the socialists - by the way - this is the case today - [[Zoltán Grimlock: Who said that? Are you the Constitutional Court? József Tobias: Are you the Ab? And your question, what is that?]] Unfortunately, we cannot touch the legislation in order to improve the situation of commercial workers, because otherwise we will find ourselves in an impossible situation. After all, we will, where appropriate, establish the situation that, although there is no reason for a referendum, we are still in some way debating whether this can be written out or not. Therefore, this has been accepted by the Independent Trade Workers' Union, which has delivered 30,000 signatures to the Fidesz fraction today, where all the workers available by them have asked us to improve their situation, and we have promised it, but it will not be possible to present it to the House before autumn. [[József Tobias: Why not? Dr. István Józsa: You don't want to!]] because this legal situation was created by the socialists. I would add, however, that the Fidesz faction does not give up, despite all kinds of socialist manipulation, that it does not abandon commercial workers; the socialists do not abandon Tesco and all kinds of multi-organisations, and we do not abandon commercial workers. [[Dr. István Józsa: You took it from all the workers! You took it from everyone!]] And then each of you will account for the interests of your constituents. [[Agnes Kunhalmi: You are so scared!]] Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[11.50]]
u2016-05-02-18	Thank you very much. State Secretary Csaba Dömötör, State Secretary responding on behalf of the government, please. [[There's a lot of noise, interruptions from the benches of the MSZP.]]
u2016-05-02-19	[[Dr. István Józsa intervenes several times.]] Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Chief of Staff, [[The president's ringing the bell.]] It is quite clear that the MSZP initiated the referendum for party political purposes, for the sake of political trouble. [[Zoltán Grimlock: Against Earth Stealing!]] This is also evident from the fact that they continue to collect signatures even after the law has been revoked. [[Zoltán Grumpy and Ágnes Kunhalmi: Why did you take it back?]] They do this despite the fact that, according to the data protection officer's opinion, the collection of signatures is not legitimate, it is not fair. [[József Tobias to Lajos Kósa: If I were to sink as low as you are, you could beat me with your routine.]] That's what Congressman Haughty said, "So what?" It's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's [[Zoltán Gőgös: We collect signatures against theft of land.]] He's got a soul. However, there is a referendum that affects all Hungarians, which is crucial not only for Hungary, but for the future of Europe as a whole. [[Dr. István Józsa: Shame!]] This is the referendum on forced resettlement. The government has already taken the necessary steps to issue a referendum [[There are constant interruptions from the benches of the MSZP.]] We need a mansion decision, which will be given tomorrow according to their information. [[József Tobias: Show us where that decision is!]] The referendum is necessary because, after repeated denials, slumbering, forced resettlement, compulsory quotas have once again crawled back to the EU agenda, Brussels has abused its dominant position and wants to make a binding decision as soon as possible. Brussels's proposal is also spookily similar to the strategy that the left had set up in 2007, which was even during the government meeting at the time. [[József Tobias: That's right! You're in more than one capacity in Europe. Dr. István Józsa: 12 million today!- Lajos Kósa: Are you waiting for the million Chinese?]] The position of the current government is clear: it is unacceptable for Hungary to have some bureaucrats in Brussels decide who lives in Hungary. [[József Tobias: How much did you earn? Zoltán Grimlock: How much money did you make, talk about it! Agnes Kunhalmi intervenes. Noise in MSZP benches. The president's ringing the bell.]]
u2016-05-02-20	Let's stop for a second. The thing is, I'm in charge of the meeting. The Secretary of State has the floor. Everyone else, make sure you're able to yell at me for real after that. [[Deterioration in the benches of MSZP. Agnes Kunhalmi: Don't make any sense!]] Until they know what he's saying, they can't yell at me. [[Noise. One voice, that beard, that's what you need to get out.]] Secretary of State, please.
u2016-05-02-21	If the left-wing factions have time between yelling, I'd be happy to say that the government accepts [[An uproar in the benches of the MSZP.]] that individual EU countries want to solve their demographic and economic problems through immigration [[József Tobias: Unfortunately, there is no time for that.]] But the current government reserves the right to follow a different path. [[Interjection by Dr. István Józsa]] The reason why we have to follow another path is because immigration is not an economic issue, but rather a matter of security and culture. Moreover, it should not be indifferent to you that every second youth is unemployed in some EU Member States. [[Agnes Kunhalmi: You have driven away every second son. Lajos Kósa: The Chinese are coming for them, children, don't worry.]] We've told you several times, we're going to tell you now, because we have to tell you that the forced resettlement, no matter how much you dispute it, is a dangerous proposal. It's dangerous because it creates more problems than it solves. A proposal based on mandatory quotas is an invitation for millions of others, and the security risks of uncontrolled immigration, I think we no longer need to present it. Dear Chief of Staff, Decisions should not be allowed over the head of a sovereign state, and therefore one of the most important tasks of the period ahead is to reject the forced resettlement together. A successful referendum is the best way to do this. The referendum stands up for Hungary and stands up for the conviction that the Hungarian people must decide who they want to live with and who they do not, and stand up for the democratic values on the basis of which the European Union was created. [[Agnes Kunhalmi: You are endangering the country. Dr. István Józsa: Stand by the instigation. Agnes Kunhalmi: Democracy? You forgot the word!]] Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the benches of the governing parties. József Tobias: Thank you.]]
u2016-05-02-22	Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that we have reached the end of the speeches before the agenda. [[Agnes Kunhalmi: Thank God!]] I would like to ask Mr István Tiba to present the list of speakers after the agenda. Here you go.
u2016-05-02-23	Dear Parliament, László Varju, independent; Sándor Bodó, Fidesz; Dániel Z. Kárpát, Jobbik; Zoltán Magyar, Jobbik; Gergely Farkas, Jobbik.
u2016-05-02-24	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Now, at 11:54 p.m., we will begin the discussion of questions and immediate questions. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that the Speaker of Parliament is the Rules of Procedure 121. Under the authority of paragraph 4 (a) of Section 4 of the Act, representative Zoltán Magyar K/10227. He rejected the written question submitted to the Minister for National Development because the motion was not within the minister's remit. Dear Parliament, Congressman Lajos Korózs, representative of the MSZP, would like to ask the Minister of Human Resources a question:, What would you spend 266 billion forints on if you agreed to help the government better help people with low pensions? It's an address. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-05-02-25	Thank you very much. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, György Matolcsy, Viktor Orbán's right-hand man has been exposed. It was discovered, as it became clear from the documents sued by the socialists that several foundations had totaled HUF 266 billion, and they wanted to steal most of these funds. It's a disgrace. I think that the building itself can no longer be called the National Bank of Hungary, that is the residence of criminals. Meanwhile, 100 billion forints are being stolen, while a 0.9 percent pension increase has been set in the budget submitted to the Parliament next year. You don't have to be a head counter to see that 900,000 pensioners today live under the minimum living age of 2.7 million pensioners who wait every month to have a chance for a happier month or a happier year. From this budget, it seems that the person who was miserable this year will also be the one who needs it this year, who will also need it for the future. If you look at pensions as a whole, it won't even cost 1000 HUF a month's increase next year. But if you look at pension-like benefits that are paid today on the pension section, then I think it is a shame to say that the average increase in a spouse allowance next year will be 140 forints, the average increase in disability benefit will be 310 forints, an accident benefit can expect some 235 forints; an agricultural pensioner will be HUF 745 forints, a total of 340 forints for an orphan. I stress, on average. Mr. Secretary. What would you spend this 266 billion forints on? Thank you very much.
u2016-05-02-26	Secretary Bence Rétvári responds. Here you go.
u2016-05-02-27	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Apparently, the group of MSZP - who has looked at the list - is preparing today to see what would happen out of HUF 266 billion in all sectors, social areas, pension areas, health care, and on which a representative may have come from the faction to Parliament today. [[Zoltán Grimlock: There are many of us. More than you! Agnes Kunhalmi: Answer me! Zoltán Grimlock: You have not responded so far. Intercoms in the benches of the MSZP.]] That feeling, the appearance of a government decision to use a profit at the National Bank for welfare purposes. Obviously, you know it, and whoever follows Parliament's work more closely, also knows that these are two completely separate items. These amounts are not part of the Hungarian budget at all, so the government does not have any choice as to where, where and how to spend the 266 billion forints you mentioned. [[Dr. István Józsa and István Tukacs: Who chose Matolcsy?]] It is independent of what the government has done in recent years, even in the area of pensions, but it has not done so in such a legal fiction, which cannot be done legally, since it is completely excluded by the legislation. And the socialists know this, and they are only doing it to clearly increase the communication of this matter, although there is no legal possibility, and obviously the European Commission would already initiate infringement proceedings against Hungary if it did so. [[Dr. István Józsa: The Commission! The Commission! Where's the money?]] But they think it doesn't matter that it's not legally feasible, it doesn't matter that they're able to pull off illegal political capital, which is why they're doing this series today. [[Zoltán Haughty: Answer the question! Dr. István Józsa intervenes.]] As far as the area of pensions is concerned. Honourable Congressman, Each year, Fidesz-KDNP has increased pensions to an increasing extent, even overall, in terms of purchasing power. He did this not by credit, but by the fact that, as a result of the operation of the Hungarian reforms, the economy already has the power, the performance of which the pension fund also has additional resources. Instead, you have tightened the rules for working with a pension, abolished the 13th month pension, raised the retirement age, reduced the amount of early pensions by 8 percent, and abolished the correction of 540 thousand invalids. [[Zoltán Haughty interrupts. Lajos Korózs: What would you spend 266 billion on? Zoltán Grimlock: You didn't tell me about that! Intercoms in the benches of the MSZP. The president's ringing the bell.]] This is what you have done, and in addition, a month's pension, i.e. 8 percent, has been taken from all Hungarian pensioners. [[Dr. István Józsa: There has been no disability pension since then.]] We've given this back over the last five years. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches. Noise in the benches of MSZP.]]
u2016-05-02-28	Congressman Lajos Rig, representative of Jobbik, would like to ask the Minister of Human Resources: "Let us put clean water in the glass - how do you intend to finance the restructuring of chronic beds? It's an address. Here you go. [[12.00]]
u2016-05-02-29	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, There is a strong division of opinions within the profession on the transfers currently planned, so there is plenty to talk about in terms of the removal of chronic sickbeds and their outsourcing to the social sector. One of the main reasons for this is that the government is not communicating adequately with the relevant health actors, who are thus mainly informed by the press and other media. It is therefore important to provide adequate and targeted information to the profession. The fact that the majority of chronic beds are being cared for today is within the healthcare system, so a well-controlled outsourcing may come in handy. The draft was announced in March and, as far as I know, in July the government is preparing for the outsourcing of thousands of chronic sick beds. The government promises a smooth transition, of course it promised a smooth transition when the KIRA system was introduced. We all know the consequences of that, and for three months, the salaries didn't come properly. So don't make the same mistake, you don't have to act rashly. We need a well-thought-out, operational system. The statement by Csaba Dózsa, responsible for drafting the concept, on the basis of which patients or their relatives should be involved in the care of long-term care costs, is a cause for concern. This is, in our view, unacceptable and unacceptable. In Hungary, half of the population is living below the minimum living age, and this paying system would impose disproportionate costs on patients and their relatives. So I ask Mr Secretary of State whether the introduction of the new system involves additional resources, or whether I really want to make this system pay. I ask for a substantive answer. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2016-05-02-30	Secretary Bence Rétvári, please.
u2016-05-02-31	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, I would like to start with the end: the reason why we are about to begin this transformation, this restructuring, is because now there is an additional source of resources in each sphere concerned. There is more resources in health care, more resources in social care. That is why we have been able to move forward in this direction for decades, because there is no such pressure anywhere on the health system or on the social system as to achieve savings. After all, this reorganisation, if we look at it in a tens of years perspective... - and this is the reason why we have to look at it this way, because the Hungarian society is getting old, there are more and more older people, and more older people need to be taken care of not necessarily in hospital conditions, as they are doing now, because it is not important for the doctor to look at the patient several times a day, because his condition does not change, but he needs care and care, not only in medical terms, but also in social terms, so he needs the kind of care and care that they can do better in social care. We therefore expect this to come from an overall surplus of resources in the social system, but obviously we do not plan this additional resource as the socialists would plan to collect it from the patients, the beneficiaries, as anyone who is now lying free of charge in any system, whether in the health system, free of charge or in the social system, should, of course, continue to be guaranteed this free of charge. For those who work next to these beds, even if their employer changes and is transferred from the healthcare system to the health care system, his salary must, of course, be guaranteed not to be reduced. As regards communication or discussions with those involved in the sector, you may know, you read in the news that a joint conference on inter-sectoral health, social, and even pension and family affairs was held a few weeks ago precisely so that institutional leaders, experts, researchers, those involved in the sector firsthand, were informed of the latest developments by the State Secretarys, experts and drafters of the proposal, and we intend to continue to do so. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2016-05-02-32	Dear Parliament, Congresswoman Bernadett Szél, representative of the LMP, would you like to ask the Minister for National Development a question, "Do you want to deprive workers of another supplement?" It's an address. Here you go.
u2016-05-02-33	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Dear Parliament, On 25 February, the Szeged court decided that the MÁV would have to pay an overtime of HUF 5 billion to ten thousand of its employees, going back three years. Indeed, since the entry into force of the new Labour Code, this state company has been in breach of practice. The new Mt. According to him, if a person is employed in a stand-by job and is assigned to a regular working order on Sunday, their working day before that shall not be counted as normal working hours, but as a so-called extraordinary work, and this must be paid. Now, the MÁV has not paid overtime to these workers in recent years. The tricks started right after the court's decision. The MÁV has offered individual agreements to the employees, and the lump sum involved is much lower than the remuneration they deserve. It's an obvious scam. The MÁV therefore wants to avoid its legal obligations. In order to avoid this being enough, the government has put a shovel on it, according to press information, they are preparing for a change to legitimize the illegal practice of the MÁV in order not to have to pay the stand-by jobs for Saturdays. This is completely unacceptable, because those working in a stand-by position cannot be forced to work on Saturdays and Sundays without paying extras. This would mean that these people would work up to 16 hours a day with 10-15 percent less money, while I would like to remind you that the salaries of the MÁV leaders have increased by two and a half times. On the one hand, I ask the Minister and the Minister of State who replaced him to explain how he could watch the MÁV's tricks do nothing. How could the government stand by and watch this violation for years? Why do they still want to avoid legal obligations with individual agreements that are less favourable to workers? On the other hand, I would like a clear answer as to whether the government is actually preparing to legitimise the MÁV with the Labour Code. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] Completely illegal practice.
u2016-05-02-34	The question will be answered by Secretary of State János Fónagy. Here.
u2016-05-02-35	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and For many years, the employers of the MÁV group have not been in violation of the law by assigning workers with stand-by jobs to work according to the characteristics of the railway plant that has been operating for 170 years, on Sunday and on the Saturdays immediately preceding this. In its judgment, the Administrative and Labour Court of Szeged stated that in this case the work carried out on Saturday should be counted as extraordinary work. The MÁV Group continues to have an elemental interest and obligation in legal employment, and therefore, in the light of the final judgment, it has initiated the conclusion of flat-rate individual agreements with the employees concerned in order to settle claims arising under this title. The flat-rate nature is intended to ensure that all data subjects are not subject to a three-year review of working time data and on this basis a detailed accounting. The Member's statement that the lump sum offered is more favourable to workers shows that the Member's background may not be fully available. On 25 March 2015, the MÁV Group announced to the represented trade unions that it would recalculate with corrected working time data for all workers currently employed in a stand-by position and pay the difference in wages to those entitled to do so this year. Those who concluded a flat-rate agreement with their employer until 31 March 2016 also received this amount in April, but they are also entitled to request a detailed settlement. As regards the other comments made by the congresswoman, this provision is addressed to Ms Mt. 101. § 3 was introduced into the system by the 2012 Labour Code, so this is not a long-term thing. This provision of the Labour Code is contrary to those which, unfortunately, are now becoming less and less known for continuous work. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] It is impossible to assign workers in such a way that this corresponds to rational functioning. 170 years of practice confirms (The President will announce the end of the time by jogging the bell.) former Mt. the correctness of it. Thank you for your patience, Mr. President. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2016-05-02-36	Dear Parliament, MEPs Alpár Gyopáros and János Pócs, representatives of Fidesz, wish to ask the Minister of Agriculture: "Health begins with healthy food and nutrition. It's an address. Congressman Puddle has the floor. Here you go. [[12.10]]
u2016-05-02-37	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, While the opposition political hysteria campaign is freely flooding the Hungarian media [[Defiance in the ranks of the MSZP.]] Unfortunately, there is little mention of the really important issues. [[István Szávay: Especially about public servants.]] Today, food counterfeiting is the second most important black market activity after drug trafficking in Hungary. Effective control of the area is therefore of paramount importance. As I recall, our fellow opponents do not give much attention to this issue, since they are typically not very enthusiastic about budgetary measures that allow effective control of the food chain. Dear Secretary of State, The latest example is that we do need budget expenditure, the fact that last week, poor quality Czech and Slovak dairy products were banned from the Hungarian retail trade by Nébih. Recently, however, at the heart of international attention, the Authority has also shown that thanks to the resources, a strong and effective food chain security system has been built in our country. During the international operation Opson V. on the detection of false foods of poor quality coordinated by Europol and Interpol, the Authority has performed outstandingly. In the action that took place between November 2015 and February 2016, Hungarian professionals seized a significant amount of food-safety-threatening products, including the recognition of international organisations. It is reassuring that the authorities will explore and withdraw from the market goods which pose a risk to consumers and that they will dispose of products that pose a risk to the general public. Dear Secretary of State, I ask you: what is Hungary's situation today with regard to the marketing of counterfeit foods [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] what measures can be used to improve the effectiveness of detection and to increase consumer safety. I'm looking forward to your reply. Thank you, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-05-02-38	Mr Róbert Zsigó, State Secretary, responds. Here you go.
u2016-05-02-39	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Unfortunately, both food counterfeiting and food black trade are present in Europe. It also poses a safety and health risk beyond the economic problem, as one of the basic requirements of food chain safety is traceability, i.e. a more accurate knowledge of the origin and history of the product. Recognizing this, the National Food Chain Safety Agency was among the first in Europe in 2012 and in 2013 the government decided on a food safety strategy. Thanks to these early measures, the food chain security of our country is also outstanding in Europe. As of 2012, the Nébih Central Audit Group, the Directorate for Priority Affairs, will carry out checks with full competence and national competence on priority cases where fraud and counterfeiting are suspected. Professional preparation, rapid laboratory tests together contribute to the outstanding 89 percent detection efficiency. From its establishment until December 2015, more than 1300 inspections have resulted in the prevention of tax and VAT evasion of HUF 9 billion with KÜI procedures, during which 3600 tonnes of products were seized. Congressman, of course, it is also an important question of what else we can do, because of the shortness of time, in just a few words. We pay particular attention to the online distribution of counterfeit products, continue the actions to be carried out in the framework of cooperation between Hungarian and national authorities, and in order to reduce counterfeiting of origin for several products, such as honey, the creation of a map of origin. To sum up, this House, we work every day to bring healthy, safe, high-quality food, preferably Hungarian food, to the table of families. Thank you very much for asking. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-05-02-40	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Congressman István Tukacs, representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Minister of Human Resources, what would you spend 266 billion forints on if you agreed that the government would do something to improve the health situation in Hungary? It's an address. Here you go.
u2016-05-02-41	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, You see, we would like to ask you today constantly what you would spend 266 billion on, such as in health care, education or the social sphere. György Matolcsy, on the basis of the documents we have sued, removed 266 billion HUF from the budget in order to distribute this to relatives and friends. 266 billion is an awful lot of money. And if you claim that the government has no influence and influence over the affairs of the Hungarian National Bank, then I say yes, there is. If it's time for you to meet him, ask Minister Mihály Varga if the Hungarian National Bank has voted as Zrt. At the general meeting of the bank's management. I mean, the state's the 100% owner. The surprising answer I have in advance, Mr. Secretary, is yes. So don't pretend that you don't have any effect on this, because you do. This 266 billion belongs to the budget. And what would you spend it on? Well, for example, it would be possible to meet the demands of healthcare workers that we need a 50 percent wage increase right now in the first step, because this would resolve unfair relations and not make a professional HUF 120,000 gross with a salary increase of HUF 1,400. It would solve the unworthy situation that gratuity money poisons the relationship between a doctor and a doctor, a doctor and a patient. You could lure people who are looking for prosperity abroad because they cannot make a living in Hungary. Dear Secretary of State, I look forward to your reply as to why no action has been taken to ensure that the budget can spend so much money and why it is not chosen for this purpose. Mr President, thank you for this opportunity.
u2016-05-02-42	Thank you very much. Secretary Bence Rétvári responds. Here.
u2016-05-02-43	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Dear House, This kind of determination and the desire to do something about health, I do not know where you were in the Socialist Party faction and in you, Congressman, when the 13th month's salary for nurses was taken away. [[Noise, interruptions.]] When the doctors took their 13th month's salary. [[István Tukacs: Give it back!]] When hundreds of billions of forints were withdrawn from health care, when waiting lists grew longer and you didn't even dare to introduce a waiting list to at least see the extent of the problem. When existing money was used to buy hospital safes. When the developments that have occurred in the last five years were almost sized in comparison to those made during that period. And why didn't you support when we consolidated hospitals here with HUF 60 billion? Why didn't you support the fact that we gave GPs 10-10 billion HUF extra funding in basic care, when we are now spending 40 percent more on basic care than the budget spent in 2010? And we don't spend it on loans, the government doesn't decide like the former socialist government, who, when he wanted to do something good, took on bigger loans, and tried to give something out of it to people living on wages, salaries or pensions, especially government employees, but it's now from the performance of the Hungarian economy. [[István Tukacs: Any answer to the question?]] And where can the period of development of the socialist period be measured to the HUF 500 billion that we have been able to improve in recent years from EU and domestic sources at health level? Why didn't you start a residency program that we've already planned for 6 billion forints? Why didn't you launch a waiting list reduction programme, on which we spent more than HUF 12 billion, not on loans, but on the extra performance of the Hungarian economy, which we could achieve through a good economic policy and the operation of reforms. [[István Tukacs: Can't you answer the question?]] Honourable Congressman, You would have had eight years to take any step, and you didn't. We, on the other hand, will spend 167 billion HUF in next year's budget. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] We provide additional resources for health care, a good part of it for wage increases. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the governing parties. Intervention on the opposition side: He did not respond to any requests.]]
u2016-05-02-44	Mr Lajos Kepli, representative of Jobbik, would like to ask the Minister of Interior:. Why does the Government not help the Balaton coastal municipalities to recover the wasted campsites? It's an address. Here you go.
u2016-05-02-45	Thank you very much, Mr. President. As is known to all of us, in 2007 the county councils of the three Balaton coastal counties were released from all the campings on the shore of Lake Balaton in favour of the SCD Group at a rather low price. This investor company was then considered a con company, since it did not make any of the promised investments, it later sold the properties on the shore of Lake Balaton, and now the settlements of Lake Balaton are struggling to recover one of these campsites from their own settlements. Compared to this, politics seems to be interfering with the recovery of public wealth here and this time, as while Fidesz-led Balatonfüred received a HUF 700 million non-refundable grant to buy back the campsite, otherwise it cannot be condemned in any way, the undertakingly independent Balatonszemes or Badacsonytomaj has been in vain with the Secretary of State for weeks or months in order to recover the campsite. They did not receive a meaningful response or were encouraged by the Ministry, but they did not receive a single penny of support until today. [[12.20]] It is about the recovery of public property, which was played by the Fidesz-led county assemblies at the time, in our view, in a suspicious manner, and there was also a report on the subject during which, unfortunately, the prosecutor's office, as with so many other complaints, rejected. However, this does not mean that these real estate assets should not be helped to recover them now, since they have also contributed to their miscarriage. If you want a clean conscience, now help to regain public wealth, the municipalities can become public property from these currently privately owned campsites. The municipalities concerned are waiting for help, and I am waiting for the Secretary of State's answer. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-05-02-46	Thank you. Before I give the floor to the Secretary of State, on your behalf, I welcome the students and educators of the Áron Áron Tamás Elementary School and the German Two-Teaching Nationalities High School and the Tivadar Metal and Electrical Training School and College of Tamás Technical Training Center Puskás Tivadar in Szombathely. I'm glad you're here. Good afternoon. Secretary Tibor Pogácsás responds. Here you go.
u2016-05-02-47	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Indeed, with the transformation of the tourism in Balaton and the change in the structure of the guests arriving here, the demand for the campsites was decreasing, and Siótour, Zalatour and Balatontourist were also in a situation where they could not maintain the campsites, not only could they improve their standards, but they could not maintain the standard that could ensure their survival on the market. At that time, the owner county authorities sought a solution to save these campsites, or how to find a professional investor that would also help the municipalities in which these properties are located, since these municipalities generally did not have adequate tourism infrastructure. Obviously, a good investment, a well-built tourist center in the tourism of these settlements could have been very helpful. It is true that in Badacsonytomaj, the camping in Badacsonytomaj was in a similar situation. In Badacsonytomaj there is still a campsite, there is a beach in Badacsonytomaj, and in Balatonszemes the campsite was thus removed from the property of the county municipalities. They were not local government owned, so in this sense the wording that the municipalities wished to recover - they did not own them, but were owned by the county municipalities. Neither the Balatonszemes or Badacsonytomaj municipality has submitted a program, an idea of what they would like to create with these campsites. It is simply formulated, by Badacsonytomaj, that a request worth 300 million HUF was made in writing, so that he might be able to buy the campsite back. I believe that if an appropriate programme is drawn up and it is started with a borrowing request and credit, then they will be able to use these campsites for the benefit of tourism. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-05-02-48	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Bernadett Wind, representative of the LMP, wishes to ask the Minister for National Development: "Everyone is a fool, just the Orbán government tram? It's an address. Congresswoman, please.
u2016-05-02-49	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, According to recent audited data published by the European Wind Energy Association, almost three quarters of the total EU energy generation capacity last year was a renewable project, namely 44 percent wind, 30 percent sun. This is not about the fact that there are already renewable energy generation capacities in the European Union, but about the fact that this debate has been resolved: Europe as a whole has turned towards renewable energy. While you have been arguing with the European Union for two years here in Hungary about whether there is free Russian credit, Russian technology, Russian fuel, without competition to build a nuclear power plant with the Russians, there has been a change of energy policy across Europe, and renewable energy has won with a knockout. This obviously also has a decisive impact on pricing: prices in the whole European electricity market are practically determined by solar and wind power plants. It is doubtful what the Hungarian government in this system will be able to do with the production of the Paks Nuclear Power Plant, the price of which, after enlargement, according to the Rothschild study commissioned by the government, will be quasi double the current market price. And, of course, there is also doubt about the meaning of the Hungarian energy policy, which has not allowed the construction of new wind power plants in Hungary for the sixth year; obviously in order to maintain the space for nuclear energy. Be kind and make a statement as to whether you can even detect this paradigm shift in the EU area. Are you aware that there are moderate reports that have publicly demonstrated that if we started investing in renewables here in Hungary now, the country would be in a state of virtually no need for Paks enlargement by 2030 and that the current four blocks could be replaced? Has the issue of Paks' financing and possible alternative been considered in this new situation? [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] I have one more question. When will the ban on wind farms be lifted? When can wind farms finally be established in Hungary?
u2016-05-02-50	Thank you. Secretary Zsolt Szabó responds. Here.
u2016-05-02-51	Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and The government is aware of the role of renewable energy production in sustainable development, and we are therefore in any case in favour of these developments as a related development. On the basis of the data published by the European Environment Agency in October, Hungary increased its share of renewables to 11.1 percent in 2014, and by 2020 we want to increase the share of renewable energy set by the European Union to 14.65 percent. In meeting the 2020 targets, we count wind energy as one of the renewable energy sources, but due to the relatively low operating hours of domestic wind power plants, the weather dependency of their production, we need to find energy sources that ensure stable supply to consumers in order to ensure that consumers are safe. Nuclear energy, regardless of weather, is capable of producing even energy with low carbon emissions. With the various subsidies, the operating costs of solar and wind power plants appear to be lower, but in the long term, nuclear power is the cheapest energy source on the basis of the lifetime of the power plants. In the European Union, 19 reactors are currently being built with a total energy capacity of 21 gigawatts. The government remains committed to supporting renewable energy and is also serving to increase the share of renewable energy for energy policy purposes in the 2014-2020 budget period. There are four operational programmes, with an amount of HUF 755 billion planned to be used. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-05-02-52	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Congressman Pál Völner, representative of Fidesz, wishes to ask the Minister of the Prime Minister's Office a question: "Is the Várhegy in Esztergom worthy of the title of the national memorial?" Here you go.
u2016-05-02-53	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister, In 2011, the National Assembly introduced two monuments to protect our cultural heritage, the concept of a national memorial and a historical memorial place. This means that a place of great importance in the history of the nation can be declared a national memorial, which strengthens the union of Hungarians and nationalities, and the nation takes pride in its identity creation. These sites have played a prominent role in the past of our country, and 13 are currently counted by the law. As an MEP in Esztergom, I intend to give the national memorial place in Esztergom a medal title. Esztergom's role in the history of both the country and the Catholic Church is outstanding: during the reign of our King Stephen, Esztergom was the seat of the kingdom, and the centre of the founding of the Hungarian Christian Church is attached here; the church and archbishop in Várhegy in Esztergom was the head of the Hungarian Church between 1010 and 1520; our first king, István, was baptized and crowned in this place. [[12.30]] CHAPTER XVI In the 18th century, during the Turkish attacks, the military role of the castle was strengthened and of great importance, as it was the key to Buda, the capital of the country. This is where Balassi Bálint died. The castle was finally liberated by Christian armies led by King Sobieski of Poland in 1683. In the basilica we can admire the Bakócz chapel, which is the only Renaissance chapel we have left. Article 19 shall apply from the date of entry into force of this Agreement. The Basilica built in the century was the burial place of the Archbishop of Esztergom. This is where Prince József Mindszenty was buried again 25 years ago. On the basis of what I have said, I am convinced that the site can be a worthy place for national commemorations. On this basis, I ask you whether the Castle Hill of Esztergom is worthy of the national memorial. I'm looking forward to your reply. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2016-05-02-54	Thank you. Minister János Lázár responds. Here you go.
u2016-05-02-55	Dear Parliament, Mr President, Your Honour, my fellow Member. On behalf of the Government, I would like to inform you that we have begun, on the basis of the Member's suggestion - and also in the spirit of a consensus on social policy - the process of expressing ourselves as a national memorial. So the government supports the initiative, agrees with it, and even considers it important that the Esztergom is waiting, whether in the sense that you are using it, or even in a narrower sense, to join the ranks of national memorial sites as fourteen. There are at least two reasons for that. One of them is that we are talking about a place related to the independence of the Hungarian state. In the first 500 years of our statehood, Esztergom represents and symbolizes the independence of the state, the centre of state control, and the Hungarian state from 1010 until the 1540s. Our second reason is that the Hungarian state is not only independent at this time, but also Christian, so we can think of Christian Hungarian statehood at least to this extent when we look at Esztergom. So the Christian Hungarian state and the independent Hungarian state are the reasons why we can support the idea of a national memorial. I consider it particularly important to bring to the attention of my fellow Members the memory policy of the last hundred years, and it does not matter when and in what form the Hungarian state considered it important to deal with Esztergom. The first series of renovations of national political importance began in 1930 and continued in 2000 and, thanks to President István Hiller, entered a new stage in 2008, the Renaissance year. It is time not only to talk about the declaration of national monuments, but also to continue building this memorial place, speeding up the traditions of the last hundred years. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2016-05-02-56	Dear Parliament, Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Minister of Human Resources a question:, What would you spend 266 billion forints on if you agreed that the government should invest more in the social sector? It's an address. Here you go.
u2016-05-02-57	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, György Matolcsy, Viktor Orbán's right-hand man has been exposed, and it has been proven that the foundations of the National Bank are in fact simple paying places where György Matolcsy and the management of the MNB play with the unlawful use of 266 billion public money. This is the annual amount of childcare benefits. Looking at the ridiculous figures of the budget in this area, I'll tell you some important areas where you could have spent this money, which György Matolcsy left in front of Peter Polt's wife, disappearing in the pockets of his friends. They could have raised, say, the family allowance that Fidesz has never been able to raise during its administration. They could have increased childcare allowance and child rearing allowance, which has been 28 500 forints for years. But you were only able to convert it into childcare care. That's what they do. They could have made this money in order to increase twice a year the support of the needy children. But this has not been raised by a penny in the last six years, and now they will boast that next year the children in need will receive 200 HUF more. That's how much they're capable, that's what your social sensitivity shows. In addition, it is important to highlight the care of their relatives in their homes. The amount of the care fee is far from what really deserves these people. After five years, the amount of care is increased by 1500 HUF. Is that really the best you can do? Is Hungary doing so much better? For all these reasons, I ask the Secretary of State: what would you spend 266 billion forints on if you agreed that the government would invest more in the social sector? I look forward to your reply, Mr. Secretary.
u2016-05-02-58	Thank you very much. Secretary Bence Rétvári responds.
u2016-05-02-59	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, Fortunately, in the last six years, the government has been able to spend more in the social field. I would not comment once again on what I said at the beginning that if we did to finance regular public expenditure and welfare expenditure from the one-off revenue of the National Bank, you would be the first to run to Brussels to bring infringement proceedings against Hungary [[Interviews from the ranks of the MSZP.]] I'd like to return to what you've failed to do, but we've done it in the last six years. For example, if I look at the area of social child feeding, where you, when you handed over the government, provided this to 92,000 children in the case of the smallest children, in the case of children in kindergarten and kindergarten, today we provide this to more than 310, 318 thousand children. You only provided social meals during summer break, and we also provide children's meals during spring, autumn and winter holidays. During the break, I believe that 2.6, yes, exactly 2.6 billion forints were intended for this social purpose, which is 4.5 billion forints. We don't want 2.6, but 4.5 billion for this purpose, increasing year after year. And if I add up the entire social catering budget, then we can see that while you have planned for this total of HUF 29 billion, this year we are planning HUF 71 billion for social catering purposes. But I could also say free textbooks, which save 15 billion forints for Hungarian families, taxpayers and those who send their children to school. But may I say that while you have reduced the duration of the child from three years to two years, we have increased this. I would also like to mention that in the case of the care fee, we raised it from 28 500 to 31 thousand, from 38 350 to 44 250 HUF, and we introduced a completely new category, the special care fee, which represents HUF 55 800 for the care workers. And if I look at family budgets, we have been able to provide an extra HUF 1100 billion in the last six years to families raising children. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2016-05-02-60	Dear Parliament, Representative of President Novak, Jobbik's representative, would like to ask the Minister of Human Resources a question:. How long will mothers be discriminated against in the 40. It's an address. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-05-02-61	Dear Secretary of State, On Mother's Day, I thought we should clear up an unworthy matter. Although women's possibility to retire after 40 years of employment was in principle introduced on the basis of recognition of the years spent in raising children, the only period covered by the contribution is the inclusion of childcare periods, especially those of large-family mothers. This discrimination is not only unfair, but because of the compulsive lack of grandparents' help, it also reduces the children's desire to have children today, especially in large families, and also affects their ability to earn income with their children and all their future social security services. Above all, it should be ensured that all periods covered by the contribution, including childcare, are counted without limitation into women's employment. This is all the more justified, because childcare and education are socially useful work, and not only if we do it with employment contracts for the benefit of a foreign child, but also if we do it in our own family at the moment, unfortunately, not within the limits of GDP. It's the best thing for the children involved, by the way. Unfortunately, the Secretary of State answered my written question only formally, but he did not explain the essential question, merely the fact that I have described: eight years of entitlement to child rearing can be taken into account. But why just that, that's the question, because we're talking about periods covered by contributions. For example, if a mother of four was at home for up to three years, for a total of 12 years, only two thirds of that period will be accepted as eligibility periods. Why? Why don't they appreciate motherhood? How long will mothers be discriminated against in the Women's 40s pension scheme? I look forward to your substantive answer. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2016-05-02-62	Thank you. Mr. Secretary of State of Rétvár.
u2016-05-02-63	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, At the beginning of his speech, he said probably only by accident, but an important truth, when he said that you introduced the 40, the women's discount. [[12.40]] And you were quite right to say that you were referring to the governing parties here, because when we voted here on 20 December 2010, six minutes after 7:30 p.m., Jobbik did not support this discount here in Parliament. Some Beauty [[Intruder from Jobbik's benches, you're lying!]] the fact that MSZP and Jobbik voted in the same way on this issue. So at the time, they said they didn't want to. [[Forebear Novak: Salad!]] support this proposal. Now, the point of your speech is that the discount that Fidesz-KDNP introduced by Jobbik not being supportive of it is no more, while you did not even support the basic discount, which is a very significant and very successful step for the government, since 160,000 people have already applied for the 40, or, as others call it, a grandmother's pension, because it is popular, it has been very much used by people, as I said, by 160 thousand people. He fully respects the performance of those who spend 40 years working and those who spend most of these 40 years raising children as mothers. [[Foreman Novak: Only eight...]] There have already been government steps that have compensated for the fact that the mother is obviously not taking part in the labour market when she raises her child, so in the period of service - I stress: in the period of service - the period of child rearing counts without limitation. In fact, when calculating the amount of the pension, the reduction effect of the benefit that may then be taken over and acquired is not included in the amount of the pension. As of 2011, we have actually introduced the possibility that someone has already introduced the introduction of the 40" Women. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] After 32 years of work, you can retire if you have spent 8 years raising children. This is a significant discount, I think, which is why this new legal option is so popular. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the benches of the governing parties. Novák Előd: It doesn't matter anymore...]]
u2016-05-02-64	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Congresswoman Erzsébet Schmuck and Member István Ikotity, representatives of the LMP, would like to ask the Minister of National Economy a question: "Dudes, parties, casinos? Title II. Congressman, please.
u2016-05-02-65	Thank you, Mr President, for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, Last week I asked Miklós Seszták, Minister for National Development, what role did his old friend and business partner play in accessing casinos. The ninth Hungarian casino is opened in Győr, a company called the Treff-Klub, whose managing director is Zsolt Kruppa, an old friend of Minister Miklós Seszták from Kisvárda. The owner of the company is Zoltán Rákosfalvy, a lawyer, who also handles the affairs of the Fidesz municipality of Győr. I also said that just as the casino Caesars near Andy Vajna or Gábor Sima had no experience of gambling, Miklós Seszták's friend didn't have such experience either. How is it that anyone who operates a casino in Hungary has not previously performed any similar activities? Now they can get rich, among other things, at the expense of gambling addicts. The casino industry offers a billion-dollar profit, only a record number of visitors came to the casinos last year: 1.2 million people, who could generate a record income of up to HUF 180 billion. Tax on gifted casinos is also paid as a gift, only a few percent of the total turnover has to be paid into the budget, and even casino owners are not regularly controlled by the NAV, and they are not even connected to the online cash register system. Dear Secretary of State, Miklós Seszták asked what role his good friend played in accessing casinos, trying to defend himself by saying that his friend was not the owner of the company, only his managing director, so there is no physical possibility that he would have received the casino. Obviously, this only pointed to the Ministry of National Economy, which distributes the concession, in its reply. That's why we come to you: why did Miklós Seszták get a casino run by a friend of Miklós Seszták? [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Or was it simply a coincidence that after Andy Vajna and Gábor Sima, Miklós Seszták's good friend could also get a casino and conduct a billion-dollar business? You don't need any experience - is it enough to be a good buddy? I'm waiting for your answer. [[Applause from the independent benches.]]
u2016-05-02-66	Mr András Tállai, State Secretary, responds.
u2016-05-02-67	Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Allow me to answer you with the letter of the law, okay? Because I don't think your question is based on real assumptions. Act on the organisation of gambling, Act XXXIV of 1991 Law and amended Act XVI of 1991 state how to obtain a concession permit for the operation of the casino. From 2013 it is possible to submit a tender procedure without a deadline, which can be done at any time by the toy organizer, essentially the concession applicant, who complies with the legal requirements. [[Intercom from the independent benches.]] Therefore, the legal requirement is that of the 1991 XXXIV. Law 37. Paragraph 30 of the Act states that one of the conditions, the most important, is that the reliable organizer must have at least 10 years of experience as a Hungarian gaming organizer, so he must have it. So only a reliable organizer can win the casino and have 10 years of gambling practice. The 10-year organizational practice is confirmed by the reporting of the gambling supervision authority of the State tax authority in the tender procedure. I would like to inform the honourable Member that in the six concession contracts, which are otherwise public, four companies have won the concession award. All four comply with these legal requirements: two have 15-15 years of practice and two have 10-10 years of practice. So you asked me about your question. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] statements are untrue. Thank you. [[Applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2016-05-02-68	Thank you. Member István Józsa, representative of the MSZP, would like to ask the Minister for National Development:. What would you spend 260 billion forints on? It's an address. Congressman, please.
u2016-05-02-69	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, György Matolcsy, Viktor Orbán's right-hand man, got caught badly. It has been proven that the profits of the National Bank have been scattered; its foundations are in fact simple paying places, where György Matolcsy plays with the illegal use of HUF 266 billion of public money. This amount is equal to the total annual tax revenue of three counties. György Matolcsy sees this as his own, he treats it as his own. Other than that, it's called embezzlement, treating someone else as their own. Mr. Secretary. My professional question is, what do you think your Ministry, the Ministry of National Development, would spend this amount of money on? It is enough to think about energy efficiency investments. There would be plenty of money for the government in this area, but they don't seem to really want it. On 27 April, it was decided to withdraw EU funding for HUF 90 billion from the energy efficiency renovation of residential buildings. All this has been justified by the need to create an extremely complex system for the payment of money. That's why they didn't even start. In other countries they were able to solve this, it works in the Czech Republic, Slovakia and even in Bulgaria. You have admitted that you are unable to do this, but rather you are renovating the state offices, which, according to the plans of the e-administration, you want to close in the long term. Mr. Secretary. With this decision, the renovation of more than 3 million unconventional homes was postponed. Why did they decide to withdraw the money from the public's applications? How will they provide a framework for the government to renovate hundreds of thousands of homes as promised? What do you mean, Secretary of State: perhaps it would have been better if the Matolcsys had [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Would you rather pay this 266 billion into the state register?
u2016-05-02-70	Secretary Zsolt Szabó responds.
u2016-05-02-71	Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Somehow the numbers don't add up. It is essential for the government to support families with programmes that reduce household energy consumption in noticeable quantities and degrees. The government is also committed to curbing overhead expenditure as much as possible, both in quantity and in value. That's why we launched the "Home Gay" program in September 2014. So far, we have provided nearly HUF 17 billion in non-refundable funding to improve energy efficiency in more than 85 thousand households. In February 2015 - this is the fourth sub-programme - we helped the owners of apartments and apartments with 5-60 apartments to renovate their homes in terms of energy savings. [[12.50]] In April this year, the budget started with HUF 5 billion, which will help the energy rationalization of traditional technology-built family houses in the sixth sub-programme, and this value will continue to increase. Depending on the availability of resources, we will continue to help the extension of the range of applicants by issuing and reopening suspended proposals. In line with the necessary development policy measures for economic growth in 2016, we intend to launch a system of reimbursable aid with a government decision exceeding HUF 100 billion within the framework of the operational programme for economic innovation. The government is also committed to reducing the spending of residents both in condominiums and in family homes. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-05-02-72	Dear Parliament, Congressman Gergely Farkas, representative of Jobbik, wishes to ask the Minister of Human Resources:. What about Hungarian geography education? It's an address. The question will be answered by Péter Cseresnyés, Minister of National Economy Mihály Varga, who is responsible and competent according to the subject, on behalf of the Prime Minister. Congressman Gergely Farkas has the floor. Here.
u2016-05-02-73	Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Today, geography is no longer merely a mediator of geographical name material and the most basic natural, economic and social causal relationship, but also of global and local environmental problems, as well as of public knowledge of their possible solutions. On 18 April, Minister of State for Education László Palkovics said that young people should be brought up to sustainable development and an environmentally friendly lifestyle, which is only possible within one subject, and this is geography. Nevertheless, the situation of this subject in public education has deteriorated dramatically in recent decades, and geography is no longer an early graduation exam. A serious loss of prestige for the subject is also the fact that geography's graduation results cannot be counted at the Faculty of Economics, even though high school students learn basic social, economic and financial knowledge in the 10th grade. According to the latest plans, geography would be virtually terminated in vocational secondary schools becoming vocational schools, and according to the government's plan, the subject would almost disappear from vocational secondary school framework plans. If this plan is implemented, geography literally disappears from about 95 percent of the 900 secondary schools. Hundreds of geography teachers can be on the street in the absence of mandatory geography classes in all vocational schools so far. We are aware that this is only a draft, but it has caused very serious anger in Hungarian society. I would ask you to try to reassure the public in order to answer the following questions, Mr Secretary of State. I would therefore like to ask Mr Secretary of State, yet what is the point in taking away geographical basic education from future generations. Will students of vocational high school not need the basic education to understand the natural and social processes around them? How does a student learn about the causes and consequences of environmental problems? How do you distinguish between the basic education of a high school student and a high school student? I look forward to your substantive answer. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-05-02-74	Secretary of State Péter Cseresnyés, please.
u2016-05-02-75	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, In my opinion, it is also important to refer to the geography subject, but it is perhaps an exaggeration to refer to it as an exclusive depositary. It is also important for young people to have an open and interested attitude towards changes in the world, in harmony with their environment, based on basic education, basic education, which should go on and on different paths and levels of secondary education. In addition to the higher number of hours of professional training and the increased number of language and IT lessons, the current course framework, which will be introduced from September 2016, will ensure the preparation for the examinations of compulsory examination subjects reflecting general education. However, there is more limited scope for further education of public knowledge. The overload and you criticized it when we wanted to teach certain objects for several hours. The possibilities of teaching science subjects and knowledge in vocational school are still under discussion, so it should not be stated that something has already been done and decided, but is still under construction, a final decision has not yet been made. The previously outlined change in the proportion of public knowledge hours affects all vocational schools, but this change does not significantly affect the fate of the teachers concerned. In the new institutional training structure, there are a number of opportunities for further employment in vocational education and training, two years of formal education in vocational secondary school, another school within vocational training centres, another vocational training centre or other schools in the maintenance of the State Institution Support Centre. Thank you for your attention, thank you all for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-05-02-76	Dear Parliament, Congresswoman Erzsébet Schmuck, representative of the LMP, wishes to ask the Minister of National Economy a question:, Is the government aware of what a pension increase of less than one percent means for small pensioners? It's an address. The question will be answered on behalf of the Prime Minister by Minister Zoltán Balog, Minister of Human Resources, who is competent and competent on the subject, Mr Bence Rétvári State Secretary. It's Congresswoman Schmuck's turn to speak. Here you go.
u2016-05-02-77	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State, The government proposes a pension increase equal to the rate of planned inflation, thus increasing pensions by 0.9 percent. Since the change of regime, the Minister of National Economy has tried to excuse the lowest rate of pension increase by making the reduction in food VAT cheaper for poultry, milk and eggs. According to the data of the national pension insurance company in January 2016, the average pension of 2 million 23 thousand old-age pensioners is 121,000 HUF. However, the average pension shows a great deal of dispersal. Three-quarters of pensioners receive an average benefit, more than one-and-a-half million. They are up to a maximum of 1,000 HUF, but typically they can enjoy a smaller pension increase. More than half of pensioners live on a pension below 100,000 forints. When you look at how many pensioners fall below the minimum living standard, you get a surprising number, because 43 percent of them belong here. Under the poverty threshold, nearly 10 percent of pensioners receive benefits, 200,000 people. Needless to say, in their case, only a few hundred HUF is added to the pension increase announced proudly by the Minister of National Economy. Obviously, a pension increase of less than 1 percent is everything but a raise. Why don't you think about how the aspect of need can be enforced during annual pension increases, such as differentiated, degressive pension increases? The government could consider a non-percent increase in pensions, for example, a 1 percent increase for a pension of HUF 100 thousand means HUF 1000, while for a pension of HUF 500 000, it means HUF 5 000. Finally, give an answer as to why the minimum pension that has been frozen since 2008 has not been increased. Thank you very much.
u2016-05-02-78	Mr. Secretary of State of Rétvár.
u2016-05-02-79	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, In 2010, this government undertook to preserve the value of pensions, and it fulfilled this promise, far beyond that commitment, because not only did it retain the value of pensions, but the value that the socialists took away from pensions by taking away the 13th month's pension, it also gave back that much 8 percent, because at the beginning of each year the government increased the amount of pensions by the rate of planned inflation. However, in the course of the year, as the economy was doing better, and inflation was disappearing, the decline in money in Hungary almost disappeared, it is strange that the government keeps the purchasing value of pensions in almost non-existent or minimal declines. For this reason, the 21.1 percent, which represented the average of the last five to six years in the pension increase, represented 8.4 percent in the purchasing value, let's say, between 2011 and 2015. This is about one month's amount of item or percentage, so the government returned the amount of the 13th month's pension to the pensioners. However, the cost reduction has reduced the cost of living for those with the lowest incomes mentioned by you, since they were the ones who felt this help the most by reducing water, gas and electricity bills. And now, by a noticeable reduction in the VAT of the most important foods, not only pork, but poultry or, as you said, other products, basic and important products, the most helpful way to reduce the VAT is precisely to those with the smallest pensions you have referred to. [[13.00]] So in the last five to six years, we have done what we have done, not only preserved it, but also increased the value of pensions, and we hope that this reduction in VAT will provide additional, tangible help to small pensioners after previous reductions. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-05-02-80	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Zsolt Legény, representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Minister of Agriculture:. Freeze Garbage in Szabolcs. Before I give the floor to Mr Zsolt Legény, I give the chair to Vice-President János Latorcai. I wish you good work. [[Dr. Bence of Rétvári applauds.]] [[Dr. János Latorcai, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]]
u2016-05-02-81	I warmly welcome my fellow Members, and the floor is Mr President. Here you go.
u2016-05-02-82	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, After the extreme weather of the last few days, it is important to consider that farmers in Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg County will lose a significant proportion of their income, which could affect up to 10,000 employees. In the southern part of that county, minus 6-7 degrees were measured in the gardens in the days, which could lead to damage of up to 90 percent in the crop, especially in the case of apple and confederationsIn this situation, the first step would be to help the government and the Chamber speak at last in this matter and provide tangible assistance to farmers, but this has not yet happened. Given the fact that there seems to be a very serious problem in the entire northern part of the country, and also in the western part of the country, the mechanism of compensation must be interfered with by the government, because otherwise very little damage can be dealt with, and only later. Almost ten years ago, in 2007, the Socialist Government was able to respond significantly to such a situation in two days and increased the Compensation Fund by HUF 5 billion. Now you can see that the High Authority doesn't seem to know about the problem. It would be best if the damage assessment had already started because claims had to be submitted within 15 days. That is why I am asking Mr Secretary of State whether they are already examining the possibilities of compensation, because the situation is threatening the liquidity problem of farmers, which cannot be resolved without State aid, and I would ask whether they are finally providing meaningful and tangible assistance to Hungarian farmers, because a large one, let us say that, after a tragedy, we really need the government's help. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2016-05-02-83	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary of State István Nagy. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2016-05-02-84	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear fellow Member, I have to say, you've asked me a very exaggeration, moody question, because you're pretending that the government isn't doing its job. I should rather say to you that the government is doing its job, that farmers know what measures are coming, but you are simply not well prepared on this issue. In order to address the adverse weather risks, such as spring frost damage affecting the counties of Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg, Bács-Kiskun, Hajdú-Bihar, Nógrád, Pest, Somogy, Veszprém and Zala, the wallet pays particular attention to the reduction of damage. Since the introduction of the new agricultural risk management system, the legitimate claims of farmers have been paid in full, and the agricultural compensation scheme is not currently facing resource problems. It is currently available at HUF 16 billion and at the beginning of 2017 around HUF 24 billion. Producers must report the frost damage within 15 days via the electronic application available on the MVH website. In the new system, damage reporting is simpler and parcel-level damage reporting is also possible. The damage assessment will be carried out by government offices and, if necessary, by village farmers. In order to speed up the damage reports, the Ministry of Agriculture requested the National Agricultural Chamber to give priority to victims' claims and single applications during the period of submission of the single application and to provide the necessary information on the producer's duties. The extent of the damage incurred in each plantation will be more precise only at the time of the first production. By 29 April, 1167 spring frost damage reports have been received for 6396 hectares, but, of course, this number is increasing due to continuous damage reports. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-05-02-85	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Congressman Zsolt Egyed, representative of Jobbik, would you like to ask the Minister of Human Resources a question:. Matolcsy millions, pensioners worth a few hundred forints? It's an address. It is for Congressman Zsolt Egyed. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-05-02-86	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, As we know, György Matolcsy, President of the National Bank of Hungary and several state leaders have received a minimum 100 percent salary increase, saying that since 2010 the leaders of the Hungarian state have carried out successful farm history actions, so the leaders of the Hungarian state must be paid. I would like to translate the successful economic history for you briefly: Fidesz oligarchs and their environment, ruined countryside, hundreds of thousands of Hungarians migrated to the West. However, the pension that earns an honest living, paying a contribution, after paying the bills and the medicines, is barely enough for anything. This pension is now being raised by 0.9 percent, in the face of massive, humiliating systemic corruption. You are aware that the financing problems of the pension system are expected in developed states as a result of ageing and an increase in the average age. Unfortunately, Hungary is no exception to this, with the retirement of Ratkó children, the pension system, whose funders have been disturbed abroad, is a huge burden. Several times they had the chance to develop transparent, self-sustaining, long-term economic and pension policies, but the desire for power and wealth was more important. Dear Secretary of State, I look forward to the moment when they shout dilettantism and rub it in Jobbik's noses about how we want men to retire after 40 years of employment and raise pensions. In the short term, they could be right, but in the whole of the past 26 years of politics, unfortunately, it is a disgrace to your policy that we are coming here. What steps have been taken to combat the disaster, to inform the public about what problems are expected in the pension system? Don't you find it shameful that private pension funds have been squandered on the way to such an uncertain future? How does the government account for pension funding in 2017? I look forward to Mr Secretary of State's substantive reply. Thank you.
u2016-05-02-87	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2016-05-02-88	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, This speech is also an example of how much the position on Jobbik can take in six years, as in their 2010 electoral programme they still demanded that the pension system, which is difficult with a three-pillar compulsory private pension scheme, should be redesigned and this central pillar removed from the system. Now, in hindsight, they seem to have forgotten that they not only demanded it, but even here in Parliament, they supported this proposal. Compared to this, they're trying to make it look like a mistake, and they're criticizing the government for that. I suggest that you bring up Jobbik's 2010 programme, and follow up Parliament's minutes, when you have supported this proposal. At the same time, it was a very important step for the Fidesz-KDNP government after 2010 to balance the pension fund, so as not to have to keep filling holes and patching them. After all, every year in the previous years, it meant a hundred billion-dollar item in the budget that it always had to make up for the lack of a pension register. The Fidesz-KDNP has managed to create a system that no longer generates year-on-year deficits for which this budget money should be transferred to the pension system. That's how the pension system became stable and predictable, as our Stability Act requires, it's a fundamental law, isn't it? On the other hand, we managed to increase the value and purchasing value of pensions by more than 8 percent and 8.4 percent between 2011 and 2015. This means that everyone's pension is worth more, and a month's worth is the surplus that a pensioner can manage today compared to the 2010 relationship. And if we make the positive impact of the reduction of the rent and the reduction of VAT, then the last six years have been the biggest step for pensioners with a lower income or lower pension, but we have guaranteed the preservation of pensions for all pensioners, not only with a nominal increase of 21.1 per cent, but also in real terms, with an increase of 8.4 per cent in purchasing value. Thank you very much.
u2016-05-02-89	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Congressman Sallai R. Benedek, representative of the LMP, would like to ask the Minister for Agriculture a question, 'Does the waste management that went bankrupt work by 20 percent? It's an address. It's up to Congressman. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-05-02-90	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, The Orbán government has also failed waste management with a well-designed overhead war after the residential energy sector and water supply. Last year, half of the companies were loss-making, while in this area only majority self-government or state-owned companies are active, i.e. the loss belongs to all of us, to all Hungarian taxpayers. The budget still had to pay nearly HUF 100 billion in funding to compensate for the losses. [[13.10]] The recipe was simple: the government frozen prices, but the cost was increased by various taxes and fees. The idea was that the waste sector would be the milk cow of the state, but for the time being it seems more like a bottomless money-sucking well that has been implemented. Despite the distraught experience of the failed waste reform, you're back in the trash bins for a little extra government revenue, and you've created a state dumpster that would attract the public's fees and then, after deduction of 20 percentage points, return it to the real service providers. It doesn't bother you that cross-subsidisation between settlements, the principle of "polluting pays" and the violation of market considerations are both implemented. This cannot work, as the money-hungry state is virtually withdrawing funds from the waste management that has already been underfunded and putting the fifth in full pocket. And it can't work because the bled-out companies should already pay to the state till they get their share a long time later. I wanted to ask the Minister whether they were aware that they were preparing again for an experiment with the result of which could be covered: more massive corporate failures, wage cuts and redundancies in the waste sector, a series of inability to dispose of waste, an increase in the amount of illegal landfills and a re-production of losses. Please inform us of how you came to the conclusion that if 20% of the money is stolen, the remainder may be sufficient for the service that had to be provided last year to enable the service companies to carry out this activity. And I am curious how, with taxpayers' money, you think this latest waste management reform will work. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2016-05-02-91	Thank you very much, Congressman. I would like to inform the Member and the House that on behalf of the Prime Minister, on behalf of Mr Miklós Seszták, Minister for National Development, who is responsible and competent on behalf of the Prime Minister, Mr Zsolt Szabó, State Secretary. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2016-05-02-92	Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, The transformation of the waste management public service is inevitable. The territorial structure of the public service systems has not been developed with regard to the public service. Investments made by farmers in areas below economic operating thresholds are significantly oversized. As of 2009, public services will continue to grow, with more than one billion forints lost each year, leaving waste in the landfill without a large amount of material being recovered and exploited. The main aim of the transformation of the waste management public service is to achieve cost-effective operation and to preserve the results of the reduction of the costs. The public service charge collected will be allocated in the future in such a way as to ensure the full direct cost of supplying the waste management public service. From 1 July, the waste-public limited liability company will be the holder of revenue from the sale of the material and thus, with full cost savings, the rationalisation processes will take place at national level. The cost-effective operation of the entire system, the maintenance of the public service and its development will increase resources, thus enabling the process and task needed in the field of public services to be achieved. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-05-02-93	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Congresswoman Agnes Kunhalmi, representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Minister of Human Resources:. What does the Government do to provide appropriate psychiatric care at the hospital in South Pest and to make it available to the residents of the Pestszentlőrinc, Pestszentimre and the entire Southpest? It's an address. Congresswoman Agnes Kunhalmi has the floor. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2016-05-02-94	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, Poor working conditions, lack of appreciation for professionals, mass medical emigration - these are the main triggers for the dramatic deterioration of the XVIII. The quality of care in the psychiatric department of Jahn Ferenc Hospital, which also supplies district. Ten years ago, the country's second largest psychiatrist was operated with 450 beds, and today there are only 300, but 75 of them were forced to stay away from patients because there are no doctors or nurses. Hospital management, referring to a serious lack of money, cannot solve the problem. The inability to handle the situation is well demonstrated by the cessation of acute admission by Jahn Ferenc Hospital on 15 March. As a result, in the future, Article XVIII of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union should be amended accordingly. Circuits are being directed to the hospital of Merény, which has been brought under procedure by the disabled and helpless patients. Dear Secretary of State, After all, what does the government do to provide appropriate psychiatric care at the hospital in South Pest and to make it available to the residents of Pestszentlőrinc? Thank you for your reply.
u2016-05-02-95	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. The answer will be given by Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2016-05-02-96	Thank you very much. In the field of psychiatric care, I think, the biggest problem both nationally and obviously in Budapest was when, in 2007, the socialist-liberal government decided on the closure of OPNI, the National Institute of Psychiatric and Neurology, as it alone released professionals from the country. It was a psychiatric center. In terms of both methodology and patient care, it has been a huge blow to the Hungarian psychiatry, and since then it has not been possible to replace it, even if there are certain institutions that have taken over this task at that time. In addition, a third of the number of psychiatric departments, which also resulted in the discharge of professionals, which also resulted in a reduction in supply capacity, has been reduced. After 2010, we have tried to alleviate these damages, which is why we launched the "Development of Rehabilitation Services" under the New Széchenyi Plan, which included the implementation of psychiatric and addictological rehabilitation improvements, and the possibility of developing in addition to care facilities in facilities providing rest and outpatient care. This was an additional source of approximately HUF 8 billion for this psychiatric purpose, and in the next period we would like to devote a total of HUF 11 billion to similar purposes, to the development of psychiatric care, HUF 6 billion to child and youth psychiatric care, to the development of addiction and mental health care, while HUF 5 billion to the development of active inpatient care. In the South-Pest Hospital, as you said, such care is taking place, and there is also a territorial obligation to provide care at the Gustav Hospital in Merény. The newly renovated psychiatric department in its premises recently developed HUF 69 million, in which the closed section of the psychiatric department of the hospital was made safer, a gerontopsychiatry department was established, the elderly patients were isolated, the roof structure of the building was renewed, the wards were painted, the water block was constructed, the furniture was replaced, and security cameras were installed. We hope that this will also improve the quality of care. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-05-02-97	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, Congresswoman Dóra Dúró, representative of Jobbik, would you like to ask the Minister of the Prime Minister's Office a question:. Do you think it violates the municipal law to name a public area after József Nyírő? It's an address. Congresswoman Dóra Dúró has the floor. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2016-05-02-98	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Minister, In recent weeks, the Foundation for the Protection and Protection has launched a new attack to delete the name of writer József Nyírő from the tables of Hungarian public spaces. On this basis, the Pest County Government Office also decided that the name of Nyírő József Street in Szentmiklós violates the municipal law, and therefore initiates a change of street name. According to Jobbik, it is necessary to clarify that the person without whom the Transylvanian Szépmíves Céh could not have been created, which was then one of the intellectual retainers of the Hungarians who had broken across the border, should be judged by the Hungarian society and the government, because we believe that respect is due to the artist who was the modern chronicler of the Székely's everyday life. [[13.20]] It is also important to highlight the fact that the public areas named after József Nyírő are integral to the street name network of the given cities. Thus, the streets of Áron Márton, Károly Koós, Elek Benedek between József Nyirő and József Kecskemét are surrounded by streets bearing the names of Áron Tamási and Jenő Dsida in Szigetszentmiklós. Thus, when choosing a name, the municipalities deliberately wanted to display in one area the future-making giants of the Transylvanian cultural world. It should be clarified once and for all how Fidesz stands for the form and work of József Nyirő. It is important to remember that as Speaker László Kövér and then Minister of Culture, Géza Szőcs personally participated in the organizing of József Nyirő. That is why I am asking Minister whether you also believe that it violates the municipal law to name a public area after József Nyirő. I look forward to your substantive answer. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-05-02-99	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. I give the floor to Minister János Lázár. Here you go, Minister.
u2016-05-02-100	Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Governance is a matter of fact, and it is not an issue of opinion, and I can therefore inform my fellow Member of the facts, as follows. First of all, in April 2015, our fellow citizen László Nánai asked the municipality of Szentmiklós to refer to the 2011 CLIX. Act No. 14 § 2 which states that a local government may not bear in a public area the name of a person who is a member of the Committee of the Regions. He was involved in the foundation, construction or maintenance of authoritarian political systems of the century, with reference to this he asked Szigetszentmiklós' body of representatives not to name a street after József Nyirő, to change the name of the street, and to remove the street signs containing the name of József Nyirő. The body of representatives, respecting the purpose of the law, turned to the Hungarian Academy of Sciences. The bodies of representatives shall either decide on such disputes in their own power or shall seek out the Academy for a scientific resolution. The scientific resolution is twofold. On the one hand, he says that the literary work of József Nyirő, represented by the President of the Commission, does not fall within the scope of the law, so that with the literary work of József Nyirő he did not base the existence, maintenance or creation of authoritarian dictatorships, but his activities as a journalist, editor, publisher, editor, editor and editor of the newspaper, and this is not separate from the other's activities, i.e. his writing activity, and therefore the Hungarian Academy of Sciences informed Szigetszentmiklós's self-government and representative's body that it is within the scope of the law that József Nyirő's journalistic work is subject to the law. After that, the representative body of the Szigetszentmiklós municipality decided to cancel and change the street name of József Nyirő. To show no small wit, Uz named the street named after József Nyirő after Bence, so Uz Bence became public in Szigetszentmiklós the public that bears that name. My apologies, Mr President, I just want to say that the government does not wish to change the constitutional system, and the name of street names is a matter for the body of representatives. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of Fidesz.]]
u2016-05-02-101	Thank you very much, Minister. Dear Parliament, Congressman István Szávay, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Minister without a wallet for national policy: å Almost a year has passed. Did Zsolt Semen take action? It's an address. Congressman István Szávay has the floor. Here you go.
u2016-05-02-102	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, In recent years, I have drawn attention to the issue of sports broadcasts abroad in Hungarian on several occasions, including at press conferences and in the form of written questions, but unfortunately I am obliged to do so again here, in front of the public of Parliament. The point of the problem is that our national brothers living in the divided parts of the country cannot follow the various world competitions, world and European championships, their qualifiers and others on television in Hungarian due to the coding of the programmes. The situation is even worse with the Olympic Games, as televisions from all countries give the competition that their competitors are interested in and other broadcasts are not available at this time, otherwise with reference to the advertising block. For example, instead of Hungarian athletes, our Transylvanian fellows can worry about the success of the Romanians if they want to get excited. Recognizing the gravity of the situation, Prime Minister Viktor Orbán himself spoke about the matter at a Fidesz party event last summer. His famous sentence sounded like this: "I consider this matter to be a serious matter, and Zsolt Semjén should take immediate action. At the December meeting of the Hungarian Permanent Conference, Deputy Prime Minister stressed that he took this matter seriously, as requested, and gave a long list of the efforts that have been made so far, adding that he trusts that this issue will soon be resolved. We welcome this, of course, for our part. More months have passed since then, and the matter is now becoming very urgent. The European Championship is here next month, with Hungarian participation again after 1972, and the Olympics in August. I ask you, Mr Secretary of State, to do everything you can to ensure that the whole nation can really enjoy the success of Hungary together. I ask you, in light of the above, what progress has been made since December in order to achieve what has been said, will the Hungarians from abroad finally be able to cheer our athletes through Hungarian sports broadcasts at this year's European Championship and the Olympics. I also look forward to your response on behalf of the stakeholders. Thank you. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-05-02-103	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Mr János Potápi, State Secretary. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2016-05-02-104	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, For the Hungarian government, it is extremely important to eliminate unjustified geo-blocking restrictions, so-called geo-blocking, and a specific case, the restriction of cross-border broadcasting of sports broadcasts. As Mr President pointed out, we have repeatedly spoken on this matter, and we have always said that we are trying to solve this problem and that we are close to a solution. Technically, I could say that we're here right now, but it would seem like we haven't done anything since. That's not true. We have received an offer from the European Commission to present our concrete proposal for a solution to the Commission and to consult the European Commission and Hungarian experts. The proposals for amendments on the basis of the consultations are scheduled to be finalised by coordinating the Prime Minister's Secretary of State for European Union Affairs, involving the wallets concerned and the competent authorities and institutions. In order to ensure the most effective representation of the domestic position, we will revisit this in the framework of the visit of Commissioner Günter Göttlinger, responsible for the digital economy and society, on 19 May 2016. It is very important for us to plan to conclude similar bilateral agreements in connection with the 2016 football European Championship and the summer Olympic Games. In this connection, we have started negotiations with the stakeholders, and we very much hope that we can cheer for Hungarian athletes together and watch this in Hungarian on events of interest to both the European Championship and Hungarians across borders. Thank you for asking. [[Applause in the ranks of Fidesz.]]
u2016-05-02-105	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, It's 1:28 p.m., and we've reached the end of the questions. We're moving to immediate questioning. Member Tamás Harangozó, representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: how long can his personal appointments remain in place, Péter Polt and György Matolcsy? It's an address. Prime Minister, because of his urgent public service mission, Mr János Lázár has appointed Secretary of State to answer. I respectfully ask the Member whether he accepts the person of the responding person or asks the Prime Minister himself for an answer.
u2016-05-02-106	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I think it is also clear from my question that I personally hold Viktor Orbán responsible for what is happening in the area of the Hungarian National Bank and in the area of the Supreme Public Prosecutor's Office in recent years, so I will personally expect an answer from him. Thank you very much.
u2016-05-02-107	Thank you very much, Congressman. The Prime Minister must respond at the hour of the third immediate question. Mr Gergely Bárándy, representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the President of the Hungarian National Bank an immediate question:. It's an address. Mr President has appointed Vice-President Márton Nagy to respond to his urgent public mission. I respectfully ask the Member whether he accepts the person who is responding or asks the President himself for an answer. Here you go.
u2016-05-02-108	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Since Mr. Matolcsy's relatives weren't sapphirunged by Vice President's relatives but Mr. Matolcsy's relatives [[Defiance in the ranks of the MSZP.]] So I'm going to ask him personally for an answer. Thank you very much. [[13.30]]
u2016-05-02-109	Thank you very much, Congressman. I would like to inform you that the President will have to answer at the hour of the third immediate question. Dear Parliament, Member Bertalan Tóth, representative of the MSZP, wants to ask the President of the Hungarian National Bank an immediate question:. Is György Matolcsy Independent of György Matolcsy Matolcsy? It's an address. [[Deterioration from the benches of the MSZP.]] The President appointed Vice-President Márton Nagy as a response to an urgent public task. I respectfully ask the Member whether he accepts the person who is responding or waits for the President to answer.
u2016-05-02-110	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I'll take it.
u2016-05-02-111	He'll take it. Thank you very much, Congressman. The answer is yours. [[Defiance.]] The question is yours.
u2016-05-02-112	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr. Vice President, In an interview conducted in 2014, György Matolcsy said: "The MNB made the foundation capital available to the Pallas Athena Foundations by making some reservations. The first and most importantly, the foundation capital cannot be used, but only its return can be used for foundation purposes. This will ensure that in three, four or five decades' time, we will still have the foundation's fortune. The second clause is that they can hold the foundation capital only in Hungarian sovereign debt, for example in gold, diamonds or foreign sovereign debt. The third is that the employees of the MNB, if they are foundational officials, are not entitled to a fee from the Foundation. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. In line with this, the Metropolitan Tribunal and the Metropolitan Court of Justice have also stressed in my data release lawsuits that the MNB has retained its influence over the operation of the Pallas Athena Foundations. By contrast, last week the MNB argued that the foundations made their decisions independently of the central bank and György Matolcsy. And today it turns out that's not true. It turned out that in the case of the Pallas Athena Domus Animae Foundation, founded and led by the central bank president György Matolcsy, the investment decisions were not made by the board, but by György Matolcsy himself and a member of the board appointed by him. [[Noise, interruptions from the benches of MSZP. Dr. András Schiffer's intervention. Dr. László Kács: Is this true?]] This was the decision on the purchase of sovereign debt and the merger at Matolcsy's cousin's bank. So once again, the President of the Central Bank decided that the foundations of the central bank's money should buy sovereign debt, and the MNB financed the Hungarian budget in this way. [[Dr. István Józsa: It's outrageous!]] Mr. Vice President, I'm asking you, how long are you gonna lie to me? When do they stand up and acknowledge the illegal use of public funds and the illegal financing of the Hungarian budget? When are you going to stand up and admit that in this violation of the law, you've been collaborating with the government? I'm waiting for your answer. [[Crying from the benches of the MSZP: Shame! Applause from the benches of MSZP.]]
u2016-05-02-113	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Vice-President Martin the Great. Here you go, Mr. Vice President.
u2016-05-02-114	Mr President, Honourable Members, I think I just want to explain this problem economically, because there are two things that are very similar to each other. [[Interview from the benches of the MSZP: Answer the question instead!]] And it's good to put it side by side. [[Interview from the benches of the MSZP: Start again!]] Okay? One thing is that if the National Bank pays the result to the State [[Dr. István Józsa: That's legal!]] the government debt is thus reduced and, due to a reduction in public debt, the budget is reduced, in which case you too could come up with illegal financing of the budget. [[There's a lot of noise from the benches of the MSZP. Dr. László Kács: Speak freely! The president's ringing the bell.]] the National Bank. Economically the same impact [[Dr. László Kács: One is legal and the other is not!]] as in this case, the level of government debt, government debt and interest expenditure are changing. [[Dr. Tamás Bellozó: What are you talking about?]] The foundations, on the other hand, received a fortune grant, didn't they? [[Dr. István Józsa: Public money!]] of which the sovereign debt was purchased [[Dr. István Józsa: Public money!]] and farm on the return of sovereign debt. I would like to draw attention to the fact that when we talk about how the National Bank is helping the budget, it is completely the same in economic terms. [[Dr. István Józsa: How do you help your friends?]] It's like he paid off his results. The other thing I would like to draw attention to is that in the central bank society, if I may call it that, there are two types of models. One is that in the central banks, such as the German or French central banks, where there are foundations, there is an income tax, and the foundation essentially uses this income every year. In this case, they farm from the yield in Hungary, not from the use of the entire 260 billion, but from its yield. The wealth must be preserved. [[Nándor Gúr: Do you know what public money is?]] Thank you very much. [[There's a lot of noise from the benches of the MSZP. Incoming: Number One! Dr. Gergely Bárándy: There is no model where you can steal it!]]
u2016-05-02-115	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. A one-minute rejoinder will be given to Congressman Bertalan Tóth. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-05-02-116	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Well, that's pretty amazing. If this money had been paid into the budget, and that money had been spent on health care, education, other important priority state tasks, it would be a problem, and in economic terms, there is no problem to distribute it to relatives, friends and friends through foundations. Mr. Vice President, I would be very curious to know if the central banks of Germany and the French central banks would give deposits to their own cousin's bank, which would be enriched by the commission of deposits, would the German and French central banks be at large. I'm very curious. Thank you.
u2016-05-02-117	Thank you very much, Congressman. A one-minute rejoinder is also due to Vice-President Márton Nagy. Here you go.
u2016-05-02-118	Thank you very much. There are two things I'd like to tell you. [[Dr. László Kács: Honourable Member, and start over.]] The SAO will supervise the operation of the foundations, and the SAO will hopefully tell you as soon as possible that the foundations are functioning properly. I don't think we should draw any conclusions until then. [[István Gábor Bellozó: I think the vice president is also an accomplice!]] as regards the functioning of the foundations. We think it's appropriate. The other thing is that, in the case of foundations, the founder of the board of trustees sought to be mostly external members in the decision-making process. [[Dr. András Schiffer: Family members!]] I think I've got this. [[István Gábor Bellozó: Péter Péter Polt!]] At the same time, I would like to draw attention [[Dr. István Józsa: The wife of Polt! Dr. Gergely Bárándy: Fortunately, Poltné could be found as an independent!]] For example, the majority of the German central bank's foundation has central banks in the Foundation's Curatorium, and in most cases central banks decide what the money will be used for. Thank you very much. [[Noise from the benches of MSZP. Nándor Gúr: Cancel and take Matolcsy with you. Crikeys: Shock! It's a shame. Dr. László Kács: But you will be ashamed of that!]]
u2016-05-02-119	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Parliament, Congressman Gábor Vona, the leader of the Jobbik faction, wants to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: "Do you really think it is with Brussels who would rule out the quota under the Fundamental Law? It's an address. The Prime Minister appointed Mr János Lázár, Minister of the Prime Minister's Office, as a response to the urgent public task. I respectfully ask the Head of the Group whether he accepts or waits for the Prime Minister's presence.
u2016-05-02-120	Mr President, I'd like to wait for the Prime Minister's arguments. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause from the Jobbik benches.]]
u2016-05-02-121	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. On the occasion of Earth's Day, Prime Minister Viktor Orbán told Zoltán Orbán that environmental protection is the cause of the rich countries and hinders economic development, we cannot spend on it. It's an address. The Prime Minister appointed Mr János Lázár, Minister of the Prime Minister's Office, as a response to the urgent public task. I respectfully ask the Member whether he accepts the person of the response or waits for the Prime Minister to be present. Here you go.
u2016-05-02-122	Thank you very much, but I would like to give the Prime Minister the opportunity to explain himself personally. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2016-05-02-123	Thank you very much, Congressman. [[Foreman Novak: You're very welcome!]] In any case, the Prime Minister must answer at the hour of the third immediate question. Congresswoman Dóra Dúró, representative of Jobbik, would you like to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question, 'The Clik has already been raised or is someone lying? It's an address. Minister to respond to an urgent public mission [[Dóra Dúró says yes.]] He appointed Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Thank you very much. I no longer have to ask the question, and the congresswoman indicates that she accepts the person who is responding. Here you go, Congresswoman. You have the floor.
u2016-05-02-124	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, On 22 March, you announced that the KLIK would cease, and last week Minister János Lázár said that the KLIK would not cease. I could just sit here and finish my question. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: The best would be!]] And I'd ask who's lying between the two of you, but I'm not. I think that it is a very bad direction for education in the public debate that has taken place in recent months, that it has been brought to a political level by the leaders of both the government and the demonstrators, and that is why I would like to get an answer from you to a question that is decisive in the longer term. If we look at the question of reservation in relation to the State and the municipalities, the fundamental question that we need to ask is whether all schools can operate better in state reserves than in municipal reservations. I would be very honored, Mr Secretary, if you would answer that question. [[13.40]] If you have the answer that yes, every school works better in state reserve than in municipal reserve, then I think that's a wrong answer. If you have the answer that there are schools that can function better in municipal reservations, then it would be your duty, the government, to create the opportunity for the municipalities to appear again as a maintainer in this system. They're not doing that, they're being pulled out of here as operators. The same is true of the textbook market, Mr Secretary: 85 percent - 85 percent of the textbook turnover! It's from a government label, Mr. Secretary. Do you think it's only 15 percent for textbooks that non-state publishers can create as value? I don't think so. They can create much more value. It is possible, indeed, that the liberalisation of the textbook market that has been carried out by SZDSZ education management has been exaggerated, but you have been on the other side of the horse, Mr State Secretary: values have also been weeded out from the textbook market. Are they willing to bring these back? I'm looking forward to your substantive answer. [[Applause in the ranks of Jobbik and LMP.]]
u2016-05-02-125	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. The answer will be given by Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2016-05-02-126	Thank you very much. I am also trying to give you an answer in the long term, as you have asked, if you have 25 years of experience behind us after the change of regime, then what can we expect in the next decades. But if you have started with a stroke, allow me to do the same: I see that Dóra Dúró, 2016 is now arguing very well with Dóra Dúró in 2010, and what you described at that time as another national party's election programme seems to be a different voice with Hungarian Bálint's overhearings here in Parliament. [[Defiance in Jobbik's ranks.]] However, as regards the question of long-term municipal or state funding: in 1990, the central budget paid 82 percent of the costs of maintaining and operating the school in the municipalities and the municipality had to add 18 percent. After that, many different governments came to Hungary, but by 2010, we came to the point that 82 percent had fallen to 48 percent. Therefore, if we look at the fact that the municipalities have schools and the state allows certain revenues to be made so that the municipalities can maintain schools, we see with 25 years of experience that this is constantly decreasing, because there is always an additional task for the school, let us say, to pay a 13th month's wages and, in addition, to receive falling funding. Schools have reached the point that if we look at how much more or less the budget spent in 2010 than in 2002 as major figures in the budget between 2002 and 2010, we can see that it was 143 billion HUF less for educational purposes in 2010 than it was in 2002. If we maintain such a system and say what you ask for the municipalities to be the maintainers and the managers in the case of schools, we will start in the same way in the same twenty-year term, the municipalities will also be bankrupt, and a Fidesz-KDNP government will come again, with a value of HUF 1300 billion, as it did in 2010, may have to consolidate the municipalities again in 25 years. [[Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks.]] What you're saying, Congresswoman, that road leads to an increase in social differences [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] and will lead to ongoing funding problems for municipalities, as it has been driving in the last 20 years. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-05-02-127	Thank you very much. With all due respect, I would like to ask the Secretary of State to try to observe the two-minute period more closely. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: I could only say half of it anyway.]] A one-minute rejoinder from Congresswoman Dóra Dúró. Here you go.
u2016-05-02-128	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, I, too, believe that the need to reduce social differences with the help of the education system is justified, but the Education Research and Development Institute, which is the background institution of your ministry, has carried out a study on the fact that it is not possible in this form with the maintenance of the KLIK. Your starting point was right, but the implementation was ruined, Mr. Secretary of State. And I'm not talking about restoring the previous system. Not only is it possible to think in extremes, not only is it possible to give everything back to every municipality without reason or to take everything away from every municipality without reason, but also to establish a system of criteria to ensure that if a school can operate better in a municipal reserve, it should operate in a municipal reserve, which should operate in a state and should operate in a state reserve. And it is the responsibility of the Ministry to develop this system of criteria with the involvement of professional organisations, because this is what can make the Hungarian education system successful in the long term. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik. John Lazarus intervenes.]]
u2016-05-02-129	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. A one-minute rejoinder from the Secretary of State. Here you go.
u2016-05-02-130	It was worth half a minute to exceed my time frame, because the congresswoman began by saying that our basic position was correct. [[Agnes Kunhalmi: It's not right!]] So at least you admitted that after two and a half minutes. But if you think about responsibility and long-term, you can see that this system of state reservations could be a guarantee for a student in a really difficult situation. [[János Lázár: Only and exclusively!]] Right to ascension. And you're banging open gates, Congresswoman, because you're saying that there are local governments that are well discharged, and they have extra money, and they can put more money into the school that they have. We believe that everyone lives on a basic level, anywhere in the whole country, in Eastern Hungary, in Western Hungary, in a small settlement, in a large settlement, must be guaranteed. [[Dóra Dúró: I think so too! That's right! Agnes Kunhalmi: Yes, but this level is very low!]] But there is still the possibility, there is the possibility in the National Public Education System Act that any municipality with additional resources [[Dóra Dúró: It's not just a question of money!]] He has extra resources and can put me on what's in the state institution maintenance system. [[Dr. András Schiffer: That's not it, Bence!]] It will be transformed, as we have said several times, and that study, by the way, will open a parentheses that you referred to. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] It was created directly after the establishment of the KLIK and examined its operation on a non-annual basis, so, returning to the main line, the municipalities now have a legal opportunity to contribute to this. Thank you very much for your patience, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-05-02-131	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, Member András Schiffer, representative of the LMP, group leader, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: "When will the sky and earth collapse? It's an address. The Prime Minister has appointed Mr János Lázár, Minister of the Prime Minister's Office, to respond to his urgent public task. I respectfully ask the Head of the Group whether he accepts the person of the responding party or asks the Prime Minister for his answer personally.
u2016-05-02-132	Given that only the Prime Minister has competence to answer transcendent questions, I will be forced to wait for him. Thank you very much. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: And KDNP. And there's no KDNP anywhere?]]
u2016-05-02-133	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. The Prime Minister must respond at the hour of the third immediate question. Mr. Team Leader, do not sit down, because I am also obliged to call you with the next immediate question. Member András Schiffer, representative of the LMP, group leader, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: "Do offshore communities exist? It's an address. The Prime Minister has appointed Mr János Lázár, Minister of the Prime Minister's Office, to respond to his urgent public task. I would like to ask the Member whether he accepts the person who is responding, or whether he will ask the Prime Minister for his answer personally. Here you go, Mr. Group Leader.
u2016-05-02-134	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Given that a month ago, the Prime Minister demonstrated that he is a great acquaintance of the communists and kibbutz, I would like to wait for him with the answer. Thank you very much.
u2016-05-02-135	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. The Prime Minister must respond at the hour of the third immediate question. Dear Parliament, Congressman Sallai R. Benedek, a representative of the LMP, wants to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: "Does Hungary perform better: billions for billionaires?" It's an address. The Prime Minister has appointed Mr János Lázár, Minister of the Prime Minister's Office, to respond to his urgent public task. I respectfully ask the Member whether he accepts the person who is responding or waits for the Prime Minister to be present.
u2016-05-02-136	If the Minister would allow me, I would now accept it; I have slept on it since last week, and I have realized that the Minister has been so expert in protecting the progressive support system in the Committee on Agriculture a good year ago that he may actually be perfectly informed of the issue I wanted to address to the Prime Minister. So, yes, I accept.
u2016-05-02-137	Thank you very much, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2016-05-02-138	It is basically that, as is probably known to the Minister, HUF 771 billion 580 million is the amount paid by the Hungarian State as agricultural support in 2015. 78.75 percent of this, i.e. more than HUF 607 billion, was from EU sources, and the remainder was added by the Hungarian self. And obviously, the fundamental aim of this support is to improve the situation of agriculture, to strengthen the population retention power of the countryside and to create the possibility that the four regions in Hungary that are at the end of the EU statistics on per capita GDP can somehow catch up. And, basically, this support is what I'm most interested in, because the Minister announced it about a year ago, sorry, it may have been a year and a half ago that, with the introduction of a progressive system, they would like to withdraw subsidies from the big ones and want the small ones to improve their situation. Well, the result of this was in 2015 and we learned that it was still the case that in 2015 the top 10 percent received 76 percent of the funding, and over 12 percent of the funding was shared by 80 percent of the applicants. And that means that very, very few applicants will still have very, very many resources. [[13.50]] As a result of your transformation, Tamás Leisztinger now leads the lists with HUF 4.8 billion as the most supported. Of which 1.2 billion is purely area aid. The second Sándor Csányi with HUF 4.4 billion, of which more than 1 billion is purely area. The family of the Bódi family, István Mádl family, the Hódmezőmazda and Lőrinc Mészáros also ranks. Obviously, the situation points to political relations very little, as it can be seen that Lajos Simicska is 30 percent less, but Lőrinc Mészáros received 65 percent more support than in the previous year. My question is how normal you think it is to give agricultural subsidies to billionaires in Hungary. How normal is it that the resources to catch up with the countryside get billionaires and not small and medium-sized farmers? That's what I'd like you to answer. Thank you very much.
u2016-05-02-139	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Mr János Lázár, Minister of the Prime Minister's Office. Here you go, Minister.
u2016-05-02-140	Thank you very much. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to start by saying that, if I understand my fellow Member correctly, there is no debate between us that, if possible, the available agricultural subsidies for the period 2014-20 should be subject to social policy objectives that serve the interests of the community far better than even those of the agricultural industry. However, I think that the aim of the community would be to have agriculture in Hungary that creates as many jobs as possible and contributes to the provision and livelihood of as many families as possible. There are calculations that show that as long as the proportion of people living directly from the ground in Hungary does not increase and reach 500 thousand people - we are talking about up to 200-250 thousand people, and in this we are talking about the side occupations; there are unfortunately fewer people living from the main job - there will be no real social change in the survival and prosperity conditions of the village, for example. In the spirit of this, we have, first of all, rearranged the land policy support system. We believe that it is of the utmost importance that, in the next development period, in which we have now started, the small and medium-sized people receive agricultural support in proportion to the ownership policy. I would like to inform you that the AKG's recently published tender results, which publish the decision, show that 88 percent of the land below 300 hectares received AKG support, which is similar to land-based aid, and the highest area supported by the 1500 hectares, so large owners could not fall into this area on the basis of the invitation to tender. There is no doubt that the former AKG or ground-based aid in force until 2014 preferred the major ones. I think in these figures, the degression, the degressivity, the fact that over 1200 hectares, you basically don't get anything, and at 1800 hectares, you really don't get anything, that hasn't worked out yet. In addition, I would like to remind you that most of the companies you quoted here with the land auction in 2015-16 [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] then loses its right to land use with previous land lease modifications. So they're gonna fall out of the big support list. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-05-02-141	Thank you very much, Minister. A one-minute rejoinder from Congressman Sallai R. Benedict, please.
u2016-05-02-142	Thank you, Mr. President. Minister, we fully agree on the purpose of the aid. What we disagree about is that I claim that it is not for this purpose during the administration of Fidesz. At the moment, the 200-220 thousand employees will not grow because the aid scheme and land policy are absolutely unrelated to employment. Billionaires can take up support by keeping employment low. And that's the result. Forgive me, Minister, I do not wish to accuse you of slipping, but it is not a coincidence that you merely quoted agri-environmental aid in your reply, since that is not the case; it is a small segment of the significantly larger agricultural budget of 771 billion, and the area area area and all the other subsidies that we pay for each sector is the vast part of it. That's what's causing the statistics we're talking about. And the fact that you can prove in the AKG that you have received grants of less than 1,500 hectares does not mean that the statistics you just mentioned in the total payment of aid - when practically the interest of Sándor Csányi, the Leisztingers, are taking billions away - are not true. I continue to claim that billionaire subsidies [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] We give it to billionaires in Hungary. Thank you.
u2016-05-02-143	Thank you very much, Congressman. A one-minute rejoinder will be given to Minister János Lázár, please.
u2016-05-02-144	Ladies and gentlemen, I'm partly prepared to provide you with detailed data and, on the other hand, to distort the numbers. With land-based support, your claim cannot be true, as there are new land lease contracts in 2015. From the list quoted by you, I would like to say that whether Hódmezőgazda Zrt. or the Leisztinger interests have lost their land, because they were first hired and then bought by others with the land auction. Therefore, in the 2016 aid figures and in the, respectively, the figures can no longer be so. On the other hand, Congressman, you are confusing not only land-based support - which is subject to degression, so in 2016, land-based aid is distributed not in the way you said it - but animal-based support. When we introduced degression in land-based support and in the AKG, preventing huge economic policy attacks and averting protests - because the interests of the agricultural industry say that the country's competitiveness would say that these large companies should be supported - we agreed that those who hold livestock would breed animals. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] animal-based support. If we were to deprive cow farms of this, the dairy sector would completely disappear in Hungary, which would mean the loss of another 50,000 jobs. Please consider this. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-05-02-145	Thank you very much, Minister. [[Lázár János Sallai R. Benedek: It is in those numbers! I'll send you an analysis.]] Dear Parliament, Dear fellow Members, Congressman Béla Dankó, representative of Fidesz, wants to ask the Minister of Agriculture an immediate question: å How effective is our country's GMO defence system? It's an address. The Minister has appointed Mr Róbert Zsigó State Secretary to respond to his urgent public mission. I respectfully ask the Member whether he accepts the person who is responding. [[For signal:]] The congressman nodds his acceptance, so Congressman Béla Dankó has the floor. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-05-02-146	Dear Secretary of State, My fellow opponents, when they say out loud whether it is possible at all to preserve our country's GMO exemption, which is enshrined in the Fundamental Law, despite the political and economic pressure at global level, I could call it reassuring that opposition factions, like the government, consider it important for our country's GMO exemption, but I must note that my fellow Members tend to look away from reality in political interest and that the government's efforts in the international field are being underestimated. However, it is undeniably true that Hungary is one of the engines of GMO-free within the EU. The government is trying to reach a closer alliance with Member States with similar interests, so we have a good chance to defend our interests. For example, it is a huge success and, to a large extent, the merit of our work that Brussels has contributed to giving Member States the power to prohibit or authorise genetically modified plant varieties. Like our country, several Member States have made use of the moratorium. We have launched the Alliance for a GMO-free Europe, to which several countries have joined. You can say that this is the scene of politics, the theory - but what does the practice look like? I ask the Honourable Secretary of State: what control system does the government guarantee to maintain Hungary's GMO-free regime? What is the amount of contamination with GMOs that labs filter out? What is the relationship between authorities and operators? In short, how effective can we really maintain our GMO exemption? [[Applause in the pro-government benches. Dr. András Schiffer: It doesn't!]]
u2016-05-02-147	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Mr. Róbert Zsigó, Secretary of State.
u2016-05-02-148	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Food safety begins in the field. The National Food Chain Safety Office operates a single system of controls based on highly developed central laboratory tests, which can guarantee that only GMO-free seed lots are used. The selection for GMO testing is based on risk analysis. One of the most important risk factors is the origin of the seed, since most of them come from countries where the use of GMOs is permitted. Only 2-3 percent of the seed lots tested have been contaminated with GMOs in recent years. It should be pointed out that these items cannot be placed on the market before the results of the laboratory tests. Several companies will have the items they want to market in Hungary examined in advance, so only GMO-free seed lots will be introduced into the country. Only one of the items examined in 2016 was the one with a GMO positive test result and this item has already arrived in the country; this item has, of course, been destroyed. The increased monitoring of the GMO content of sweet and popcorn seed is justified by the fact that the resulting product is placed directly on the customer's table. In 2015, Nebih designated a total of 144 maize lots for GMO testing, of which 8 sweet corn samples were identified as GMO contamination. [[14.00]] In 2016, the Authority has carried out an examination of 110 lots of sweets and 21 popcorns. This year, the Nébih laboratory detected GMO contamination in 6 samples of sweet corn and 1 popcorn. Of course, all the items have been destroyed. Honourable Congressman, As my reply shows, the supervision of seeds will be given priority in order to prevent GMO-free Hungary. Thank you very much.
u2016-05-02-149	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. A one-minute rebuttal is for Congressman Béla Dankó. Here you go.
u2016-05-02-150	Thank you for your information, Mr. Secretary. I believe that, on the basis of information published on the negotiations of the Free Trade Agreement between the United States of America and Europe, this issue has a particular topicality again. It is reassuring that the domestic control system is such a high level of guarantee for us. Each of the risky points is subject to strict monitoring. The fact that our country has such a food safety control system shows that the government's goal is to protect the country. There are increasingly obvious signs that the widespread cultivation of genetically modified plants poses serious risks to the ecosystem, so it is right to fund control with a high amount of money. I would also like to point out to Mr Secretary of State that Hungary's firmness in this matter also has long-term benefits from a national economy perspective. Maintenance of the GMO-free Carpathian Basin, seed production or even fodder plants [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] It is of strategic importance for the production of our country's foreign strategic assessment of our efforts to avoid GMOs. Can it be considered that Hungarian agriculture can reliably produce GMO-free products? [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2016-05-02-151	Thank you very much, Congressman. A one-minute rejoinder from the Secretary of State. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2016-05-02-152	Thank you. Mr President, Nébih maintains a central database of all domestic small, medium and wholesalers, including those who distribute or use non-Hungarian seed. The national spring control ordered by the Ministry of Agriculture, between 21 and 24 March, was intended to filter out unnotified items of foreign origin or possible GMOs contaminated items in circulation. It should also be noted that professionals have been examined not only in seed distributors but also in the entire food chain, in farmers' shops and supermarkets. Thanks to consistent and regular checks and effective official action, seed lots can be filtered before arrival in the country or during the period before sowing, thus ensuring that our GMO-free status is maintained and that the health of the Hungarian population is protected. Thank you, Mr Congressman, for your question. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2016-05-02-153	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Member László Szakács, representative of the MSZP, wants to ask the Minister of the Prime Minister's Office an immediate question: "Zsolnay: How do you protect the interests of the Pécsians?" It's an address. Congressman László Cook has the floor. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-05-02-154	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Minister, Minister, the history of the Zsolnay Manufactory over the last year is quite a catifant Calvary, let me put it this way. A lot has happened there, but the problem is that a lot has not happened, because we have reached a point where - I think - a reassuring solution can be very, very difficult, based on the government's failures and the poor decisions of the municipality of Pécs. But first things first. We have interpelled several times here in Parliament, and we have asked for you on the basis of the syndicate agreement, to which the government is also a signatory to protect the Zsolnay factory, not to let the majority owner take the trademark of Zsolnay, take it out of the country, protect it from the entire European Union, whether it is Asia and trade it there. They didn't do anything. They told us it wouldn't be a problem, believe me, there are lawyers working on this case. We asked you to do something about it, too, if the Pécs municipality is already doing nothing to ensure that the syndicate agreement is complied with by the majority owner, that the financial contribution or contribution can be made available to the company properly. Nothing happened here either, but they didn't ask for any rent, even though he broke the contract. At the same time, we came to the point where we filed a complaint, opposition representatives, and now we have come to the point that last week the NAV left, interrogated and listened to more than 40 of its employees at Zsolnay, and then at a scandalous general meeting in Pécs County, a minority owner was called out of the Zsolnay Manufactory. There are all kinds of questions, of course, but I would like to ask what the government's plans are. Is it true what we hear that we already have the buyer for the Žilnay factory? Is it true that Zsolnay factory is moving out of Pécs, moving out of downtown Pécs to South Industrial Park? [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] Is it true that Pécs wants to sell his own business? Thank you very much for your attention.
u2016-05-02-155	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Minister János Lázár. Here you go, Minister.
u2016-05-02-156	Dear fellow Member, Dear House of Representatives, Mr President, Zsolnay is a national treasure, salvation is the responsibility, duty and interest of all of us, even if I rank myself among the people who appreciate beautiful table china. My fellow Members must know that you are one of the most difficult businesses in the world. It is no coincidence that the largest British houses have gone bankrupt in the last 15 years. Perhaps it is talkative how hard hard work was needed to keep Herendi on his feet, and how restructuring and work were needed to keep Herendi on its feet. It shows the cumbersomeness of this business, that - in preparation for your question I have now looked back - essentially since 1999, it was the first 506 million loan, the Zsolnay-porcelain production is on state respirator. If the State hadn't lent it to Pécs in 99, 2004, 2008, 2010, 2011, 2014 and now, it wouldn't have been nearly 17 years since the company couldn't stop on its own feet. It would be worth considering, as a committed believer of the brand, that reorganization should be considered. The city, the brand, the tradition is obviously important for the workers, but it also raises the question of burning taxpayers' money with the help of the state bank, the Hungarian Development Bank, to maintain something with the help of the taxpayers' money for 15-17 years, and then you have to ask what you liked to do in order to improve or improve the situation. Now I can tell you that the Hungarian Development Bank will give its demands into Hungarian ownership. It's already been decided. The factory will be saved again. We're ready to re-credit, but that doesn't solve the brand's problem and doesn't solve the question of salesability. Without a market, there's no business business, because what they make is hard to sell if there's no one to buy it. This fundamental relationship should be corrected. We support it. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] I cannot speak on behalf of the municipality of Pécs. The Hungarian state has developed a reassuring solution. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2016-05-02-157	Thank you very much, Minister. A one-minute rejoinder is the word of Congressman László Szakács. Here you go.
u2016-05-02-158	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. I also thank you for the support of every government that has saved at least the Zsolnay Manufactory in Baranya, if you have failed to mine, you will succeed at least one of these companies with taxpayers' money, if not burned, but still saved. We are happy to have you in Hungarian ownership. Who? I think there's a reason for us to ask that. After all, the examples that we see, the exclusion of each other at the meeting, the indictment of each other, it seems that the owners cannot normally work side by side, from which one of the local governments of the city of Pécs has county rights. Then I think it's safe for us to ask the government for a solution, and that's why we have to ask who and whether the Zsolnay factory is really moving out of the city centre to the industrial park. Thank you.
u2016-05-02-159	Thank you very much, Congressman. A one-minute rejoinder is also due to Minister János Lázár. Here you go.
u2016-05-02-160	We are able to comment on Mayor Zsolt Páva's efforts to save the Zsolnay brand in Pécs, and to keep the taxpayers' wealth and money in Pécs in service. I think it's the merit of the council of Pécs and the mayor, and his ambition is worthy of support. What I didn't understand was what you guys filed a complaint about. [[Dr. László Kács: The theft of the brand name.]] I hope that in your investigation into NAV budget fraud, you did not press charges, because I do not think it would serve to resolve the matter, Congressman, if you report the company you are protecting. What you have to say is that you're asking us to account for what's going on, the government and the municipality, while you're going through the reports. Instead of filing a complaint, it would be worth sitting at a table and discussing how to get the company back on its feet. Once again, it's not about the support of the municipality. The question is not about the bank of the Hungarian State or the support of taxpayers. The market is the question of how to build, help, rebuild a brand that can be sold, because this can only be a long-term solution. We can find a solution at the moment, but the question is whether we can do it in the long run. I need your help with this. [[Dr. László Kács: You're very welcome.]] Thank you. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2016-05-02-161	Thank you very much, Minister. Dear Parliament, Member Márton Gyöngyösi, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Foreign Minister of Foreign Affairs and Trade an immediate question: with whom and what foreign policy is the Orbán government building? It's an address. The Minister has appointed Mr László Szabó State Secretary to respond to his urgent public mission. [[For signal:]] The congressman indicates that he accepts the person who is responding. Congressman Márton Gyöngyösi has the floor. Here you go, Congressman. [[14.10]]
u2016-05-02-162	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, With regard to foreign policy and national policy, the last 25 years have been spent in the spirit of gesture politics by pursuing naive and sometimes stupid illusions that accession to the European Union, Schengen, will automatically be a cure for Trianon's wounds. Géza Jeszenszky, László Kovács, János Martonyi's diplomacy was in the spirit of this, and unfortunately, Péter Szijjártó did not make any qualitative progress in this respect either, since after he announced a strategic partnership with Romania, accepting the invitation of Foreign Minister Comănescu in January 2016, he declared in a final statement that the difficult issues, essentially related to the national community, would be removed from the agenda of bilateral relations and that the emphasis would now be placed on success stories. The fact is that I have not known too many Hungarian success stories in this relationship since 4 June 1920 is only the Romanians' own, and this is, among other things, the shame of Hungarian diplomacy. But if we look at who the government is building its foreign policy strategy with, we will find names such as János Kóka, who will accompany Prime Minister Viktor Orbán on his official trips, and László Kovács in Germany officially represents the Hungarian state at the funeral of Guido Westerwelle during a Fidesz government. László Kovács, who has announced his work and diplomacy to be small in Hungary, who on 1 December 2002 toasted with Năstasé in Kempinski; or the Péter Medgyessy, who was recently decorated by Péter Szijjártó, who was also at that ominous toast, and who is doing business with the influence for Alstom, for example, for EUR 600 thousand, and also in the case of the Gresham Palace. I don't know if the State Department wants to give a medal to Ferenc Gyurcsány. With whom and what strategy is the State Department building? [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-05-02-163	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary of State László Szabó. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2016-05-02-164	Thank you very much, Mr. President. First of all, I would like to say that the Hungarian Government has taken responsibility for our fellow nations and Hungarians from abroad, and we will help them in every way that they can manage in their homeland. There have been very serious foreign policy and external economic developments in recent years, and I feel that the results of this have already been seen. We could list different relationships here, allow me to give you only two data. For example, we have recently developed the economic development programme in Transcarpathia, and the government provides HUF 2 billion in support to entrepreneurs who, in cooperation with Hungarian companies, help Hungarians stay there, stay in their homeland and prosper. With the help of the Hungarian Association of Vojvodina, a strategy for economic development and territorial development was developed, within the framework of which we give the region a non-refundable grant of HUF 20 billion and a reduced loan of HUF 30 billion in 2016-18. The dialogues are continuous, we constantly defend Hungarian positions, and we represent the interests of Hungarian minorities in such a way that our foreign policy is in constant consultation with Hungarian minorities, and in practice what Hungarian minorities see fit, we pursue that policy. I feel that this cooperation is forward-looking, successful. The fact that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade sometimes cooperates with other party politicians, I think, is perfectly natural. We serve Hungarian édes, we try to help Hungarian companies export, and we try to attract foreign investments. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-05-02-165	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Congressman Márton Gyöngyösi has the floor for a one-minute rejoinder. Here you go.
u2016-05-02-166	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr. Secretary, I think you are fundamentally misinterpreting the situation. The Hungarians do not expect you to improve and cultivate bilateral relations from here and beyond. They expect to stand up consistently for Hungarian national interests, even at the cost of taking up conflicts. So this is what the Hungarian people expect, not that bilateral relations are appropriate here with neighbouring countries. They expect you, not only the Szeklers, but also the Hungarians of Transcarpathia, since you have already mentioned, Minister of State, to represent the Hungarian adjutant Hungarians consistently in terms of autonomy, even at the cost of taking up conflicts, otherwise the situation will be that not only will László Tőkés not understand Hungarian foreign policy and Hungarian national policy, but there will be more and more people in this country. That is not your job, get off this road, and let the Ministry of Foreign Affairs represent the interests of Hungary! Thank you. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-05-02-167	Thank you very much, Congressman. A one-minute rejoinder from the Secretary of State. Here you go.
u2016-05-02-168	Thank you, Mr. President. Congressman, I feel that we fully agree on the objectives. How the implementation is done, we feel successful and we go forward. Of course, there are problems to be solved, but we cannot represent the interests of Hungarians on the border if we do not pursue a constructive, normal, forward-looking and forward-looking policy. It is only in this way that we can create a life situation for Hungarian minorities so that they can actually manage to live and thrive in an environment that will allow them and their children to stay there. So I feel that we agree on the goals, and I trust that you can give us ideas, help us, how to do this even better. I think we're on our way. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-05-02-169	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Representative József Móring, representative of KDNP, notary of the National Assembly, wishes to ask the Minister of Agriculture an immediate question: "Does the Hungarian Government have the opportunity to promote the growth of Hungarian honey production? It's an address. Mr. Minister has appointed Mr. István Nagy State Secretary to respond to an urgent public task. I do not have to ask the Member, and he already indicates that he accepts the person who is responding. Congressman Attila Móring, notary, has the floor.
u2016-05-02-170	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Over the past six years, it has been estimated that 10 million hives equivalent to USD 2 billion in ideas have been destroyed worldwide. Scientists first reported to the public in 2006 that, according to available data, there was a continuous and significant reduction in the bee population in the world. In recent years, this decline has already become drastic. By 2010, the destruction of bees had already become a global problem. The presence of bees is not only important in the world because of honey production, but what about the food chain needed to sustain humanity if there is no one to pollinate the plants? Last year there was a major Honey Falsification scandal in Europe, resulting in a significant decrease in imports of honey in Hungary. Two weeks ago, a successful consultation was held for the protection of the Hungarian honey market, in which the National Hungarian Honey Association, the Hungarian Honey Dealers' and Honey Packers' Association and as organizers of the National Food Chain Safety Office took part, along with the legislative and official side, namely the Ministry of Agriculture and the National Tax and Customs Office. At the meeting, the reporting obligation was extended to include changes in the requirements for the provision of honey from Member States, production, marketing and traceability. The participants also expressed their comments on the European Union's monitoring programme for honey tests. Dear Secretary of State, The common goal of legislators, public authorities and industry actors is to preserve the reputation of high quality Hungarian honey. That is why I ask the Secretary of State: how can the government help us achieve this goal and protect the Hungarian bee population? I look forward to Mr Secretary of State's reply. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-05-02-171	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Mr. István Nagy, State Secretary. Here you go, Secretary of State. [[14.20]]
u2016-05-02-172	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, My dear fellow Member, The Hungarian bee-keeping sector is a small sector within livestock production, as it accounts for about 1 percent. Twenty thousand beekeepers hold 1 million 200 thousand bee families in Hungary. And I have to say that, despite the smallness of the sector, it is of great importance in its ecological nature, because in money it is almost impossible to express the benefits and benefits that bees themselves represent not only with the production of honey, or with the production of pollen, propolis, bee jelly, but also with pollination. The lack of pollination would result in billions of irreparable economic damages in Hungary. However, the honey market is facing a number of problems today. One of the most significant is the very poor quality of honey dumping coming from third countries, especially China, or, to be said, counterfeit honey dumping. This represents almost 200,000 tonnes of import honey, according to the 2015 data of OMME. One third of the EU's honey turnover - and this is a terrible number - is likely to be falsified, and the amount of honey marketed is increasing, which is not justified by the number of bee families, especially those of Chinese bees. This proves that most of us are talking about technological honey. The National Food Chain Safety Office organised a roundtable discussion on the state of play in the honey sector on 19 April 2016 by the legislators, the authorities and representatives of the domestic aquaculture sector. During the roundtable discussion, the President of OMME pointed out that due to the successful official work of the past period, the proportion of imports of honeybees decreased significantly in trade. This has resulted in a spectacular domestic honey market cleaning from poor quality honeys and counterfeit products. As a result of increased controls and transparent communication, the proportion of Hungarian honeys has increased significantly in retail trade. Chinese honey has not been imported directly into the country since January 2016. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-05-02-173	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I give the floor to Congressman József Attila Móring for a one-minute rejoinder. Here you go.
u2016-05-02-174	Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, It is a pleasure to hear that Hungary occupies such a prestigious position in terms of the bee population and measures. I think it is important to stress that the Fidesz-KDNP government, recognising the problems facing the sector, is doing everything in its power to reduce the problems and to keep in mind the survival of the domestic bee population and the livelihood of domestic honey producers. Thank you very much for your reply. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-05-02-175	Thank you very much, Congressman. A one-minute rejoinder is also due to Mr. Secretary of State. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2016-05-02-176	Mr President, My dear fellow Member, The truth is that it is in Hungary's interest to have the strictest procedure in the rules for the certification of honeys. As a Hungarian initiative, we are asking the Agriculture and Fisheries Council in Brussels for a reason that the origin of honey from third countries should be strengthened in EU law and its labelling rules reviewed. At the same forum, we call on the Commission to step up its involvement in facilitating the wider use of existing effective laboratory methods and to help ensure the financial and technical conditions necessary for effective control. Order will only be on the market - and that is the fundamental interest - if quality honey is placed on the market and quality can be protected at the borders of Europe. This is in the common interest of all of us, and we must use the strictest technological, strictest legal system in this fight. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-05-02-177	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Congressman Sallai R. Benedek, a representative of the LMP, wishes to ask the Minister of Agriculture an immediate question, "Is this normal?" It's an address. Mr. Minister has appointed Mr. István Nagy Secretary of State to respond to his urgent public mission. I respectfully ask the Member whether he accepts the person who is responding or waits for the Minister to be present with the answer.
u2016-05-02-178	If it's not embarrassing for Mr. Secretary of State to disguise other people's filth, then I'll accept his answer.
u2016-05-02-179	I should warn you right now, because you actually have to answer yes or no. I suppose you'll take this warning next. Congressman Sallai R. Benedek has the floor. Here you go.
u2016-05-02-180	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, They might be monitoring the press at FM. On the morning of April 26th, the media reported that in the cafeteria of a luxurious restaurant, Márton Örs Bitay, State Secretary for Lands and Lőrinc Mészáros, a large entrepreneur in Felcsút met by chance, and the news said that they accidentally had coffee and talked about football. That's what the news said, and maybe that's what it would have been like to shake our heads if the National Land Fund Management Organization hadn't taken a partial withdrawal of an auction notice on the afternoon of the same day. But he made this decision, 31 items were withdrawn from the auction, and what the Good God gives, of which 11 items belong to the Wheatkalász 66 Felcsúti Agrág Kft., and three other items belong to János Mészáros, the brother of the major contractor. If that is not enough, we can also look at the other items, because the other 16 items are closely related to the Agricultural Producer and Service Company of Mezőfalva, which is one of the flagship companies of the agricultural chamber official close to the government, Tibor Zászlós. Obviously, the parallel is that in the morning a large contractor meets a billionaire, and in the afternoon, the lands that the billionaire can no longer buy, because, as we know, all his family members have reached the maximum purchase price, the maximum per 300 ha person, so the state retains them in order to ensure a favourable lease to the large entrepreneur. For my part, I am always glad that the state is not selling something, and that would not be a problem, but the question is what decision-making mechanism is, what arguments were there to take at the last minute before the auctions start, a step to prove once again how you are connected to the billionaires, the big owners, and how they serve the interests of Hungarian small and medium-sized entrepreneurs. If you could give me a reasonable explanation for that, Secretary of State, I'd appreciate it. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2016-05-02-181	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Mr. István Nagy, State Secretary. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2016-05-02-182	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, My dear fellow Member, Who's having coffee with whom, I think, in this case, has become a process of the legendary production of politics. And what you're talking about, Mr. Bitay and Mr. Butcher will certainly tell you. Secretary of State Bitay said that. At the same time, I would like to address very seriously what, as a result of this meeting, is completely false, it must be said that they are lying and trying to put me first. The facts are the following, and I would very much like this to be taken into account. Atlatszo.hu falsely claimed that Lőrinc Mészáros and Márton Bitay were negotiating land affairs. The portal suggested that there was a link between their short and random meeting and the fact that the land in the lease of Lőrinc Mészáros was highlighted that day by the National Land Fund Management Organisation. None of this is true. The NFA has rescheduled the auctions of 19 May 2016 for technical reasons only to 30 May 2016. Contrary to speculation in the press, all of the withdrawn areas are thus placed under hammers. The NFA and the government offices involved in the auction found that the publication of certain notices and the planned auction days did not exceed 30 days as required by law, so the bids had to be rescheduled for a later date. Nationally, NFA changed the auction date for a total of 699 plots of land. Please accept my reply. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-05-02-183	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. A one-minute rejoinder from Congressman Sallai R. Benedict. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-05-02-184	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The Secretary of State claims that it is merely a coincidence that they are meeting in the morning, and that the partial withdrawal this afternoon includes lands belonging to his interests. It's definitely a coincidence! I feel bad about this because they think everybody's stupid. The point is that you believe that Hungarian society can be traced without further delay. This is the case that points out that it is the kind of abuse of office that the Btk is. 305. § 3 and the abuse of the public service situation as set out in Article 306 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. § 2 of the Act states that they confer an undue advantage on certain entrepreneurs, which stops. Therefore, I have one request: I think it's time to set up Sándor Fazekas and put Bitay in jail. I need your help with that. Thank you very much.
u2016-05-02-185	Thank you, Congressman. A one-minute rejoinder, Mr. Secretary of State. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2016-05-02-186	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Everything my fellow Member has said would only be true if we did not take into account everything I have said. 699 parts of the land were rescheduled because the 30-day waiting period was not available. To rule out that this was just because of one or two landmarks, it was a completely net lie because of the 699 affected pieces of land that the said transcription was made. I would like to ask Mr President, not only to move along with emotions and emotions, but also with legality and truth. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. John Lazarus: Justice and justice!]] [[14.30]]
u2016-05-02-187	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, It's 2:30. We're done with the immediate questions. The political debate on the use of EU funds for Hungary for the period 2007-2013 follows, which was initiated by the government. Opinion on the initiative of the political debate V/10090. The information material of the State Audit Office was also available to all on the IT network. I declare that, in accordance with the decision of the House Committee last week, the presentation will be discussed as an EU item on the agenda by the Parliament. Dear Parliament, I now ask Mr Adam Mirkóczki, the notary of the Parliament, to explain the course of the political debate.
u2016-05-02-188	Dear Parliament, First, a statement from the representative of the Government will be made for a total period of 40 minutes. The speakers of each political group will then be able to speak in 15-15 minutes, and then the first independent Member will be able to speak. The remaining time frame will then be open to further speeches by its representatives. I would like to inform you that Members of the European Parliament with a political background, if they have indicated their intention to speak to the particular faction, may speak against the time frame of the factions. Members of the European Parliament who do not have a political background and who sign up directly may use a speaking time equal to the speaking time for an independent Member. Finally, the representative of the Government will respond in 20 minutes to what has been said in the debate.
u2016-05-02-189	Thank you very much, Mr. Notary. Dear Parliament, Allow me to remind you of the main rules of the time-frame debate. The speaking time of the member of the Government who spoke during the debate shall count towards the time of the pro-government factions. In the meantime, two-minute speeches, with the exception of responding to personal concerns, should be included in the timeframe. Point of order speeches are not included in the time frame. On the meeting room information board, interested parties will be able to monitor the use of time frames. Before we begin the debate, I would like to ask Mr Ádám Mirkóczki again to explain the time frame.
u2016-05-02-190	Dear Parliament, I declare that five independent Members have initiated a doubling of the time frame available to them, so the distribution of timeframes is as follows. The timeframe is 82 minutes for the Fidesz Group, 46 minutes for the MSZP Group, 38 minutes for the Group of the Christian Democratic People's Party, 41 minutes for the Jobbik Group, 24 minutes for the LMP Group and 18 minutes for the independent Members. The time limits provided for the factions include the 15-15 minutes lead speakers.
u2016-05-02-191	Thank you very much, Mr. Notary. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, First, the government's debate will take place in a 40-minute timeframe. Accordingly, I give the floor to Mr János Lázár, Minister of the Prime Minister's Office. Here you go, Minister.
u2016-05-02-192	Thank you very much. Honourable Parliament! Ladies and gentlemen, If I may, first of all, I would like to thank the Parliament for the opportunity to set today's political debate day on the initiative of Prime Minister. It is rare for the government itself to initiate a political debate day to review an important issue in Parliament, to discuss the issue proposed by the executive authority in legislation. We did this because, at the end of 2015, for example, in December, there was a sharp debate on how and how the development policy cycle 2007-2013 should be assessed. This is important in a number of ways. The method of the debate or the formal and targeted issues should also be mentioned, but the first and most important thing is that Hungary cannot withdraw from it and cannot avoid drawing the social policy lessons of the first development policy cycle and period. I am afraid that today is partly little and partly a lot to talk about. There is little because the government's political allies, its supporters here in Parliament and the government's political opponents sitting against us are obviously preparing to praise the government's performance from one side and to examine the government's performance and criticize it. I think that Parliament's legislative responsibility is more than criticising the ability, preparedness or steps of the executive power in itself. The real task would be to ask the government to legislate - to determine the objective of the political debate day on the part of the proposer - to evaluate the legislation, the community of elected MPs, whether the available budget of HUF 8600 billion, which was changed to HUF 9223 billion, was the originally contracted amount of HUF 8600 billion, which was changed to HUF 9223 billion as a result of the exchange rate gains - so how this amount used the country's prosperity, whether it benefited our country. I think it is important to clarify this issue because it is part of a lesson for the period 2014-20, and on the other hand it leads to a very important, not just semantic debate: whose money are we talking about? Are we talking about European taxpayers' money or are we talking about Hungarian taxpayers' money? If we are talking about the money of Hungarian taxpayers, we must make it a regular way to account for how we spend this money within the framework of the legislation. If we are talking about European voters, European taxpayers' money, then we obviously need to make a different set of accounts. But the mission of democracy is to give voters an account of the resources spent. The government's conviction is that, and that is why it initiated this debate in this House, that this budget, which was set at HUF 8600 billion, was realized at HUF 9223 billion, otherwise it represents a total of HUF 9560 billion in contract mass, which is basically the money of Hungarian voters. So I would like first of all to use the political debate day and, in this direction, to seize public information and encourage your thinking that this money is not the money of the European Union, it is not a gift for Hungary, but the money of Hungarian voters. Why is that? Firstly, Hungary is a net contributor to the European Union during this period, with more than HUF 3000 billion we contributed to the functioning and prosperity of the European Union. On the other hand, we should not forget that at the end of this political debate, we should reach a consensus in that; the Ministry of Economy should indeed keep a register of what economic benefits Hungary had given up by entering the European Union in 2004, for which it received these funds. I am thinking here of the duties, the taxes that need to be combined. I am pleased that we owe Mr Balczó our thanks in this Chamber, and thank you for your attention and for your patience with this. [[Zoltán Balczó and Dr. Gábor Staudt intervene.]] I would also like your patience with the congressman. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] So I think that if we put these numbers side by side, it is clear that this is not European taxpayers' money, but Hungary is trying to recover the money that it has paid and to try to recover the economic benefits it has provided to the European Union. Of course, there is a part of the funding that Hungary has received, I think it is much less than some of our fellow citizens or the European public think, because the economic community of the European Union also had a fundamental interest in catching up with these regions and exploiting the benefits of the economic and market. I think that in 2004 the legislation of the last ten years, i.e. the creation of European legislation, has to be assessed separately. In 2004, the European Community, the former Common Market, did have an interest in joining the Western Zone, the Western Seed, in the region of Central and Eastern Europe, which is a huge market, and having the mutual economic benefits. So we must appreciate that we are in a more economically advantageous or disadvantaged position. We should also assess each sector which sector has won with this accession, including through development policy support and which has lost. I just want to note that everything that Hungary has been through these seven years, regardless of governments, can also legitimately make the approach that access to European Union funds is not so difficult by accident; for Hungary, because of the complexity of the application system and because of bureaucracy, for the potential target audience. [[14.40]] If I think that the paid 9223 billion represents 150,000 applications, it is 70 600 winners, and there are up to 44 thousand out of the 70 600 winners, and if I look at how many Hungarian companies have not applied for EU funds at all, so it was impossible to support them, then it is clear that in the European Union - I believe it is not by accident, and even in the form that is in line with the economic interests of the European Union and the economic interests of the old Member States, and even the economic interests of the net contributors - there is a protection of resources in the European Union. The European Commission deliberately and knowingly creates bureaucratic barriers to accessing funds as easily as possible for countries addressed and benefiting from the Cohesion Fund. It is therefore also necessary to consider what the European Parliament's Members who we have sent have to do in the area of dismantling European bureaucracy, Hungarian electors to represent our interests in the European Parliament, because I believe that they are abundant. The fact that the countries of Central Europe, especially Poland, Hungary, the Czech Republic and Slovakia, so the V4 beneficiary countries, together with Poland, were able to draw the money, is a huge achievement, given that in 2013 all of us, legislators and executives, were involved in a number of discussions, and a number of reports, reports and agendas appeared in the European Commission's communications, which clearly stated that Hungary would lose 2-3 billion euros from the available framework, taking note of this fact. Compared to this, to translate, to overcome these bureaucratic obstacles, to recover our own money and to develop an economy, I believe that this performance needs to be assessed. It would also be possible to open a debate if, for the first time, we were talking about content issues, whether the 2004 agreement and then the partnership agreement, on the basis of which the development cycle started, were right or not. Here, we are going through an ideological debate, because first of all, the question arises of what kind of agreement was concluded by the then governments, how they were labelled. I do not doubt that, according to their conscience, they did everything they thought they could - unlike my fellow politicians, I do not necessarily believe in the institution of evil or ordered evil - so I think they have divided these funds, or tried to label them, according to their beliefs. It must be the subject of a very important and thorough examination of whether the country's difficulties or problems have been properly measured, whether they have fought well in Brussels so that they can allocate the funds. I bring this up because 90 percent of the resources of the first development cycle were public beneficiaries, which means that the majority of the resources were transferred to the institutional system of the Hungarian state and Hungarian municipalities. The first question is whether this was the right move, in particular with regard to the need to strengthen the small, micro or medium-sized enterprise sector by 60 percent of the available resources. When I think about spending 80-90 percent of the available framework on infrastructure in Hungarian state management, whether it is real infrastructure, whether it is human infrastructure, I believe it is essential to see how much progress this country has made and whether it has developed in a way that suits our social, economic goals or the interests of the country. Once again, I do not want to cast doubt on it, and I do not want to cause ember debate - this will be done by my fellow Members from Fidesz and KDNP - that the left-wing governments of that time were guided by their conviction, but I believe that they have made serious mistakes in assessing the country's situation. The Hungarian community, the Hungarian national interest, and I believe that European integrated interests and values which were contrary to Hungary's national interests were tried to exclude the rapid and rapid use of resources from top to top, were divided for the purpose of social engineering. In my opinion, the reason why the money was not spent in a manner consistent with the intentions of the socialists was because Hungarian society could not implement it, because it considered it contrary to its conviction. We could give very good examples of economic development, social inclusion, education, social integration, where simply the pedagogical community, the school-supporting municipality at the time or small and medium-sized enterprises did not understand what the applicant wanted, because in the context of thanks there was no Szabolcsi, Baranya county or Győr county social reality and relations. This is a warning, because when we are at the beginning of a development cycle, I think it is very important that applications be put out in a form appropriate to Hungarian social needs and national interests. The socialist government, the regime at the time, thought that it would be okay if the money didn't run out at first, and then the Hungarian voters and the recipients of the Hungarian tenders got used to applying for it, and then adapted to the calls for proposals, changed the way of life, changed their thinking, changed their values. The number of pages, perhaps a library of literature, would be the quantity of bullshit that a contestant had to document for compliance with the European Union and the government apparatus. If we can, and as far as we can, do everything we can, I think this method is worth forgetting. My fellow Members and voters will not fail to take account of the institutional infrastructure created and assigned to the left-wing governments. Yet it is a thought-provoking question - once again: not arguing the good intentions and beliefs of the then governments, or the belief of atheists in their faith, thus not arguing this goal - it is a shocking thing that, while 90 percent of those who are public beneficiaries of resources are created an agency that is half-out of the state to channel funds. They do not leave it to the municipalities, they do not leave it to the ministries, they do not leave it to the public companies, they do not leave it to the public institutions, but they create a development agency in the spirit of some kind of misinterpreted modernism, saying that it will solve the problems. All I would like to illustrate about this is that 973 billion of the available HUF 8600 billion were paid in 2011. They start the cycle, plan the development period at the time of the Association Agreement, then in 2004-2005-2006 with the Partnership Agreement, start the development cycle on paper in 2007, there is a budget of 8600 billion - there is still no way to see how much the exchange rate gains will be - and 973 billion out of 8600 billion will be paid and a huge bureaucracy, an opaque bureaucratic legislative mass and a separate agency will be created. In this sense, I am quite certain that bureaucracy is a hotbed of corruption. In this comparison, I am sure that this corruption comes from the bureaucracy that has been experienced. I would like to put a number to your attention, which is very talkative and provides a lot of lessons, even if European legislation and the European Commission do not agree on everything: between 2007 and 2013 45.7 percent of a winning proposal could be used for the implementation of the tender. So someone wins EUR 100 and the EUR 100 was spent within EUR 100 at EUR 45, so I use EUR 45 to organise the drawdown of the remaining EUR 55. What if it's not corruption? What if it's not crime? Today it is 12 percent, so in the current system I can account for 12 euros as the EUR 100 drawdown cost, no more. That was 45.7 percent in extreme cases. I say this, and I add it because we have calculations that during the first development cycle - with 90% public beneficiaries, with an independent National Development Agency created - at least 1000-1200 billion, but there are internal calculations that account for up to 1,500 billion forints to carry out applications, while the state gave itself a large part of the funds while setting up its own agency, while, by the way, a good part of the money could be booked to run the program. I believe that all of these should be considered, but the most important objective would be, and that is what I ask you to assess the social reality of the country's progress over seven years. Could we reduce social differences, the purpose of these resources? Could we improve social infrastructure or transport infrastructure, real infrastructure and make the country more competitive? How could it happen, what kind of design error might have occurred, or what kind of mismanagement error occurred, that if we spent HUF 9223 billion, this was paid for, this was paid for, and Hungary's competitiveness was not increased compared to that? [[14.50]] We have spent 9223 billion in this country, and the country's competitiveness is not increasing at all. Romania's competitiveness has increased more than Hungarian competitiveness in the current period. Within V4, our competitiveness, our economic competitiveness and our social competitiveness have increased most. These are non-negotiable aspects and non-deprecated figures. Allow me some more data - if you're going to be competitive. We spent 3364 billion forints on transport development. I have never been so convinced that in seven years Hungary has not spent so much money on transport infrastructure. We spent 1570 billion forints on environmental development. We spent 765 billion forints on education. We spent 605 billion forints on employment. We spent 593 billion forints on business development. And we spent 458 billion forints on medical expenses. The total length of railway tracks was increased by 236 kilometres for new and renewed railway lines. So we've refurbished the track section to 236 kilometers of railway, or we've built a new one. It was built 1066 kilometers of cycling trails. There were 537 kilometers of new roads built in the country, and a renewed 2,849 kilometers, which were renovated. Six major tram development projects were also carried out and vehicles, buses and trams were also purchased in the framework of transport development. It was renewed in 521 schools, and there were 20 university major developments beyond the 521 school development. In 163 health care facilities - most of which is hospital - renovation, expansion and development worth HUF 330 billion. This resource contributed to the training of 1.3 million people. By this, I understand that the European Union's resources have supported the acquisition of a return to the labour market or a second third-level qualification. Three million people are supposed to have flood and inland water protection, at least according to documentation and accounting. And we have 7.9 million of our countrymen who have been able to supply proper drinking water. 28,000 small and medium-sized enterprises received support. At least 100,000 new jobs have been created. Investments in support of innovation amounted to 366 billion. If I look at the amount spent on R &amp; D in this period falling to less than 1 percent of GDP, now it's 1.5 percent. Tourism development amounted to 314 billion, and the resources devoted to urban development alone amounted to 259 billion. We have spent 197 billion on modernising public administration, although at times it does not appear. Entrepreneurs received a total of HUF 1651 billion. Small to medium-sized, micro and large enterprises received a total of 43-44 thousand grant contracts. More than HUF 5000 billion was spent on central budgetary bodies and budgetary institutions and recipients of public companies. My request to the Honourable Parliament is to put this on the balance sheet in any way. I have just quoted how we can appreciate the decisions made in 2007. I believe that, either as a member of the government and as a Member of Parliament, I believe that these were not good decisions, that there were no good ideas for social policy, because they were not in line with the interests of the country, and that they did not express Hungarian reality. But I would also like to say that Hungary was very lucky that these ideas could not be implemented. I mentioned that in 2011 there was a payment of HUF 975 billion of funds, and there was essentially 7500 billion of resources in there, which was not paid. The question now arises what the government was able to do in 2011 with the confidence and mandate it received. It was a huge dilemma - as a group leader, I know these internal dilemmas well, and I have several fellow Members who are still in government service here - whether the government is attempting to attempt, risking another stop, even opening up one-and-a-half-year debates to change the partnership agreement and the purpose of the operational programmes, change social policy objectives, or leave the institutional system like this, and in some cases try to help businesses, municipalities, public beneficiaries with corrections, so it is trying to change the conditionality system, but leave the big goals this way. The government - and whether Hungary and the Hungarian Government have made the right decision - will be decided by time; in this context there are internal debates, and I will share this with you - has decided to take a more cautious and less risky path. In other words, it has not changed the fundamental social policy objectives, it has not rewritten the partnership agreement, not even within the defined framework, it has become a new institutional system only in 2013, and it has implemented certain social policy adjustments, which means that it has tried to make funds and money more accessible by small steps. In this way, he ended the NFÜ, in order to launch the New Széchenyi Plan at programme level, and in this way he tried to speed up payments and better focus targets. The first numbers confirm the government. In view of our commitment to 108 percent of the available framework, I have just told you that Hungary has 9600 billion contracts today, which means that there is a free HUF 400-500 billion framework to settle disputes where appropriate. But whether we had the courage, this will remain an eternal debate, because it is clear that the payout had a much greater interest than in changing the goals. And today, this pay-out pressure encourages people to triumph, saying that Hungary's performance is fantastic, given that we didn't lose a cent, we got all the money back, we gave out everything, all the money is paid, we're totally fine. I am nothing more pessimistic than a more informed optimist on this issue, as Tamás Isépy said, because I think that we cannot separate the success of payment from the practicality of social programmes. And there have been a lot of projects here that are not clear about the practical nature of these projects, which are not yet clear about their sustainability, and yet we do not see that the large investments that we have made in the field of health, education and the maintenance of public institutions are causing maintenance costs, even though it has been said that the maintenance costs will decrease, and that the demands for money for the maintenance of the new institutions will continue to be made in the next budget. Of course, it is part of the truth that, if I look at the 2004 government documents of 05 and 06, besides institutional reform, in addition to institutional renovations, the socialists, hospital closures, school closures, social institutions were promised huge cuts. In Hungarian, the deal was that EU funds should be used to renovate state assets, in exchange for reducing the size of state assets, with considerations of sustainability and efficiency. This was not the case because of the will of the voters, because the voters decided completely differently in 2010 and 14 and resisted the reform attempts, did not want to reform themselves, and in 2010 and 14 they made a decision with other political consequences. In Hungarian, here is a significantly renovated institutional system, with additional operating costs, and no decision has been made that would have created the political condition for the assessment of efficiency and operational capacity. The State Audit Office has a number of indications in this direction that this is one thing that the country has developed, what the improvements will cost us on the side of maintenance, which, of course, is no longer supported by the European Union. I would also like to draw your attention to the fact that in 2012-13 the government started to reform the institutional system, one and a half years before the end of the development cycle. I do not hide that this Prime Minister's ambition was supported by few in Brussels or in Hungary, and few thought that this could be a success. The success is primarily due to employees who, let's be honest, remained at executive level after 2010 and operated the system before 2010. So the Hungarian state has a team of thousands of people who have made payments to European Union funds that have been able to carry out this function, this task. This is a very big success, because the country was threatened by a significant loss of resources. I would like to point out to you some lessons that might be worth taking into account. First of all, we have very significant resources in the period 2014-20. The European Union's political community is now struggling to ensure that the development agreements for 2020 and 22 will include cohesion catching-up funds. But we must have a concept that, if there are no such resources, either on the basis of the economic situation of the European Union or on the basis of the intentions of net contributors, what will we do. [[15.00]] We should assume that, after two development cycles, the Hungarian economy should be self-propelled by 2020. We could ask what the Hungarian economy is worth without these resources. I think that the next 5-10 years are a big question for the country's competitiveness: if I withdraw these EU funds from the performance of the Hungarian economy, from economic growth, I withdraw them from GDP, then what Hungary can do without EU development resources. I recommend that you pay attention to the 2017 budget, which has been the first budget for many years, where developments provided from own resources, i.e. the Hungarian taxpayers' money, are in excess of HUF 1000 billion. This was not possible after the 2008 economic crisis; it was not possible between 2010 and 2014, when an economic consolidation had to be carried out, but the annual framework or option of 1000 billion if these economic figures remain, the proportion and relation to the 9000, 10,000, 11 000, 12 000 billion that are now available for the next period. What remains of the Hungarian economy, or even of Hungarian agriculture without EU funding, and how much improvement is there in the budget if we withdraw EU developments, what are the consequences? Therefore, I think that the decision that I felt that the political parties here in Parliament accepted in essence that 60 percent of the resources available should go to economic development, that Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprises will receive 60% of the resources, that is a strategic decision, and that it is a serious negotiation result that we have been able to have this adopted by the European Commission. This has consequences, of course, because on the other hand Hungarian large companies, of which After all, there are hundreds of Hungarian companies that make a very big contribution to Hungarian GDP, and there are hundreds of Hungarian companies that pay taxes to a large extent - not for Hungarian subsidiaries of foreign companies, but for Hungarian companies, which have Hungarian ownership background - these companies cannot receive subsidies from this register during this development period. This should be shown precisely that, contrary to the previous period, the Hungarian large enterprise sector is not eligible. The Hungarian SME is eligible. That's the most important question. This is the greatest result and the greatest success. What is going on with the development of infrastructure: it is quite clear that the Commission is limiting the scope for manoeuvre. In this seven-year development cycle, there is basically a minimum amount of resources available for road development compared to previous ones, for fixed-track transport development. This should have serious consequences for the organisation of transport and, sooner or later, I hope that there will be, with regard to the transport structure of the whole country. There is now more than HUF 1000 billion for rail development, but what the consequences of this are for non-rail public transport or its maintenance - we need to think about this, because this will be an issue that will have a significant impact on the country's governance, operationality and competitiveness after 2020. There will not be as much money for health in this seven-year budget as there will not be enough money for education, because the small and medium-sized enterprises sector receives a major share of resources. The question is whether domestic and EU funds invested so far create infrastructure conditions for an improved quality of education and improved healthcare, or to what amount we need to complement these developments. The question is how important institutional transformation and institutional lessons are. The problem is that the micro-existence of great goals in Hungary is the key issue of governance in each case. I think that, partly with regard to politics, partly since 2002 as a Member of Parliament, I have taken the oath of a lot of ministers, a lot of governments taking oaths, several candidates for ministers being heard by the Commission, and I can safely say that there is no shortage of intellectually, qualitative ambition; however, there is plenty in achieving intellectually qualitative political and policy ambitions. So John Lukacs said that Hungarian is a declared nation, which means in his interpretation that he is saying something, and he believes that he will. It lacks the kind of small work and small activity that is essential to change and change things. European Union funds are also in their objectives, I think, even with regard to the objectives of property policy discussed here at the moment of immediate questions - social catch-up, creation of opportunities, strengthening of the lower middle class, creating opportunities for disadvantaged people, catching up with the most lagging regions, supporting small and medium-sized enterprises, the economic policy interest of the Hungarian patriot - I do not think that it would lead to hot debates in this House. However, how this is achieved, what institutional system is coupled with this, I believe it is extremely important. First of all, I consider it an important question that all applications should be published by 30 June 2017. This is not so simple, given that there are major policy debates on which target audience should be targeted. On the other hand, I consider it important that, in 2017-2018, the grant contracts are already in place and that the commitment and payment of the funds are actually started. Today, there is a new system with the European Commission and the European Union on accounting. That it will eventually accumulate HUF 4000-5000 billion, which will have to be paid in one year, is impossible, as annual deficits, development bridges will be booked to us, i.e. the resources will run out in the meantime. It's not like we're gonna end up hoarding a large sum of money that we're gonna pay in a year with some kind of trick, but the reality is that we have to meet the payout limits that we set each year and that we're willing to make. If we don't get this, we're gonna lose resources. So, not the government's political ambition to have everything paid for in 2017-18-19, but there is an annual payment rate, which, if the Member States where there is a cohesion fund, will lose cohesion funds. At the moment, there is a lively discussion in the European Union about how cohesion funds should be transferred to immigration costs. And what is the most important argument for net contributors and large Member States? If a Member State or a recipient country, a beneficiary country does not draw the funds. There is also a political game around the whole money, obviously it is not separate from the fact that, say, in Romania, only 70 percent of the available framework could be called down at all, and they did not smell at 25-30 percent. A tax-paying citizen in a net-paying country has the right to ask: why give them so much money if they can't get it down? Of course, the losers defend this by deliberately creating bureaucratic obstacles that make drawing difficult in order to remain a financial opportunity in the central budget in Brussels. So it's not a child's play, which we're looking at from this point of view. Another very important question is how to reduce bureaucracy while maintaining transparency and accountability. I am afraid of it, and I hope so, because Parliament is, however, an opposition genre, governance and fact genre, that my fellow opposition Members will be calling on us for the hiatus or presumed errors in terms of transparency, transparency and accountability. I recommend to you that, for the sake of objectivity, although the opposition is generally not disturbed by objectivity, either party should be in opposition position, that the 2015 European Commission reports of 14 and 13 do not identify any major risks of transparency, transparency or corruption in Hungary. Hungary is not among the countries at risk, as regards corruption. Of course, the European Commission is monitoring and monitoring corruption everywhere, what is the error rate, but if we look at the error rate in Hungary in the projects we have carried out, in the whole project package, in 70,000 projects, the proportion of errors that the European Union thinks and knows is between 1 and 2 percent, so the error rate is below 2 percent, it is entirely appropriate for European standards. What we are discussing now after the payment of HUF 9223 billion, which we are debating with the European Union, and which serves my opposition fellow Members a quality or a lack of quality ammunition on a regular basis, see the activity of our local government colleague in Szekszárd, the total value of these cases is HUF 150 billion compared to HUF 9223 billion paid to Hungarian forints. There is a HUF 150 billion settlement dispute with the European Commission at the close of the register. This will take another year, as I am convinced that Hungary will have to fight for the accountability and settlement of all forints. But compared to the entire register, this error rate or the size of this error I believe is not a mistake. We have made significant corrections, precisely to ensure transparency, accountability and the proper spending of public funds. Of course, this raises the question: if a Hungarian system of support requires an entrepreneur to receive more than HUF 25 million, he will have to carry out a public procurement procedure as an entrepreneur, not as a local government and not as a state, and this is what we have just provided for, every Chamber of Industry and Trade is working to eliminate this rule, saying that it is bureaucratic. Yes, it is bureaucratic, because if a car polisher wins 50 million forints in machine contest and buys a machine plus 50 million, he has to apply for a tender. This, of course, means bureaucracy. If we do not want bureaucracy, the question is how it can be related to accountability or transparency, because I believe that these subsidies are particularly important for entrepreneurs, and for you, who represent voters, accountability and transparency are obviously very important. [[15.10]] It is a matter of principle whether there is a reduction in bureaucracy while keeping the rules of transparency and transparency. I'll give you another example, and we're not talking about a public benefit sector, because it won't be the final, but the corporate sector will be the final. Today in Hungary, if an entrepreneur applies to the NGM under the GINOP, the economic and innovation operational programme, wins 50 or 100 million forints of non-refundable grants, receives 50 or 100 million forints as a refund, 50 percent of the aid amount may be called as an advance by adding its own strength only at the end of the programme. This is the biggest bureaucratic obstacle reduction, but let's think about it: in essence, it receives 100% of the programme, because we prefer combined support schemes, it receives the aid to be recovered, it also receives the non-refundable support, then it receives 50 percent of its advance and it only has to add its own strength at the end. What do you think is going to happen in this case in a small and medium-sized enterprise sector that, according to all our investigations, does not suffer from credit but lack of capital? How many of the 44,000 winning companies were there between 2007 and 2013 that did not have the self-esteem at the time of the tender? He was able to provide bank statements and bank guarantees, but the self-esteem was only partially or only half available. How many of the 44,000 winners between 2007 and 2013 could there have been? But the most important issue in the Hungarian corporate sector is the lack of capital, so we help the small and medium-sized enterprises sector by providing them with support through reimbursable capital programmes, and in itself non-refundable support will not be enough. This is all a debate with the European Commission because there is a debate on 50 percent advance, a debate on non-refundable support where appropriate, a debate on the size of businesses and the proportion to be supported, because Brussels is thinking about international solutions and does not think that in 2016 it could be the place and role of national economic policy or national patriot economic policy. I would like to ask you, my fellow Members - my secretary-general from all ministries are here and ready to take part in the debate - to look at the social contexts, to consider and to take initiatives towards the government. We are ready to continue today's parliamentary debate in committee work, but it is no secret that we are also using the work of consultants who make international comparisons in order to see exactly what effect the spent resources and the resources we are spending on Hungarian society based on statistical data and other contexts have had on Hungarian society. So what I would like to suggest is that this political debate day should be the first act of a substantive debate on the money that we believe is the Hungarian taxpayers' money, they have worked for it, they have earned the money, they have the right to obtain the money, and Hungary needs these improvements. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-05-02-193	Thank you very much, Minister. Allow me to welcome Mr Tihamér Warvasovszky, Vice-President of the SAO, who is following the course of today's debate in the Chamber. It is now time for the speeches by its representatives. In the first round, keynote speeches will take place within 15-15 minutes of each group of representatives. The Fidesz Group has indicated that their group's position is presented by two of its Members. First I give the floor to Congressman Erik Bánki. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-05-02-194	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Minister, Ladies and gentlemen, Indeed, we will share with my fellow Member Richard Hörcsik the keynote speech of the Fidesz, and I would primarily focus on the start of the 2007-2013 term, on the issues, the problems most of which were also mentioned by Minister János Lázár, and my fellow Member Richard Hörcsik will talk more about the post-2010 period. Overall, it is clear, ladies and gentlemen, that the balance sheet of the 2007-2013 development cycle is positive, because we have achieved our basic goal and even overachieved: we have been able to draw the EU funds to the last cent, and by making the draw to 108 percent, we have achieved the best of the Central European countries. However, this has come to the conclusion that in 2010, the electorate, as Minister Lazarus said, decided that they did not need the concepts, the plans, the restrictions on the use of EU funds by socialist governments. The programmes prepared by the socialists were virtually non-conceptal, based on a division principle that was trying to serve the lobby interests of those close to the current government. In addition, they supported the strengthening of companies that were competing with Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprises, so instead of strengthening the domestic economy's engine, the SME sector, which represents three quarters of domestic employment, they supported their competitors with these EU funds. After all, I say that we can be glad that during the Gyurcsány and Bajnai governments, the total amount of HUF 973 billion was used from the available EU funds, as with this distribution, with this aimless distribution of money, they could not have caused such losses and damage if they had been able to draw these funds in proportion to time. Minister János Lázár confirmed what we believe is that EU funds are not a charity, but Hungarian workers worked hard for them. After all, if their tax dollars, the payments we made to the European Union, or the resignations that, due to the 2004 EU accession, damaged the Hungarian state by the Hungarian economy or by the restructuring of the institutional system, if these funds were added together, Hungary deserved the HUF 8600 billion it received as a support from the European Union. Let us look at the mistakes that the Gyurcsány and Bajnai governments made at the beginning of the EU development cycle. They've built a completely unnecessary application system. The Minister said that a National Development Agency was set up in a case where 90 percent of the resources used were used for public use which should have used and validated the professional information and expertise of wallets, ministries. In this case, obviously, there was no other purpose than a centralization that could be the basis of a hand-operated division, where it could be distributed to friends, interest groups close to the government. I give you a completely absurd system, fellow Members. For example, settlements had to apply for the construction of a sewage network or a drinking water network for the protection of drinking water, which was a derogation obligation for Hungary, so we had to do it anyway and we had to carry out this investment. Instead of assigning the municipalities where it is mandatory to make these investments because of drinking water problems or due to waste water problems, it has applied for and competed with these municipalities, it has made them write applications, it has spent a lot of resources - as has also been said in the Expose -, where appropriate, 20-25-30 or even 45 percent to prepare, submit and successfully manage applications at all, instead of selecting the areas where these investments should be carried out and saving a lot of money. But I can also say that what is also a very well-established element following the amendment of the current system, and this is the possibility of calling an advance. It was apparent that neither the municipalities nor the undertakings had the capital power, even in the case of high aid intensities, so when 50 percent or even 60 percent of EU funds were available, neither the municipalities or the undertakings had the necessary self-power to start the investments. What did this lead to? It has led to years of these investments at a time when external economic conditions were already unpredictable. Businesses or even local authorities have reached the point where, by the time the investment was carried out, the investment was already one-and-a-half times higher than when they planned it, which meant that tenders had to be modified. It is one thing that additional subsidies could be allocated to these investments, but the other problem was to ensure self-strengthening, as in the case of self-strength, one-and-a-half times more had to be created to enable the investment to be carried out. As a result, ladies and gentlemen, dozens and hundreds of municipalities have been bankrupted by an investment which, by the way, at local level, was thought to be an important, redeeming investment, either by citizens, cities, municipalities or even by the heads of county assemblies. [[15.20]] Thank God one of those governments came to Hungary after 2010 [[László Varju intervenes.]] , which consolidated the municipalities and saved them from more than HUF 1200 billion of debt, which was largely driven by the bad economic policies and irresponsible project preparation of the governments of Gyurcsány and Bajnai. You have already mentioned, Minister, that the whole institutional system was too bureaucratic, not only the complexity of the criticism aspects, but also the conditions for submitting the application itself. Thousands of pages had to be filled in, hundreds of tables had to be filled in in in order to be able to submit the development tender at all, with the result that the municipalities themselves were unable to submit these proposals, they had to employ external consultants almost without exception in order to achieve any result. Ladies and Gentlemen, The 2010 election was also a redemption in terms of the use of EU funds, and the new programme, the new scheme developed by the government, led us to the fact that we were not stuck in the use of the sources of tender, but, as I mentioned in my introduction, thanks to the amendments that the government had made, which resulted in a rapid, flexible and effective tendering system, and the payments were accelerated to such an extent that by the end of the cycle we were able to deliver 108 percent, with which we also preceded Poland, the Czech Republic, Slovakia and Romania. In this respect, Hungary was also a leading student not only of the European Union but also of outstanding performance in the Central European region. So I think we have something to be proud of here in front of you. We have achieved results that all of us, not only politicians, but also the country, can be proud of. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-05-02-195	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr Richard Hörcsik will continue his speech. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-05-02-196	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen of the State Secretary. Dear fellow Members, Let me begin with an unusual question. Do you remember, fellow Members, what was the important event in Hungary on 31 December 2015 besides the old year's farewell? Now, everyone is thinking about the farewell of the old year, perhaps less remembering a very small news, which appeared on the following day that the government successfully closed the EU development cycle between 2007 and 13 on 31 December, Hungary had a total of HUF 8600 billion worth of resources at its disposal, which was paid by the institutional system in its entirety. Ladies and gentlemen, I am convinced that this has been one of the most important announcements of Hungarian economic and political life since the change of regime. Ladies and gentlemen, It's been a few months since then. Perhaps it is not yet time for us to draw a comprehensive picture of EU aid. But it is already clear that Hungary has made history with this fact. He has made history not only at home but also throughout the European Union. Firstly, because it was a feat in this sense that, thanks to the actions taken by the civil government in 2010-13, it was able to prevent a 25-30 percent loss of resources, as the European Commission predicts, resulting from errors in the previous system. Unfortunately, in the case of Romania, this has happened. Secondly, because in the second part of the financial cycle, the government was able to achieve that, as we have heard, no cents rolled back to Brussels. We managed to draw all the resources, which, remember, in 2007, when the program started, was only a dream, and by 2015 it became a reality. Thirdly, because the government had the guts to correct the existing legacy tender institution system in the crossfire of domestic and EU attacks. It has done so in order to speed up payments. I could also say that the government has broken down the bureaucracy walls of Brussels bureaucrats and socialist governments, which have been carefully built between Hungarian citizens and EU funds. Finally, thanks to all of this, as we have heard, Hungary has done well because it has paid EU funds in addition to the available limits, i.e. 108 percent. I believe that anyone can say anything, criticize, but these sentences mean historical success, which Hungary can be proud of. Thank you to the Hungarian Government for your stand in the EU and for your consistent domestic development policy. Ladies and gentlemen, EU funds for Hungary in the period 2007-13, as we have heard, amounted to HUF 9223 thousand with the Hungarian additions. Is it too much or not enough? Before answering this question, I believe that it is necessary to state that EU funds are not donations, EU funds are not aid, but the right and opportunity of Hungary to use EU funds, which include Hungarian taxpayers' forints. And that is why it is necessary to reject any baseless political threats, whether from the Austrian Chancellor or others, for example in the context of migration, that these cohesion funds could be withdrawn under some sort of regulation of Hungary. Ladies and gentlemen, Recent analyses show that Hungary's net financial balance sheet of EU membership was clearly positive: we received 8600 billion funds for our 2600 billion deposits. Is it too much or not enough? Well, there are always two sides to the coin, honourable Members. On the one hand, for example, it is undisputed that, if these funds were not available, Hungary would have suffered an even more serious recession in the 2008-2009 crisis. The fact is that EU funds increased 0.6 percent of Hungarian GDP annually, contributing to the expansion of investment, employment, R &amp; D activities and production. And it is very important that the number of new jobs created from EU grants is over 100,000. It is also a fact that the development of infrastructure from EU sources was built, for example, up to 443 kilometres of roads until 2013, and the number of renovated roads is nearly 2500 kilometres. Such an infrastructural boom was last seen over a hundred years ago, in the era of dualism. I'm not gonna tell you any more. Ladies and gentlemen, At the same time, as has been said in today's ministerial exposé, EU support has proved insufficient to speed up the growth path, despite the payment of the total available framework. The country's competitiveness has not substantially improved, and even the catching up of disadvantaged regions, and the reduction of regional disparities has only been partially mitigated. As a representative of Abaúj and Zemplén, I could talk a lot about this. In fact, although the language of the balance sheet is clearly positive, if a conceptual, more thought-out programme had been launched in 2007, we could now continue this work in a much more favourable position. Ladies and gentlemen, New wine requires a new hose, says the Bible saying. For this reason, I welcome the fact that the government has transformed the entire institutional system and ensure that applicants can easily, easily and effectively access EU funds. This will enable the current EU budget cycle to create the opportunity for our country to become a strong, competitive country that can meet the challenges of the fourth industrial revolution. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-05-02-197	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker of the MSZP Group is Mr Gábor Harangozó. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-05-02-198	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Firstly, I am pleased that we can finally talk about this in Parliament, and I am pleased that the government has initiated this debate, in which we can talk about the use of EU money. I am also pleased that you have deprived Parliament of the opportunity to deal with this issue on a regular and transparent basis, because, after the change of government in 2010, when Parliament was re-established, the committee that existed earlier had been lifted, which enabled the monitoring of the continued use of EU funds and continued planning, monitoring and making proposals. [[15.30]] But while we are here and we are talking about it, the Minister has very rightly put the question, that, most importantly, we should look at the social impact of this cycle, whether we have actually managed to use this tremendous amount of money in line with national interests, whether we have managed to create regional centres in Hungary for competitiveness and top competitiveness, in which the individual regions were able to place themselves on the map in the competition of regional economies in Europe. We know that in Europe today, companies are not simply competing with each other, but that regions specialise in some economic activity and that this is where centres of excellence are created. And if we look at the core countries in Europe, where virtually 70 percent of development is concentrated across Europe, we see that each region has what it specializes in, what it is excellent in, and the big question is whether we have been able to develop such competitive European knowledge centres in Hungary in the use of EU funds. Unfortunately, we have to see that it doesn't. I will not comment on the details, the Minister spoke long enough about the fact that we did not use this money very much to make specific investments in the economy. But if the money did not go to economic investments, but mostly to public use, so basically the money went to municipal and public investments, what purpose did it achieve? Have we managed to eliminate the terrible internal difference in Hungary that, in my opinion, prevents the normal functioning of the country, not that it can develop normally? Unfortunately, I have to say that the results in this area are very sad - not only have we not managed to eliminate the differences, let alone to date, despite spending so much money, four of the seven regions in Hungary have remained in the 20 poorest regions of Europe, and nothing has been achieved in these regions, so in my own region, South Transdanubia, we have not managed to make improvements that have even slightly improved our competitiveness, but there is a much greater problem, honourable fellow Members. We have financed the increase in internal differences from EU funds; we have not only been able to reduce internal differences, but also increased intra-regional differences more rapidly using EU funds, honourable fellow Members. Because the regions, the cities where there is adequate human capacity, where there is co-financing capacity, there have been substantial improvements, jobs have been created, and the economy has also developed. But in areas where there was no adequate human resources, where there were no suitable projects, there was insufficient co-financing, there was maximum church renovation, the renovation of the mayor's office, small beauty, it was created, and the well-being of the people was slightly better, but there was no real catch-up. As a result, the Hungarian countryside, the poorer, disadvantaged areas did not catch up, but the EU's money was in vain, while the developing regions developed much faster than there was no EU money. The difference has only increased with EU money rather than decreased. I don't think it's a mistake. I think it's a sin. You may not have been well-designed from the outset, but I have some bad news, honourable Members: in 2011, when you suspended the use of EU funds, basically - as the Minister said - they were advertised almost the same after a year and a half, they were painted green, they stated that it was a New Széchenyi plan, and it was advertised with almost the same goals. However, there was a substantial difference: the special programme for the most disadvantaged areas was abolished, which was to label a portion of money so that projects would not compete with each other, as my fellow Member Bánki said, that it was a problem to compete with each other; yes, in the most disadvantaged areas, they should not compete with each other, and we would give them the money labeled, from which they can catch up with complex, pre-arranged programs, not tender money, but programmes. This is exactly the programme that you have abolished. Then, in addition to the announcement of the New Széchenyi Plan, there was another change, I very much liked it, it was announced with a family, there was a house in the background, the house and solar panels, and it was very interesting, because at this exact time you changed the invitations to tender so that despite the fact that, in the 2008 crisis, the European Union changed the rules on the use of money and allowed for energy renovations of residential buildings and family houses, so that EU funds could be used for the production of energy in disadvantaged areas, they used this opportunity almost everywhere in Europe, which the Hungarian government was fighting at the time, and Hungary did not make use of these opportunities, and only gave these funds to municipal investments and public investments. This is why what the Minister has said here is that 90 percent of the money has thus been spent on public use and not on private investment or on investment by small and medium-sized enterprises. The Minister said one very interesting thing: he said that 45 percent of the money was used in a corruption-suspected way, that 45 percent did not actually go to projects and investments. Indeed, fellow Members, we have seen such things, that with the little money that could have been spent on projects in the poorest, most disadvantaged areas, with the money that has been labeled for the social economy, you have not given the money to support local communities, to support locally established social cooperatives, but to give it to ORÖ, Flóri Farkas, who announced a large Roma labour agency with this money, and then, in the end, could not account for this money. And when you were told where this money was, you said that the more the Prime Minister said that the more you ask him where he put the money, the more he will protect it, and it's perfectly all right that the poorest people didn't get the money, but they rent cars and keep office buildings. [[István Szilárd Németh: Terrible!]] But there is a much more serious example of how this corruption-suspecting use of money can be, as the Minister said. Does this not mean that the Fidesz municipalities - most of them Fidesz municipalities - used these funds on suspicion of corruption, after this was a public use? Or maybe there's a network of companies, a Fidesz-close network of companies, behind state investments, where these money went missing? Do you remember the Middle Machine? Minister, it is not true that Hungarian companies, large companies, did not receive EU funds, so the Utility Machine was then awarded 400 billion! But let me remind you of something about that. There was still a recording in Siófok, where the then Fidesz mayor mentioned Erik Bánki in a conversation with his then MP candidate, Mihal Witzmann, where he talks about the fact that, in Somogy, there were two hospitals left, the Siófok and Kaposvár - interesting, they knew that the Marcal hospital would be demolished - I would quote: The mind-seekers have entrusted their most amateur with public procurement, and the $12 million bid has been brought out wrong, and the $22 million wins. I look forward to Erik's resolution on what's going on with the Faculty. , Says the other one:, That was Erik's company. Each sign indicates that the Faculty is not motivated to complete it. In fact, it's all been done by the Épkar, you should know it from me. Now, the whole thing that you can slip, it was invented by the Épkar. It seems to me that the Faculty still wants to unbutton a little bit of money from here, only the penalty has escaped the $30 million....-. But for him, listen, the best thing is that he doesn't do anything and the money is ticking. In addition, the company that made the 22 million bid is the company that was accidentally linked to the Épkar. Anyway, this big politics is gonna have to whip him. The problem with big politics is that you have 50-60 projects, at least, and you can't see through them. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. [[15.40]] Dear fellow Members, Indeed, that 45 percent could have disappeared in very suspicious circumstances through the company network of Fidesz administrators. That's what it looks like to me. Or I'll say the other one, which is amazing. In the discussion, the Prime Minister signed the Somit; this is the matter of the landfill. Well, so much from the background, because it's not a secret, right, there'll be news soon when you sign it and it's published in the Gazette to launch the Somi project. So it starts, the best offer was made by the Public Machine, so it hasn't been announced yet. So you're referring to the mind-forming thing that you came to me with back in the day? Beyond mind-forming, mind-forming can go on now. To sign the $80 million contract, I'm not signing a grant agreement. Consciousness can go in, but beyond that, the Public Machine itself is getting in on us, like every election so far, by the way. By the way, there's no secret about this, but they're saying it's a fidesz company. This is a October audio recording, in December the application that these two fidesz politicians are talking about is being signed by the Prime Minister and will be published in the Gazette. It will be published in the Gazette in December. In March, the Public Machine wins this competition, and then, when we press charges on how this could have happened, in October, the politicians of Fidesz will talk about the fact that there will be such a tender and that it will appear in the Gazette, and that the Public Machine will support the Fidesz campaign in the way that it has always done, and the Attorney General and the Central Investigator's Attorney General will send the answer that it will investigate the suspicious circumstances of the recording, and there is nothing else to do. Dear Minister, So there is no corruption problem using your money, that Péter Polt and the prosecution of Péter Polt keep running every corruption case that turns out to be fine, sloppy, and, to the very best of all, they're investigating those who are dropping the case, as you said, in the cases that have been brought in by the Member of Szekszárd. Thank you so much for listening.
u2016-05-02-199	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker of the KDNP Group is Mr János Harghitai. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-05-02-200	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Dear Minister, I looked for the concept in the speech of the previous Socialist Member [[Dr. István Józsa: Erik Bánki gave it to me!]] But it was hard for me to find him. I was also looking for the concept of the Socialist Government. [[Zoltán Grimlock: Make money in your neighborhood!]] In the distribution of resources, when they had influence, and I found it just as hard to find it there. As I felt confused, Mr President, what you have said is that the performance of the Socialist Government is also sufficiently confusing when we judge this EU fiscal financial cycle. It is noted that this is the performance of two governments. From 2007 to 2010, the socialist government dominated the events, since 2010 the Orbán government. What did the Socialist Government do? He had time to prepare to receive these resources, because the world does not start with 2007, but with 2004 when we join. They had time to plan, to consider the social policy objectives for which these funds were intended. They had time to establish a system of institutions to receive these resources. What could the Orbán government have done? You set up a system, this government could only operate it. As the Minister said in his exposé, they dealt with the idea of setting new social policy goals, but knowing the slowness of bureaucracy in Europe, they stopped, and I think they did the right thing. The basic goal was to get the last euro cent of the possible resources. What the government could do again if it could not change social policy goals, that it could transform the institutional system that guaranteed success. Because if we just look at how much money we have been able to draw, we can say that this period is a success in addition to debate. It is also successful when we make a comparison between our competitors in Central and Eastern Europe. I always do that, because we would have to win many of these comparisons here in Central and Eastern Europe in order for Hungary to rise in a European Community as we all hope.Between 2007 and 2010, when you governed, the government was able to pay HUF 5.5 billion a week to those affected. Between 2010 and 2013, this was 18.5 billion a week. In 2014 and 2015, when funds were still available beyond the cycle, this rose to more than HUF 40 billion per week. Hungary accounted for 108 percent of the available framework, 101 percent of Poland, 95 percent of the Czech Republic, 89 percent of the available funds in Slovakia, and 74 percent in Romania. However, we are not satisfied, because if we look at the huge amount of money that we are talking about - HUF 9560 billion, paying HUF 9233 billion - how much Hungary's economic performance has improved, how the standard of living has increased, we still have uneven feelings. I would really like to examine why the Socialist Government has not even come close to the goals set by the government at the time. Such was the reduction of unemployment in the New Hungary development plan [[Zoltán Gőgös: What have you done for this as President of the Development Council?]] making use of these resources or achieving lasting growth. Why hasn't the Socialist Government even come close to it, and why has the Orbán government been able to deliver results in this area? I confirm what has already been said: we see that, despite due preparation, it was time to prepare, but we did not see clearly what the socialist government was planning for. We can see that the use of resources was completely fragmented. I think we can clearly say that it was a mistake that only 16 percent of them were destined for economic development. Personally, I smiled and was satisfied when I saw what resources we could obtain from large EU funds, but I know that the Chamber of Commerce was already loud and criticized this method of planning for the Socialist Government, and saw compliance with short-term interests when it had to say that the state and the municipalities would use most of the funds. I think that the Chamber of Economics, when it criticized this procedure, was right. [[Attila Gelencsér takes his place as notary.]] It was mentioned how much money was spent in the implementation of a project, which was not really the project, how interest groups could influence it, what bureaucratic system the Socialist government had built, that they could spend up to 30 percent of the resources under project management. [[László Varju: 45 volts! Let's not mix it up. Earlier, the Minister said 45 percent! The president's gonna ring the bell.]] Obviously, that's not acceptable. They operated unnecessary and opaque tendering systems, and this is also unrealistic because most of the resources were used by the state and the municipalities, i.e. the quasi-State itself. The beneficiaries, the municipalities, were placed in a position to be consolidated by. 1200 billion. [[Sándor Lezsák, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] I'll give you an example of Baranya County. The government gives Pécs the implementation of the cultural capital program series. We were happy for you. The county government has been appointed to carry out two huge projects, to renovate the knowledge centre and the museum institution system in the county. When it was appointed, they knew that a municipality who had no legal opportunity to obtain its own resources had to carry out two big projects, that it could not produce self-esteem. Obviously, this could only be done by borrowing. It's just a drop in the sea, how the municipalities became 1200 billion forints in debt, which had to be consolidated later. We can also say, and we know that the implementation of a project was unrealisticly long. I think the government did the right thing by examining its own options - the Orbán government - saying that the key to success is to transform this institutional system, which it inherited from the Socialist Government, because it is bureaucratic and inoperable. [[15.50]] What was it that described this system in the time of the Socialist Government? There is a government where decisions are made and a group of forces, the National Development Agency, is created outside the government in the spirit of some kind of modernity, and this agency is entrusted with the use of this vast amount of money and the conduct of the whole issue. The fact that the wife of a government big man may lead and manage the National Development Agency as a deputy leader is not sufficient organizational power to succeed. We had to reshape this system. The Orbán government recognised that this was important, so it put it in the focus of government policy, i.e. it made it a priority for itself to eliminate resources and set up the National Development Government Committee in 2012. This committee does not decide ad hocly, but manages this system and creates, generate large investments on the basis of lengthy preparations. It was important to bring the governance of the National Development Agency into the Prime Minister's Office, the Prime Minister's Office, where there is obviously power, political mandate and knowledge to organise such a system. The Orbán government will later liquidate the National Development Agency and bring the managing authorities to the specialised stores. So the centre is the Prime Minister's Office, the Prime Minister's Office is in charge, directing, expecting and organizing, and the wallets use their own knowledge to formulate operational tasks, thus guiding this system. That's what made it a success, I mean, if we consider it a success that we've managed to use most of the resources. Without it, none of this would have happened. We often say that governance in this world is a factor of competitiveness. We cannot really give tangible arguments as to what makes governance a competitive issue. We often say generalities in a budgetary debate: it doesn't matter what the economic philosophy of a government is, it doesn't matter how and how it allocates budgetary resources to this, it doesn't matter what monetary policy, fiscal policy and monetary policy are. In this debate, the assessment of this activity, which represents the success or failure of European funding, clearly shows the performance of the government and how this is a factor when we judge Hungary's questions in a European comparison. I have to say that the government as an administration, the government as an organization, the government as a bureaucracy has succeeded, which is why we have been able to draw these funds. As a representative of Baranya, and in order to be fair, I am talking again about the projects of the Capital of Culture, because here the decision was made during the period of the Socialist Government, but the implementation of the projects and the financial performance, which is the most important in this respect, will extend to the period of the Orbán government from the point of view of our investigation. In Baranya, the great improvements that the university could make in Pécs or even in the Catholic Church were important. I am thinking of the great tourist developments that have been made in this cycle, such as the investment of the Busóudvar in Mohács, Villány finally completed his bypass trip, the modernization of the institutions in Pécsvárad, Mágocson and Bóly, the significant investments in the industrial park in Bóly have been made, and what is at least as important is that good programmes have been implemented in many small settlements and almost all small settlements. But overall, as a result of all our activities, the taste of our mouths is uneven, because we have not achieved the social policy goals that we should have been able to achieve with such significant amounts. Such development opportunities may have been only in the post-convention period in Hungary, so these resources were probably used more effectively. It is up to us to deliver even more successfully in this European financial cycle in which we are now involved. It gives me hope that the Orbán government has now defined social policy objectives, that many of the resources will be translated into economic development, and I think that government bureaucracy, as an administrative body, will be as successful in drawing funds as the Orbán government has been in the previous period. Of course, we also need those who apply, economic operators, municipalities or state institutions, but I think that they have done well so far. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-05-02-201	Thank you, Congressman. I salute my fellow Members and give the floor to Congressman Tibor Bana, Jobbik.
u2016-05-02-202	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Jobbik welcomes the fact that the government has kept to its promise, since at the end of last year, János Lázár told the Committee on European Affairs that there will be a debate here in Parliament where we can exchange ideas about the use of EU funds. So today we can discuss the results of the 2007-2013 EU budget cycle and its consequences. When we want to draw the balance of such a period, it is always worth looking at where we started, what the objectives were set by the relevant governments, and we also need to look at where we have reached the end of the process, because this is the only way we can make a meaningful assessment. What, then, were the goals expressed by the socialist-free democrat governments in the past? Increased economic growth and employment in particular. Two concrete commitments have been made. One of them was that the added value generated by companies would be 10 percent higher by 2015 compared to 2006 and the other was that the number of people employed outside the public sector would increase by 4 percent, also by 2015. What happened to that? We can say that the then government created a system of distribution institutions under direct political influence. I would like to remind you, and I think many of us remember Minister Mónika Lamperth's leaked speech in the autumn of 2006, in which he reassured his fellow parties not to worry about the distribution of subsidies, as comrades will play a major role in the regional development councils, where a decision on regional development resources will be taken. Thus, at the time of socialist-free democrat governments, decision-making was made on a political basis. This has been reflected in large investments and in the fact that there have been faithful municipalities that have benefited as much as possible from these development resources. [[In the notary seat, Adam Mirkóczki is replaced by Loránt Hegedűs.]] In many cases, investments that are independent of economic rationality and actual development needs have been made without meaning. Here I have enough to refer to the construction of the 40 centimeters high lookout tower from 40 million forints, or the drawing up of the unfunctional Hegyalya gate from 100 million forints. In conclusion, the visual investments did not serve the originally set objectives between 2007 and 2010, so it is no coincidence that many people were looking forward to the new government's actions in 2010. What did Fidesz promise before the 2010 elections? It eliminates maladministration, accelerates tendering, investigates dubious cases and ends the pointless distribution of money on a political basis, and takes effective action to reduce corruption phenomena. What was going on between 2010 and 2013 compared to this? The accountability was cancelled, the scandalous cases were not revealed, and there were empty words about the revision of the grants, and, on the basis of the reasons given for the application, it practically paused for a year, while there were unthinkable changes. We can therefore say that Fidesz continued where the socialists had left off, and that the system of using EU funds has been a hotbed of corruption since your accession to the government in 2010. In response to the untenable situation, János Lázár was appointed in August 2013, who, as government commissioner, was responsible for eliminating industrial grand theft. I indicate that in this direction, as I referred to it, there has been no substantial positive movement. While it must be acknowledged that radical exchanges of persons and institutional changes have taken place, there has been a scandal. [[16.00]] However, the anomalies with regard to grants have not been eliminated. The prestige investments, the pointless projects, such as the small railway on the road up to mention just one example, were still at the centre. During the second half of the cycle, the red tapes and facial toaster overcharges took amazing measurements, Brussels suspended payments for entire operational programmes, most recently in the case of the social infrastructure operational programme. If we draw the balance, it should be said that the two main objectives originally set for the period 2007-2013, i.e. the 10 per cent increase and the 4 per cent increase in employment in the competitive sector, have not been achieved, and indeed, in recent years, steps have been taken in the opposite direction. And the government has made a very serious promise for the current seven-year period 2014-2020 that - and also mentioned by Minister Lazarus in his exposé - 60% of the money will be spent on economic development. Here I would like to refer to Professor Attila Chikán's statement in the Hungarian Nation, who said that corruption slows down growth, and it does not matter who has the resources available. And indeed, if the trends that we have seen in recent years during the government of Fidesz continue, we cannot be at all calm from this point of view, because these funds will not be used to support the growth of the Hungarian economy, but to help our friends, even though economic operators need predictability and planning, to focus on job creation, economic recovery investments against prestige investments, visual investment, and to invest more in support of research and development, small and medium-sized enterprises. I have repeatedly indicated at the European Affairs Committee's meeting that we would like the Committee to be kept informed about the use of EU funds in this term, I trust, and nod, Minister, that this will be the case in the future. However, in summary, if we want to draw the balance of the 2007-2013 period and, in conjunction with this, we value the time that has elapsed in the seven-year budget cycle 2014-2020, then we can only trust that voters will entrust governance in 2018 to those who really want to serve national interests, to boost the economy, and not to put the interests of friends above all in the operation of a smack system. The Jobbik are working on it. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-05-02-203	Thank you very much. I will give the floor to the other lead speaker of Jobbik, Congressman Gábor Staudt.
u2016-05-02-204	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Listening to the words of János Lázár, I must say that it was as if we had heard an opposition comment, like a right-wing comment. So there is no shortage of targets. You said that Hungarians often believe that if they tell us something and say, at a government meeting, a decision is made, or a statement is made, they believe that it is. Mr. Secretary. I feel that what you have said is equally true, so it is necessary to work to make the beautiful goals that you have said a reality. We have seen that this has so far been partly, and then I am very, very positive that it has only been partially realized. I mean, and I'm going to explain this in a few thoughts, it's okay that in 2010 there was a change of government, and that we could see what crimes, what mistakes were committed under socialist governments, but in many cases these mistakes and sins continued during the Fidesz governments. In the allocation of resources, the institutional system, said Minister, is a very important thing, so to a large extent what, how and with what controls we spend these resources, Hungary and the current Hungarian government have an influence on it. You are right, Minister, that when Fidesz took over government, it inherited from the socialists the system that allowed the allocation of money to happen, but also the accountability was promised, and this accountability was not realized. So if you had said that 45 percent, and it was indeed an outrageous and outrageous ratio, that these funds had gone to various operating expenses or expenses, then we would have expected that these funds would be reclaimed, prosecuted, or at least in any way, by informing the public, and this is the least of all, they would have told us exactly where and what crimes have been committed by the socialists. But, of course, the initiation of criminal proceedings would have been what the voters expected of you. Of course, we've seen the construction of subway 4, which has multipled with promises and desires that cannot be fulfilled. Here you can think of the congestion charge, or even the wonderful tunnels of the M6 motorway, where the problem is that you had to carry it, with a little exaggeration of the land, it broke down several times during construction, because tunneling in a hilly area is difficult; of course, it is a very profitable business. They've solved these, we haven't seen the guys responsible here. In itself, what you have said, Minister, that these are not free money that the Hungarian economy receives, we agree with that, but you do so when you talk about the allocation of these funds, so that it doesn't really matter what, only these funds can be called off. They also often forget that payments have started. Yes, Hungary has started to pay for these funds, but we do not see that the drawdown from the EU will start in parallel. Of course, there may have been changes since then, but you are not always sure that these can be called off. So if we prevent these payments, before the EU, the Hungarian government will start making payments, then the end will be a big knock. Then, after 2010, the institutional system has become even more opaque. Every two years, the whole system was remodeled. At least the NFÜ had previously set up a database to show what these funds were going to do, who its beneficiaries were, who were the winners. Since then, we can't see these quarterly reports on the Internet either, so in fact, who wants to check the spending of these funds is almost in a position to rely on the government's success prognosis to believe it or not; or on his own personal experience, because he doesn't see a well-earned, transparent table, only the counter spins on how much money we spent. But the other question is, what did we spend all this money on? Have we spent these funds to make Hungary a more livable place to move Hungary forward? Unfortunately, that's not what happened. And although the promises that the government has made and, in some cases, tried to transform it into the next financial cycle up to 2020, the drawdown of EU funds, these can be said to be promising compared to the previous one, but we still do not see that these goals are achieved. It would have been good if a consensus-based development plan and development goals were set, which, even across governments, ensured that at least in the framework in which this is taking place, some kind of consensus of the Parliament or at least of the Parliament's parties could be detected. And I must also say, Mr. Secretary of State or Minister, I can also say to Mr. Secretary of State that, in the current budget, we have paid nearly HUF 320 billion out of all our taxes, this is more than HUF 30 000 per person to pay into the budget of the European Union, of course, there is also a UK correction of HUF 22 billion, this amount will come out of all our money and will be transferred. However, the money you set up as EU money is only about drawing, for a narrow sphere of interest, moving into the pockets of a narrow circle of interest. I also have to say that we can talk here about 1100, 1200 billion forints per year from the EU. But if you look at the fact that in the first place, even if you manage to draw them all, which in many cases comes out in hindsight, you should see that the 20-30 percent corruption premium with which the system works, and then I was very, very optimistic again, unfortunately seeing the experience of the real daily life, this must obviously be deducted from these amounts. At the time, we had not yet talked about what these funds were spent on, whether the goal was really useful, and in many cases we could see that they had given these funds to offshore companies. This will be discussed in more detail by my fellow Members. So in many cases, new companies or offshore companies have received billions, and it seems that all you have to add to this is that this is not revealed to the public. By the way, you guys didn't have a problem with that. [[16.10]] So if we put the entire EU budget and the spending of EU money on the balance, I have to say that if we spent nearly 320 billion forints a year wisely, we might get ahead of the 1100 billion that is distributed to our friends in such a corrupt way. So these are the main problems, and my fellow Members will explain this in more detail. I think the good goals are being formulated, the results are still waiting for you. Thank you. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2016-05-02-205	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Congresswoman Erzsébet Schmuck, May Other be Politics.
u2016-05-02-206	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Although today is a day of debate, I suppose it is still possible to ask a question. Minister Lazarus's speech inspired me to ask two questions. One: Mr. Minister said here in Parliament for the second time that we are net contributors, but in the figures he said that we received HUF 9223 billion, but we paid HUF 3000 billion. So if I subtract the two, it looks like three times-- [[To intervene:]] But, said the Minister, we get three times as much as we pay. My second question is that the Minister also mentioned how important it would be for Parliament to be informed from time to time about the use of EU money, the experience, and the rest, and so on. A month and a half ago, I submitted a bill, which was the whole point of the proposal that once a year the Minister responsible for European Union money should inform Parliament, but the majority of governments refused to do so without any justification. Perhaps if we had presented this bill together with the Minister, he would have passed it successfully, but perhaps in the future. I would now like to look at how the LMP sees the use of EU funds in the period 2007-2013. We are aware that the assessment of the effects is difficult, but on the basis of the information available, we can make some serious findings regarding each of the main objectives, which we believe should be considered for the future. I will start by saying that the impact of development resources on economic growth depends on the fact that the effects are one-off or lasting. The programming period under investigation was too severe for one-off effects and could be criticised for durability. Although all developments are justified in some way, there are many types of development, such as sidewalks, canals, renovations, and even a number of improvements called environmental renovations, which have contributed to the growth of the economy only at the time of establishment, and have a negative impact on society through the cost of maintenance. Similarly, the utilisation of resources for direct economic development is doubtful. It is certain that from a sustainability point of view, subsidies have not helped the economy, nor have structures started to develop to prevent the re-production of today's serious problems. I will continue by saying that one of the two main objectives of the whole cycle was to increase employment, but on the basis of the information available, the employment-enhancing effect of investment aid in the national economy has not been proven. The likely effect of the aid was that the increase in supply of the subsidised more successful enterprises caused the loss of competitive companies and the loss of their employment capacity. Perhaps even more serious is that most of the development resources did not even land in Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprises. According to a recent research, two thirds of Hungarian subsidies were transferred to multinational companies abroad. This is one of the highest rates across the European Union. That says almost everything. More enthusiasm than any previous government has served the interests of foreign multinational companies. Another key aspect of the social perception of development resources is the extent to which development resources are distributed to society, to whose benefit they benefit. Although development policy aims to overcome social inequalities, to create social cohesion for people, regions and regions, experience has shown that public funds from taxpayers' payments ultimately benefit a narrow, mostly wealthy circle. One of the reasons for this is that the subsidies granted to backward areas are too infrastructure-centred, making municipalities key players in development, not the development of sustainable economic structures and the essential entrepreneurial sphere. Grants and developments do not reach the areas most affected by the social problem. Another reason is the differences in the absorption capacity of the final beneficiary group. The ability to absorb and absorb resources is obviously high for those with significant development potential, i.e. without specific resources. Yet they take away most of the resources. The development potential of the areas that have fallen short is low, so, despite all the contrary intentions, there is little development resource in its proportions, which is achieved and has no significant impact on the local economy. It makes the situation worse when they want to quickly allocate resources, because then businesses and areas with higher absorption capacity are already benefiting. The third reason for the ineffectiveness of development resources - and we must not forget that - is corruption. Hours of corruption involving EU funds could be discussed. In short, where so much money appears, the risk of corruption is high. That was obvious from the beginning of the cycle. By the end of the cycle, however, it seems to have climbed to the sky. It is enough to quote the words of Ács Rezső, the current mayor of Szekszárd: the application system works today in Hungary: it comes down and says that I will do it completely for you, I will win it for you, but I will bring everything. And if you don't, I'm gonna take a town away. Because I have a quota that I can split, and if I don't, I'm gonna move a town. It's behind closed doors. Corruption cases can be classified by day, from Flórian Farkas through the Belts to the LED street lights, and the infamous words of András Lánczi can be added: what is called corruption is practically the main policy of Fidesz. All that changed during the cycle was that the more dispersal corruption had been centralised. The result of corruption is not only that someone puts it in their pocket and takes it home, but also that it is not those who can use it effectively. Thus, not tens of thousands of long-term viable businesses are developing, but a few dozen non-viable, near-fire companies are gaining weight, who are bleeding to death very quickly under real market conditions. For LMP, the environmental impact of the improvements was of particular importance. We see that the biggest debt of development policy in the previous cycle has been neglecting environmental problems. Development policy generally uses resources to solve existing environmental problems rather than ensuring that new developments do not contribute to increasing environmental burdens. This would, in principle, be ensured by mandatory environmental inspections during the programming period or by requiring environmental aspects for each project, but these institutions function only as a formal requirement. As mentioned earlier, the vast majority of investments called environmental investments were actually concreteisation. In summary, we can say the following about the development cycle.1. Developments benefit a narrow social layer, not spread out in society. Developments do not work where they are needed, for example in rural peripherals.2. In many cases, subsidies leave a burden on the future. The results of the improvements should be maintained by public funds, some infrastructures, such as the road network, increase the environmental burden and the negative externalities should be borne by society as a whole. Infrastructural developments in disadvantaged settlements increase the costs for the local population and the specific costs will continue to increase if the number of inhabitants of settlements is reduced.3. In many cases, the aid does not increase economic competitiveness, as the subsidies appear as free money and as non-refundable costs for the recovery calculations. [[16.20]] 4. Development policy is constantly reviving environmental goods, because the amount of improvements will not only reduce environmental burdens but increase them. In the previous development cycle, the use of green areas has increased, reducing ecosystem services and biodiversity, as well as increasing the use of natural resources. Projects that can be specifically referred to as the environment, such as waste water treatment, waste management and the rest, were carried out at the cost of environmental transfer. Harmful emissions have been compensated by resource use, which means harmful environmental emissions elsewhere. 5. Following the social and environmental results of different projects is weak. 6. Many development projects are overdesigned. In order to increase aid, it contains unnecessary, environmentally harmful, socially unjustified elements which, in most cases, serve only the production of the own contribution or the benefit of the contractor.7. In other cases, due to compliance with the available aid amount, the projects are underdesigned, the aid received can only be implemented in a poor quality, the durability of the development is questionable.8. The invitations to tender shall appear on a dumping basis. At the same time, the capacity of the applicant, its designers, and the contractor will be debited. After the peak periods, there will be distressing periods until we move to the next grant cycle.9. The bureaucracy of applications, the thieving language of applicants, the knowledge of the procedure, the difficulties created by financial management make it impossible for small operators, mostly the most deprived, to benefit from the subsidies, to remain the privilege of the wealthy who are able to pay for these services which are mostly high-cost but often of low-quality10. The administrative requirements associated with applications are constantly changing. There is no predictability that makes life difficult for applicants. Finally, the biggest flaw in the development-related support system is moral destruction, which is explained in society by the fact that everyone knows a good story about what kind of acquaintance, kinship, bribe money has been used to obtain public funds. Let's face it, it would be harmful even if no story was true. Overall, the use of EU funds is rightly a failure in all respects. On the one hand, money has been misused for bad purposes, it has failed to create a viable Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprise sector, there has been no catch-up of broken regions and social groups, and on the other hand, a significant part of EU funds has simply been stolen. These two problems are closely linked, because from the very first moment on, the government has preferred not socially useful and important projects, but those from which EU funds can easily be guessed. In examining the use of development resources, the fact that governance is now merely a front for the service of the economic hinterland and corruption is once again demonstrated. Of course, the government can be replaced, but it is likely that the country will not be given the opportunity again for a long time, as reported by EU funds. The fact is, therefore, that by wasting development resources, Fidesz lived up to our present and our future. Thank you for your attention.
u2016-05-02-207	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. The first independent congressman to come forward is the first to speak. I give the floor to Congressman Szabó Szabolcs.
u2016-05-02-208	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. If you'll allow me, I'm going to put on the expert hat, on the one hand, I'm a land and settlement developer, and on the other hand, my party didn't exist until a few years ago, and on the other hand, there's no guarantee that we've been involved in this whole process at any level, at design level or at the level of theft. On the other hand, it has been said here that, of course, the pro-government representatives think that the previous government has done everything wrong, so they have set this planning cycle in their own image, and if I say a professional opinion, I hope they will take it as if I really were trying to say professional criticism of the government's activities. On the one hand, I think that when we want to judge the success of a given planning cycle or its failure, we do not have to assume how much money we have spent, because it is in no way a success in itself. I think success can be found in two questions. The first question is whether Hungary has caught up with the Western European countries or even the EU average. The second question is whether territorial disparities have been mitigated. Pretty much, I think these are the two most important questions. If we look at the first question, we can say that we have not managed to catch up not only with the Western European countries but also with the European Union's average. In fact, if we look at how Hungary's GDP per capita has evolved from 2004, say from accession to the EU until today, and how it has evolved in our region, then it can be said that today not only Czech Republic and Slovenia are ahead of us, but also Slovakia, Poland has caught up with us, Estonia has ahead of us, Bulgaria and Romania are approaching us at such a pace that they will probably soon outrun us. There's no way to say that we could've caught up with this tremendous source. Just so we're all clear, that's about a hundred Guns stadiums. So a hundred new Gunner Stadiums could have been built out of the amount we spent since 2004. The majority of this relates to the period 2007-13. About 5 million people could sit down at the same time, 5-6 million people, and that could be interesting again for comparison. The other question is whether territorial inequalities have been mitigated in any way. The fact is that my fellow Member, Mr Bellozó, has already pointed out that among the 20 poorest regions in the Union, there are four Hungarians. It is an important indicator in itself. Of course, I think it is a much more important aspect here that we have managed to reduce disparities within the country, so have we managed, let us say, to achieve that Budapest or the region of Central Hungary and the southern lowland region have come closer to each other, let us say, in terms of GDP per capita, it is the simplest indicator of development. The fact is that this can be answered by the fact that these regions have not been approached in any way. Nothing else can be drawn from this as a lesson but the failure of territorial development and territorial development in this whole process. In order to avoid misunderstandings, this is not the failure of regional development professionals, not my colleagues, but simply the failure of politicians to listen to these professionals. Very thorough and accurate research has been carried out, and we have accurate data. We can tell you exactly how and how we should intervene in order to even improve the situation that there are huge territorial disparities in Hungary that sometimes people feel like they're moving to another country. Within the profession, we refer to it as the Balassagyarmat-Békéscsaba axis. This should have been interfered with with a view to approaching these regions, and this has failed, and this must be admitted. This is, by the way, the fault of every government I've ever had, and not just yours, by the way, to say to Mr. Secretary of State. What's most interesting is that they didn't learn from it, because there were at least minimal elements, let's say, of this spatial development approach in the previous one, not a large LHH programme, which is roughly equivalent to two Puskás stadiums, when they targeted the residence of 1 million people by developing at least dedicated resources. It was also possible to stop it, and no such approach could be put in place in the current 2014-20 cycle. In short, since I had so much time, that's all I would have drawn attention to, because the negotiations for the new cycle are about to begin. I would suggest that this geographical aim be included in the priorities. Thank you very much. [[16.30]]
u2016-05-02-209	Thank you very much, Congressman. I now give the floor to Mr Nándor Csepreghy, Secretary of State, who has asked for the opportunity to speak. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2016-05-02-210	Mr President, Thank you very much for the opportunity to speak. Following the keynote speeches, I considered it important to respond on behalf of the government. It is because a parliamentary debate day would theoretically give us the opportunity to have a meaningful dialogue with each other on the strategic issues that determine Hungary's future, but I see that, despite the fact that in some cases some parallels could be found between the criticisms of the opposition and what the Minister said, those communication panels were called off as if they were paid for it. [[Interviews from the ranks of the MSZP.]] So allow me to make some clarifications. First of all, I would like to recall the words of Mr Harangozó, and point out some contradictions in that which raises to the government how Hungary stands today from the seven development policy regions of the European Union. But, Congressman, these questions should have been asked when all you did before the change of government in 2010 was to make nothing but development policy decisions for bribes or, where appropriate, ignorance. When the government took over the supervision of the development area, 70 percent of the Hungarian development resources were tied down. [[István Gábor Bellozó intervenes.]] This amount of development resources was committed to projects the feasibility of which, its financial background, alone its profitability did not stop on its own. Mr. Congressman is mixing the season with the man, because, for example, when he talks about energy applications and the issue of Hungary's Government making a tightening decision on residential properties, it does not refer to the period 2007-13, but to the period 14-20. After all, Mr President, you should know that the exploitation of private property could not be financed and cannot now be financed for various energy investments. [[Gábor István Bellozó: No!]] I would certainly like to propose that, in the remainder of the debate, since there is a much longer timeframe for everyone, we should really have a substantive debate with each other, because I do not think that the call for communication panels in this regard is in any way appropriate. With regard to the arguments put forward by Jobbik, allow me to clarify a few things. On the one hand, the numbers, because I can see that there is a huge misunderstanding here about where we stand between the total envelope, the committed amounts, the amounts paid, the contentious items. Hungary has the opportunity to draw a total of HUF 8600 billion of development resources together with the exchange rate gains. The original framework was HUF 8200 billion, and the additional HUF 400 billion generated by the exchange rate gains, so we are talking about a total of HUF 8600 billion. In order to avoid the loss of funds, the government concluded a grant agreement for approximately HUF 9500 billion. I'm sorry that I don't exactly define it in billions, in scale, just so we can argue with each other here. What has been paid is, therefore, the envelope that we have paid out to applicants, municipalities, NGOs and companies is HUF 9223 billion, which is 600 billion above the EU's budget. In fact, Hungary's ability to draw a hundred percent of the EU's budget is due to the fact that we have a HUF 600 billion overtaking compared to a controversial item of approximately 150-200 billion. So if the debates were to come in on the worst possible scenario, which I understand is that it is in your political interest, but in no way in the country's interest, the government still has another HUF 400 billion, which is financed from the Hungarian budget, to account for the Commission's invoices that the European Commission is paying, so that Hungary can receive or receive all the money. The criticisms that had been formulated were those that led to the fact that in 2012, when the government really had access to the institutional system, in 14 we did enter into a direction that, instead of a fundamentally unconventional development policy that fragmented development resources, really supported the establishment of a new development policy based on economic growth, job creation and economic growth in Hungary, which could essentially make Hungarian development policy independent of European Union or external resources after 2020. How are these numbers coming along? Congresswoman, you asked how the net deposit situation came together. The two numbers, the two relationships on the basis of which a country's status as a net contributor or beneficiary at the level of the public address is determined are essentially based on the amount of money to be paid as a member's fee to the European Union and the amount of development resources it can call off. The balance of this is indeed positive in the fact that our deposit fee is approximately HUF 3000 billion and HUF 8600 billion is the share of the withdraw or callable money, and according to this we are in the amount of HUF 5600 billion. However, no one in these items quantifys the tax revenue or customs revenue that the country has lost due to the fact that strong and technologically strong companies from the western Member States of the European Union came to Hungary as service providers or producers, who had been able to enter the Hungarian market only after certain protective customs duties had been paid. Or no one can quantify how many thousand billion forints of funds were taken out of the country thanks to free capital flows, and if we add this number to the item that Hungary will deposit into the European Union's cash register in seven years, then we are well above the amount that we can draw with a grant. [[László Varju intervenes.]] With regard to quarterly reports, the government is open to the conclusion of such a system, so we ask that you submit this statement once again, together with Minister Lazarus, where appropriate, and we would like to offer an absolute partnership in order to provide the Members of Parliament with materials supported by statistical data from week to week or, where appropriate, before each session. However, what is the aim of development policy is an essential question. The aim of development policy is to distribute funds that can be used in this way to all citizens on a essentially normative basis, or to finance investments that contribute to the long-term development of the Hungarian economy, thereby providing more public resources to help a region catch up. What we are saying is that the latter needs a focused development policy, which allows the Hungarian economy to essentially stand on its own feet. The fact that there is more than HUF 1000 billion of development resources available in the 2017 budget for the development of the Hungarian economy outside the EU funds is an opportunity that has not been in Hungary since the 2008 crisis, and which shows that the structure of the Hungarian economy has indeed been on track in the past. [[László Varju: This was the first communication panel. We can move on.]] I'm sorry, I'm trying to go through all the questions that have been raised here. Congressman Szabó, I find it difficult to find myself in the midst of your party relations, because your party is multiplying as quickly as the amoebas. [[Defiance in the ranks of the ruling parties. Szabolcs Szabó intervenes.]] It is therefore difficult to link them to whether or not they had political responsibility in the period before 2010. Gordon Bajnai certainly had one; the Gordon of Bajnai who, in the formation of the NFÜ, was integral to the operation of the development policy system in 2007 agreements, and whose people went out to the market after the 2007 agreements and customsd development policy resources through countless channels. [[László Varju: Amoda must watch, Mr. Secretary of State!]] Mr. Congressman does not have to make too much noise, as the wife of his party leader is still, in essence, living on these funds through the Altus. Feel free to report me, and then we can discuss it in court. However, I would like to make it clear that the criticisms that you are drawing up for the period 2007-13 were precisely the criticisms for which the government believed in 2010 and 13 that there was a need for a new development policy system. So, all in all, what can be said about the speech by the lead speaker is that you, or at your disposal, did not tell the truth for 15 minutes or in the years before that, when you said exactly the opposite. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-05-02-211	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, In front of me is the list of 26 Members on the screen, a pre-notified speaker, and there on the display is the opportunity for the groups and the independent representatives to speak. First, a two-minute speech will take place. I give the floor to Congressman Gábor Bellozó.
u2016-05-02-212	Mr State Secretary, the truth is that, on the basis of a 2009 regulation, which was also a prelude to the European Parliament, I was the rapporteur in the European Parliament, so believe me, it was possible to transfer some HUF 500 billion to Hungary from 2010 to the energy modernisation of residential buildings, you did not use it. So much for telling the truth. Thank you. [[16.40]]
u2016-05-02-213	Thank you very much. Congressman Sallai Benedek is not in the room. [[Sallai R. Benedek is in the expert box. Interviews from the ranks of Fidesz: Fertilizing! He quit the LMP!]] Then I give the floor to independent Congressman Zsuzsanna Szelényi.
u2016-05-02-214	I didn't push a button.
u2016-05-02-215	It's written here; thank you very much. Then Attila Mesterházy is not in the room. [[Interview from Fidesz: Close the debate!]] I give the floor to Congresswoman Erzsébet Schmuck for two minutes.
u2016-05-02-216	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary. It's just that the net contributor is to pay more than he's getting. What we are counting on now is another question, but if, for example, we added support to multinationals from European grants that is negative, then it is not certain that the way you count is true.
u2016-05-02-217	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Szilárd Németh, Fidesz.
u2016-05-02-218	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, I would like to talk to you about the developments in Csepel, which we have made with EU support, but first allow me to respond in a few thoughts here to the speakers before me. What I see is that the biggest problem on the opposition side is that the grapes are sour, that you're not anymore, or that when it was possible, they don't, but they don't spend this money, they don't have the money. [[Dr. István Józsa: Who owns? Tell me, who owns it?]] And it hurts in an extraordinary way. Just as in other areas of life, the exclusion from power, the struggle for power can be seen in today's debate. [[Dr. István Józsa: Do you like power?]] Szabolcs Szabó's comment, who put on the expert hat, was particularly interesting and tried to comment on this question as an expert. I didn't quite understand what he was saying. [[Zoltán Grimlock: It's not his fault!]] But it was very strange that he defined his own party in such a way that his party could not have been part of the acquisition of the money that had been raised between 2007 and 2010. However, the leader of his party is called Bajnai Gordon, who was one of the prime ministers of the most corrupt government of all time, the Prime Minister's advisors were then called Viktor Szigetvári and Péter Juhász. We know about Viktor Szigetvári that he remains in the hands of Mr Szabó's party, and among other things, he is the one who would like to destroy the reduction of the rent in its entirety and make it market-based in Hungary, including, say, the supply of drinking water, entirely market-based. Péter Juhász is now known to drill and carve everything as a very foody city representative, but before that, he was fighting for the legalization of joints and drug cigarettes in the hemp seed movement. [[What does this have to do with the agenda, Mr President? So honestly.]] So I guess the expert cap wasn't an expert, but rather a rattle cap. The problem of comrades is also quite interesting, so those who speak in the interests of the people and talk about human matter are to me like the educator who organized the strike and was about child material. On the other hand, the lack of committees. These committees were regional development councils, if I remember your name correctly, Mr President. In 2010, we sat together in one of these regional development councils, this was in Central Hungary, where practically three cakes were eaten after eating two soft drinks, while we could do nothing else before, because comrades cleaned the register in this area in its entirety, and practically as a cover body, this committee worked as a guitar. It was absolutely true of this committee that the English saying that camel was a horse designed by a committee. Well, Csepel took a significant part in spending the money between 2007 and 2013 and received virtually three large areas of Csepel. One of these areas is the social city rehabilitation, which you are constantly calling for, has been called to account for the reduction of the rent. I also said that three large housing sites were renewed in Csepel, and here we were able to do a program with the help of the European Union, with the support of more than 4.3 billion, one of the pilot programs in which, by the way, there was no state money, no district or any ownership money, but the entire project was financed by the European Union. In the meantime, only one piece of data is allowed. More than 800 people were affected by this project, with a HUF 1.6 million increase in housing prices in this housing site in Csepel, but all of these investments were true. So it is entirely a lie that in areas where poorer people live, where geographical or social, social differences appear, the government would have been insensitive when it envisaged these EU funds for development, enlargements and for creating a more comfortable environment. But the same framework was renewed in schools, kindergartens, kindergarten space expansion, a new kindergarten was built in Csepel, gymnasiums were built in Csepel. Overall, 5.1 billion forints arrived in this area, and the European Union, as I mentioned earlier, intended 4.3 billion forints. The other large area is infrastructure. There was a need for infrastructure investments, concrete, steel pipes, underground construction, high construction, because one of these investments was the development and expansion of the Budapest Central Sewerage Plant and its other auxiliary facilities, the various support plants. As a result, for example, here in Csepel, we clean more than 60% of the waste water in the capital and thus the total waste water purification in the capital has increased to 95 percent. 350,000 cubic meters of sewage is cleaned by the Budapest Central Waste Water Treatment. And it was linked to this, true, much later than it could have been connected, because it could have been linked to Csepel's entire sewerage, which was first promised by the then council in 1972, and from then on it was constantly a promise of comradeship; of course, first it was a Council and then until 2010 the promises of the Socialist Party. Then it was realized in 2013, which made it possible to place 54 kilometers of canals, and to join more than 4,000 families, in a unique way, in Hungary, that no one has a single penny of settlement development or public utility development contribution, no matter what we call it, we didn't have to pay for it in Csepel, so people could join the channel for free. This money was also used to build the Csepel Ridge Road. I would like to stop here for a moment, because the Csepel Ridge is, if you will, one of the vet horses of the 2007-13 period, because this could only be changed a little bit. So the contracts could be changed in such a way that the technical nonsense and other problems, the financial problems that we inherited in 2010 could still be improved, but not the whole project. The construction of the Csepel Ridge was linked to a small real estate business in the Comrade World and is going through the most valuable downtown area of Csepel today - by the way, this Teller Ede street is now known as the 2.5 km Csepel Ridge Road, which, thanks to this design, cost HUF 7.2 billion in total, which was supported by the European Union by almost 5 billion. Isn't it interesting that Csepelen's spine cost more per kilometer than the M6 motorway, by the way? So it could no longer be changed; it would have been much better if this road had been built through the factory, down the Danube, and now it had been possible to join the Csepel Island Ridge Road and bypass all the inhabited settlements. Very interesting in Csepel, very few people think that 62 small and medium-sized enterprises have received EU funding. And for concrete, these are the following: job creation, site development, training, the introduction of integrated systems, IT development, technological development, the introduction of a quality management system, the purchase of production lines, and many other new developments, whether intellectual or know-how. [[16.50]] So it is not true that the European Union's money was only spent on concrete. In Csepel, this meant an investment of 5.8 billion in these 62 small and medium-sized enterprises, supported by the European Union by HUF 3.2 billion. Well, I think that these developments in Csepel totalled 198 billion, of which the European Union contributed 129 billion to these developments, and they have had a positive impact both on Csepel's economic life and on the comfort of the population and on the enrichment of the population. So I believe that we are also looking forward to the new development period in Csepel, in any way linked to industrial parks, logistical development, sports and cultural development and further support for SMEs. Thank you so much for listening. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2016-05-02-219	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Mr Tibor Szanyi of the European Parliament.
u2016-05-02-220	Thank you so much for the opportunity. Mr President, When the new folk rhyme came up here on the weekend, that the train had derailed between the mountains and the valleys, I felt that on Monday I had to come in a mourning suit, because Vasas had thrown the Slip out of the NB I, although as a replacement, I was very pleased to see that Minister Sestak had already resigned from the NB I, and that the Slipper had great hopes. I took the liberty of saying this because, after all, Felcsút is now comforted by a small railway, which, although it was said that the first five passengers were on it, was built with a gigantic European Union contribution, the taxpayers of the other 27 Member States of the European Union paid HUF 600 million, as opposed to the HUF 240 million that Hungarian taxpayers contributed to this small railway. I am only setting this as an example, ladies and gentlemen, to see how intelligent Viktor Orbán and his government have spent at least this portion of European money. But first of all, I would like to congratulate Minister János Lázár, who, in my opinion, gave a very proportionate speech, which is a bit unusual of him, because he mixed twenty minutes of gang-banging with 20 minutes of lying. So you set your time right. And I think, Mr President, that it would not be bad if the Hungarian nation represented by Fidesz in such national steam, and the Hungarian people represented by us, still knew what these European funds were finally. First of all, I would like to reject the words of János Lázár that it is not European money, it is our money, and that it is our money, and that it is ours and ours. No, it is a convention thing, Hungary agreed with the other European countries at the time of accession - and not only Hungary, but other Eastern European countries - that we are making joint efforts to develop, to catch up with this region. This has led, Mr President, to four times as much money from European funds in Hungary as it is paying in there. No lying will help or change this rule of thumb. I thought it was important to say this for the sake of integrity, Hungarian man, if you receive help from someone, you will properly thank and not deny it. But the question is whether this money is coming. I understand, and I am very pleased that Secretary of State Csepreghy has now corrected the words of János Lázár on many points, because these funds do not work very well in a large part of the cases, even because since 2014 almost a penny has not come to Hungary at all, even because they see so much irregularities on the part of the European Commission. And even though you are trying to impress the Hungarian press sitting on the gallery with this Torgyánian souvenir, 108 percent performance and so on, this means that you are obviously bringing together such results from over-compromising, which is no problem, but the fact is that not 108 percent of European money has been used, but, let's say, the 100 plus this has been pushed out by 8 percent from Hungarian sources. However, a word, as a hundred, I think it is instructive, however, please, Mr Secretary of State, and perhaps you will sit down in a reading room with Minister Lazarus, and read the speech by Mr Lazarus. He specifically said that socialist governments have really ruined everything. [[Interview from Fidesz: That's right.]] You guys didn't change anything wild and rough and stubbornly, but you did the same thing all over again, and then in the end, you're gonna tell me about a crazy big success. He said that they didn't want to reform, because the Hungarian people didn't want to reform, and yet how good everything was. Compared to this, I would like to say that the most painful thing for this country is that you, wherever you knew, have struck and cut health care, education, the use of the program called TÁMOP does not stand at 108 per cent, it has not reached 43 per cent, Mr State Secretary, 43 per cent, which means that you have essentially not spent money on Hungarian hospitals and Hungarian educational institutions, because in TÁMOP there was also the money that... [[Intercoms from the pro-government benches.]] Whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, Here we met with Congressman Varju that you boasted about the transfer of the waste water treatment plant in Csepel, and they had nothing to do with it in particular - whatever. The point is, and I would like to say that you are committing a great sin when, according to Mr Lazarus, you do not wish to spend a penny on health or education in this new cycle. I think that you are putting the people of Hungary into a series of physical and mental problems, and I could say millions. I strongly reject this policy from the Hungarian Socialist Party, and I would like to say that if the Hungarian Socialist Party comes to government, these two areas will certainly receive the greatest support - health, education and child welfare. [[Attila Móring József: That's three!]] And we're gonna put your concrete somewhere else. Thank you very much.
u2016-05-02-221	Thank you, Congressman. The next speaker is... [[For signal:]] - two minutes before that, Nándor Csepreghy asked for a word from the Prime Minister's Secretary of State.
u2016-05-02-222	Mr President, Thank you very much for the floor. Congressman, it seems that 1 May was too close, but it was better when it was a four-day holiday, he had time to rest before speaking in Parliament. [[Dr. Tibor Szanyi will spread his hands. But insanity in the pro-government benches. Moore from the ranks of the MSZP.]] But allow me to remember a few things anyway. The number that you believe did not arrive from Brussels to Hungary is 1500 billion forints only in 2016. Indeed, we have many debates with the European Commission, but do you know why? There is absolutely no more irregularities than elsewhere, that you report Hungary regularly [[Interview from the ranks of the MSZP: Come on!]] They're against the country and the country's interests because of your political interests. This may be appropriate in an MSZP Presidential campaign, but this is definitely a bad issue for the country. Speaking of the small railway up the road: Congressman, that's why the railway up the road could be built. [[Zoltán Pride: Because the Prime Minister said so!]] because you adopted a tourism operational programme in 2007 that made this possible. The fact that the MSZP looks down on Hungarians living in the countryside on numerous occasions is the reason why you were present in the 2010 parliamentary elections, for example. [[Dr. István Józsa: Go for an iron ride!]] And, Congressman, if you want to shine professionally, it is worth your attention to the difference between TÁMOP and TIOP programmes, because you mention TÁMOP programmes when you talk about hospital investments. No hospital has been built from TÁMOP programs, not in your time, not in our time, because TÁMOP is a human development that finances education and training. [[Interviews from the ranks of the MSZP.]] TIOP is the programme that develops infrastructure development for health care. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2016-05-02-223	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. The next speaker is Mr László Földi, Christian Democratic People's Party.
u2016-05-02-224	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Just one more sentence about TÁMOP: 34 TÁMOP tenders won a total of HUF 619 354 163 in the 12th constituency of Pest county; in this single constituency, TÁMOP won a total of HUF 619 354 163. Ladies and gentlemen, There was much to be said in the previous speeches, and I am trying to show a little through my own constituency what funds the 12th constituency of Pest County has received and how it has been used in the last budget cycle. And I have to start by saying that when we became a Member State of the EU in 2004, we had great hopes that our area, where industry was not significant, practically ceased to be agricultural processing, these industrial facilities could be rebuilt, we could obtain resources that would play a very important role in the labour supply of the region. [[17.00]] However, this did not happen, because I fully agreed with the Minister when he said that 90 percent of EU funds were practically not used for such purposes at the time; they did not plan well projects that were finally approved by the Union for the years 2007-13. In our area, where there has been a very serious deficiency, for example in several settlements, the sewerage has been achieved in recent years, thanks to God. Back in the day, we said that changing the village image, rehab of city centers are beauty solutions, but that's what we're looking for. It would have been much better to think in a way that a good craftsman does not build his big house first, when he starts working in the workshop, but improves his own plant, and after reaching a certain level, he will be able to and will have the opportunity to make his own house the way he wants it to be. First, production systems should have been developed in our region in the last seven-year EU cycle. Many things were built in the constituency, the city centre, Nagykőrös's main square became wonderful in this EU cycle; the channel was fully realised in Nagykőrös, because the city was not channeled in the previous decades, and now, thank God, it was accomplished by HUF 5.5 billion. However, we also need to see that the ten settlements located in the constituency have taken on very serious loans to cover the part. When the Hungarian government, the Hungarian state, took over the local government's debts, in this constituency almost HUF 14 billion of debt was taken over from the municipalities, and this was the opportunity that the municipalities were actually given air. I hope that this opportunity can be used in the next EU cycle in such a way that they can actually receive proposals that are primarily for job creation. Just putting it in parentheses, just today we were at a meeting at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, where a Hungarian business, a local enterprise in Cegléd, will make an investment of 6.3 billion in the city, and for this he has received serious government support and assistance. So we look forward to the coming years, and I am very confident that Cegléd and its surroundings, the 12th constituency of Pest County, which is today one of the most vulnerable constituencies in the county, or district - Nagykátai district, part of Cegléd district, Nagykőrösi district - will have access to resources with which the development of the economy and the creation of new jobs will take place. Thank you, Mr. President. [[Applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2016-05-02-225	Thank you very much, Congressman. The next announced speaker was Mr Gyöngyösi Márton, Mr Jobbik.
u2016-05-02-226	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Allow me to introduce some new aspects into this debate today. I would like to remember the distorting effect of EU aid, which affected the Hungarian economic structure in a negative way, if any. As we know, one of the most important issues in Hungary after the change of regime was the integration of the European Union. This process started before 89 with the dismantling of the socialist system. In the late '70s, our country was indebted by the oil price explosion. In 1982, seven years before the change of regime, Hungary became a member of the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank. In 1985, with the adoption of the bankruptcy law, the closure of the socialist major industry started in Hungary. With the company law of 1987, the structures that served to build a new imperial structure in Hungary began to be built. It started in 1989. This new dependency relationship here in Hungary, the system-shifting political elite was naively rocking certain illusions, but still served; he was interested in economic and political integration. This is why Hungary has experienced a completely unilateral propaganda on the benefits of EU integration throughout the process of EU integration, and, unfortunately, thanks to this, there have been huge illusions in society and, as a result, a huge disappointment about EU membership. The social debate was cancelled: the debate that we would have discussed, what kind of European Union we imagine; how we imagine economic and political union; what advantages, what disadvantages this Treaty represents for us; and what sacrifices we make, for what purposes. In a country of great value to its sovereignty, such as Hungary, this debate cannot be saved. That is why I was pleased that Minister János Lázár and the Secretary of State mentioned that this kind of EU balance sheet should be mentioned at least now, more than ten years after accession to the European Union, since it has direct and indirect implications for our accession to the European Union. With regard to direct resources, we always say that the resources and subsidies, in comparison with the payments, show a positive balance, and in this sense it is very good that Hungary is a member of the European Union, because it can draw net money and receive net support, but there are indirect effects, which, to say the least, nuance the picture. What did import liberalisation, deregulation, forced privatisation mean to Hungary? What did the limited economic margin mean? This meant that Hungary's margin of manoeuvre was limited in terms of investment promotion and market protection. Hungary has joined the European Union under bad conditions, and unfortunately we have to admit that. During the accession of the European Union, Hungary entered a new economic system where capital investment from developed countries resulted in a kind of economic dependence and, in this sense, a kind of transfer of income from the periphery to the central countries. Until there was no foreign capital investment in Hungary in 89, the so-called FDI was fired to 40-50 percent of GDP by 2004, the date of our accession to the European Union, to which Hungary was fully exposed. As a result, our external trade balance has completely deteriorated as a result of the loss of markets, and Hungary has lost 10 billion euros of domestic and foreign markets per year up to 2004 compared to 1990, which is more than 10 percent of GDP per year. And this has happened, resulting in the fact that the capital holders here have taken the money out of the country as income, and have withdrawn these funds as capital income. It is not comforting either that Central and Eastern Europe is not in a different situation. The deficit in the balance of payments resulted in a sharp external indebtedness. Hungary is in the first place in this respect, based on World Bank statistics. While gross external debt accounted for 60% of GDP in 2000, gross external debt amounted to 170 percent of GDP by 2009. What really matters, however, is the net external debt and interest paid on it and the balance of income exported to the net working capital stock, which resulted in the transfer of EUR 480 billion of income from the periphery from the periphery to the central countries between 2004 and 2008 to Britain. In Hungary, the net EU grant of HUF 5 billion was accompanied by a net transfer of HUF 30 billion, which means that Hungary suffered a net loss of a ratio of 1:6 in this period. So in the European Union, the fine words about democracy, catching up, solidarity are the creation of a dependency relationship, the implementation of a differentiated and conflict-based European Union, which we strongly oppose. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]] [[17.10]]
u2016-05-02-227	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary of State Nándor Csepreghy.
u2016-05-02-228	Thank you very much, Mr President, for the possibility of saying this again, and I am pleased that a substantive debate is beginning to take place on the issue that is common to the dilemma of net benefit-net payment, because it is such a thing to say that other additional costs should not be taken into account, like telling a family with foreign currency credit to focus only on interest charges and capital charges, and not to calculate the fees for other banking services, regardless of whether it has to be paid by the bank from month to month, and in our case this applies in the European dimension. Indeed, Mr Gyöngyösi is right when he raises the question of whether there were strategic errors when we negotiated the accession of the European Union. Because what really happened then? Much more capital-enhancing, technologically much more advanced companies could appear on the market of the new EU Member States in Central and Eastern Europe, with players there having a real chance of competing with these players at the level of the principles, at the level of the rules, only because of the previous two reasons, due to their capital problems, the credit problem and technical preparedness, they could not enter into real competition. In this situation, they have abused their dominant position by companies that wanted to force the enlargement of the European Union as an isolated expansion of the market in the European Union. After all, if we look at the rules that laid down the enlargement of the Union before 2004 and after 2004, there are a lot of questions about whether all the Member States were prepared for this. We believe that a responsible government must do what the Orbán government has done since 2010 that, where it has the opportunity to do so and does not violate EU competition rules, do everything it can to enable Hungarian market players to catch up with Western European competitors. We want to give the same protection, the same support to domestic economic operators that a German automotive operator or construction operator receives from the Austrian, German government, or that a French agricultural operator receives from the French government. To account for this in the Hungarian government, a very strong rhetorical catch could be called treason. I think that we do nothing but what we were authorized to do when we were sent to the Parliament: to pursue an economic policy that strengthens the European Union's community, but takes into account the fact that the Hungarian government has a clearing obligation primarily towards Hungarian businesses and Hungarian citizens. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-05-02-229	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. The next speaker is Mr István Horváth, Fidesz.
u2016-05-02-230	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, I think that if we look back on the last European Union cycle and on the European Union's payments for rural development, we may have a serious sense of absence and we need to learn the lessons, the experiences that the system has used in the last cycle, and for the next period we need to build a system that takes into account needs and opportunities, and actually lays the foundations for a real rural development, and provides the resources for it. What am I thinking? What may have been the biggest shortcomings in the last seven years? You're the administrative procedural law, so to speak, Ket. caused a very serious rigidity in the system. In the case of certain aids, such as land-based aid, where payments were almost normative, it was still able to handle this, but it was completely inflexible in terms of investments, unpredictable in its entirety, and it marked the last seven years that the beneficiary had an obligation to repay a large number of projects and, where appropriate, to pay penalties. How did this type of uncertainty arise with regard to investments? The tender itself was almost unknown to the beneficiary group, it was not possible to plan when these investment sources would open, they suddenly appeared for some reason, and it seems that an external beneficiary group knew these dates, and in many cases these funds would have been exhausted in two or three days, and the system itself was closed, so many investments could not be made that needed a little longer planning, preparation, but only one particular beneficiary group could achieve this resource. In the current system, a major change was that the dates for the submission of applications can be calculated, there is a cycle for the tender to be launched, so that applicants can submit their applications for 30 days compared to the date of the tender, and the submission of applications will be completed after 30 days, and then they will start to evaluate the applications submitted. Therefore, there is an opportunity for well-established and well-prepared proposals to enter, and because of the rapid, sudden publication, not only a narrow circle can achieve them. The evaluation aspect itself will be entirely objective and will take into account only the content and professional part of the proposal. It was also an important aspect in these applications that since the submission and the decision were unpredictable, in the previous cycle the applicants found out that they were winning late, the payment itself was very, very long, and in many cases where the applicant had to finance the self-force through bank financing, which the tender had entered in the implementation phase, the bank could no longer keep those conditions, but the beneficiary did not have the opportunity to change the system. The former Ket. system was very rigid, so it could not be said that I would not make the 100 million investment, but only less, because bank financing and the banking environment also changed. This type of flexibility has not been taken into account by the system, which is why many applications have failed. For the next cycle, the aim will be partnership, cooperation and real rural development, the proposals will be predictable, the beneficiaries will receive the support decision after a real assessment of the content, and, most importantly, the system will be much more financed and transparent by requesting an advance. It is also a very important aspect that, while in the previous cycle, the circle concerned, who was entitled to the aid, 1 per cent of the amount of aid took 50 per cent, so there was a very large imbalance in the beneficiaries' scope, this will change to the current cycle, and small and medium-sized farms will be able to develop their economies in a predictable way, with adequate liquidity and professional background. So I think that it was necessary to adapt this new system, and this gives rural development a real opportunity for farmers and producers in rural areas. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-05-02-231	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Mr Tamás Köpeczi-Bócz, State Secretary.
u2016-05-02-232	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would like to inform honourable Members that health and education programmes are, of course, possible in the period 2014-20, and we would also highlight health developments. In recent years, hospital renovations have been completed and completed, and in the new period we will only compensate for the deficits that were not previously possible. For example, children's emergency care, which is also being developed at national and regional level, would also include criticisms of the fact that the current programme would not address territorial differentiation, which is specifically intended for this purpose. The other two important priority areas of health are that we should not be basically sick, so the current announcements will be about improving the health of the population and getting better and, accordingly, a number of programmes will be launched aimed at health preservation and prevention. In the framework of this programme, we would typically like to strengthen basic care, i.e. the services of general practitioners, in part by providing them with additional capacity, so that they will be accompanied by staff and professionals with which we can reduce, for example, the administrative burden of GPs and spend more time on healing. The third very important area of health is the training, further training of workers and the possibility of their career paths. In particular, we have today targeted those who already work in health care, who do not have adequate qualifications, and therefore their wages are lower than those of workers in other areas. They will receive free training, which is otherwise carried out by state institutions. [[17.20]] In the area of education, we would particularly stress the reduction of territorial differences. The Ministry of Human Resources has proposed to the government that schools in disadvantaged areas where the number of children is predominantly underprivileged should be able to apply different regulations. Divergent regulation means, first of all, that a teacher can have a smaller number of children, there must be free services that are constantly available not only to students but also to parents. Basically, we believe that this type of territorial differentiation, beneficial territorial differentiation, can be what will contribute, for example, to reducing differences in a sector, in this case in the field of education. This is an important part of the 2014-20 programmes. To sum up, we are focusing on both health and education. In its order of greatness, this may be less because we want to devote resources not to investments, but rather to people working there, to training, training and supplementing wages for people working there. Thank you very much.
u2016-05-02-233	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. The next announced speaker was Mr Sallai Benedek, Member of the LMP.
u2016-05-02-234	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Unfortunately, there is very little time, and I am very sorry that we have to discuss this in such a closed setting. First of all, I would like to point out that, in my view, European Union funds would have created an extremely great opportunity for Hungary. A typical example is the case of Burgenland. There, the resources used from the Structural Fund - Austria had roughly as much as Hungary - in the 2007-13 cycle, they achieved that one in eight jobs would be linked to EU funds. Every year labour market demand continues to increase by a thousand, economic performance has increased by 10 percent during the crisis period and the local economy has been able to produce a factor of 2.3 for each euro in the European Union. So if you're not stealing this and you're not giving it to stupid people, then you can get results. Burgenland's situation proves that very, very well. With this introduction, we must, of course, first talk about the 2007-2013 cycle, which, I think, can be said on the basis of which it is said that it has not reached the target group, has not been able to address the regions most in need, and has not been able, as far as possible, to give as many people as possible the plus that it could move forward. Obviously, this is the responsibility of the design cycle for how this has been implemented. A lot of aimless, stupid aid has become, which has not been achieved by a single investment in infrastructure. On the other hand, let me say that the most resources they could use in Burgenland were sources of research, development and innovation, which in Hungary was most neglected. There, basically, substantial resources were invested in the development of human resources - sorry for the ugly expression - and this is in line with the strategy that Ireland also used after its accession to the EU, which enabled it to make the Irish model of economic development known as a miracle. If there had been much less corruption - obviously not to be taken on by those who may have participated in this during the period - if there had been much more practical use, it would have been very, very helpful. But the second Orbán government came in 2010, taking over the baton. Let me tell you a few typical mistakes and examples that show no bumps at the time of the change. Several people from their smaller homes have provided examples of improvements. Let me mention three that I was directly involved in. One was the case of a boathouse, where practically the first phase of European agricultural and rural development funds was completed with a boathouse, boats, but the second phase could never be completed, because the first measure of the Orbán Cabinet was to reduce the target group from the settlements below 10 thousand people to 5,000 people, and therefore the settlements over 5 thousand were completely excluded from the aid. The second phase has never been completed since. In the same way, a horseguard had a light-structured roof structure, but the wall never came into existence, which would have allowed wintering because the same instrument excluded it from EAFRD resources. And let me tell you my biggest heartache, the last windmill in Turkeve, where two EU cycles of LEADER resources and tourist resources supported a remaining windmill of nearly 20 million forints, and the third, fourth and fifth stages, which would have been planned by an expert, could never have been realized. As long as the interior could be renovated and inverted, the source of its outer facade was never found. And in the next period, when there was money from tourism and regional development resources, the Fidesz government unfortunately did not support this development, so this windmill has collapsed in recent weeks. This is a very, very sad case, because it is a typical example of how previously invested resources are lost if not covered by the government that needs to continue with their system. By the way, I'm very curious to know when some crazy idiot comes up with my personal responsibility and wall-kicking to contribute to the collapse of this mill, but I'm looking forward to its impact. It was recently the time for the submission of tourist applications. Let me tell you, there's a positive direction here. First of all, they don't prank candidates to death. The system where ideas cards can be submitted first relieves applicants who may not win unjustified costs, as this often means that they do not need to invest resources and there is a possibility of having them in a second round with a more logical design. That's a good way to go. It is also a good direction that it is possible to continue the developments that have been started earlier, because so that settlements where the development of a beach or any tourist unit has begun will finally be able to continue. Thus, the fact that there is some improvement is undoubtedly true in several cases, but it is still not sufficient, because there are obviously some negative impacts, as the source of the tender is increasingly focusing on helping economic operators. The problem with this is that once these funds basically require pre-financing and self-power, once again they can reach the target group, not primarily, but where there is already capital, where financial backgrounds help the implementation of the programmes, while many Hungarians and small entrepreneurs, who are supposed to be the target group of Fidesz's economic policy, will not be able to obtain these funds. This is a very big problem, and it has a very contrastive effect. At the same time, how we allocate resources regionally is also important. As most people know, Hungary's four regions are among the worst performing European Union regions in terms of GDP per capita, but we can see that in the period 2007-2013 only 8 percent of the resources to be used were planned for the Central-Hungarian region in the planning period, but 32 percent of them were placed in the environment of Budapest and its agglomeration. This is terrible because it does not help the EU's efforts to catch up with the regions that are lagging behind, it does not help to make a substantial contribution to North Hungary, North Great Plains, South Great Plains and South Transdanubia. Well, that's the basics. EU funds will benefit and make any sense if they contribute to jobs that are as sustainable as possible. In the case of Burgenland, we have seen as an example that it can be developed to help, as far as possible, preserve jobs there. The main aim of this would be clearly to widen the range of stakeholders in the current system. So broadening the range of candidates in order to increase the number of local players as many as possible - not only small and medium-sized enterprises, but also the civil sector, local self-government enterprises - should be a fundamental objective. Their task should be to make it as easy as possible to contribute. This would require an adequate credit structure background, and to ensure self-esteem, it would require a structure from national sources to help as many small applicants as possible to make use of it. Otherwise, in the Finance Act, we will propose that we have the opportunity to do so. These are obviously important because the most important measure of these sources is how the lives of Hungarians can be better. The problem is that in Hungarian society, the 8 million people who fall outside the capital do not feel the effects of these. There is a nice development that makes a settlement, a public space more beautiful, however, how this has achieved Hungary's independence, which would have allowed our regions to catch up with its partners in the European Union financially, this effect could not be achieved. I think that we are still in time to rethink the planning process of the past period and learn from the mistakes of the 2007-2013 period. Let us look at how these resources can be used to provide as many people as possible. [[17 .30]] The first thing that needs to be reviewed in this system of yours is whether the kind of targeted support that highlights a county seat, a large company and, in your opinion, effectively focuses on the use of the resource can be achieved. I fully believe that the involvement of the small and medium-sized enterprises sector in Hungary will help as much as possible to ensure that rural enterprises with one person or, above all, five employees, if they cannot obtain these funds, the trend that we are seeing right now will be strengthened. Hungary's greatest competitiveness will be the cheap labour force, and if the cheap labour force can only benefit from the need to bring in as many foreign businesses as possible in order to create jobs, Hungary's social catch-up will not be possible. Another important element of social catch-up is the need to rethink the widest possible range of resources, to ensure the background of innovation, research and development resources, because only by doing so will it be possible to move forward the catalyst that is present in Hungarian society, which can bring ideas and developments to the Hungarian economy. Obviously, I am running out of time, I have to say that if we continue to look at the soil as Hungary's most important natural resource, it would be vital that industrial development resources receive the greatest possible task or assistance for industrial developments that create, as far as possible, the processing, processing and the development of agricultural products into ready-made food. For all of this, the following period contains a lot of important tasks, and I also have a lot of concerns about the relatively invigorated period, with the fact that in the last two years we have not actually called down the funds, or we have not been able to start the applications, it will be enough to make sure that the Hungarian tendering sector and the small settlements in Hungary are not overburdened. But I think that some of the changes that have taken place are useful, the question is whether you and the majority of my fellow members of the Government will be able to stand up to the minimum extent possible to achieve the integration into this, and to help as many individuals, small and medium-sized enterprises as possible in your constituencies to access these resources. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2016-05-02-235	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, There will be speeches by the Minister of State on an out-of-line basis. In the order of the candidates, I give the floor to Secretary of State László Tasó for two minutes.
u2016-05-02-236	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Congressman Sallai R. Benedek, I must say this, because you have drawn our attention to the fact that we should not miss the course again and fail again, because there were indeed wrong directions between 2007 and 13 that would not be good to re-apply and re-use. That's how it happens, anyway. In the world of catching up, we can make a huge contribution in order to ensure that those areas that have not been given support and opportunity so far are now given. That is why the government also adopted its national transport development strategy in 2014 and also formulated it to clarify its priorities, because it felt that from 2007 to 13 it was not possible to make good use of resources and to use them effectively. Let us not forget in any way, in 2006 it was already recorded what and how it was used in Hungary from 2007-2013 sources and for what purpose. There was a project list being clarified. You couldn't really touch it, as you could see and know, you could experience it. Indeed, it was only later that we could add some important investments to some other applications. But now the motorways must reach the borders, and the Hungarian government has agreed to do so. From a national source, we can achieve the important objective of connecting county-righted cities to the fast-track network; also from domestic sources, that priority regional investments should be made. A number of industrial zones will open up for the world, which will be in a road development situation, what they said earlier, have been designed, made clear and asked for earlier, but have not received funds. Clearly, we have seen the mistakes, and naturally these mistakes will not be made again. One thing is certain, that in Hungary, which must be said, was a bad practice that the whole of Europe is critical of, this PPP scheme. For the first time in Hungary, a PPP scheme was used to sell Hungary to 30 years in symbolic terms, and for 30 years we pay more than HUF 100 billion for the construction of motorways. If we could use 100 billion for more road construction and catching up, we'd be a lot further in. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-05-02-237	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. I give the floor to the Secretary of State, Balázs Rákossy.
u2016-05-02-238	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, I, too, would like to respond to Mr Sallai R. Benedek's speech in particular, who is banging open doors in many respects. After all, as you said in your speech, the more resources should be spent on economic development and the development of small and medium-sized enterprises, research and development and innovation. This is what we learned in the previous period, between 2007 and 2013. For this reason, we would like to spend more money on these areas in the period 2014-20 than ever before. Within this framework, we spend 60% of the resources in the area of economic development compared to 16 percent, we have three priority operational programmes: the economic and innovation operational programme, the operational programme for territorial development and the competitive Central Hungary programme, which supports small and medium-sized enterprises and research and development and innovation. I would also like to put in this framework the fact that we have included local actors in the planning and implementation of these programmes in a larger proportion than ever, in the spending of the regional development operational programme of HUF 1300 billion, on the one hand, local authorities, county towns and counties on the other. They're gonna split this money, too. The same objective is also pursued by local territorial development strategies that support professionally these national development plans. I would like to mention the anomalies related to the development and support of Pest County and Central Hungary. To this end, the Central-Hungarian region has not been separated from the self-esteem of previous governments for many years in order to finance development in Budapest, the development of the wasteful 4 metro from European Union funds, and therefore the Central-Hungarian region has not been separated. We can see that despite the fact that Budapest is extremely advanced, there are some indicators of inadequacy that made it appropriate to separate it. Therefore, in the period after 2021, Pest County may count on EU grants regardless of Budapest. Thank you very much for your attention. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-05-02-239	Thank you very much. For two minutes, Mr Zsolt V. Németh is the secretary of state.
u2016-05-02-240	Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to join my fellow Member, István Horváth, who was talking about the rural development procedure inherited from the predecessors and the scope of government movement. This inherited procedure was compared to the Soviet-type shaving machine, which was known as a joke, from the beginning of the '80s; because the Ket.-based decision-pointing machine was created for investments. Well, we know from the joke that it can't be a shaving machine, because if we pull it on our heads, it shaves it, but one person has the same head, the other one has the same hair; they said it was front hair. Well, that's what this vending machine did. Our efforts were attempts to improve this vending machine. There were times when he cut off a man's nose, when we fixed it, his ear. That's all the room was, actually. So, quite rightly, at the beginning of the new cycle, this had to be replaced. There were, of course, changes and important ones, as, by the way, the catalogue of machines and standards, which are the basis of corruption, in which interestingly amazing fees may have appeared several times more than the market price, were put in place. The procedural time has been shortened, for example, we have established the procedure that can be corrected, because until then, if a company had built a window, instead of plastic, with wood, better and more expensive, it was pulled out at the check as if there had been a peti-bag with drawing nails attached to it. These have been corrected, but I repeat again, the shaving machine could not be perfected, it had to be thrown out and instead set a new system. Thank you for your attention.
u2016-05-02-241	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. The next announced speaker was Ms Zsuzsanna Szelényi.
u2016-05-02-242	Dear Parliament, János Lázár began today's exposé by weighing on the performance of the past period. Well, that's what I'm gonna do now. [[17.40]] In the past seven years, Hungary has received unprecedented financial support from the European Union, which was more than 20 percent of total production. This is an amount of money that has never been seen in historical perspectives. Yet, if we look around, we do not see the outlier effects of this huge money in Hungary. Hungary has not caught up with the West, it has even fallen behind, we have also missed it in our own region, Hungary has fallen behind Poland, Romania and Slovakia in its economic performance. We can't even reach the average of the regional field. Although new roads, square-stone spaces, new public buildings have indeed become Hungary, labour problems continue to be very important in Hungary, education indicators are not improving, child poverty is increasing. The country's competitiveness has fallen from 29th to 60th since we became a member of the European Union. How is that possible? Where'd all this money go? Well, that's what we do for a living. Of course, there is a fundamental level-raising effect of EU money. After all, spending EU money in the economy creates demand, resulting in income for the private sector. As a result of the GDP generated by the money, the budget will also generate higher tax revenues, which will allow for further budget expenditure. What has happened here is that the Hungarian economy is working, and that is why it is working, and that is why it is ultimately showing growth; because there is this huge EU money flow. By the way, the huge amount of money received from the EU has proved to be a lifeline for Hungary from the economic crisis, and this is what we have been living on ever since. If we had looked at what would have happened without EU funding since 2010, we would have seen a very modest, on average, essentially zero economic development. John Lazarus acknowledged this in his exposé. This country just didn't stop on its own. Why? Well, that's because the Orbán government has placed EU funds under one criterion: take the money and run, as quickly as possible, the more we call, the faster we spend it, on a large scale for gigantic investments, whether necessary or not. This was the principle of the regime of the last six years. Well, where did that lead? The Corruption Research Institute in Budapest has found that projects that were quickly and undesigned, so-called key government projects, often managed without competition, have had a perverse effect on the performance of the Hungarian economy. A great deal of European money has reduced economic competition in the hands of the Orbán government, greatly increased the risk of overpriced and stealing, and has adversely affected innovative research and development projects. It's the opposite of what was supposed to happen. For the past six years, this government has squandered an unprecedented amount of money that has spent almost nothing on tomorrow. However, some have made an amazing profit from investments that have no further economic incentive. It has been the time of greedy politicians and smooching entrepreneurs living in the rage of easy money for the past six years. And what is left for the people after all this? How should we look with confidence at the government's new plans in the next cycle? Well, no, we don't look with confidence, we look with infinite mistrust; because as you don't take money and run, you should think about something quite differently. First of all, to plan carefully, long, thoroughly, to be useful projects, not what is in our way. We have to compete, we have to leave this huge money to the best players to keep it for our kids. It must be used primarily for learning, training, research and innovation. The announcement by John Lazarus that this money would not go to education and health care was very worrying. This was not, by the way, in full harmony with Mr Köpeczi-Bócz's comment. At the end of the day, everything has to be done in front of the people. Anyone who builds Hungary's future obviously has nothing to hide. Every contract, every forint must be spent in public. There's nothing to be modest about if that's what the government really wants. If that's what's going on, it'd be good. However, if nothing happens in this way, we can be concerned that the "Take the money and run" principle will continue to apply, and EU funds will be the target for political exploitation. Thank you very much.
u2016-05-02-243	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. The next announced speaker was Mr Attila Gelencsér, Member Fidesz.
u2016-05-02-244	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, In Somogy County, 5252 applications were submitted in the 2007-2013 European Planning Budget Cycle, and I am proud to say that every second of them has won. About 500 billion HUF of demand was submitted by Somogy applicants, and about half of the 500 billion requests, 250 billion points were found, or won. The number 1 district of Somogy county, Kaposvár and its surroundings, where I received a mandate from the voters, boasts even better numbers. 1680 applications were submitted by Kaposvár and the locals. About 905 of these were won. What means money, they claimed 110 billion, and 85 billion won, or about 80 percent of the claims submitted eventually won. By the way, this is about 30 percent more than the national constituency average. What we are proud of from these sources is the renovation of road 61, the renovation of two sections of road 67, the development of the city centre of Kaposvár, the urban rehabilitation that we could spend two billion on, the Kapos Region Waste Processing Recultivation Program, which cost 12 billion. Perhaps our greatest pride is the development of the county's Kaposi Mór Training Hospital for HUF 22 billion, and the development of the Kaposvár University in close cooperation with the hospital of 3 billion. In the area of Kaposvár, SEFAG's Csillagshop Park is also our great pride. I can tell you about energy-type developments worth hundreds of millions of forints and the renewal of Agora, from about 1.5 billion forints. What's our plan? What's our dream? What do we want? Compared to 2007-13, we want more targeted, more conceptual, more meaningful calls for proposals, i.e. tenders, less bureaucracy, less additional costs and a tighter pace. This is the expectation of Kaposvár and its surroundings for the new cycle. I could also say, in a word, what is our goal: growth. Let income generation grow in our area, income growth, investment growth, GDP growth, and growth in the economy. If this happens, the 2014-2020 cycle will be effective. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-05-02-245	Thank you, Congressman. Next, Mr Laszlo Tasó, State Secretary, asked to speak for two minutes before the speaker who had been announced.
u2016-05-02-246	Thank you very much, Congressman. I would just like to respond with one long sentence to what has just been said. Let us not forget about bus purchases in Kaposvár, and also about the fact that site renewal and design are also taking place. The call for public works related to road 67 will be published soon, and the section of Látvár-Kaposfüred, the road connecting Kaposvár, called the M4, but 67 may begin this year. We are talking about a net investment worth HUF 51.5 billion, a percentage of which can be covered by EU funds, and the rest is provided by the Hungarian government from domestic sources, which was decided just a few days ago. Thank you very much.
u2016-05-02-247	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. I give the floor to Congressman Attila Mesterházy, MSZP.
u2016-05-02-248	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Following today's debate, perhaps, at least from a certain point of view, this debate has gone wrong, or at least much more like a production conference, where all Members, by the way, rightly, are proud to talk about what developments have been made in their area. [[17.50]] Honestly, when I was preparing for today's debate, I was planning to approach this debate in a slightly different way. So let me not talk about what kind of tenders, what developments there are or what they might have been if the government had supported them. A little further away, I can say that these European Union funds give Hungary a historical opportunity. This government, the previous one, the previous one. So, since the pre-accession funds, Hungary has been able to obtain European Union funds that we have missed many times in our history, since Hungary has once slipped away from so-called Marshall aid. For a long time this also marked Hungarian development, social, economic and regional development. Here is a huge amount of money that we can spend in Hungary, which is why at least two things should be borne in mind at this time, and if I make a criticism of this, it can certainly be true not only for our current government, but also for our government. Within the European Union, countries that have been able to establish a kind of political consensus on the use of EU funds, so those who have been able to agree on the direction in which the country should take the fate of a given nation, how to develop the country, have been more successful. However, those who constantly argued and accused each other of various crimes or scandals, where appropriate, have been able to use these resources much less effectively. The example of Ireland could be said, but there are many other countries, too, that when the political elite, political life, realized that this topic, this huge opportunity, should be removed from the front of the party policy debates - there are so many other things that could and must be debated - it has become more successful. Such a huge source of national development, available to us for a few more years, perhaps it would require that policy be agreed and that it can think a little beyond government cycles. The speakers were right, and many times before, applications were very bureaucratic. I have also talked to many applicants, entrepreneurs, NGOs, local governments, and often they considered EU funds not a blessing, but a curse, precisely because of its complexity, and many other problems have been raised, but there must have been a lot of words about this. Basically, I think the most important question is what happens to Hungary when these European Union funds cease to exist after 2020. After all, several speakers said that one of the most important drivers of Hungarian economic growth is the use of EU funds. I'm asking you if we've been able to figure out, together, the government, politics, the professionals, what's next. What will be the engine of Hungary, the fuel of the Hungarian economy, which can draw the Hungarian economy after it, when resources are no longer available to this extent? Have we figured out at the base of these resources what kind of Hungary we want in economic, social and many other ways? The other question is whether these resources have actually been used in the way that efficiency might have required them. And now I would not understand efficiency in the usual sense, but in terms of what is the method, what is the project structure with which we can achieve competitiveness, economic growth and employment growth in Hungary after 2020 in a sustainable way in the long term. This is always the question, because once in a while it is possible to produce good economic data, or even in a government cycle, but the question is always how it becomes sustainable in the long term. This is where I feel a little bit of a hiatus, so it's all about the fact that politics may be making too much party politics out of this - which, of course, I have included myself many times when I criticize the government for spending money - but on the other hand, the government does not seek any consensus or at least compromise in this area. When Parliament was established, we suggested that a committee or subcommittee should be set up to control EU funds, precisely to strengthen confidence between the opposition and government. This was the case during the former Socialist Government. This was rejected by Fidesz at the time, even though I think there would have been a fantasy in this proposal, precisely so that we could carry on a good practice that had been established earlier and thus strengthen confidence in these issues. It is perfectly natural to also think about how these resources are used, how, how, and in what form. I wouldn't want to talk about this for a very long time, and perhaps I wouldn't waste a single sentence on it, because today's debate was probably about this because it was more of a debate between colleagues. I would rather stick to this a little further approach, that it would be worth stepping out of this traditional party policy - I am sorry to put it this way - and raise the horizon a little more in the interests of the Hungarian nation, the Hungarian people, and perhaps this issue should be made a national consensus. There's still a few more years, so maybe the time isn't completely lost. Thank you very much, Mr President, for the opportunity.
u2016-05-02-249	Thank you, Congressman. The next announced speaker was Mr László Szászfalvi, Member of the Christian Democratic People's Party.
u2016-05-02-250	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, As we have seen from the previous period, there are many ways to approach the EU budget cycle 2007-2013. Taking into account the previous speeches, I believe it is important that I join in the evaluation of constituencies, if it is possible to put it in a quote, so that I can see this European Union budget cycle from a little perspective, especially for a constituency that is largely a disadvantaged settlement. We are also talking about a disadvantaged region in Internal Somogy, South Somogy and Somogy. At least in the context of the 2007-2013 EU budget cycle, it was a controversial budget cycle, a Janus-faced budget cycle, a uneven period. I must also add that, of course, it is not possible to say that the first three years were black and that the next four years were white, because we have to think about these seven years in a nuance. At the same time, we obviously need to draw on the social and social convergences and lessons we have seen during this period. During the Socialist government cycle, between 2007 and 2010, the use of EU budgetary resources was launched and implemented in the context of a slow, complex and bureaucratic institutional system. It is generally said that there were many applications, many projects that lasted up to two or three years. We have heard from several of our fellow Members about the negative consequences of these proposals and their implementation. Many projects have failed in this period precisely because of the lack of pre-financing, many projects have failed these obstacles, as environmental, social and economic conditions have fundamentally changed over two to three years. There was no conceptual development in one settlement or one region. In a highly fragmented institutional system, there was a very fragmented use of resources during the previous socialist governments, which resulted in a fragmented development programme.After 2010, the Orbán government had two important tasks at the same time. On the one hand, the use of resources in the previous EU budget cycle had to be accelerated, made effective, and the aim was to draw 100 percent of the funds for all of us. At the same time, the funding structure of the new EU budget cycle had to be discussed with Brussels, the new EU budget had to be launched, and the institutional system had to be completely rethinked, rebuttoned, rebuilt and the whole funding and management system had to be changed to a completely different degree of efficiency. [[18.00]] The Orbán government's series of measures resulted in a major rescue of funds after 2010. The rescue of many specific projects and programmes can also take place during this period. Ladies and gentlemen, Ladies and Gentlemen, Social policy objectives were: catching up, creating equal opportunities, rehabilitation, development of technical, real and human infrastructure, rural development and revitalization, improving competitiveness, improving service quality, strengthening employment policy. In my constituency, of course, as in the whole country, this seven-year cycle was uneven, because I could list it through long pages if I had the time to see how many important and good, positive development projects have been implemented. A total of 30 billion projects were developed in the constituency: 5.2 billion in KIOP; 8.5 billion in KEOP; more than 4 billion in GOP; 4.4 billion in LEADER and III axes were developed in 77 municipalities of my constituency. To sum up, I can say that important, significant investments and projects could have been made in this EU budget cycle, but there was no breakthrough. In the present case, there has been no breakthrough in a disadvantaged area, which is why it was important for the EU budget cycle 2014-20 that the government has made decisive changes, set new priorities, cut red tape could start and we will spend 60% of the total resources on economic development. I hope that these disadvantaged areas will be able to catch up even more in this EU budget cycle and make these improvements possible. Thank you very much for your attention. Thank you, Mr President, for the floor. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-05-02-251	Thank you, Congressman. The next speaker is MEP Zoltán Balczó.
u2016-05-02-252	Mr President, thank you for the floor, and thank you for the opportunity to speak here in the Hungarian Parliament as MEP, because at the House Committee meeting, Fidesz expressed the opinion that we are discussing the use of EU funds in Hungary now, why this would be an EU item. Well, my opinion is-- [[Interpreting]] : Yes, that is how it happened - I believe that this budget is approved by the institutions of the European Union, including the European Parliament, of which I am a member, I feel that we have the opportunity and the task to deal with the particular use. By the way, I agree with János Lázár when he says that this money belongs to us, so he said that we are actually talking about the money of Hungarian voters. Let me make this right: I would say that the money of Hungarian citizens, because it is not for voters, for those who participated in the elections, has the benefit of doing so, since we accept that there are people who have been so disappointed in successive governments of different colours that they will not leave to choose. But in any case, it is absolutely true, as opposed to what was said by Tibor Szanyi, who said that we would be helped, we should almost thank him; it is not that we should receive these resources in such a way that it is a gift, and we owe thanks for it. No, because according to the proper rules of the European Union, this money is due to us. And for the first time, I heard a brief dive in the expo of János Lázár, not just the raw financial balance in terms of resources. Many serious economists have said that they consider that, from an economic point of view - not financially, economically - this accession is, after all, a disadvantage, and I do not need to mention specifically what Márton Gyöngyösi said about what steps had been taken before accession. In December 91, József Antall already signed the Association Agreement. From then on, all the decisions that took place in the triangle of privatisation, deregulation and liberalisation, which eliminated, for example, the Hungarian industry, were all in order to ensure that we could be members of the Union. This is also quantified by some experts. So obviously this balance is much more complex than just dealing with the amount of resources and the amount of deposit within the cycle. By the way, the Hungarian people, I see that they feel enough about this quest for a more complex saloon in their experience, because according to the latest Eurobarometer survey carried out in September 2015, the question of whether you consider it a good thing that your country is a member of the Union, half of the citizens in Hungary do not consider it a good thing. 45 percent said that it was a good thing - this is the latest data - so I feel that they feel the contradictions. I would now like to briefly address an area of support that we have invested a lot of budget and EU resources on: support for multinational companies. And here I want to say that Jobbik doesn't say that foreign capital, working capital, is to be wiped out of this country. [[István Jakab, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] However, we say that we consider them useful not only if it contributes to GDP growth, but also helps to meet social goals, and that is why we are also talking about the importance of added value. Otherwise, GDP also has a direct impact on a strange indicator, because the government debt is measured as a percentage of GDP, and this is how we can obtain funding for the debt loan to be renewed, which is very sad: since April 2010, it has increased by HUF 6150 billion, by 25.5 percent; so the GDP indicator has a role to play in this, but what we should really look at is which economy is most profitable and the utilisation should be measured in the labour force and decent salaries. We know that where these large car companies have settled down other multinational companies, it has a major role to play in the region, if it provides a modest income, but also a job. But we really need quality jobs. I know it is possible to say that for example Knorr-Bremse also operates a research base, but these are basically assembly workshops that have been established here because of the cheap labour force. In this connection, let me mention the serious statement that Viktor Orbán has made to me by inviting investors to Hungary in Saudi Arabia, and I quote:. The Hungarian labour force is surprisingly cheap compared to its quality, and the labour code is extremely flexible. That's what he said. Translating: Hungarian labour does not have to be paid, and there are no laws protecting their rights. So, that's impossible, accepting our colonial position at this level! I know that Hungary, which has joined the global economy, cannot change this world, but there is something that needs to be done to ensure that investors here do take account of the rights of workers here and that we are also in some way closer to European wages. Jobbik considers that an eco-social national economy should be built, that is to say, environmental, ecological aspects should be important and primary in the operation and operation of the economy, social and social aspects must be ensured, decent human life guaranteed, and national interests should be served. We are convinced that the European Union funds, which we consider to be important, are useful in this situation, in order to get to the most decent place possible, should be built up in such a national economy. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]] [[18.10]]
u2016-05-02-253	Thank you very much, Congressman. Welcome, fellow Members. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman László Varju, an independent representative. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2016-05-02-254	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, I would like to join a fellow Member who mentioned that it would really be worth approaching this topic from a little further away and seeing how useful it is for Hungary, the Hungarian people, what has happened in the past. It can be seen that that political consensus was, in essence, only the previous period of planning. I respectfully point out that Fidesz colleagues participated in the preparation of the New Hungary development plan, because at that time there was still a vision for this to happen. Then something went really wrong. It was wrong to get involved in contradictions which, today, Minister Lazarus, Mr Csepreghy, in fact, find it difficult to get out of the problem of the fact that the design had actually been done before, and 70-80 percent of the implementation that was left to you, which you are condemning... - but the fact is that you have implemented it. Everything Mr. Csepreghy has said here as a criticism goes back to your head. I think that the decisions that had been taken earlier and I would like to express this in numbers later on, the decisions that were prepared, you started to implement in 2010 by shutting down an institutional system. Here, I would like to mention, in essence, three things, which are about these contradictions, on the one hand, the factual situation, this is the second part, and let us not forget today's operation. Let's look at the contradictions that are stressing you, and clearly they can't really get out of this. As I have mentioned, these figures, which support this, are the handover documents, when you took over all this in 2010, and you claim that a thousand or a few hundred or 1100 billion forints have been paid, then 4360 billion forints have been tendered, 3800 billion forints have been contracted, and the other half has been the one you had to deal with. If I compare where we are in 2017, a development cycle has started for you on 1 January 2014 and no substantial payments have been made so far, said Mr Lázár, and even plans to make substantial payments by 2017 and this is missing from this economy today. Until 2010, what you're talking about, that's basically what happened. I have to say, in 2010, you took on a situation that was spent time-relatedly and part-timely correctly. That you had shut down the institutional system at the time, that caused a great deal of trouble for everyone. Remember, on January 14, 2011, the Széchenyi Plan was announced, in which the proposals were promised to start, so from April 2010 to autumn 2011, there was absolutely nothing happening, and you prevented the development of the economy by shutting down the institutional system. This period has been used to establish a mechanism that, in turn, at a very high level later, basically saved 20-30 percent of the money that should have been used for development. So, obviously, whether the issue of expediency or sustainability comes up, what Mr Lazarus mentioned here in his introduction. As a result, as you have done, the competitiveness of the economy has been severely impaired, and the number of employees, as well as the number of employees, has had difficulty in developing. The institutional system, which has been set up as the governing authorities under the ministries, is directly implementing the projects you have ordered from the centre from one person. This is how the situation in which they are suffering or are not suffering right now can result in a bid for the energy development of family houses or for a HUF 5 billion framework to reduce consumption, while one person will be moved to the Castle for HUF 200 billion. That's what ten million people get, and that's what one person gets. So in the model seen from 2010, yes, the Fidesz design system, Ács Rezső model, worked, and they did go around, everything was prepared, and then, in the framework of a few days of calls for proposals, they fixed it down and gave most of these opportunities to those to whom you wanted to favour in this respect. Finally, let me draw your attention to one of the biggest crimes that hit the Central Hungary region by having, if you would like to look at the transfer documentation, the letter that Gordon Bajnai did not send, by any means, by requiring this separation. You didn't do this, so you practically destroyed Pest County, and you left it out of the next development cycle on purpose. This is a huge disadvantage, which I am saying, as a result of my fellow Member from Cegléd and the other points of attention. And by the time you're no longer planning such a development opportunity, [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] the hit-and-run was committed in Pest County. (The President indicated the end of the time by jogging the bell. ) I would like to talk about the current experience and how they operate today, later on, after the agenda. Thank you very much.
u2016-05-02-255	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We now have a speech from Congressman Jenő Manninger, Fidesz Group. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2016-05-02-256	Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I would just like to say to Mr Balczó that I know a little differently... - as Members of the European Parliament can speak. I'm glad you could speak, and that was the intention. As far as I know, there was a House Committee meeting earlier where this debate was not classified as an EU agenda by accident. [[László Varju: I initiated it!]] The point is they can speak, so I think I don't want to deal with this right now. [[László Varju: Denied by Mr Fat!]] [[László Varju: I initiated it!]] The point is that they can speak, so I think that I do not want to deal with this right now (László Varju: Denied by Mr Fat!) But it's worth looking into. So it is not that anyone wanted to exclude MEPs. (László Varju: I initiated ! I ask my fellow Member not to yell, go find his party leader. [[László Varju: The truth must be told, Congressman, and then there will be no problem!]] Go find your party leader, obviously there are plenty of EU funds to spend there. [[László Varju:]] Here's what I'd like to tell you. Allow me to say the most important figures, given that much has been said, because some things have been called into question in recent speeches, as if everything had gone wrong after 2010 and the preparation had been good before, so let me clarify. There is a very important figure, which is undisputed, that by 2010, under previous socialist governments, 10 percent of the total EU envelope could not be drawn. And then today, by the end of the EU cycle, we are over 100 percent. It's a fact. [[Zoltán Grimlock: Nothing has been done in the three years!]] Interviews from the ranks of the MSZP: Zero! - Noise. - The president's ringing. ) Then the others can be argued about how this is now used and how the preparation was, but it's a fact. [[László Varju: It will be worse now than then!]] There is also no doubt that it will take time to prepare [[Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] There was plenty of time for this to happen to the previous government, the previous socialist government, and I'm sure this is still necessary, but I think and allow me to talk about this for just a few minutes, that there were questions of perspective here. What I have seen in the various operational programmes before 2010 is that, of course, in addition to many of the right efforts, there was a very strong dominance of compliance with EU expectations, which, at a certain minimum level, I think is right, however, as if it were really about meeting the EU's expectations and not primarily taking into account the country's expressed interests. [[18.20]] I can also give you very simple examples of this, which we fought until 2010 in Zala County, for example, to renew not only the road through the village for an EU development, which is, of course, very good for truck traffic - especially international truck traffic, such as the M86 one - but it would have been in the best interest of the people there to build an escape route in the first place. This has never been achieved on the basis of different EU standards. Interestingly, in Austria, they built bypass roads with similar traffic. Unfortunately, after 2010, this could not be corrected, because the projects were already prepared. Well, that's how it turned out to be a really good project, which, of course, is positive overall, but the locals couldn't have felt the full benefits. This is why the mechanism for spending exactly how many million euros or how many billion forints is very complicated. I think it is very difficult to measure the effects of infrastructure in the short term. Because we could say at the railway station that 236 kilometres of railway were renewed at European level, but if we know that the length of the railway lines in Hungary is 7600 kilometres, of which about half is the main line, we can see that this is a relatively modest length. However, it is clear that it is important for the country to devote these developments to this, and that they will have a longer-term outcome, and they do not necessarily contribute to economic growth, but to a change in quality of life, but it is undoubtedly a great way to reach European standards. Just as it was said here by my fellow Member in the LMP, he was exemplary with Burgenland. There must have been a lot of truth in what he said, and there are many good examples, and we have also watched the use of EU funds in Burgenland, but I have to say that this comparison is a stuck-up thing, because obviously you should know what it is compared to. It is not certain that Burgenland, for example, was able to catch up with the more advanced part of Austria. As has to be acknowledged, this has not happened either in Hungary, but this cannot be expected only from EU funds. Trends can be observed, because, when analysed in detail in the Western Transdanubian region at the time, it was evident that while there was a certain balancing mechanism in place for territorial resources - of course there were problems within the region, which Brussels failed to solve - but until then, there was no doubt that the resources directly linked to economic development were concentrated in large industrial cities, so they strengthened where the money was already. Because this has to be done with EU funds, but it is difficult to offset. And we could also say a lot of examples, and I would like to highlight one more thing, which I think is that we are trying to make better use of EU funds, because, for example, before 2010, territorial resources in the Western Transdanubian region were able to achieve an almost unsuccessful tender. The signs were simply such that a company won, it didn't meet, it couldn't implement, for example, the tourist attraction program in Balaton's priority resort area. Since then, this has been successful in terms of billions of forints, because there has been consultation, we have assessed the needs, and precisely on the basis of the measured needs, entrepreneurs and municipalities have been able to apply properly. That's what's been missing, actually, this negotiation, I think, from the earlier mechanism. So there are a lot of such small examples, lessons to be learned, to make better use of resources. But most of all, what was missing until 2010 - and I would end with this in the absence of time to leave it to my fellow Members - is the lack of conceptual programmes in education and health. By 2010, yes, I can say that these major programmes were prepared with the lack of a major programme that could have been used for the development, and the tender method is not suitable for making the money in the best place, because there was a lot of evaluation at the tender, and it is not certain that they developed in education and health where they should have been, because these improvements were not prepared. This is a change that needs to be made, and I think it is a huge achievement, after all, that we have managed to spend more than 100 percent of the money, even if it was clearly possible to spend it more effectively with better preparation and to replace it in the next EU cycle. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-05-02-257	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Statement by Mr Nándor Gúr, MSZP Group. Congressman, you have the floor.
u2016-05-02-258	Thank you very much. Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, These are the types of issues in which it would be worth agreeing on, reaching an agreement on the political scene, simply because of the financial use of 8-9 thousand billion forints in the framework of such a seven-year cycle. It doesn't matter how it goes, how it goes, how it goes. We know that 90-95 percent or perhaps even more of public investment is actually made from EU funds. And we also know that this rate, when divided into such annual breakdowns, represents about 3-4 percent of the amount of GDP that we produce. This is significant and obviously has a very strong influence on economic processes as well. Actually, I'd focus on three issues beyond the introductory thought. One is what we see and see that events over the last few years have basically not benefited the regions with a cumulative set of disadvantaged areas. These regions, with a calm spirit, did not benefit, as the differences did not decrease. Of the seven regions, four regions of Hungary are in the last twenty in terms of development in the European Union region, and here the gap is growing from time to time in the process of difference. When we look at Borsod-Abaúj-Zemplén County, we see that the processes in the county, in terms of the economy, combined with, say, two or three indicators, show that net sales on the stage of the economy could not produce the rate of growth that, in the case of a given period, was, say, a 13 percent minus difference in inflation. However, if you look at the pre-tax results, then the business organisations - I am talking about Borsod-Abaúj-Zemplén County - overall produced a HUF 135 billion lower pre-tax result in 2013 than in 2007. These are not very promising processes. Obviously, it is not possible to talk about increasing competitiveness, increasing its growth, and, unfortunately, its decline. But if you think about other resources, then if you look at what the average number of employees in terms of entities looked like, I have to say, you can count minus 5 000 figures. If you look at the comparison between the two endpoints, the starting and the end point, then in 2007 there were 232 800 employees in Borsod-Abaúj-Zemplén County and 232 200 employees in 2013, i.e. 600 fewer people, and then I will not even tell you the story that, of course, in this 2013 data, there is more qualitatively quantitative growth that appears in terms of public employment and not in terms of the economy. So what I want to say with all these figures is that, unfortunately, the use of these resources did not involve the strengthening of the economy and the increase in employment potential. Of course, it is not because in its share, North Hungary was virtually marginally reduced; Nógrád, Borsod-Abaúj-Zemplén county and Heves jointly own roughly 10 percent of these resources. The other big problem is that there is little talk about it today, but many raise the issue of corruption in relation to the use of European resources. It means that in many cases there is a one-playing game in the field of public procurement. In practice, nearly half of the public procurements end up becoming a single player and starting as a single player. Or just as unauthorized accounts are being made that could cause problems later on. Or there's cost overruns, subway four, for a lot of other things. Over-pricing occurs, based on virtually untrue budget plans. I don't want to say much about priority projects, just that they're practically uncompetitive. So-so, they all provide a breeding ground for strengthening and increasing public procurement. That's what we should stop. And my last sentences are just that it is worth paying more attention to disadvantaged areas in this sense in the coming period, so that economic growth and employment components can grow. However, this should be done in such a way that it is not with the candidates appointed for the organisation of the Fidesz MEPs and even with the designated contractors, or with the interest of the Fidesz MEPs. No, this needs to be changed: it needs to be made clear of the system, and, as I said in my first sentence, it has to be a political compromise that is in the best interests of the people. Mr. President, thank you very much. [[18.30]]
u2016-05-02-259	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Mr Attila Móring, Member of the KDNP Group, will be speaking. Congressman, you have the floor.
u2016-05-02-260	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, When planning the use of EU funds, the Socialist Government did not assess the development that the country really needs. Although EU development would have been aimed at catching up with lagging areas, the chances of winning grants were better for regions starting from a better position. According to a summary of an official application page, in the financial cycle 2007-13, the most viable region received HUF 2493 billion, nearly 32 percent of the total budget, while the remaining North Hungary received only 825 billion. There was a 20% increase in per capita support in the central region. There was a centralised and moderate procedure for the evaluation of EU proposals, which rightly raised the suspicion of corruption in well-spoken voters. Thanks to the system developed by the Socialists, a significant proportion of EU funds were allocated to grant advisors, with the possibility of taking 30-40 percent of the total project out of the system only under the heading of project management, and thus less money was available for real projects. The influence of economic interest groups was too great. Only 16 percent of the funds were earmarked for economic development. Proposals have been delayed, contracts have been delayed, procedures for the use of resources have been complicated. Instead of the country's real development needs, I would mention some of these investments: The 40 million forints high Bodrogkeresztúr lookout tower was built from 40 million forints; 120 million forints was won by a dogwellness business; 102 million forints were built the gate of the Unfunctional Hegyalja; six bus stops were built out of 27 million forints, which, due to its construction, could not perform the essential functions of a bus stop, for example, because it was not protected from rain; the M6 motorway and the Kőröshegy valley bridge have already been mentioned. There have been chaotic state institution development, mediation of support without policy and the development of individual, island-like developments. Hospitals and schools in need of public services have fallen from EU funds. The policy did not define which public institution, hospital or school should be set up and developed, but who wrote a better tender according to the outsourced evaluator. There was a surprisingly frequent merger between the companies that wrote and evaluated the tender. The policy did not participate in the selection process, and advisory firms flooded schools and hospitals to prepare applications. The procedures were unnecessarily divided into two stages, preparation and implementation. Due to the lack of a conditional public procurement system, the public procurement procedures have been delayed, the projects have been delayed and, as a result of the contracting process on the basis of estimated costs and technical content, continuous contractual changes were required due to the overshadowed project budgets. The bad application system in 2007 had a negative impact on economic operators, so the government decided to use an accelerated call for proposals to avoid recent experiences when applications had to be announced against the 2007-13 cycle even last year, and the framework for each call had to be rewritten in order to avoid loss of resources. Mr. President, thank you for letting me know. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-05-02-261	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Mr Péter Harrach, Head of the Group, informed me that the Group of the Christian Democratic People's Party in the political debate will renounce its further timeframe for the benefit of the Fidesz Group. I would ask the staff to modify the timeframes according to the announcements. Dear Parliament, Mr Szilágyi György, Member of the Jobbik Group, will now take the floor. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2016-05-02-262	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. There have been speeches in this debate that have been normal and constructive, and unfortunately, there have also been speeches that have led us to depths. The normal speeches were also the exposé of Minister Lazarus, in which, in addition to some, several slippages, the Minister said and did positive and forward-looking things and thoughts that might otherwise be familiar to those who have read Jobbik's programme or have written them, but we can say that it is better later than never. It was one of the low points, and I think it was the biggest low point, Tibor Szanyi's speech. I told him, hey, the little spatter had already been cooled down, he said his speech here, and then he stood up and left the room. During the debate, the sentences of Mónika Lamperth were already mentioned, which referred to the distribution of MSZP development money. Then I will be very excited to hear Gábor Riz speak, and I hope that NYBT Kft will speak. and KBTF Ltd. their future plans for the distribution of development money, and they may still be connected to Mónika Lamperth at some level. Today's debate was initiated by the Prime Minister. I believe the Prime Minister's acquaintances, friends and relatives have reported that the corresponding overpriced fee has already been paid for the construction work of projects financed by EU development funds, so that salvo can be deducted. This is indeed a success, the success of the circle to which the money came, but this cannot be regarded as a success of the country. The cycle will be completed, as I understand it, when Hungary has received from the EU Commission all the funds already paid to individual beneficiaries. If this happens and all the euro cents that were intended for Hungary at the end of 2006 in Brussels arrive, we can talk about success, but until then we have no reason to celebrate, least of all, the undeserving life of the government. Ladies and gentlemen, The support process is multi-stage, in which we can withdraw the final balance only if we have completed all the steps of the process and, as I say, the last step is when the Hungarian institutional system submits the final bill to the EU Commission, who pay when the Hungarian institutional system worked well and was free of abuse and error. At present, this step has not yet taken place, so there is no reason to rejoice yet. I do not even know what the closing date of 31 December 2015 referred to in the Prime Minister's explanatory statement is, since on 8 April this year, applicants were informed about it through the EMIR system, and I quote: "The institutional system will make payments to beneficiaries by 16 May 2016. They also draw the beneficiaries' attention to the need for all projects to be in a maintenance phase by 15 June 2016. How can payment be made if the cycle is completed on 31 December? What cycle closure is it when individual projects have not yet been fully completed by the closing date in December, and even if there are projects that will only be completed six months after the closure of the cycle and will be in the maintenance phase? The institutional system shouts about success, but there is no formal, credible and complete public information about the actual state of affairs. According to the government propaganda, everything is fine, although according to the announcements on the official website of the EU Commission, the Member State accounts for the 2007-13 cycle are still far from closure. At present, the entire TIFO payment is suspended, this is a communication of 23 March, as well as several constructions from the KEOP and TÁMOP programmes. I know that the framework has, in a way, been overtaken by the institutional system in order that, if someone, something is not accepted by Brussels, there should be reserves in the projects that we will submit instead of the ones that have not been adopted, and that we will use them to draw the entire framework down. Here, however, we have a big question. Who pays for projects that Brussels does not accept, let's say, because they were brutally overpriced during the implementation, let's say, as an example of a modernization of public lighting, which was won by a company that was selected under dubious circumstances? Let no one think here that I may be thinking of the dozens of EU-funded public procurement punks of the company belonging to its main decision-making family, the example just came to my mind at this moment. So what happens then? The answer is simple: the Hungarian people will pay for it from the budget. [[18.40]] So we have the least reason to celebrate. The resources of the 2007-2013 cycle have been spent by governments, the results are not perceived by the population, most of the developments have gone to unsustainable visual investment. The great lesson of the cycle is that the government considered the sources of support to be stolen without consequences and distributed it among its current vassals. I fear that the 2014-2020 cycle will start no different, as the decision makers are the same, the same executives are the same, and it will be up to the electorate to keep government free robbery in place after 2018 whether development policy or indeed the government committed to achieving national goals can use the remaining funds for the benefit of the Hungarian people. I trust the judgment of the Hungarian people, I trust the will of the Hungarian people, and I trust that from 2018, Jobbik will be entrusted with governance, and then we will use these EU funds in a normal way, which has not been successful by the MSZP or Fidesz in recent years. Thank you so much for listening. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2016-05-02-263	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Mr Péter Niedermüller, Member of the European Parliament, will now take the floor. I would like to inform Mr President that Members of the European Parliament who do not have a political group may use the speaking time, i.e. two minutes, equivalent to the speaking time per independent Member. Congressman, you have the floor.
u2016-05-02-264	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The rails must be laid down, the country must be built. 'The Prime Minister said the other day, and you are right about that.' The problem is, the Prime Minister says something different and does something different. True, he also once said that we are not watching his words, but his actions, and his actions tell us that he is not building a country, but a Slipper, he is dreaming of a small train for himself, with an EU grant of HUF 600 million. It does not think about repairing the infrastructure of the poorest regions of the European Union, either in the South Baranya or in the South Great Plain, but rather by building a small railway. And wonder, man, this little train leads right to the Pancho Arena. But there are many other problems here, let me give you some examples. The European Commission has suspended 10 out of 15 operational programmes for irregularities. In mid-March, the Commission decided to suspend HUF 67 billion due to serious irregularities in the payments of the operational programme for social infrastructure. The environmental and energy operational programme is worth 30 billion forints and 35 billion forints for regional operational programmes. Do you remember the missing 2.1 billion forints in the Belts program? They asked the Roma leaders you supported, where did the hundreds of millions of forints that the Union intended to catch up with the Roma become? They didn't ask, they didn't have a mind. What is called corruption is practically the main policy of Fidesz, said one of the Prime Minister's close advisors at the end of 2015. And we also know that the government is very much in favour of national industry, domestic businesses. In other words, he distributes EU grants to those he considers national; not to the best, but to his own: for example to the Mayor of Felcsút or to the owner of the Videoton football team. I have to say, it's a shame and a shame what's happening here. EU funds serve to modernise Hungary, not to maintain the power of the government. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2016-05-02-265	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary of State Nándor Csepreghy, Prime Minister's Office. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2016-05-02-266	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Honourable Congressman, You are a much more serious intellect than just being able to read the words of Ferenc Gyurcsány, who did not have the courage to come into such a debate, where it would have been possible, in essence, to confront the Prime Minister who led it. But, speaking of specifics, allow me to mention that the HUF 20 billion for tourist development in South Baranya is due to you, as opposed to the HUF 600 million you feel sorry for the people in the countryside or even the people in the Upstairs. So what you see as zero is exactly 20 billion forints. The Belt Program. You may not remember, because your memory is selective, usually in terms of the political or, where appropriate, Btk. category that you have done during your administration, those things are very often forgotten, and you also seem to forget that, under the direction of the Prime Minister's Office, the Ministry of Human Resources filed a complaint at the V. district precinct. And he also forgets that, surprisingly, Ferenc Gyurcsány is still living on the same money he received from the European Commission in connection with different politically unforeseen deals. [[László Varju: The court said, Mr. Secretary, that they lied!]] and in this respect, the European Commission is, in particular, financing party financing, through the company of Ferenc Gyurcsány, its political companies and its political objectives. [[Zoltán Grimlock: That's what the court ruling is about, isn't it? That's not true.]] Congressman, I think that you must have been very disappointed by those who thought that you represented them not only as the advocate of DK in Brussels, but also as a Member of the European Parliament with independent ideas. Unfortunately, it's not. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2016-05-02-267	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, We'll get back to work. I give the floor to Congressman Sándor Hadházy, Fidesz Group. Congressman, you have the floor.
u2016-05-02-268	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Let us recall that, following the accession of the European Union, a preparatory process was launched, which was led and led by Congressman Etele Baráth, but unfortunately he was set aside quite quickly, although very useful knowledge and information were gathered under his direction. And then in 2006, it turned out that Mónika Lamperth had a very different view of these issues, and she said that EU funds couldn't fall into opposition hands. [[Zoltán Grimlock: He never said that!]] And that's what everyone's really stunned about. [[Zoltán Haughty: Yes, but he didn't.]] And here we listened to the speeches by Attila Mesterházy and Nándor Gúr, who spoke about political - how did he put it? - consensus, political consensus, Nándor Gúr used that word, how it can facilitate the good and accurate use of the source. True, that would be very good, but that is just what the current left is completely inadequate to lead. Dear Parliament, László Varju also said that in 2010, when the government took over, more than HUF 3000 billion of contractual assets were transferred. Honourable Congressman, Everyone knows that these contracts didn't stop on their own feet, built air castles, and in fact they didn't offer any sure use for resource use, collapsing on their own, but with their weight. So, unfortunately, this opportunity has not stopped for us. Then I would also like to say what excellent measures the Socialist leadership has taken, for example, on the issue of the moderate flood level. In March 2010, a very wise decision was made to reduce to a very significant extent the significant flood levels of the Danube section under Esztergom, which was a mandatory basis for planning. I would just like to point out that the June 2013 flood was very close to this moderate flood level, in Hungarian, which could not be planned, and we were forced to modify this in 2014. If we look at the conditions that had to be resolved, what problems had to be dealt with, it can be said that this government performed well when we could call off the entire EU resource. We have suffered in the region because we have not been able to launch very important projects, we have not been able to make improvements that are essential to us. For example, the question of agglomeration transport in the capital city, which still puts a considerable burden on our daily lives today, whether it is the transport of wormwood, road 10 or road 11. So, ladies and gentlemen, we have a lot of work ahead of us, and I think that we will resolve this in the next period. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2016-05-02-269	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Mr Zoltán Gőgös, MSZP Group, will be speaking. I give you the floor, Congressman. [[18.50]]
u2016-05-02-270	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, If Dr. Zoltán Kovács, former mayor of the city of Pápa, were here now, I'm sure he would ask what our fellow Member Hadházy said was doing idiotic things in the preparation, because EU funds of HUF 7 billion were placed on Pope, all the projects were prepared by the Fidesz municipality, and there was nothing he would not have won; I would just like to say this. The other question is that the ice rink hasn't been operating in the main square since they can't cool the ice, but I wouldn't want to get involved in that right now. So much for who won and who didn't. On the other hand, there has been a very big contradiction throughout the entire day. It was said that the Fidesz government inherited something that had to be reorganized and that we didn't do anything when it was taken over, then everyone told me that we had already committed 90 percent of the resources, so they didn't have room for manoeuvre. There must be some contradiction between the two in agricultural matters. We have committed 90 percent of it, and that is true, and we have tied it down because it is a good money if it comes relatively soon; that is my answer to Congressman Manninger, what about the 10 percent we paid at government level after the first three years, we paid exactly 10 percent more than Fidesz will, because he doesn't pay anything. So much for serious work. So it's totally zero. The Minister has just said here that there will be no payment here before 2017. I think, fellow Members, that there is obviously a point in discussing these matters, but it only makes sense if it brings us something positive for the future. What we're seeing in the applications is that they haven't learned much. Secretary of State, to give you just two examples: the AKG has been amended thirteen times on the move, and the gardening machine contest eight times. Not to mention that thirty applications had been promised for last year, and two and a half of them had been written out, and none of them seemed to have been evaluated. It would be good to have an answer to what our producers should do with the situation that, by 15 May, a single application should also be submitted for the AKG competition, which has not yet been reached. If they give it up and don't win, they're gonna make an overreach, and it's gonna be a punishment, and if they don't give it up, they're not gonna get paid. By the way, I have never seen an EU project where conditions must be respected without knowing whether or not they will win. I would draw your attention very, very much to the fact that this is not going to work. The other thing that I think could be a huge mistake and a huge slap in the face is that the system that might have caused the Ministry a little more work in the preparation process was regulation, but it certainly was completely normative, Mr. Secretary of State. Anyone who complied with the parameter contained in that regulation won, and there was no 50 percent face point in the criticism. At present, this is the case in Hungary, and just like in land sales or renting, it will be a virtually complete subjective system. If you don't change that, there's gonna be a big problem. There is already the second date for the five-party local government consultation that has been initiated, and I am very excited to see how the local authorities stand on this issue. There are several former municipal representatives and even mayors sitting here, and their biggest problem right now is that they can't interfere in anything. Practically nothing. At a county council, two people decide everything, the money's been distributed, so they have nothing to do with it. What kind of development this is going to be, I'd like to know. So the problem is that programmes and projects are being launched that I do not think are negotiated with implementation and enforcement. And I'd like to say one more thing. It has also been said that too much unnecessary concrete has been made in the programs. Well, no livestock farm has anything to do with the construction of the European standard manure storage facility. I can show you one of these, Mr. Secretary. If you have some time, I'm sure you'll be very welcome in Nagyesztergár. Meanwhile, they gave all their land to the local Magos chief. All of them. There was never a ounce of manure in that dung tank, because it was built for a 400-pound plant, and there are currently 90 remaining cows, until the last two people can retire from the company because they only work. It is not possible to plan, especially in agriculture, where it has to be planned for at least 20 years, that there will be a next government that will draw the basis for production from the company that has otherwise developed billions. 'Cause no one thought in their senses that businesses that had made serious proposals and investments would pull out the carpet. Not to mention all this on the go, because they changed every rule on the way. Now we're struggling with milk. With today's logic, everyone should shoot all their cows in the head. Now the cows are held only out of honor, because the help they give is only a fraction of what was taken with a pen stroke in the grant of over 1200, Mr. Secretary of State. With a feather stroke! That was exactly a hundred billion that was slapped by this sector. Now they're graciously giving back 20 or 30 of them. Now it's really about dying on the neighbor's cow, because that's what it is. I think what they're doing right now is everything, but it's not a plan. Entrepreneurs will throw away investments that could otherwise produce if they were not in Hungary by introducing the absolute Hungaricum, without land, animal farming. There's no such thing. There's no such thing anywhere in the world. It can be amended now, so I ask that this EU money should not be distributed to the face, because the Hungarian people will not benefit from it. It can also be shared by those who really want to produce. By the way, the other day I heard some good news: it seems that medium-sized food processors can also receive some money. We're just wondering if they're gonna make it worth their while. The problem is that the Hungarian food industry has been under pressure over the past few years that it has not endured. You can keep a few on a ventilator. I just don't know how long that's gonna last. These are very, very important questions. It would be good to have some kind of consensus on this. It wasn't for nothing, Attila. Let's forget who just shared what he gave. I don't know if it's 20 percent or 30, they're saying 50 percent as the appetite grows and time runs out, but it's not what we should be dealing with, it's that we really spend this resource on intelligent and useful things. And let's spend it, because if it goes on like this, we won't know. So I wouldn't be so proud of the time you've been doing with this development policy, but I hope you won't be able to do it for a long time. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2016-05-02-271	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, A speech will be made by Member Gábor Riz, Fidesz Group. I give you the floor, Congressman.
u2016-05-02-272	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear fellow Members, We've heard a lot of opinions, both pro and versus. I'd like to confirm or disprove the daily lives of the concerned by a few little things. Borsod-Abaúj-Zemplén county, as my fellow Member from Gúr said - although he was looking at it from another side - was in a joyful position to receive a very good number of funds, proportionate to other counties. If we consider that the number of applications submitted was 11,383, while the national average was 6665, the number of claims submitted exceeded 500 billion and 443 billion were paid, we can say that this is not a bad ratio. However, if we look at it in detail for some operational programmes, we can also say that 3086 applications were submitted for regional operational programmes, while this was on average 261 at national level. This is obviously due to the size of the county, but also to many other things; the county's activity in this regard was greater. It is also not a coincidence that Borsod-Abaúj-Zemplén county can receive HUF 93 billion from the regional operational programme affecting municipalities only in this cycle, obviously in the case of the submission of tenders of sufficient quality. One of the most active areas was the economic operational programme, which submitted 3556 applications, while the national average was 2140 per county. Which means subsidies: 189 billion forints were paid in this area, while the national average is 111 billion forints. So there's nothing to be ashamed of in Borsod County. However, I would like to add one thing as an added value - and this was due to the fact that Borsod-Abaúj-Zemplén county, taking into account the former term technician in LHH areas, unfortunately boasted a great number of these - : There was a semi-romantic building in Ózdon where 27 entrepreneurs from Transdanubia indicated the registration of their premises, with the undisputed intention that they would like to own part of the LHH funds. It is also very important that in our region, although some say it was a careful preparatory and planning work, we can see that there have been precise, spot-like improvements in the vast majority of the areas. [[19.00]] There was no coherence between the economic sectors and the vocational education and training sectors, as one of the results today is, and it can be introduced here as a distorting factor, that some of the young people are emigrating, today they are only looking for 700 workers, so 700 people are missing from the local labour market. And this includes not only the trained worker, but also the middle manager and the top manager. It was not a coincidence that the government, when examining our region in the past period, had the Ministry of National Economy carried out a comprehensive study, where they looked at the fact that if it had already prepared a quick way to Ozd, linking 21 to 26, it would lead somewhere. It is no coincidence that a decision has been made that one of the community colleges will be Ozdon in the future. In fact, it's not a coincidence that he became a training and training center. Since we are talking about one of the most disadvantaged areas with a new name requiring complex intervention, we need to put it in the position that many people have spoken about today, so that they can stand on their own feet in economic terms after 2020. I also deny it, because here, Mr Balczó said how multinational companies use part of domestic and EU funds, which is obviously the core of truth, but not all large companies. I would also like to give a positive example, since the two large companies operating in Ózd, Generali and Johnson Electric, both placed their engineering offices in our region and in Hatvan, with the intention of producing the highest possible added value locally. And if our better friends hadn't made the World Tent program a political target, where they grew up to manage the city today, with conscious deception, that they had driven an institution out of the city, which could have implemented a priority ethnicity program with UNESCO support at European level, which would surely have made Oz more famous. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-05-02-273	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State László Tasó, Ministry of National Development. Secretary of State, you have the floor.
u2016-05-02-274	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, I would certainly like it to remain within the walls of the Parliament, which I am responding to my fellow Member with arrogance because of what he has said. Let's not forget the operation of the LEADER groups in the previous cycle. Let's not forget that the LEADER groups have been operating as homeowners. Let us not forget that there have been numerous scandals over the past few years before the transformation took place, the operation of the LEADER groups. Let's not forget that there was a template that was put on county maps, and where there was a hole, there was a source where there was no hole, there was no source. Because the decision makers didn't even know which settlement was where. All they knew was they got a template like this, they had to put it on the map, and they had to make a decision. Let's not forget it. Thank you very much.
u2016-05-02-275	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Zsolt Kis, Secretary of State, Prime Minister's Office. Secretary of State, you have the floor.
u2016-05-02-276	Thank you, Mr. President. Thank you very much for the floor. We cannot avoid talking about the previous EU development cycle 2007-2013 that we do not talk about rural development programmes. During today, it has been mentioned several times what was typical for the period before 2010 and for the period after 2010. Only four short aspects of employment policy, competitiveness, social policy and not underestimated in administration. In short, I would appreciate how we see it right now. A very important lesson in the pre-2010 period is the extremely high resource concentration. We have said this many times: 1 percent of the applicants applied for 50% of the funding and 5 percent of the applicants for 75%. This is a strong concentration of resources, which I do not think can be maintained either in terms of competitiveness or in terms of social policy. This programme was designed by precisely those who are now the most critical of our rural development programme. [[Zoltán Haughty: But then there was a cow.]] A brief thought on employment. During the period during which several hundred billion forints were provided by the then government to certain large enterprises, we cannot bypass the fact that the number of people employed in rural areas has not increased, but has decreased significantly. Because you didn't ask applicants to at least keep that small number of jobs at a level, but you even wrote in such applications that it was not mandatory. This was the result of giving hundreds of billions to large plants and not being seen in employment. I'm glad you're nodding, because you agree, Congressman. Resources have been concentrated in places that have not helped to improve the competitiveness of small and medium-sized family farms at all. On the other hand, in the rural development programme that you are criticising, we are breaking up with this. We were the first to declare that, above a certain size of plant, only 20% of the resources and the social policy that the government represents in property policy are finally represented in rural development. I believe some of you don't like it, especially those disguised as small people, but on the side of big factories. In return to competitiveness, I also have to say that, in the first place, businesses that did not keep animals or have not excelled in gardening have been strengthened. We have also broken up with this, and we want to support precisely these sectors in the next period. Social policy, briefly. You spoke out loud for rejuvenation and generational change. What did we meet at the time, in the period 2007-2008? A total of 8 billion were provided to young farmers, at the end of the period, at the end of the cycle... [[Zoltán Grimlock: 30 billion.]] Yes, after almost being demanded at a demonstration, they have been so successful in raising it, and since 2010, we have provided a significant surplus, with nearly HUF 100 billion in support for young farmers. The numbers are stubborn, Congressman. There is, of course, much more to say, but given the short period of time, I would rather not do that now, but I hope that we will have the opportunity to have a few more words about the rural development programme. Thank you very much.
u2016-05-02-277	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Ander Balázs, Jobbik Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-05-02-278	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Let me first look at the so-called cross-border cooperation programmes, the CBCs, and the CBCs, which are very important from a national political point of view. These projects are particularly important to our country, given the unfortunate historical fact that we have been bordering on ourselves since Trianon, at least in an ethnic sense. Given the shortness of time, of course, I cannot discuss this issue for a long time, but I would rather talk about topics that Jobbik has already dealt with, but it is important that these aspects also be discussed on this debate day. We find it a very serious problem that the managing authorities of the CBCs were transferred from Budapest to Bucharest and Bratislava in 2014 in Romanian and Slovak relations. It is not unnecessary to stress how much it matters where the administration of a programme is, since it is much easier to lobby and influence there. My fellow Member István Szávay tried to ask Zsolt Semjén and János Lázár about the matter, but he did not get a reassuring answer, as a surprise, unfortunately. This is particularly worrying in the light of the fact that, even in the period 2007-2013, when the Managing Authority was in Budapest, we received news that, for example, the Hungarian-Romanian CBC had a Romanian development on both sides of the border. What's going to happen now that we have control in Bucharest? Another serious problem is that in the case of the Hungarian-Slovak CBC programme only English can be applied, while so far it has been possible to apply in Hungarian and Slovak. This change, of course, is fundamentally detracting from the desire to apply. Minister Lázár replied to our earlier question that there would be more success in the case of applications in English, but this was clearly denied by the first round of applications in the 2007-2013 cycle, when it was also necessary to apply in English, which led to fewer applications and no greater success. I ask the government with due respect to pay attention to these seemingly small but actually very important details, because they can seriously influence the extent of EU funds coming to foreign Hungarian territories, and thus the survival of foreign Hungarians, in which I think we should reach consensus. The other area is the development of transport, which I would like to talk about. With regard to the possible draining or senseless waste of EU funds, it could be said that it was easy to come and it was easy. But it's not like that. Despite the slogan of peace processes, this country paid a brutal price in the form of quasi-economic colonial conquest to become a member of the Union. So these money didn't come easily at all, so their squandering is an even greater sin. [[19.10]] This was partly learned by the current government from the socialists' impressive but completely insane projects, such as the Kőröshegy Valley Bridge, whose current price could solve the road construction problem of half a hundred sack settlements in Somogy, at current prices. But you might as well think of the M6 motorway's mole-trails with the insolence of a real mole, unnecessary, but also billions of tunnels for someone. The impotence of Fidesz accountability commissioners is well indicated by the fact that no one has ever been in prison because of these pigs. Then came new times, new people looking for a new business, this was the railway renovation, and most of it from EU sources and, as a hungaricum, they also achieved that the renovation of a kilometer of railway would often cost more than the construction of the same number of new motorways, while the Mávvágég was able to build the Devecser-Colontar section from a fraction of it, which had been damaged during the red sludge disaster. That's what happens when you don't build buddies who mix public money and meat pots. We are not against the development of transport, but against the derelict replay of scarce resources for political vassals. It is a bad omen that the suspicious spending of the previous cycle is still continuing, but there is an example of this, although with pro-government logic it is certainly perfectly understandable that the originally planned amount for the south-balaton railway renovation has been extended by a few ten billion, thus consuming one third of the Balaton development framework. Obviously, the strange combination of coincidences is that besides gas installation, the company of Lőrinc Mészáros, who is also competent for the construction of the railway, is among the members of the consortium that carried out the investment. Speaking of land, if I have already mentioned one of the largest Hungarian Nebobs, the answer should also be to how much it serves the survival of the countryside is that, say, about 76 percent of last year's agricultural subsidies of HUF 770 billion had reached the top ten percent. How will Sándor Csoóri be right, who said that this nation was actually held by rural Hungarians, Hungary of the countryside, for a millennium? How can we maintain this rural Hungary not for a thousand years, but for a few more decades, if we can experience such disparities in terms of resources and resources that arrive there? One more, really parentheses note. State Secretary Tasó is one of the more lovable State Secretarys [[Defiance.]] I'm willing to say that from the good benches. However, when Mr. Secretary of State here demonstrated with the development of the bus in Kaposvár that Kaposvár had received nice new MAN buses, he had a bit of a break-out with me, because when there are domestic manufacturers, for example, the Mosonmagyaróvár Kravtex, where there is a production culture, there are engineers, professionals who would expect domestic orders, we will tear them down, and I am sorry, you will dissemble the domestic bus manufacturing sector, and you will be the same part of the process as many of our previous success sectors. This is something that should be prevented, and this is something that should be given great attention in the coming years, so that it does not grow with MAN buses, let us say, Kaposvár, which are beautiful and good. I'm sure the travelling audience there is happy with this development, but it would have been better if there had been domestic buses. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-05-02-279	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Lajos Szűcs, Fidesz Group. Here you go.
u2016-05-02-280	Mr. President. Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, Dear Listeners, On this day, you had to touch a little antihypertensive medicine a few times because it's so much - how should I put it? - slip or half-information got to us. First and perhaps most important: I am glad that Congressman Varju came back, who was the State Secretary at the time when the decision-making process for the Central Hungary region was carried out. You did say that the documents of the transfer-acquisition included a letter on the separation of the Central Hungarian region, but you did not add that this letter could not have been submitted by the new government at the time, which you would have had the opportunity to submit on time. This has put a very serious seal on a process that has been going on since 1998, because when decisions were made about regional settlements at all, in the first Horn period, we initiated that Budapest and Pest County should, although dependent on each other, be in an independent regional relationship. You didn't do this by reference to supreme court judgements, perceived or real interests of the capital. In December 2015, the government made a decision to create a separate region for Budapest and Pest counties from the next EU cycle. Tibor Bana talked about Mónika Lamperth, but the classics should be quoted exactly. Mónika Lamperth said we'd know what to do, and they knew what to do. [[That's why Pope won 7 billion, isn't it?]] I was a member of the regional development council where even the beautiful Miklós Hagyó and Ernő Mesterházy appeared several times, and there is one thing I can tell you: Pest county has always suffered the disadvantage of this thing. I'm going to give you two numbers, because it's gonna give us a lot of support for that story. On a national average, the EU consumption per capita was HUF 890 thousand between 2007 and 2013 in Hungary. Do you know how much was in Pest County? 350,000 forints. Each source that should have been spent in Pest County was one third of the national average, where over 13 percent of the population and almost 18 percent of the businesses and GDP generated are concentrated in 1 million 300 thousand people. These are the sources you wouldn't let spend in Pest County. We hope that, in the next period, the government will soon be able to decide that the people of Pest County will receive additional funding and that they will not only be injured but will finally be the winners of this EU cycle. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-05-02-281	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Zsolt Legény, MSZP Group. Here you go.
u2016-05-02-282	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Since our timeframe is very short, I will mention a few things very briefly. Minister Lazarus in his expo said that this was our money, Mr Balczó, then said that it was the money of the European Union. I think it is true that the two are an alloy, because the European Union is ourselves, and therefore the money of the European Union, the source of the European Union, is also our money, and I think that is one, I do not say that it is a pointless contrast, but I think that this is not what we should be dealing with. Mr Balczó also mentioned that there are several outlooks as to whether or not EU accession was good from an economic point of view for Hungary. I think that our accession to the European Union was necessary on the one hand because - unfortunately there are historical reasons for this - the Hungarian economy was less developed than Western European economies. At the same time, I think that we have benefited from the accession of the European Union. Development resources 2007-13. In our view, the priorities have been set in order, and there have also been a number of differences of opinion. Of course, it is certain that better priorities could have been defined, but overall, I think that the joint work with professional organisations has nevertheless resulted. My fellow Member, who spoke before me, mentioned how many slides have been made here. Unfortunately, Mr Manninger is no longer in there, he started his speech with a very serious delay, when he said that we had only committed 10 percent of the funds by 2010. Yes, that is true, because the peculiarity of the system is that, as they say, the system is difficult, in Hungarian, in the last year of the development cycle, the greater proportion of implementation and drawing can be considered. This is why, after the change of government, more projects, more investments were made than, say, at the beginning of the cycle, i.e. when socialist governments were ruling. I think it was a very good priority to catch up and improve competitiveness, but it was because of our big infrastructure lag, as the profession used to say, to finance roads, railways, concrete and iron in this 2007-13 cycle. [[19.20]] But, again, we may have reduced something in our infrastructure lag, and as a result, it is the improvement of competitiveness that has been put as a priority in the last years of the cycle, and I believe that this should also be formulated in the next cycle of 2014-2020. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2016-05-02-283	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, A speech will be made by Mr Attila Tilki, Fidesz Group. I give you the floor.
u2016-05-02-284	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, I prefer to remain honest and modest - I quote from the classic, Ferenc Gyurcsány said those words at the Mayal this weekend, and listening to my fellow Members on the left, their credibility is perfectly supported by this quote when they talk about the fact that the application system was not political during their term. [[Zoltán Grimlock: How much have you won? Talk about that.]] I just want to refer to the LHH, Mr. Grudge. The area of Nyírbátor became LHH, only because the then Minister of Finance, János Veres, belongs there. They're still taking the people who want to work from 60 kilometers away. However, the district of Secretary Tasó, which was the neighbouring district, did not, of course, become LHH. [[Zoltán Grumpy: No more LHH, no more!]] We know very well that at LHH, Congressman Varju, when you were State Secretary, how those consulting companies who were strictly tied to the left-wing government gained the opportunity to prepare. So I think talking to you about a common understanding is completely untrue. [[Zoltán Grimlock: You rule out anyone who isn't faithful!]] It is very interesting to listen to our better fellow Members, who may have exactly one individual district. They have a small number of mayors, maybe ten in the country, and only two in the county. It is a very interesting point when I am with a better-looking mayor and we are handing over the investment in the European Union, then I didn't realize very much that the better-looking mayor would object, and I didn't realize very much that he would say that the propaganda of Fidesz was raging. I do not understand one thing, my dear Jobbik: if we have simply achieved 108 percent, we really are second in per capita call, then why can't you be happy about that? That the MSZP isn't happy, I understand, but you're a nationalist. It's a little weird, isn't it? [[Intercoms in Jobbik's ranks.]] And it's a little weird that the XXI. 100th-century party protests [[It's constant noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] why applications will have to be submitted in English. Well, you're supposed to be good at speaking English, so why don't you help me prepare the applications for those ten mayors. [[György Szilágyi: Text interpretation, Congressman! Have you ever heard of Highlands?]] So that's about it for Jobbik's credibility. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-05-02-285	Thank you, Congressman. [[György Szilágyi intervenes.]] Dear Parliament, Congressman Szilágyi, I hope that we can take this short time and keep the calm tone that was in this room. [[There are constant interruptions in Jobbik's ranks.]] Congressman Szilágyi, I'm talking to you. My fellow Members, please. We now have a speech from Congressman Gergely Tapolczai, Fidesz Group. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2016-05-02-286	[[He makes his comment with the help of a sign language interpreter.]] Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, I would like to say a few words from an area that is small compared to other areas and receives less money from EU funds, but it is equally important, and this is the area of disability. I should also add that the development of other areas, such as transport, agriculture or various real estate renovations and improvements, if implemented on the basis of universal design, is good for people with disabilities, because they include accessibility. At the same time, special programmes, projects and grants are also needed. We can support these primarily within the TÁMOP and TIOP, which was also the case in the period 2007-2013. It should also be said that it is not possible to compare the period before the opening of EU funds with the current one, because there is a difference between sky and earth; there is much more support for projects relating to different persons with disabilities. Of course, I recognise that it would be good to have more support and I hope that, in the period 2014-20, there will be more funding on the basis of the Disability Strategy and the European Disability Strategy 2020. In short, about numbers and programs. Within the framework of TÁMOP and TIOP, the area received nearly HUF 66.7 billion in the 2007-2013 cycle. For example, the area of assisted housing, support for ejaculation and equal access to public services, accessibility of public institutions, physical and infocommunication accessibility, the establishment of a rehabilitation centre for people with reduced mobility, and the expansion of rehabilitation services, support for video interpreters to help people with hearing disabilities, and, not least, projects in the field of employment for people with disabilities. I trust that these areas will continue to be supported by the government. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-05-02-287	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Mr László Teleki, MSZP Group, has applied for a speech.
u2016-05-02-288	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, I asked for the floor because I think that when the Hungarian government adopted the Roma national strategy in 2011, I was very happy because I said that there were points in it that were important in order for Roma integration to start, and when matters started to start on paper, I still said that I had confidence that something would happen here in Hungary with Roma integration. But when I saw the sources in the TÁMOP and how, I said there was still a way out, because we had a chance to apply. However, when the funds were drawn, I had a completely different view, because the Lungo Drom and the National Roma Municipality were granted exclusive rights, and they had access to funds that they could not account for. However, I see many times that there are various factions and various pages in Parliament that have indicated the financial spending of the National Roma Municipality, which means EU funds, and yet there has not been a timely establishment of a financial condition that could have guided the source that the Roma in Hungary needed. I am thinking, in particular, of the issue of housing, of resources for the development of civil society organisations, or of resources for health prevention, all of which were hung up because the Florians Wolf did not do what they had undertaken as a commitment. Yet the government did not do anything to make it different, so they have a responsibility to treat as a national matter the drawing of financial resources that could be seen, or they said that if it was our dog's cub, then let him have money, and from then on no matter what he spends it on. I think it's a bad approach, because that's what life has proved, that this is the direction they've been trying to let go of the money that you could see there. And what you can see today is that Roma people cannot organise themselves, because the Roma civil society really has fallen apart because those funds have reached the only organization, the Lungo Drom, which could not take advantage of the opportunity to actually develop community life around it. So the government has a serious responsibility for what it intends to do in this case, because the spending is not over yet. We see that there are several measures and investigations that move in this direction, but I just want to draw the government's attention to the fact that Roma people are still starving, they still lack the ability to go to school, and most importantly, child hunger is still present, and I think that everyone should do so in child hunger. The main concern is Flórian Farkas, why he didn't do it, and for you as members of the government, why they didn't control the source that should have been used for this programme. So I think that you have played a very big role in this, that you have been able to get to this point, and that we have not been able to get anywhere near social peace. Therefore, I think it is your greatest responsibility to stop the emotional waves of the social environment in which we are now, because I see that there is much more prejudice, exclusion than ever, and precisely because you have not released Flórian Farkas's hand in time. Thank you very much for your attention. [[19.30]]
u2016-05-02-289	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congresswoman Bene Ildikó, Fidesz Group.
u2016-05-02-290	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. In fact, very briefly, I would like to give you a few thoughts on the matter of health. It is quite certain that in the healthcare system that nearly HUF 500 billion could have been spent more efficiently than a different type of concept, but it is also certain that the 500 billion of resources in healthcare have resulted in an incredible amount of development and development. The kind of development we haven't seen in the field of health in decades. I must point out that the development of health infrastructure under the TIOP programme has served to improve both the population and hospital benefits, and has been a very significant step forward in terms of resource concentration. Outpatient care, specialised care systems and clinics could be renewed within the framework of regional operational programmes. We have to say that the development of emergency services or the development of old emergency departments in terms of emergency care is a huge improvement; in the case of emergency services, the construction of 22 new rescue stations and 60 renovations. The development of perinatal intensive centres is a huge step forward in terms of premature delivery. But I could list the development of oncological care, the development of rehabilitation services or even the establishment of health development offices in the TÁMOP programmes in terms of prevention. One more thought. In my county, there was more than HUF 17 billion in funding for health development. There was no hospital, there was no clinic where there were no very significant investments. I think it's all for the benefit of patients coming to the hospital. I very much hope that health improvements will continue in 2014-20 along a well-thought-out approach. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2016-05-02-291	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Nándor Gúr. You have 42 seconds. Here you go.
u2016-05-02-292	Thank you, Mr. President. Fellow Members! The period after 2010, but up to and including 13, is accompanied by deteriorating competitiveness. A million new jobs have been promised in the economy. They didn't make any of this. Corruption comes to its head, overpriced, non-competitive decisions, single-playing public procurement - this is what Hungary is characterized by today. After 2012 Lőrinc Mészáros can produce a dividend of HUF 800 million, while paying HUF 157 million to 225 people. Well, don't look at the good of your friends, but at the good of your people. That's how the resources are used! Always let the three regions, the complexly disadvantaged areas, float in front of you. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2016-05-02-293	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Péter Csizi, Fidesz Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-05-02-294	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I appreciate the honesty of Attila Mesterházy, who spoke of the fact that during the period of the socialists, they were somehow unable to establish a system that would have been able to quickly deliver EU development resources to local local authorities. I have already argued with Attila Mesterházy that this was due to the fact that party politics has torn the profession apart, and party politics has not allowed development resources to flow smoothly to local settlements. After all, Attila Mesterházy would be right if, let's say, the settlements led by the socialists were able to develop quickly, and the system at Fidesz would have caused problems. But, ladies and gentlemen, my fellow Members, every single settlement has suffered from slowness! Let us remember the European Capital of Culture programme. The program was a year late, and one of the five programme elements was removed immediately from the very beginning, in 2008. If there had been no mayor election in 2009, if there had not been a government election in 2010, implementation would have been even further delayed and much fewer programmes could have been implemented. Or let's stick to the example of Pécsi. In 2007, three schools in one of the largest housing sites in the country were found to be life-threatening in one summer. Until 2010, you have not been able to bring EU funds to any school. From 2010 until now, thanks to the government's help, we have renovated two out of three schools. [[Nándor Gúr: There are only 11 in my constituency!]] Or in 2002, the zoo in Pécs turned out to be closed. Until 2010, we have heard that only 50 percent of the city that is already in debt can do this by itself. On May 20, we can hand over the new zoo with HUF 1.5 billion and 100% support. Honourable Congressman Gúr, you said not to listen to your friends. We know very well, and you should tell everyone that the payments were delayed because the system was slow, because in fact there was only one person who could see through this complex network, it was Ferenc Gyurcsány. The NFU was actually operated by him, his wife was the vice president of the NFÜ. What are we talking about, fellow Members? [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2016-05-02-295	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, As the factions have used their time frame, so we can no longer expect any further speeches from their representatives, we have reached the end of the speeches. I give the floor to the Secretary of State, Nándor Csepreghy, as rapporteur for the answers. A 20-minute timeframe is available. Secretary of State, please.
u2016-05-02-296	Thank you very much, Mr President, for the opportunity to say the closing word, and thank you very much to the Members, the factions and the parties for participating in this debate. I hope that the afterlife of the debate will be useful and will contribute to Hungary's growth in 2014 and 2020 as well as the start of economic growth and the increase in economic growth and the creation of new jobs. Allow me to use the time available to try to give a comprehensive picture of everything that has been said here today and to put some things in place, because indeed, Parliament has not yet had the opportunity to engage in such a comprehensive debate about the period 2007-13. But you will have the opportunity in the future, and here I would like to confirm the promise of Minister Lazarus, who said that we would like to bring the European Union's affairs to Parliament on a quarterly basis, in order to develop a meaningful discourse on the issues that determine the development of the Hungarian economy and the functioning of the Hungarian economy. They define it, and they do it through cycles, because it is clear to everyone that we are talking about a seven-year development framework, and because the parliamentary framework, the seats of the Members sitting here, are for four years, so we are talking about a period that will definitely affect them either at the beginning or at the end, but as new. As the framework agreements for the period 2014-20 fell during this parliamentary mandate, the period 2007-13 was the period of the Gyurcsány and Bajnai governments, which was the pre-crisis period at the time of the agreements. The pre-crisis period, in which the financial system in Hungary was acceptable, could obtain development loans relatively cheaply, could be relatively easier to get banks to finance a project than they did after. This is where the 2007 government made one of the biggest mistakes we consider to be because it did not assess its political responsibility for the decision it made in 2007. He said that, moving towards the smallest social resistance, he did not hope for Hungary's economic prosperity by assigning a segment, setting up economic growth there, creating resources that will bring stability to the country and creating a stand-alone position, but said that we are promising something to everyone from the sources, but he also stated that he had squashed the resources, lived up Hungary's long-term opportunities and made it impossible for Hungary to come to a real development perspective in the long term. This was a historic mistake, for which we think the voters have accounted for the socialist-free democratic government, but it is a historical mistake, the consequences of which we had to bear until 2014 and 2015. But if that was the only mistake of the socialists, then we could say that perhaps they could even be put in a display, but that was not it. His biggest mistake was to create a system in Hungary that, instead of representing real economic interests, instead of actually helping to achieve that Hungarian businesses could gain more easily access to development resources under the already bureaucratic, cumbersome Brussels rules, or despite this, they did not care about that, they cared about creating their own markets. [[19.40]] Here is Congressman Varju, who was a State Secretary at the time, who is working with Ferenc Gyurcsány today, who essentially marked this period politically. You know, Mr President, one of the biggest problems is that basically as all saints - and you should not be accused of the appearance of sacrament because there are more worthy people standing in line in this matter - is leaning towards you, and this was not any different in the Socialist Party's period; when you decided to create a market for yourself and your advisors, which, from 2007 until 2014, produces approximately HUF 1500 billion for various project management companies, such as your boss's company, Altus Zrt., who first cut the European Union's domestic register, now continues to do the same in essence at the seat of the European Commission. They set up a system that was not in the interests of Hungarian businesses, but in the interests of a few businesses, the interests of the applicants, the exit people and the administrators of this type. All this was done by people who represented the Hungarian State in the Brussels negotiations in 2006 and 2007 and who, after 2007, when these agreements were concluded, then sat on the other side and, acting as advisors from the State, essentially declared Hungary's EU cash register as a market supporter. And if we compare this system with what we have built today, it can be said that we were able to reduce the share of this type of use of resources below 12 per cent, since it was not uncommon to take some 35-40 per cent of the resources from one development in 2007-13 to this type of software costs, i.e. to the costs of writing applications, project management, which did not serve the economy and did not serve the interests of the Hungarian national ascent. The next strategic mistake - I am now at three, just to follow it - was committed by the government in 2008 when it did not take advantage of the opportunity to reopen negotiations with the European Commission as a result of the global economic crisis and to conclude an agreement that would indeed lead to support Hungarian economic shrinkage and job preservation, but instead wanted to implement a programme negotiated before the economic crisis. Therefore, when the current government took over the government in 2010, it had basically two issues on development policy issues. One is that the determined system in which 70 percent of the development resources were already awarded to applicants, while only HUF 8600 billion was paid out of the HUF 8600 billion budget, carries on despite the fact that it does not believe in the correctness of this system, but the budgetary situation at that time did not make it so prudent, it did not give us the opportunity to negotiate with Brussels further, or to stop everything, and in order to use these resources for our economic policy, we will renegotiate the functioning of the entire framework. In 2010, we did not have the opportunity to do so. In 2010, we said that the horse on which we are sitting is bad, we are trying to get this horse to the finish line in order to bring all the money that Hungary deserves back to Hungary. This work will be announced to the Hungarian Parliament with respect, as we have completed it, as we have managed to close the development period ahead of the Visegrád Four and other EU Member States in the region, which use cohesion funds. Compared to HUF 8600 billion in the period 2007-13, we paid HUF 9200 billion to businesses, and all the disputes that persist between us and the European Commission for a year or so are less than a third of the items that the Hungarian government has been able to finance from overtaking the budget, because the Hungarian budget is in a stable position today and for years. But if we start asking why the system was wrong, and the answer is that because it was unconventional, it is certainly worth comparing it with what is today. Today we were able to listen to a debate in Parliament where opposition political parties basically questioned why the government side is not making a political deal with the opposition about how these funds should be used. These were behaviors typical of your government. We do not need to make a political deal with you about the use of EU funds. We need to agree with market players, economic chambers, business interests, what development these resources are worth using, what is worth using in Hungary for a HUF 12 000 billion development opportunity, and what we can hope that, after 2020, when there are no such resources, the Hungarian economy can actually provide development resources based on its own resources and its own productivity. The basis for this is now in place, since in the 2017 budget, which will be before Parliament in the coming weeks, there is now more than HUF 1000 billion of development resources available that we can reverse to Hungary's development not through the European Union's mediated funds, but from the productivity of the Hungarian economy. It is also important to ask what was the framework in which we worked. After all, we see that socialist consultants have put 1500 billion forints in their own pockets. We don't know how much of this money has gotten to Gábor Simon. Whether the few hundred million forints that landed in the Vienna bank account are located there from these sources, or whether their enrichment for the government period of Ferenc Gyurcsány is difficult to understand how much of these funds came from draining, and how much was due to the market activity that he had done through his previous businesses. So we eliminated the revolving door effect, where your market experts, who sometimes appeared in government colors between 2002 and 2010, then their market experts, and then, if they wanted to, they came back to the state sphere, they could do this activity, and from the entire administration, we basically pushed out the application writing and project management activities. During the period 2014-2020, public operators, municipal operators, public undertakings should write their own applications. They must manage their projects themselves without resorting to this type of external assistance. Another very important issue is the issue of public procurement. And allow me, Members, to draw attention to a very interesting contradiction, because I see that the issue of free competition and competition neutrality is essential for the Socialist Party as long as the beneficiaries of this competition are large companies who are more capital and technologically stronger than Hungarian businesses. When, in addition to the accession to the European Union in 2004, all the then parliamentary parties were essentially committed, we did not decide to abandon the sovereignty of the country, we decided not to become secondary citizens of the European Community, but we decided to be members of a political and economic community in order to put something on the table together in accordance with our strength and weight, and to benefit from the benefits of this community in the same way as other EU Member States. The attitude of the opposition, the left-wing parties and the government side is very interesting in this respect as well as in relation to EU funds. After all, we believe that these funds are not donations to Hungary. These funds do apply to Hungary, because if we quantify the funds that were exported from Hungary either because of the free movement of capital or because the Hungarian producer service sector was not protected by various customs duties after the accession in 2004, then, yes, there is indeed a difference of HUF 5000 billion between the funds paid by us and the funds that we can draw, but the amount that does not arrive in Hungary, for example, in the form of customs duties, tax revenues, or that has been exported from the country through capital injections. The new public procurement law tries to create an opportunity within the framework of the European Union, which enables Hungarian economic operators to access public investment in the same way as Western European companies have in their own market. Why is it that the Socialist Party here speaks of protectionism and does not stand up to, say, the fact that there is no chance for a Hungarian food producer to enter France? Why is it that the Socialist Party in Hungary mentions protectionism in the construction sector when 80-90 percent of Austrian construction is taken by Austrian actors? Rightly, because it is the responsibility of an elected and responsible government to give its own economic players the opportunity to grow stronger along the common rules of the game. The new agreement, the new social consensus, which is about focusing on the development of the economy between 2014-2020, is supported by the market. Of course, you cannot enjoy the Socialist Party, because too much of this will not come to those mediators, to those quote experts who had a very good business in the period 2007-13. But there is enough for Hungarian businesses, who have created some 300 thousand new jobs in Hungary since 2010. It is available to companies who believe in innovation, with HUF 700 billion in development funding for innovation purposes only in the period 2014-2020. It comes to catching up on the countryside, which is always in the crosshairs of the Hungarian Socialist Party during political campaigns, and then they don't even stick their noses to it in addition to the election due every four years. [[19.50]] The voices that have been said here today show only one thing: left-wing parties make a fundamental distinction and make a ranking distinction between the population of the capital and Hungary of the countryside. We believe that there is no strong country without a strong capital, but that is also true in the opposite direction. The decisions to take all motorways out to the border crossing point by 2020 will connect all cities with county rights to the motorway network are precisely about giving rise to the countryside. Let us not go without saying that the issue of overpriced has been discussed here many times. I wonder if the Members who used this term really understand the professional principles and facts behind this debate, because the press was very loud and the opposition was very loud when the European Commission suspended the support of the operational programme for economic development for Hungary in the spring of 2015 due to the overpriced debate. Then we heard less from the opposition when this debate was resolved in Brussels and these funds were paid in full. You know, Congressmen, one of the biggest problems of the opposition is that it refuses to hear the words of those who sent you here, because the issue of overpriced is only stealing according to your narration. Overpriced was an economic pressure in Hungary and in all the cohesion Member States, resulting from the fact that these states, which joined the Union after 2004, were low-capital. As a result of the crisis, it did not trigger bank lending in the Member States of these companies, creating a constrained situation where the entrepreneurs replaced themselves with the funds that Hungarian businesses added as aid, as did Romanian businesses, as did Czech businesses and Polish businesses. When the European Commission's fist organization, OLAF, has been here in Hungary, the Director-General of OLAF himself admitted to a journalistic question and then to my question that there is no exact evidence of corruption as an opportunity due to possible overpriced events, and not an economic imperative that the European Union must deal with. The success of the European Union depends on real recognition of the challenges faced by the 21st century. It provides an opportunity to take into account the fact that there are no two identical states in the 28 Member States of the European Union. There are no two identical states in terms of social composition, no two identical states in terms of economic development, no two identical states in terms of problems, and therefore the success of the European Union depends on the ability of nation states to strengthen it, how much these nation states take into account each other's interests, how much these nation states can contribute to the success of the common European Union. Whether this debate has brought us closer to this issue today is still a big question. However, it confirms to the government that it started in the right direction in the 2014-2020 period because we heard a lot of political attacks, but less of real professional attacks based on arguments. Thank you very much, Congressman. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2016-05-02-297	Thank you, Mr. Secretary of State, for your closure. Dear Parliament, The political debate is closed. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the discussion of our agendas today. It is now time for the speeches after the agenda. I give the floor to Congressman László Varju, an independent representative, in a five-minute time frame, with a title regarding the events of the past week. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2016-05-02-298	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, If the Secretary of State takes a few more minutes to listen to me, [[Nándor Csepreghy: I am yours.]] - Thank you very much - that will be very welcome, because I think that what you are talking about here at the last minute is very related to what happened last week. Now I understand that the purpose of today's debate was to prove that the fraud that is otherwise called overpriced is the policy of the government, and it is a perfectly natural, normal, understandable and acceptable solution, and even international practice, what you have just said in your statements. I'd like to translate, say, the language of everyday life, exactly what happened in your system. Two weeks ago, the Democratic Coalition drew attention to the fact that, with the money of the European Union, several billion forints were required to buy X-ray machines. The Hungarian Competition Authority has also noticed that the HUF 9 billion purchase that you have approved is taking place under conditions that appear to be a cartel suspect, i.e. companies agreed with each other, agreed on prices, overpriced, and thus call off the European Union's money. Since then, we have found out and we know that this is the case of more than HUF 38 billion. We know that it was produced here and created a situation where, after the government's decision, a group of Hungarian companies, consisting of three or four members of the board of companies, who can be listed by name, were included in hospitals, who sold the machines purchased from Siemens and other manufacturers to hospitals at a premium of 30 to 100 per cent. That's the practice you've developed. Since then, the Democratic Coalition has been able to prove this through public procurement documents and contracts that you have let this happen. According to our calculations, which includes your price, the difference between the contracted prices and, by the way, the sales prices, let us also take into account market prices, in the case of tenders worth more than HUF 30 billion, so in the case of public tenders, these companies benefited more than HUF 10 billion, four or five of them, by the way. Perhaps the process can be referred to as an X-ray machine. This acquisition, by the way, is a good indicator of the disadvantages it has caused for health care. A lot more machines could have been bought, even more healing jobs, replacements of prosthetics, and much more could have been done if you hadn't done all this. In order to detect exactly what I mean, I'd like to introduce you to a machine, which is an X-ray machine, by the way. What cost 60 million forints in Markhot Ferenc Hospital, 70 in Tolna County Hospital, and 75 million forints in Siófok, was sold in the hospital; this is 99 million forints in the Toldy Ferenc Hospital, from there we go to Jahn Ferenc, there we are talking about 100 million forints, at Uzsoki Street Hospital for 159 million forints, and don't be mistaken, Mr. Secretary of State, this specification proves that we are talking about the same machines on the basis of the documentation behind them. That the miracle is at the end, in Bács-Kiskun County Hospital, three of these machines have already been bought for 587 million forints, drawing profits from those you just introduced. By the way, here's how the Ács Rezső model works. As he said, two people went around the hospitals, told them that they didn't have to do anything, that the applications were made, as you said, that the applicants had been eliminated, that they were written quietly for them, and that the government had decided to fund all this. Dear Secretary of State, hospitals are comfortable, small companies supplying large profits, and the rest of them wiped out their supplies at the end of the year. That's what you guys did, giving your buddies a ten billion forint gift. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] Thank you very much for your attention.
u2016-05-02-299	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the government, Mr. Nándor Csepreghy, State Secretary, responds. Secretary of State, you have the floor.
u2016-05-02-300	Honourable Congressman, Thank you very much for allowing me to talk about public procurement. By the way, I would like to draw the attention of citizens after this late hour to the fact that you tend to mix the rules of the period 07-13 with the rules of the period 14-20. It's okay, we don't expect anything from the opposition just to clear the picture for everyone. Mr President, the new Public Procurement Act... - wait, what you have not voted for, has not been voted because this Public Procurement Act was the first one following the European Union Public Procurement Directive, which has transposed the most liberal, market-friendly rules into domestic public procurement practice. A practice where the contracting authority, whether it is a public firm, a municipal undertaking or any office, cannot ask for a higher reference value in financial terms than 75 per cent of the price of the instrument to be purchased on the procurement. Or this is the public procurement law that opens up the free competition between services of equal value, for example, in the sense that when a person, say, applies for high construction and has a hospital reference for building a school, it must be taken into account by the contracting authority in the same way as if a person had a school reference, i.e. technical equivalence in public procurement matters. There have been a lot of attacks on public procurement. Therefore, we have introduced a system where small-value, so-called three-offer purchases are also possible, and this is also an obligation for the contracting authority to publish on the Public Procurement Decision Committee's website what it would like to buy, and, after the announcement, anyone applying for this is obliged to ask for tenders. [[20.00]] There have been a lot of attacks on public procurement. Therefore, we have introduced a system where small-value, so-called three-offer purchases are also possible, and this is also an obligation for the contracting authority to publish on the Public Procurement Decision Committee's website what it would like to buy, and, after the announcement, anyone applying for this is obliged to ask for tenders. We have introduced a number of rules that are already in place, which make it impossible to commit this type of abuse. Of course, there is no one hundred percent closing system, and since I do not know the problem you mentioned, but you seem to be very well prepared for it, I trust that this activity also stops at the police report stage, because it doesn't matter that two people buy a car. Yeah, they're both cars that take him by name. From the point to point B, but in the case of a Skoda, we have a completely different price than, say, a Mercedes. Therefore, it must always be examined here whether the assets that have been purchased and what you are now comparing to each other are indeed equivalent. If this did not happen, today's legal guarantees are sufficient for the government to recover all the aid thus paid, but there is no need to fear any loss of funds, because, as in the other programmes, the government has made a lot more money in these programmes, in these developments, so the value of the domestic over-subsidisation exceeds all the items that we have paid at the end of the year. But in this case, too, we look forward to DK's report, and we hope that the truth will be revealed here too, which has basically resulted in you being wrong in recent years. Thank you very much.
u2016-05-02-301	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Mr Sándor Bodó, Fidesz Group, also applied for a post-scheduled speech: they are building on the title of the gymnasiums Sárréten. I give you the floor, Congressman.
u2016-05-02-302	Thank you very much. Mr President, Mr. Secretary of State! Dear House, It's a small circle on an important subject. The essence of the government's decision to introduce everyday physical education in Hungary, I hope, was understood by everyone. There can be no question that a healthy lifestyle education should start at the earliest possible age. The sporty way of life provides a more complete quality of life. It increases performance, prevents the development of diseases. This lifestyle is good for the person, good for his family, good for his community, and good for society. These values are not enough to want, it is not enough to talk about, it is essential to act as carefully and as quickly as possible. Of course, it is very important to have the right curriculum, the right watch organisation and the preparation of the curriculum. The most important thing is to provide the conditions as quickly and as richly as possible, i.e. to build gymnasiums and school schools. I heard an opinion that by introducing daily physical education, we should have waited for the full development of the infrastructure conditions. In my opinion, this is supported by lifestyle research, but there is no time to waste, no age group can be given up. It was the right decision to introduce everyday physical education and to launch a training and gym program. From the 5th constituency of Hajdú-Bihar county Kaba, Báránd, Role and Sárrétudvari are involved in the construction of the gymnasium. In the case of three settlements, Kaba, Báránd and Sárrétudvari, there is a functioning gym, but these are relatively small, overcrowded. This is no wonder, since classes and non-curricular occupations, sports competitions and student sports competitions do populate these facilities, and there is little time, for example, for adults, to use these facilities from time to time. And it's a special role, which is not a small settlement, it's almost 1600 inhabitants, it's got a single primary school, and it's never had a gymnasium, and it doesn't even have a gym for a few months. The children grew up without ever having a gym in that settlement, had no opportunity to use such an establishment. It was a gymnasium built from a classroom that provided them with an opportunity, and let's just think about how, say, a rope climb or a pole climb in a room of 2.90 heights could be taught and mastered. It is obvious that teaching physical education in theory is not very practical, and I think that these children will have an opportunity in this settlement after the completion of the construction, which unfortunately their predecessors did not have the opportunity to do. Now, how is work going in these settlements? The walls are already standing, Kaban is in the working phase of the foundation, and the current state of contracting with the contractor is in the same Role and Sárrétudvari. Important information is that the aid intensity and the operating costs of the school are also borne by the State at 100%. There is always uncertainty about a construction, but according to the information received from the Ministry of Development, local students can make use of the facilities in the school year 2016-2017. It is important to note that gymnasiums can be used not only by students but also by other sports friends at the expense of free capacity. This is not irrelevant information, as Hungarian society as a whole could use the strengthening of a sports lifestyle and the provision of sports conditions. Let's see, what do we do now? Thanks to the wise government decision, the program continues. Based on the indicators of the institutions, the surveys of the study districts, we can find further legitimate demands. Gymnasiums are needed, for example, in Ebesen and Tiszacsege, as well as in the district seat in Bishop's College. But I think my fellow Members could name the settlements for a long time, where there would be a need for this. It is essential to have a school centre at every district seat. In order to ensure consistency between needs and opportunities, I wish the cities that have already won and are hoping to succeed. I believe that the above mentioned and future developments in the EU and the provision of domestic resources ensure that we will achieve results not only in sports development but also in other areas in the next period, which can benefit the entire Hungarian society. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2016-05-02-303	Thank you very much, Congressman. On behalf of the government, I now give the floor to Secretary of State Nándor Csepreghy. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2016-05-02-304	Thank you very much, Mr President, for the opportunity and for the perseverance of the Member. After all, we are talking about an issue that I think that if politics takes seriously its mission to not only serve the present, but also the future, then the improvements that serve the children are of particular importance. The fact that there is a financial margin for this in Hungary today is a confirmation that despite opposition criticism, the Hungarian reforms are working. The implementation of the national public education infrastructure development programme was decided by the government in 2014. This basically supports development on the basis of two aspects. One is to support everyday physical education, and the other is not to be a school student who does not learn to swim within the time period of school, so each child should learn to swim as much as possible. These investments are particularly important in the eastern part of the country, where social inequalities are more pronounced than in large cities or, where appropriate, in Budapest. Allow me to tell you about the progress of the programmes, since from 2015 onwards, the Ministry of National Development, as a programme developer, has been involved in the implementation of this programme. For the eastern part, 13 classrooms and gymnasiums and 14 educational facilities are being developed at the moment. In Sárrét, i.e. Békés, Hajdú-Bihar and Jász-Nagykun-Szolnok counties, a gym is built in Báránd, Kabán, Konyár, Nagyrebén and Sárrétudvari, a school development is carried out in Abádszalók, Törökszentmiklós, Derkéske and Füzesgyarmat. So, indeed, our goal is to have a school where children can learn to swim in every district, as set out in 2016/17. During the course of the academic year, it has largely been completed. [[20.10]] The total value of these investments amounts to approximately HUF 10 billion, but the government is constantly watching whether it can support sports facilities development programmes from European Union development funds or from domestic budget support, which really contribute to a healthier generation growing up, which, of course, refers not only to physical health, but also to a mental balance that children can learn in the atmosphere of sport. As a young parent, this is of particular importance to me, and I think that the government, with its measures to finance sport investment, supports the fact that, where public wealth can be trained and these investments are very important for the local community on a public basis, it should indeed also support their construction, operation and development. For a long time there has been no room for manoeuvre in the Hungarian budget to support the viability of small settlements and the countryside, which is of course not only used by the young students, but also by the communities there outside school time, with this type of investment. I think that this is particularly important, and in this we ask Members and the Member for his support to help increase the popularity of such programmes, because here we need to work together between the Members of Parliament, the municipalities and the government. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2016-05-02-305	I thank the Secretary of State for his reply. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that the next Spring Session is expected to take place on 9 May 2016. I thank you for your work, the meeting is closed. [[The meeting ended at 8:11 p.m.]]
