u2016-10-12-0	Good afternoon. It's nine o'clock. The 10th day of the autumn session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that at the meeting, Attila Gelencsér and István Szávay will help me. Welcome to our guests and to all those who monitor our work. Dear Parliament, I declare that the Group of the LMP has elected Mrs Bernadett Szél and Mr Ákos Hadházy as Deputy Group Leader from 11 October 2016. Allow me, on behalf of Parliament and myself, to congratulate you on your appointment and wish you every success in your work. Dear Parliament, The report on further Hungarian military engagement in the Mali Training Operation of the European Union and the joint general debate on the proposal for a resolution on its adoption will follow. Government referral B/11064. and the proposal for a decision submitted by the Defence and Police Committee, H/12221. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. Dear Parliament, First, I give the floor to Mr Tamás Vargha, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Defence, the author of the report. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2016-10-12-1	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, The European Union decided in 2013 to set up a training operation for the development and development of the Malian forces' operational capabilities and to define its mandate for 15 months. This mandate was extended on 15 April 2014 until 18 May 2016 and extended until 18 May 2018. In accordance with the Council Decision, the Government authorised the extension of participation in the operation by another two years, until 18 May 2018, in accordance with a Government decision on the Hungarian military engagement in the training operation of the European Union in Mali. Currently, three main Hungarian soldiers serve in this mission. As stated in the government programme, our country supports the completion of the European Union's common foreign and security policy and is actively involved in the crisis management operation of the European Union, not only on the European continent, but also in a limited number of other continents as an expression of our solidarity. The Hungarian military participation in the EUTM Mali mission is in line with these efforts. On this basis, the government authorised in the government decision on further Hungarian military engagement in the training operation of the European Union in Mali the additional tasks of up to 15 members of the Hungarian Army, no later than 18 May 2018 or for the period specified in the mandate of the operation, and so these three persons - two main training officers and a liaison chief officer - were given the opportunity in the third political mandate of the operation to further enhance the reputation of the soldiers serving in the Hungarian Defence Mission. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-10-12-2	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I give the floor to Mr Vas Imre, rapporteur for the Defence and Police Committee, rapporteur for the proposal for a decision. Congressman!
u2016-10-12-3	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Pursuant to Article 47 of the Fundamental Law, the Government decides on the movements of the Hungarian Defence Forces and foreign armed forces by crossing the border and on the application of the Hungarian Defence Forces, based on the decision of the European Union or the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation, which the Government immediately reports to Parliament. The National Assembly's Defence and Police Committee held a meeting on 22 September 2016 at the B/11064. H/12221 submitted a proposal for a decision to the accounts and to the adoption thereof. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. The Defence and Police Committee recommends that the Parliament adopt the report in its proposal for a resolution. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-10-12-4	Thank you. Dear Parliament, There will now be speeches by its representatives, the first of which will be the speeches by the lead speaker. First up is the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group. In this capacity, I now give the floor once again to Congressman Vas Imre. Here you go.
u2016-10-12-5	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, The participation of the Hungarian Defence Forces in international peace operations is a constitutional task. The Fundamental Law states that, in addition to protecting Hungary's independence and territorial integrity, the Hungarian Defence Office is also responsible for carrying out joint defence and peacekeeping tasks arising from international treaties, as well as for humanitarian activities in accordance with the rules of international law. We consider the international engagement of the Hungarian defence to be one of the fundamental tools for implementing Hungarian foreign policy, which is also enshrined in the national security strategy. The participation of the Hungarian Defence Forces in international missions strengthens the positions of our country, both in NATO and in the European Union. Furthermore, it can be said and is not negligible that experience and knowledge gained in international peace operations are essential for the protection of our country as well. The mission in Mali was launched in 2013 by the European Union, as the State Secretary said, with the aim of building, consolidating, training and strategic advisory activities for local forces. Ladies and gentlemen, Hungary is committed to creating international peace and stability. Like all democratic states, we have a responsibility to fight international threats and to contribute to the activities of international alliances. The Fidesz-Hungarian Civic Association supports the adoption and further participation of the Ministry of Defence's report in the mission. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-10-12-6	Thank you, Congressman. Congresswoman Márta Demeter, head speaker of the MSZP. Here.
u2016-10-12-7	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Fellow Members! Mr. Secretary. In January 2013, the Council of the European Union decided on an EU training operation to develop and develop the operational capabilities of the Malian forces. As the Secretary of State has said, we can now see multiple extensions of this, and it is absolutely natural for us to support the European Union's foreign and security policy, the missions in this context, as well as similar missions of other international organisations, NATO and the UN, because it is extremely important that the Hungarian Defence Forces and thus Hungary play an active role in the creation, maintenance and further security of international peace and security. In addition, allow me to take the opportunity to draw attention to a few things about the Hungarian Defence Agency, as has been the case for every such occasion. Just as it is the responsibility of the Hungarian Government, as well as the responsibility of the Hungarian Parliament, so all the Members, together, to provide the resources and the means necessary for the proper functioning of the Hungarian Defence Forces, of course, this applies to international engagement as well as to the fulfilment of the basic tasks of the Hungarian Government. And the provision of these tools and the provision of resources must not be limited to simply setting the objective of functioning and performing tasks, but must also pay great attention to the continuous development and modernisation of the Hungarian Defence Service, as well as the improvement of the situation and perspective of the stock. [[9.10]] Exactly so that the Hungarian Defence Forces would be a modern and professional force capable of complying with the 21st Amendment. The challenges of the 20th century in both allied activities and domestic basic tasks. So, as both common sense and moral duty dictate, I think we should mention a few things: what are the things in which urgent action is needed to improve the operation of the Hungarian Defence Forces. I would like to organise this around two themes, first of all, on the situation of the stock and, secondly, on the resources. We are aware of the situation of the staff, as the Chief of Staff said in his own statement, that the Hungarian Defence Office has a shortage of at least 5,500 people today, and unfortunately we have to say that some expert estimates suggest that this number can be much higher, up to 6-8 thousand people. We are all aware that there are very many missing from the executive staff, the crew. The tasks of the Hungarian Defence Forces have unfortunately increased significantly in recent years, both because of changes in the security environment and because of the deterioration of the situation of the defence, and we can see that the Hungarian Defence Forces are participating in numerous other missions in many parts of the world, beyond the mission activities we are discussing. In addition, basic tasks must be fulfilled. In recent years, the Hungarian Defence Office has also received new tasks in the introduction by the government of the crisis caused by mass immigration. In view of the huge shortage of staff, these tasks could be increasingly difficult in the future, so it is necessary to start and implement the filling of the workforce as soon as possible. We have tabled a number of proposals for decisions on this issue. Unfortunately, this has been voted down every time by the pro-government majority. I think that the goal is not necessarily just to vote for one of these, and I would be happy to see that there is actually an upload going on, even on your own initiative. I don't think this is gonna keep you waiting. It is clear that working conditions need to be improved for the stock. I would like to mention modernisation, as we are clearly aware that the technical tools of the Hungarian Defence Forces have grown very old. These are essential for the performance of the tasks, so it is necessary in any case to maintain, develop, or not to give, many areas and more abilities. With regard to the mission, I would like to highlight, in particular, the transport capacity, for example, the modernisation or replacement of the A-26. I think we can think of the A-26s not only from a point of view which has appeared in the press and received more publicity that the President of the Republic has not been able to get from A to B. I think, of course, this is a very sad thing, but there are more important tasks for A-26 machines and they would be, given, for example, logistics tasks and transport in missions, in otherwise qualified period situations, they also have extremely important tasks in Hungary and in Hungary's airspace. So it is necessary to modernise this ability, this capacity, and obviously to provide the necessary resources. It is a question, and I think it would be worth returning in a committee discussion or debate to the fact that these missionary experiences, which our soldiers have acquired, will actually contribute enormously to the capabilities of the Hungarian Defence Forces, at what level it will be possible to integrate them in both training and education, as well as in domestic and international practices. I think that is what we also need to place great emphasis on. Let us turn to the budget very briefly, because, unfortunately, in recent years, the budget of the Hungarian Defence Forces has fallen dramatically. We need to see that it will not even reach 1 percent of GDP in 2017. I think that this situation must be changed. We know that there is a government decree requiring that we increase the budget for defence by 0.1 per cent of GDP per year, which is a commitment up to 2026, but I think, unfortunately, that is now little. We are saying that depreciation is taking place much faster in terms of technical assets than this 0.1 percent could ensure any development. So, in any case, a large amount of injection of resources is needed here to make the situation substantially better. I think we can't wait until 2026, but in a few years or two or three years we will have to strive, but in the worst case, by 2022, to actually reach 2% of GDP in the Hungarian Defence Fund budget. So these are the most important points that I would like to highlight in the context of the debate on this agenda. We have seen that in the past year and a half, security has been very important - at least in words - for the government, and it is almost all organized around this or around the appearance of this, I think it is now time for action. We would therefore like to see concrete steps taken to drastically increase the resources, concrete steps are being taken to replenish the workforce, so that would be the expectation in any way, both the Ministry of Defence, but I also think, in this respect, in particular, towards the government, because we know that we are talking about a highly centralised system. In short, these actions are absolutely necessary and, of course, the mission we are discussing continues to be supported by the MSZP. Thank you very much.
u2016-10-12-8	Thank you very much. Mr Firtl Mátyás is the next speaker, the lead speaker of KDNP. Here you go.
u2016-10-12-9	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, B/11064. By submitting a report No. 47 of the Fundamental Law, the Government fulfils its obligation under Article 47 of the Fundamental Law in relation to the movement of troops involving the crossing of the Hungarian Defence Forces and the foreign armed forces, and in relation to the application of the Hungarian Defence Forces on the basis of the decision of the European Union or the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation. The backgrounds of the EU training operation to develop and develop the operational capabilities of the Malian forces have already been detailed, and I would not repeat them. According to the detailed report, according to the decisions of the Council, the Government has, by virtue of its powers under Article 47 (3) of the Fundamental Law, contributed to the extension of the mandate of Hungarian military participation in the European Union's training operation in Mali until 18 May 2018. The basis for the decision and the report is that Hungary's solidarity-related allies, together with the conflict-stricken region, contribute to tackling the problems. This is for the stability of the region. Hungary's foreign military engagements are therefore key and are an integral part of our federal relations system. On three continents, the Hungarian Defence Forces continue to participate in international missions with nearly a thousand soldiers. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Please allow me to use this opportunity to thank, among the walls of this House, the soldiers of the Hungarian Defence Forces, who, in a changed security environment within the country and in foreign missions, have shown fair standing and standing, and to thank all those who serve at the borders of the country, as well as all Hungarian soldiers who are exemplary in crisis zones during military missions or through military and humanitarian assistance, for their recognition and rank, by contributing to the creation, strengthening or even the management of the mass migration situation. The government would also like to express the recognition of the provisions of the subsequent amendment of the law, in which we strive to enforce the respect of professional law enforcement staff and defence officers. Dear House, As stated in the government programme, Hungary supports the completion of the European Union's common foreign and security policy and actively participates in EU crisis management operations on the European continent and to a limited extent in other continents. [[9.20]] The Malian military operation is part of these efforts. The Group of the Christian Democratic People's Party recommends and supports the report and the resolution proposal for adoption. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-10-12-10	Thank you very much. Congressman István Apáti, lead speaker of Jobbik, is the next speaker. Here you go.
u2016-10-12-11	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, on behalf of Jobbik, I would also like to thank the Hungarian soldiers, the Hungarian soldiers, for their sacrifice, professional and decent work. However, contrary to the pro-government position and the positions of the previous speakers, I must say that we have a completely different opinion on this, that we have a completely different position, that we are opposed to the adoption of this report for fundamental reasons, and that we will not support it, nor will we vote in favour of it. Most of all, we are opposed to the fact that our Hungarian soldiers are being deployed abroad. It is true that we are standing on the threshold of October 23rd, but I would like to quote one of the main ideas of March 15th: do not take our Hungarian soldiers abroad, and take the foreigners away if there are any. This is particularly true now, especially current. We consider it a fundamental mistake that the vast majority of our thousands of soldiers serve in areas, countries, or cases that we Hungarians in the world have nothing to do with. We take full responsibility for things that nothing, not even international treaties necessarily oblige us to do, and at the very least these contracts have been tended to be misinterpreted or misinterpreted by governments in the last quarter of the century. There is only one reason for this, honourable Members: servile compliance with Western allies, a coercion of compliance that we force ourselves completely senselessly. If you don't believe me, then believe our hundreds of years of history. When have we been protected by Western allies, when have they kept their word, when have they fulfilled their contractual or any obligation? Well, either not at all, or to a very small extent. We've made a lot of sacrifices for the West, and in return, we've either got nothing or just a little bit. For this reason, even in 2013, we did not support the removal of soldiers for training tasks or training tasks, even if they were relatively small numbers. He started with a liaison officer, then continued with three medical soldiers, then went to help with sniper training. But it is not necessarily the size or volume of the workforce that is decisive here, but the basic principles, namely that in Mali, France had a few hundred people on its own. And you can tell us that the Hungarian soldiers were supposed to have been deployed or used in an area where their knowledge, skills, work was carried out in areas where they were supposed to be physically safe; according to the report, this was the case, as planned, but whether the reality was correct or not, it may be thick shadows, a great deal of state secrets or classified data hidden or hidden from our observational eyes. In any case, what my fellow Member Firtl said is instructive, and it is also very thoughtful. A little beyond the framework of training in Mali, the thousand people who serve abroad on different continents, especially in the context of migratory pressure, the migration wave, when Mr.Demeter rightly pointed out that the Hungarian Defence Office has a shortage of thousands, between 5 and 8 thousand, we allow ourselves to enjoy the luxury that is more affluent countries and better-being, better-stocked, multi-military defences cannot afford, namely that thousands of people are generously transferred or sent abroad. What happens if the protection of the southern borders requires much more police and much more soldiers? I would just like to quote the Prime Minister's words here: we are not over the worst of it yet, and we are even at the beginning of the migration crisis. What if, in fact, millions or tens of millions of people from the African region are on the road? Then there won't be enough soldiers here, there won't be enough cops, because there are thousands of people on foreign duty. In particular, it is a shame for the last quarter of a century, honourable Members, that, as civilians have been forced to work abroad in hundreds of thousands of sizes, because there is no vision, they cannot earn enough money here, they cannot put aside enough money to build a future for themselves and their children, so we force our soldiers to make a decent amount of money, if they want to make decent wages, to go abroad. Only their situation is more sensitive, since literally they are putting their skin on the line, risking their lives and their physical integrity every day. Again, in countries that we have nothing to do with. However, there is one thing that we can achieve, that our Western allies are giving us the same weight as before, so there will be no extra respect for us, at least on a political level. Our soldiers are recognized, as they are truly worthy of recognition, contrary to the performance of the Hungarian political elite of a quarter-century. We're not gonna look any better in front of the West, and they're gonna yell snakes and frogs at us all over the scenes like they used to. However, we can achieve one thing: to increase and strengthen the terrorist threat, because we intervene in such matters, we enter such focal points, even if we really have a small number, and we may not necessarily be linked to the implementation of certain acts of terrorism, but they know or may know that Hungarian soldiers are also present, and that their anger or desire for revenge will sooner or later be brought upon us. And then I'll ask if it was worth it. Was it worth it that, in order to comply with the Western allies, often without any servitude, beyond the continuing threat of life for our soldiers, even the threat of terrorism to Hungary will be ever more dangerous? And as we look at the state of the TEK and the current secret services, we have reason to doubt whether they can prevent the execution of possible terrorist acts in Hungary, because they were very easily played out by those terrorists, you might say, playing lightly for a week, a week and a half, or, as we know, there were terrorists who had been hiding here in Hungary for up to a year and a half - I am thinking of a person related to one of the perpetrators or perpetrators of the Madrid assassination - and the Hungarian secret services did not know anything about this, either before 2010 or after 2010. If we draw this danger upon ourselves by taking completely pointless risks and constantly prolonging our engagement in missions, I believe that this situation can only get worse. So far, only luck, divine providence, and perhaps the fact that we were considered transit countries have saved this country from bloody acts of terrorism. I ask a rhetorical question: if the Ukrainian war situation were not to escalate - and this should not be done - and we should test in real terms whether our Western allies, in exchange for our extremely gallant and generous sacrifice, our sacrifice in human resources and material resources, would fulfil the obligation which they would in principle be subject to certain treaties, then perhaps we would be disappointed, fellow Members. That is why they should consider doing a 180-degree turnaround in this area of their politics, and preferably focusing the Hungarian forces on Hungary to protect the southern border and possibly very soon to protect the eastern border against migration, and trying to ensure a career for Hungarian soldiers that they do not need to go abroad for months or even a year, away from their families, away from their loved ones - well, to put it mildly, not a family-friendly attitude and a family-friendly workplace - and do not have to sacrifice their lives for completely meaningless purposes. Just as many families around my narrower living environment, Mátészalka, have experienced what it is like to escort the boy to the cemetery, or what it is like to have their child crippled for life - I am talking about a young man in Mátészalka and Nyírgyesgyes - in matters of war theatres, many times, I say things that have nothing to do with the world, just so that they can make a normal salary there. The last quarter of a century has a great deficiency and a great shame. It would be better if they thought of that, rather than trying to change that, rather than bowing down with a more inclined back to the Western allies. So because of our principle opposition, we will not be able to support this report. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-10-12-12	Thank you. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. I don't see a single candidate on the monitor. I will ask if anyone wishes to apply for a two-minute or regular speech. [[There's no candidate.]] I'm gonna say no. As no one has made any further comments, the joint general debate is closed. I'll ask Secretary Vargha if he wants to reflect. [[On Tamás Vargha's mark:]] Secretary of State says no. [[9.30]] I would like to ask Mr Vas Imre, as rapporteur, if he wishes to reflect on what has been said in the debate. [[For signal:]] It says no. Dear Parliament, Thus, amendments can be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Dear Parliament, The 2012 CCV on the status of military fighters follows. Act XLII of 2015 on the service relationship of professional staff of law enforcement bodies. General debate on the bill amending law and other related laws until closure. The government referral is T/12370. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr Károly Kontra, Secretary of State of the Ministry of the Interior, author of the item on the agenda. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2016-10-12-13	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, With the post-2010 law enforcement reform, the government managed to achieve that the uniform in Hungary no longer raises fear but respects. It is important to have the right number, equipment, organizational background, but these are all worthless if the order does not have loving and devotional guards in its country. They must also be valued financially, and their existence should be ensured in proportion to the assigned task. An important milestone is the wage increase of law enforcement professional personnel. Thanks to the government's career model, the wages of law enforcement professionals increase by one and a half times. As early as the second half of 2015, their salary has increased by an average of 30 percent, and thereafter it increases by 5-5 percent every year for four years. In the sector, until Fidesz reached the government, there was no substantial salary increase, no salary increase, and this was changed by the government with the career model. The bill submitted is one of the stages of this process, which will be completed by 2019. In the 2017 budget, within the Prime Minister's Office's chapter, the government allocated a HUF 180 billion reserve for the implementation of sectoral careers and related wage measures. During the preparation of the proposal, we paid particular attention to the broad understanding of the views and views of all relevant professional organisations, including the Hungarian Police Faculty. We have conducted several-stage consultations with these bodies. I also draw attention to the fact that the Ministry of Interior's management considered it important to inform the parliamentary factions about the career model, which was also done yesterday afternoon at the Ministry of Interior in this case. The bill serves three objectives. The first is the implementation of the 5 per cent salary increase in 2017, the second is the enforcement health damage claim supplement and the introduction of the institution system for law enforcement health benefit, and the third is the management of the new rules on duties in the field of border protection. Dear Parliament, I would first like to talk about measures to introduce a 5% increase in salaries. On 1 July 2015, the transition to the new system of promotion and salary was completed, with an average salary increase of 30 per cent. From 1 January 2016, an average increase of 5-5 per cent per year will take place until 1 January 2019. Based on our preliminary calculations, the salary increase is made with the following numbers: between 1-5 per cent increase from the professional population 8020, 5 per cent increase from 38 054 persons. During the increase in salaries in 2016, the same data developed as follows: from 1 January 2016 7576 persons received an increase of between 1 and 5 percent and 42 779 persons received an increase of 5 per cent. In addition to the increase in basic salary, as in 2016, performance benefits will be provided in 2017. In 2017 the personal allowance for performance benefits will increase from HUF 8 billion in 2016 to HUF 12 billion. With this, the average rate of performance benefit increases from an average of 12 days' income per individual, i.e. the 2016 figure to 18 days' income, i.e. there is a 50% increase, as well as an increase in the amount of resources for the performance benefit. Dear Parliament, I would like to talk about the introduction of the law enforcement health claim and the institution system for law enforcement health benefit. The government has taken a decision on the insurance pillar of the law enforcement career to protect the existence of a stock that has become unfit for health beyond its own fault. The new system of care is intended to ensure the effective management of exceptional events and life situations such as accidents and diseases occurring during the career of law enforcement. In the presentation, the legislation on the military was drawn up with practically the same content as the law enforcement force, and we have presented it to this House in the same way. The proposal sets out two categories of cases. The first is, if the accident, the disease, is related to duty obligations, the allowance is 100 per cent of the previous salary, reducing the amount of other benefits. The allowance is not linked to the duration of the actual service relationship. The second case is that the accident is not related to duty obligations. In this case, entitlement to benefits may be established under stricter conditions. The benefit is between 65 and 80 per cent of the previous salary, calculated in lane according to the service period. This benefit may take place after a minimum of ten years of service. In both forms of care, it is essential that the further employment of the data subject continues to take place in some form after the health damage has occurred. The occupational organisation shall provide the person concerned with a job in the state of his or her health, whether in a professional or non-professional capacity. If necessary, a new job may be created for this purpose. Dear Parliament, The Minister may grant an exemption from this obligation of employment in the event of health damage of at least 60% on an individual application. A further common rule is that the benefit can only be determined if the accident or illness did not occur as a result of the failure of a member of the professional staff, which is attributable to him. The right to health damage benefit shall be opened on the basis of a decision taken by the FÜV Committee in the framework of the review procedure establishing health inadequacy. A court of honor shall decide on the involvement of a member of the professional staff, as proposed, and shall be convened by the national commander. Then, Honourable Parliament, I would like to address the third important element of the bill, which I would like to inform this House. This is the presentation of new rules for the performance of border protection tasks. The proposal includes further amendments to the needs for the implementation of border management tasks. Of these, I would like to point out that, in the case of 12 hours of service, the interval between working hours will increase. The institution of priority readiness, which can be compared to the so-called barracks standby service, has been introduced. As a result of the bill, the staff will be entitled to a supplement of more than the current supplement than the one ordered from their place of residence, normal and normal place of duty. Dear Parliament, It is clear from the bill that our strong aim is to strengthen and maintain the financial and moral appreciation of professional law enforcement and defence personnel, thus further strengthening Hungary's public security and the successful continuation of Hungary's border protection. In view of the facts and arguments made, I ask the Honourable Parliament to support, negotiate and adopt the bill in the final vote. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-10-12-14	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Now we're going to have keynote speeches. First, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group, Mr Vas Imre. Here.
u2016-10-12-15	Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The Parliament passed a long-awaited law in 2015. No more significant wage increases have been made to professional law enforcement personnel since 2000. After the 2010 elections, the Fidesz-KDNP government considered it one of the priorities of the years to create a state that serves the interests of the common good, the nation and the community instead of the individual. This is based on a legal order based on sound public law, which is provided by the Fundamental Law. [[9.40]] Among other things, the Fundamental Law also settled the constitutional position and the basic rules of their operation of bodies carrying out law enforcement and defence tasks. It can therefore be said that the organisational and institutional side of law enforcement has already been established, and it is the government's responsibility to establish a staff and public service system for the effective functioning of the State Organisation and to further ensure and develop the conditions for its systematic operation. The aim is to stabilise the state of the public law enforcement staff by guaranteeing long-term and predictable careers and to give them the recognition they deserve. In the budget, we are constantly securing expenditure on new career systems, so it can be seen that our government is committed to the financial recognition of law enforcement personnel. One of the main objectives of the current bill is to define the rules for the development of salaries on 1 January 2017, which is the next step in the development of multi-stage salaries. Another aim of the bill is to introduce a new system of care for law enforcement and defence personnel, which is used to effectively manage extraordinary events and life situations during work. It shall provide a safety net for personnel working in the field of law enforcement and defence in the event of a professional service due to an accident or illness or in the event of health incapacity for a given duty. It is also important that the supply system also strengthens the existential security of the stock until pension rights are reached. In order to address the significant existential uncertainty caused by the forced abandonment of professional service without a fault, the legislation contained in the bill aims to replace the former income of professional staff. Another objective in this area is to ensure employment if the health status of the person concerned permits it. To this end, it is the duty of the law enforcement and defence bodies to find a suitable job for the person concerned. The approach of this supply system is to keep a member of the stock in the system as far as possible, which helps him with the strength of belonging to the community to deal with the health damage that has occurred and continues to strengthen the importance of the person. According to the bill, in line with the principles of law enforcement health damage care, the rules on national defence health damage care will also be incorporated into the law on the status of military defenders. With regard to military personnel, members of professional and contractual staff are subject to the new regime. Ladies and gentlemen, The Fidesz fraction is committed to improving the conditions for the professional staff of law enforcement and defence bodies. We consider these changes important, because Hungary's security guarantees are the members of the stock. In view of this, the Fidesz fraction supports legislative proposals to further appreciate law enforcement and defence personnel. Thank you for listening. [[Applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2016-10-12-16	Thank you very much. The opinion of the MSZP Group now follows. Congresswoman Márta Demeter will present it to you.
u2016-10-12-17	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Secretary. The Secretary of State mentioned in his speech how important it is to appreciate the stock, while ensuring both equipment, resources and resources. I can fully agree with this, as we can see that both in the case of the Hungarian Defence Agency and in the case of law enforcement agencies, the greatest strength and security guarantee of these organisations are their stock and the appreciation of the stock. I wish we'd actually seen this in action before. 'Cause I have to say, unfortunately, there have been huge failures of the government in this, and in many respects, there are still some still to this day. Here I would like to take this opportunity to thank the Hungarian Defence Forces and the police forces for their blessed work, given that, let us say, the army's staff is responsible for the fact that the Hungarian Defence Service is still operational, and we also know that unfortunately, the police forces are not in a rosy position. The start of the stipend development was also acknowledged as a positive step, and especially necessary. As Congressman Vas Imre mentioned, there has been no salary improvement here since 2000, that is not true, so the last salary improvement was made in 2008. I would just like to remind everyone that until 2015, the civil servant's salary is frozen and the salary of professional workers is calculated. So until 2015, unfortunately, nothing happened. But here I add again: the fact that this started in 2015 I think it is a good thing in any case. It has also been mentioned, Mr Vas Imre, that we are talking about the amendment of this law and the law on the status of soldiers, as well as the law on the relationship between the professional staff of the law enforcement bodies, specifically the contractual stock, for example, this does not apply, but only to the professional stock. And if there's any misunderstanding, I'm asking you to clarify that, but I think that's what the law says that we're talking about professional personnel here. So let's be very specific. I think that the most important element of the bill is the introduction of a health-damage supplement and a health-damage allowance. I am very sorry that the government has only just taken any action in this matter, because for years the situation of those who have suffered some degree, minor or greater damage to health, either because of an accident, illness or during their service, as the time passes, as a result of the provision of tasks. I would have liked to have seen in this bill the legal opportunity to compensate former members of the Honvéd Health Fund, as I had a question to the Minister of Defence last week, and in his reply he indicated that legislation would be put in place on this issue, for example, how the Hungarian Defence Office could be compensated. I think it's really good that there's even thinking. We know that for a year and a half nothing happened. If we are talking about the creation of legal frameworks, then, given that both the army and the law enforcement forces are concerned about the issue of the Honvéd Health Bank - it is true that the 1.8 billion forints that have been saved from their paid salaries have been lost in the Buda-Cash scandal, with its bankruptcy - it could have been created in this law, it could have been done, and it could still be done, because there is still a possibility to amend the legal framework that allows both the Ministry of Interior and the Ministry of Defence to finally compensate for the stock. After all, I think it is not a question that both soldiers, defense workers and law enforcement personnel must get back the money they have put aside for health protection. So I would expect there to be dialogue in this, and there should be an intention to put such legal possibilities into this law, because it could be arranged here. So, the fact is that this law introduces the system of health damage care, and the reasons for this are summarised in the explanatory memorandum of the Act by the Ministry of Interior as follows:, I would like to quote that the development of a special system of care for law enforcement is essentially justified by the fact that the forced abandonment of professional services without self-abuse has increased since the possibility of early retirement, especially as age progresses, causing significant existential uncertainty among staff. The finding of a health disability due to a possible service accident or an illness without a fault may lead to a long-term and very significant reduction in income, in particular if the person concerned is entitled to any benefits or only an accident or rehabilitation benefit. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I wanted to read this because we know that you have abolished the service pension system in 2011. And I just want to say good morning to the government here, because I say, even if it's only a small step, that they finally realized what a huge mistake they made when they terminated the service pension system, and they seem to have slept for the last five years. [[9.50]] So now, five years after the proposal to abolish the service pension system is adopted, we will only have this current proposal before us. And unfortunately, I didn't hear any apologies or regrets from the government that the stock involved and those who have been in an accident since then or who have become ill or who have deteriorated during their duties would have been followed up or helped, or that would have been the intention in recent years. And unfortunately, the government of which Viktor Orbán is the leader did this and does this. And we remember when there was a protest against the retirement of the service pension, and the trade unions invited the Prime Minister to this protest, he refused this invitation by otherwise sending it to his Clown Secretary of State. So I would just like to remind you of the government's attitude to the staff and the service pension system, because it was abolished with a single stroke of the pen and thus completely eliminated the possibility of early retirement. Since then, we have repeatedly drawn attention to the fact that the maintenance and existence of the service pension system is not a kind of privilege, but a necessary element of professional service and professional career, since we know that the physical, psychological and health requirements of professionals are much higher than those of civilians, and we also know that they are carrying out a job that is subject to much greater physical and psychological stress, and it is quite clear that even after 10 to 15 or 25 to 30 years of service, this does not go without a trace, as it is clear that no one will be younger, but the need for them to perform their tasks is constantly. So it is clear that the state cannot abandon the people who have sworn to serve the country, guarantee and guarantee security, and, of course, protect Hungary's citizens, their property, by sacrificing or risking their lives. For this reason, obviously, there is a preferential pension system, a sustainable pension system in a fair form, not only in Hungary, but in many other countries. I would also like to remind you here that it is clear that the system before 2010 was not perfect, but we certainly do not allow the need for some kind of preferential pension scheme. But then, when you decided to wipe it out in 2011, the baby, along with the bath water, was clearly poured out, and you can literally say that you humiliated the people who swore to serve the country. To see that they are wrong, I think that it is to be welcomed in any way, but if this is an honest step, then, in addition to presenting this bill here, two more important things should be taken into account and done in any way. One is an apology for what has happened in the last five years, for the abolition of the pension system itself, and for that hate propaganda - unfortunately I have to say this - in which, unfortunately, in many speeches and actions, society has been tuned against those who have served up to 10-20 and more years in both the army and the police. Also, it would be very important to do, if their current action is honest, to settle the situation of those who have been in a situation between 2012 and 2016 where they have suffered a certain degree of health damage and, as a result, have been removed from the stock without their own fault, since the current bill does not apply retroactively to them. So here are four years and several affected - by the way, we are talking about a few hundred people - who need to resolve their situation, for themselves and for the active stock. So I would like to ask both my pro-government fellow Members and the representative and other representatives of the government, especially those responsible on this subject, to take action in any way and in this direction. This is nothing to lose, it is not a party political issue, and I think it is essential that we help these people, and it is clearly also our moral duty. The bill, with the introduction of an application for health damage and annuity, is indeed, as I have said, without doubt, a step forward in relation to the state that has existed since 2012, but I do not think that the solutions that are included in the bill are sufficient and that they cannot in any way trigger the need to establish a decent and, once again, socially just system of service pensions. In addition, I would like to point out that the rules on new benefits are extremely strict even within the framework of the legislation's own logical system, in particular the provision that the Minister may grant exemption from the employment obligation only in the case of a 40 per cent or less health condition, over 40 per cent of those who have become unfit for health must be further employed by the law enforcement body and the defence. A 40 percent state of health means that the affected person has very serious health damage. Therefore, the bill provides for a further obligation of employment for people who have suffered health damage, so they need to be further employed. In essence, it can be said that only in the case of disabled people will it be possible for the minister at all to consider neglecting further employment. In other cases, when the state of health exceeds the 40 percent mentioned above, the bill does not provide any solution to individual situations that are worthy of appreciation, such as, unfortunately, an insurmountable situation, if there is no change, who, for example, has to go to rehabilitation or, say, dialysis. Therefore, we will propose that under 40 percent of health benefits be granted under subjective rights, and that literally disabled professionals should not be subject to a request for fairness. Instead of imposing bureaucratic obstacles, the state clearly has a duty to thank the service and to close its career with an allowance. However, between 40 and 80 percent of the health situation may indeed be justified by giving the Minister the power of fairness, obviously in order to ensure that these individual situations of life are naturally manageable. The rules on the obligation to pursue employment are very extensive, it is absolutely necessary to ensure guarantee rules here, and it is important to ensure that those concerned, professionals, continue to have positions in line with their skills. So this must also be recorded in the law. So, overall, we are talking about this being a step in the right direction. It is also certain that it does not represent a 100% solution, nor can it replace the provision of a socially fair, preferential pension system. We have held a trade union consultation on this issue, and we will, of course, present our amending proposals, and we will, of course, consider the law on this basis. What I would like to say quickly is that in the case of the legal status of the military and law enforcement agencies, we see very often amendments to the law on legal status. It would be necessary for the government to work on the basis of a concept, since it is not possible to do with the staff that there is a constantly changing legal environment that varies every two months. Thank you very much.
u2016-10-12-18	Mr Mátyás Firtl, lead speaker of the KDNP, is the next speaker. Here.
u2016-10-12-19	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, The Parliament adopted the 2015 XLII on the service relationship of professional staff of law enforcement bodies. Law. Our aim, which was repeatedly expressed in the course of the legislative process, was to create such legislation as the 2015 XLII. by law, the principle of which is that it serves the respect of professional staff, the merit of their work, and the continuous increase in public security. [[10.00]] The law on the service relationship of professional staff of law enforcement bodies, which entered into force on 1 July 2015, has led to historical positive changes in the lives of law enforcement professional staff. The law partly serves to honour those responsible for the service of law enforcement and defence, and not least our national interest, which is the public security necessary for the everyday life and functioning of the country's communities. Ensuring this far-reaching challenge for professional law enforcement professionals, which is closely linked to the migration crisis, the wave of migration, the increased public risk, represents an increasing need, the forms and the most complex task of strengthening public security. It is therefore in our national interest, not indirectly, but very directly, to ensure the safety of our settlements and our families, to establish by law the service relationship of professional staff, which increases the attractiveness of the track, while at the same time creating the optimal conditions under which professional staff can perform their service in such a way as to ensure compliance and enforcement of order and public security in all areas, under all circumstances, for the entire population of the country. In general, based on the experience gained so far, it can be said that the principles of the new public service career apply in an appropriate manner in the law, in principle, in a legal basis and in complexity. The law serves the fundamental purpose of establishing a predictable and motivating system of advancements and new salaries. The new law provides for an unprecedented increase in salaries since 2002, which represents a financial appreciation of about 60 thousand professional staff, and also a system of new principles for the implementation of the system of progress - possibly in 2008, but not to this extent. The new salary system reflects the value of the service position, the value of the service experience, the appreciation of the membership of the professional staff, the rank, appreciation and performance of the work carried out during that period. Shh. One of the main objectives of this amendment is to establish the rules for the development of salaries on 1 January 2017 in accordance with the principles set out above. In addition, as has been said, it is intended to address effectively health inadequacy to professional service or to a given duty function, in the event of exceptional events, situations of life, accidents or diseases occurring during the course of the police career. In addition, in line with the principles already set out in the current legislative amendment, the 2012 CCV on the status of defence will also be included in the rules on protection of public health as regards the recognition of those serving in the field of defence. Law. Ladies and gentlemen, Before I ask my fellow Members to support the amendment of the law, allow me to thank all our country, the public, the protection of our families, and the service of public safety, in particular our compatriots and our countrymen who are part of the professional staff of law enforcement bodies for their standing and service. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] That is why I ask my fellow Members to support the amendment of the law by deciding on our appreciation and recognition for the professional service performing law enforcement tasks and on the responsibility of the country for the security of its citizens. The KDNP fraction supports the amendment of the law and, once again, I call on my fellow Members to do so. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-10-12-20	Thank you very much. Congressman Adam Mirkóczki, lead speaker of Jobbik. Here.
u2016-10-12-21	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, I would like to start there, and some have already pointed out that the basic problem, the key problem and the starting point are when the service pension, as it is, has been plowed out, has been abolished, which has caused quite serious tensions, quite serious problems, and, to this day, a gap in the system that justifies making such proposals, and, by the way, proves how irresponsiblely they have touched the system years ago, and how they have not thought that so much of professional professionals, who are so dedicated to the protection of the country, public security and all the other aspects of the country, be it military or law enforcement units, how existentially vulnerable they will be, and how defenceless they will be in relation to certain living situations. That is why I am very pleased that, even if a few years have passed, the Ministry of the Interior, the Ministry of Defence, or the Government are united, that it must be touched somewhere, and somehow this gap must be patched up, or that existential vulnerability must be eliminated every day, if not in bulk, but it does appear and it does exist. That is why we consider this a very important and very necessary step, but we also have a small sense of absence. If someone has read through the whole proposal, regulation and, where appropriate, even the representatives of the profession, then they can rightly feel that the whole thing is designed to affect as few people as possible, the fewer people who are able to take advantage of these opportunities. Basically, we can say that this is correct, that is good, because this means that they do not suffer health damage or other life situations that would justify the use of these services and entitlements, but the real question is whether an investigation has been carried out or whether statistics exist, according to the current draft rules, how many people could fall into it every year, whether within the defence or within the police. What is a particular problem is that, where appropriate, the Ministry itself should be able to provide non-professional jobs. For example, whether the government is prepared for this, whether it is prepared either by the Ministry of Defence or by the Ministry of the Interior, that if you do not give, God, this would affect soldiers or police officers on a hundred scale per year, then there is a relevant solution that means that they can offer tasks that are not a paper pusher or not a leaf sweeper, but are really valuable. Because no one expects that if a professional in special status can no longer carry out his previous duties in connection with a service accident or a terrible event, then let's say he will gladly accept such a job or status - I don't know what kind of job. So I think that here we should look a little further into how this is going to be done in practice. However, I also suggest that after a year we return to it calmly, or that there be a report on how not only the career model develops and how payments change, but also on how many people have been able to receive this new allowance and entitlement - because I would be very interested in this, even monthly, in any case on an annual basis - and how many people will be denied the various applications. Because the wording is clearly about the need to go through a serious set of conditions, and it takes a serious set of conditions at the same time, at the same time, to enable someone to make use of either the health contribution or the supplement to an action. [[10.10]] I would like to make an observation here, which, if I have read it correctly, has been formulated by a number of trade unions and by me more competent, and that is that this regulation or this draft does not take into account, where appropriate, mental, physical... - or physical, but, let's say, mental and mental stress. The Secretary of State and many of us, who work either in the Defence and Police Committee or in the National Security Committee, know exactly how many and how many functions there are that are not really afraid of physical stress or physical accidents, but rather of mental and psychological stress, whether it is an undercover detective or any other professional with special tasks. In their case, there is no guarantee that if an accident is caused by a mental psychic problem caused by the burden or other specific tasks, the possibility of receiving an allowance or an application is excluded. I think that this is a very important step, that this observation, which we are not only saying, but I think that all the well-meaning critics, whether in the house or in the opposition party or expert, are saying this precisely because it is not realistic, what is in the proposal, that these conditions will all stand at the same time, and that the system will well be able to compensate the person who has suffered some kind of negative event or is in such a situation that he needs the addition that this draft is due to be made. So I would ask the Secretary of State, the Government and the members of the Government to understand the deadline, why it must be rushed with him, and I understand why it is important to put this in place as soon as possible, but I do not think that we will make a mistake if the proposal itself is delayed, because we can even rethink this very important segment. Once again, the condition that they have developed has clearly not been adapted to life, but rather to make use of these rights as little as possible. I wouldn't think you'd be led by bad intentions, but let's be honest: either there's no proper status that the ministry will be able to offer, or it's clearly a proposal that is absolutely supportive, absolutely forward-looking, but since it's not adapted to everyday life, we know it won't be of such a nature. But once again, I wish that no one was obviously in need of these services or privileges, but once again, this part of the system should be rethinked, this is where the story stands or fails. However, I cannot stress that a very important step, especially after the total destruction of the service pension, can fill an important gap; but only if we have adjusted it to life and looked at the examples of events or cases in the last year, when it is true that soldiers or police officers should have been touched by negative or tragic or any other accident or action, whether they could have used the contribution or the additional earnings on the basis of the present draft. If it's the Ministry's intention, or the government's intention, what did you say? - we don't leave anyone on the side of the road, so I think that the conditionality must be adapted to the everyday life situation and challenges. If that is not the intention, then again we can talk about nothing but a very beautiful idea, which in reality will look quite different than, let us say, the basic goals and expectations set out in the reasoning of the proposal. Of course, Jobbik can support any proposal that may even help one person, but our basic goal is to create a system where there are no anomalies in which to meet almost mutually exclusive conditions, so that it can fall away from the very important additions and compensations involved. So I think that the proposal is fully consistent with the basis, direction and purpose, an important step after the retirement of the early retirement pension, but I also say with constructive criticism that it is not adapted to everyday life, very, very strict, rigid and unviable the conditions to be proven at the same time, and I think that there will be a lot of tension and rejection of a lot of applications. So I suggest that we loosen this up and reconfigure it, of course, within the framework of five-party or expert discussions, but if the goal really is to make the most of the needy use of this opportunity, if nothing else, they will touch this part. However, once again, it is very important to have such a plan, but not at all costs. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-10-12-22	Thank you, Congressman. Mr Bernadett Szél, lead speaker for the LMP Group. Here you go.
u2016-10-12-23	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Government, Dear Secretary of State, Dear Parliament, First of all, in the debate on the bill, it should be pointed out that the government's measures so far have simply failed to make the career of law enforcement more attractive. The many derelicts, the continuous shift of the stock, the continuous shortage of staff are signs of a complex crisis that can simply not be noticed, and which, in addition to showing the very bad situation of the stock, threatens the safety of the Hungarian people at the same time. In general, we can say and say that the government's economic policy on low wages, which reduces workers' rights, simply drives workers away from Hungary, and that the LMP's position is that people need safe, predictable and decent jobs, but that even in the public sector, unfortunately, it cannot guarantee this - and even in the area of law enforcement. What the government has shown so far in relation to the professional population is basically the total unpredictability. They were promises, they were engulfed and then withdrawn, and unfortunately, there is a bad situation in Hungary today that the Hungarian government is not able to provide the basic conditions for our police officers serving at the southern border. We've all seen the rainfalls that the police themselves have been chasing for themselves, in order not to soak for 24 hours, and now winter is coming and they're sending the police out to the surveillance posts to freeze. I think it is unacceptable that volunteers still have to take care of policemen, blankets, medicine to the border to avoid these tragedies. And we also remember, and these are very painful things, as my fellow Member Demeter raised such a memory, and I would like to bring up such a memory in the debate of the law, that last Christmas, police officers at the border received a letter from their commanders that they would have to pay back a significant portion of their dues for over-service, because they felt that the interpretation of the law was wrong, on the basis of which it was paid. I think that this is completely unacceptable that such things are happening. We also see that anyone who wants to undertake professional law enforcement or military service in Hungary today, in addition to being obliged to tolerate the restriction of their fundamental rights and to take the risk of their life and health, will also have to face the fact that if, during his service, he becomes unfit for work because of health damage, he will be able to perform his duties, then he will be left without income from one moment to the next. When the service pension was terminated, LMP pointed out that this measure was completely unacceptable and that there is no such system in the world. And we also said that we told you that this would create an extremely unfair situation and that there would be a great deal of unseemly careers. The new Hst. We have also said here in the House that the situation arising from the abolished service pension needs to be resolved. Unfortunately, the general experience is that law enforcement and military service often cause damage to the health of the staff due to the high physical and - I would point out - high psychic stress, which in many cases also affects the ability to serve, and thus leads to the termination of the relationship. [[10.20]] This issue cannot be treated as an individual problem, this situation can only be resolved at systemic level, and we are constantly calling for it. We continue to maintain that the restoration of a well-controlled early retirement pension system is the normal solution. We, the May Other, have put forward the proposal for this, but we also see that you are not willing to do this, are not willing to face up to your previous bad decision. On a professional level, they should at least admit that they made a mistake, but even if they did, they wouldn't just be willing to change, which is completely incomprehensible to me. Now, the bill that lies before us shows, in any case, that you can't go completely past the problem now; it indicates that the problem is at such a level that the government is now forced to deal with it. So, basically, it's an involuntary confession to the fact that you guys have done something really wrong lately. What we see here is one thing I can say briefly and briefly: more and more, this is my general comment on this. Every step in the direction of making the stock feel safer and able to do their job without having to fear the complete loss of their existence is a positive change compared to the current situation, but in order for the career to become attractive, strong and strong signals must be given; strong and strong signals must be given, it is not enough to provide care only for a narrow circle and only if a lot of conditions are met. So, more and more, Mr. Secretary of State. We will present a series of amendments, precisely in order to allow an opportunity to change this idea. I don't know how open you are about this, but given that you've been talking a lot about security lately, I think you can do this with credibility if you support the ideas that are about how people who protect us can do this on the best possible terms. So from now on, I daresay, during this period, they will not do what I have been watching for six years, that every opposition motion is constantly being swept off the table. If they do so, they obviously have to take on the political and all other risks. And then I would like to point out a few things about what exactly is the problem with this proposal. There is a general principle in the proposal that only those who undertake further work will be entitled to benefits. Now, this alone is less a problem, but there is a condition that:. For damage to health caused by work as a professional, the employer will not receive any compensation from the injured person if he does not undertake any other work - and here is the point - that he may not be able to work in a job that is not suitable for his qualifications. Now, this is a grossly unfair and unacceptable issue by the LMP, and I would also like to draw your attention to the fact that you are expected to face a multitude of lawsuits if you do not change that. We believe that it would be an acceptable solution that if the person concerned was not given the right to receive the right of access to care, and he refused to do so, this would not affect his entitlement to care. The other, which is also related to this, is that we do not consider it acceptable that psychological or physical inadequacy alone does not constitute a basis for entitlement to the contribution. According to the proposal, for example, a professional who performs the secret service task, who, after a period of time, is unable, say, to handle the increased psychic burden involved, or, let's say, a district agent who is unable to deliver the performance required by the physical measure at an older age, will be excluded from the scope of the rightholder. Therefore, this is totally unacceptable because, according to the bill, only those who become unfit for professional service or duty because of their state of health would be entitled to health care in the field of law enforcement. So this in itself is a condition that is not acceptable to us. I told you that we must apply the more and more principles in relation to this law. Here, too, there will be an amendment so that these people can make money even after the problems. Our third problem is that there are therefore two categories of eligibility criteria: accidents or diseases that have actually occurred during the service, and there are those that are causally related to the provision of services. Now, in this law, it is currently stated that in the second case, injured professionals can receive contributions only if they have at least ten years of actual service and the extent of health damage reaches 20 percent. It's a completely unreasonable and unjustified distinction, I don't know how you thought you'd put it in there. If there is any illness, a problem with the ministry, it is just like when it happens in the ministry. Whether someone was there or not for ten years, I don't see how that could be a distinction. Don't be a double standard, we don't think that's acceptable. Overall, it seems to us very much that such a primary aspect of the regulation was that you felt that something had to be done, so that it could not remain the case, but there is a preconception throughout this entire bill that you want to make real payments only in the rarest case and that this should be reduced to the minimum. We can't support this. We will only be able to support this proposal if there really is a substantial shift: care is provided more widely and to a greater extent than in the current proposal and would not make it compulsory to accept the job offered, this is very important. Let me also point out that we also consider it necessary to settle the situation of people who have been in a completely unfair and unacceptable situation since 2012, precisely because Fidesz-KDNP has simply abolished the service pension and because of their becoming unfit for health, these people have lost their jobs. We submit the amendments by the stated deadline, and I ask the honourable government not only to campaign for the importance of the safety of Hungarian people, but also to give the opportunity to those people who risk their lives every day so that it can actually be achieved, not to be afraid to do their job, and to have the opportunity to provide themselves and their families with decent care. I would ask you to turn your back on the path you've apparently stepped on to try to correct the very serious mistakes you've made in recent years. I think we are talking about a national issue here, and I think that we need to use the more and more approach when it comes to law enforcement and it's about soldiers. Thank you very much.
u2016-10-12-24	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. The first independent congressman to come forward may now speak. I give the floor to Congressman Peter Konya. Here you go.
u2016-10-12-25	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, I'm in a very special situation because I myself was involved in the measure of abolishing the service pension system for soldiers and law enforcement staff with a feather stroke. I myself, after 25 years of service, came to the street without any care, along with hundreds of fellow soldiers and policemen. [[Károly Kontrat: How old are you, Congressman?]] It has been exactly six years since you started negotiations and your preparations for the complete abolition of the service pension system. Six years ago, so in the autumn, we started the first negotiations, then as a trade union leader representing armed and police workers, I myself conducted several negotiations with you, with the Minister, with you, and with your fellow State Secretary on how to change the service pension system, rationalise the service pension system, and adapt the service pension system to the current situation. We ourselves, who served in that system, were aware that the service pension system at that time was bleeding from multiple wounds. We ourselves have seen that he did not encourage soldiers, nor the police, nor the firefighters, nor the prison guards, to remain in the system, but gave them an incentive to leave the system as soon as possible. It wasn't good, it wasn't good for the country, it wasn't good for the board, it wasn't good for the staff. We agreed with this to the full extent that the intention was to change that, and we ourselves were ready to change that. However, in these negotiations, neither professional arguments nor trade union arguments were taken into account when we said what it means to eliminate the service pension system with a pen stroke. We also said that a career in service must end at least with the state taking care of those who, risking their lives or sacrificing their lives, undertake to serve their country. You have abolished this by a stroke of a pen, and you have allowed it to be abolished, but you have humiliated the people who, in some way, had access to the service pension system at that time and to the benefit at that time. [[10.30]] You are here in the ranks of Parliament, calling those who, by the way, have spent their earned service pensions free of charge. Not only have they been humiliated, but they have been subjected to a penalty tax, a deduction, and they are still plagued to this day, which is completely unimaginable why it is happening, since they have reduced the pension of each pensioner at the time, who is now a servant, by 15 percent. You're talking about this country, the economy, doing better. This is your chance to cancel this 15 percent penalty tax! In addition to the payment of the service allowance, one was introduced that they could go to work for any job up to one and a half times the minimum wage. This, by the way, causes nothing but a further increase in the black economy, since they employ these people in black so that they do not lose their stipend. We should also think about this and abolish this border. Once they're able to go to work, let them go and work completely clean and white. It took six years for you to figure out what it did to throw the service pension system into a dumpster with a pen stroke. Since then, the migrant crisis has spread, there is a terrorist threat in Hungary, there has been an unfortunate bombing accident, and there have been two bombings that have injured police officers; but I could tell you a number of other cases. That's what it took to make you realize that you can't really do that people who are hurting their country get hurt, practically put on the street. However, I do not see the kind of apologies that Márta Demeter here has asked you to apologize to the stock, but I also do not see in this draft law what you will do with the hundreds of people between 2012 and 17 when this legislation comes into force, who came to the street during this time, without any care. I would expect and will submit such an amendment of the law to extend its scope to those people who have been on the streets during this time, regardless of whether they have been exempted or terminated. These people, since there was no such legislation, probably did not carry out health examinations that would allow them to qualify for this care. Therefore, a six-month period should be given so that those who have been out of the system during this period can go to a health inspection and, if the result shows that their health is otherwise impaired, they should be entitled to this benefit retroactively. What is certainly positive about this draft law, and I think that this should be highlighted, is that this contribution, which you are about to introduce, will be a pension fund contribution. This is an important part of the legislative amendment, I think, because without it, when people reach the pension system, they would be entitled to a substantially reduced pension. I definitely find that positive. However, I can give my fellow Member Mirkóczki the utmost truth, although it is understandable that the government intends to keep people who are unfit for their original position in the system as much as possible because of some health damage. However, I do find it unviable, too, that they will be able to offer positions or jobs to people who, by the way, cannot perform their original positions. I fully agree that it is unfair that if, where appropriate, he is not offered a post corresponding to his job or degree and he does not accept it, he will not be entitled to this contribution. I consider it important that the Minister has the right to exempt him from work in all cases, regardless of the extent of the damage to health, since there may be situations in which there is a need for individual consideration and equity. Not to mention the police, the military, the fire department are all dangerous factories. If, where appropriate, a person is mentally or psychologically damaged, it may not be appropriate to keep him in the system, even if he is in some light position, because he may cause damage that could endanger the lives of his fellows, since he is working with weapons and means that pose a danger to himself. I have to agree with my fellow Member, Mr Demeter, who raised compensation for the members of the Honvéd Health Fund. This would be a good opportunity for both the internal affairs wallet and the defence wallet to settle this issue once and for all. If you really believe that you want to value this stock, then you do have to compensate people who have raised their money for years. Exactly, millions of forints were put aside so that they could heal themselves in order to preserve their health or rehabilitate their health. There were fighter pilots waiting for spinal surgery, raising money for it, and losing 1.5 million forints by bankrupting the Honvéd Health Fund. No one compensated them. They're waiting for surgery today because they can't perform this surgery. So I think it is absolutely important that you can do this. As far as wage development is concerned, I think that, yes, this has been a positive step forward from the government. It should be said that the government should be thanked for the wage arrangements that have been carried out in recent years. For years, by freezing the civil servant's salary fund during the previous government, there has been virtually no substantial wage development in the period before it. It is now being waged to compensate, by the way, for the past period and for inflation of about ten years. It doesn't mean too much progress, it actually means a retrospective compensation, but it's definitely a step forward. However, I must agree with my fellow Members who have suggested that this health insurance contribution alone does not trigger the pension scheme. You should think about it and see that you made a mistake when you abolished the service pension system with a pen stroke. Indeed, the introduction of a new system of service pensions, which is reasonable and takes into account social needs, is inevitable. I think that, in any case, as I have seen my fellow Members speak, more support would be given to the government if such work were to be prepared. I would also like to emphasise, Mr Secretary of State, and I would also like to say this to Minister, that if you had paid more attention to professional and trade union opinions six years ago, you would have avoided the series of protests that we brought the stock into. In fact, it would not have been necessary if you had been serious about dialogue and meaningful consultation. Unfortunately, it didn't happen that way. By the way, I think it's not the job of policemen, soldiers, to show their opinion on the street. I felt really bad myself when I had to protest on the street in uniform. I think that the state must always appreciate the staff who undertake the armed service for us, for our citizens. I, too, would like to thank all my fellow soldiers, policemen, firefighters, prison guards, customs officers, customs officers or officers serving in the Secret Service for the sacrifices they do for us, for citizens, often risking their lives and their health. I would also like to submit several amendments, and one of the most important ones, I think, is that I ask for a retroactive settlement of the matter. I would also ask you, and my fellow members of the Government, to reconsider and support it, because we are talking about hundreds of police officers and soldiers who are in a completely unworthy situation because they have been put on the streets without any care as a result of an unthinkable retirement system. This could now be settled in some way with retroactive effect. I think that if they really meant the intention to value the stock, then this would be a message value not only for those who are out of the stock, but also for those who are serving at the moment. The message could not and could not have been worse than when you terminated the pension system, and all of this was introduced to the stock inside, because these people had undertaken to serve on the condition that they were estimated at the end of their career with a service pension system. [[10.40]] There have also been such changes in several countries in Europe, where they have changed the service pension system, tightened it up, for example, with Poles, but only with regard to the new entry stock, and not with regard to the stock already in it. Not to mention that there is exactly a document signed in 2003 for each 20-year-old person who has a service right when the State has legally undertaken to be entitled to a service pension corresponding to their pension fixed at that time. You have practically abolished this and have not applied the previous rules to them, while at that time the government gave you a guarantee, precisely to prevent the emigration from the bodies at that time. It is important that this new regulation has been introduced. Obviously, the amendments can and should be supported, but I would also like to emphasise once again that a new system of service pensions is needed, even because, if you look at the figures, there is indeed a huge turnover, as young people come in, we train them for huge money, and in two to three to four years they leave the body, while they actually start to have the skills that organisations need. This fluctuations could be stopped very well by providing a normal housing system and a normal pension system. One more thing: Mr Secretary, please talk about why, after all, the insurance scheme promised to the stock, which would otherwise have been subject to everyone's rights, has not been introduced. This is what this new method has now been presented. What happened and why they took this out: Because they promised that the career model would be three-legged, and one leg of it would be an insurance system introduced, which they wanted to introduce on 1 January 2017. A word about this could not be heard about why they eventually withdrew from this concept. Thank you very much. [[Dr. Wind Bernadett applauds.]]
u2016-10-12-26	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, We would now have two-minute speeches, but no one came forward for two minutes. However, as a representative asking for a normal word, Mr Béla Turi-Kovács did. Here you go.
u2016-10-12-27	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I do not wish to repeat what was said by the Secretary of State and my fellow members of the Government, which I fully share. Undoubtedly, after a long, long time, it is this government that for the first time thought about making certain changes that are not only durable, predictable, but also a firm step forward for the stock itself. On the basis of direct experience, I can say that today, the majority of the stock feels strongly that the government is concerned that in certain areas the government is taking steps to ensure their long-term stay in the profession. This is very important. I think that even the opposition may not be in doubt today. There have been changes, especially in the area of remuneration, which really means that you can stay on the track, and last but not least, this track can now attract people with a high level of education who have previously avoided it. One of the reasons for this is material appreciation, but the other is that it has changed significantly - and we have not mentioned this today, although this is essential - also social appreciation. This is a crucial issue. Today, being a police officer is not the same as being a policeman eight to ten years ago or earlier when they were victims of lousy cabaret trees, when they were constantly exposed to the fact that, in the case of police officers working for us, they were caught in crossfires that couldn't be protected. Today, this situation has fundamentally changed. However, I would also like to make a point about what has been strongly raised here from the opposition side, from our independent fellow Member, and that is the situation of the pension. My point of view is that closing a career model involves a pension option that is predictable, but far from the one that has been abolished. In that, I believe, all thinkers must agree that the former pension system, which existed for law enforcement workers, was unsustainable. There were situations and abuses that irritated those inside themselves, those remaining in the system. So this was not sustainable. However, this does not mean to me that, when the possibility is given, it should not be possible for us to think about a pension system that is a pension system, I would say once again, to close the career model itself. It is in the interests of all of us that workers in this area remain on the track, preferably as long as they are able to work. But there must also be a guarantee that if there is a situation when this is no longer possible, then a safe career should be guaranteed for them afterwards. What the government has just put forward is a significant step, so I will support and support it. How well this will work or work less well, Mr Secretary of State, this will depend decisively on how the system of implementation of this will be, how one will get to the point of achieving a certain opportunity that the law will guarantee him, by the way. I believe that there are important tasks before the Ministry, which I hope will be resolved by the Ministry. These can be the guarantees that, if they are incorporated into either a ministerial or a government decree, they can provide greater security for those working there in the coming time. However, this does not preclude what I have said, namely that it is worth thinking about how to create a pension situation, where we can take into account what kind of job it is that needs to be done, what is the task that needs to be done, what are the extraordinary tasks that we are now witnessing. The years to come will not be about making these easier. I am convinced whether you like it or not - and this is not a migrant issue in the first place, although it is also - that the pressure on law enforcement bodies will not decrease from the outside to the inside, but rather increase. The kind of European situation that takes place in front of our eyes does not allow Hungary to withdraw from this, unfortunately Hungary needs protection here. And we need to expect this protection from here in the first place, from the organisations that have already proven it. Yeah, I've seen those pictures, I've seen the movies that have pointed to difficulties at the border. I am convinced that the government is working with every effort to prevent these from happening again, especially in winter. It's very important to have a safe situation there. And even more I see the possibility that this will happen, because I think it is a very decisive step that the government has moved in such a way as to increase the number of staff, and I believe that this increase will also increase security at the border. Consequently, the pressure there, the sometimes difficult and serious situation there, will and may be lifted. I, for my part, am in favour of the government referral in this hope. [[Applause in the ranks of Fidesz, MSZP and the independent.]]
u2016-10-12-28	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I'll ask if anyone still wants to take the opportunity to speak. [[No one's reporting.]] I'm gonna say no. As no one has made any further comments, the general debate is closed. I'll ask the Secretary of State if he wants to reflect. [[For signal:]] Yeah. Mr Károly Kontra has the floor. Here you go.
u2016-10-12-29	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, I would like to thank the fellow Members and the factions who have expressed their support for the bill and support the bill on the basis of their comments made during the general debate; so I would like to thank Mr Fidesz, Member Mátyás Firtl, on behalf of the KDNP Group, and I would also like to thank Mr Béla Turi-Kovács, representative of Fidesz, who supports the bill. I would like to address other parts of the Member's statement at the end. I would therefore like to thank the factions, groups and Members who have given their support during the debate. [[10.50]] After that, I would like to respond to the comments of the leaders of the opposition groups, so I would like to respond to the comments of my fellow Member, Mr Demeter, MSZP, Ádám Mirkóczki, Jobbik and Bernadett Szél, LMP. First of all, I would like to point out that this bill represents the implementation of the third pillar of the Service Act, which entered into force on 1 July 2015. We said that a system of promotion and salary, housing support, housing support, and the third pillar included that, in the event of injury or illness acquired during the performance of the service, which renders the professional unfit for the service, there should be a guarantee, a system that ensures his financial security, contributes to the creation or survival of financial security. This is therefore aimed at creating a third pillar. However, let us not ignore the first part of this bill, which will enter into force on 1 January 2017, with an average salary increase of 5 per cent. This is also an important part of the promise that, after 1 July 2015, we will achieve an average salary increase of 50 per cent by 1 January 2019. This is a very important part of the bill. The source of this is also guaranteed, since the Parliament has already adopted Hungary's 2017 budget, and as a source and cover of careers programmes, the Prime Minister's Office chapter has a total of HUF 180 billion for this purpose, not only for professionals, law enforcement and defence, but also for those involved in other career programmes. So we have the source of this, and now we're creating the legal conditions. I ask my fellow Members to support this. That's what the first part of the bill is about. And the other part, once again, is implementing the third pillar of the Service Act, the introduction of forms of health damage care. I would like to point out that this is not a substitute for or a response to a service pension, but serves the objectives clearly set out in the bill: a person who suffers health damage in relation to duty obligations which endangers his existence and safety is provided for in the bill for a solution. I do not want to devote more words in this House to why the service pension had to be abolished as of 1 January 2012. It had to be terminated because the service pension was unfair, unsustainable and unfunded. I don't want to go into any more details. As far as this proposal is concerned: once again, this includes the third element of the career model, and the new form of health damage care seeks to offset the negative effects of the forced career correction of persons affected by health damage in terms of eligibility conditions, nature and extent of care, not by the legal institution for the replacement of a former service pension, but by contrast. At the same time, the benefit scheme also strengthens the existential security of the staff until pension rights are reached, taking into account the voluntary commitment of the member of the professional staff resulting from the legal relationship, with the partial replacement of lost income, given that the primary objective of continuing employment of persons who become entitled to the new form of care in another job corresponding to the changed health status of the person concerned is also the primary objective. The service relationship of those who choose to provide benefits will be terminated by virtue of the law, so they will not be entitled to an exemption period and severance pay, unlike those who have previously come to similar situations. Taking into account this fundamental derogation, it is only possible to establish a new form of supply at the same time as the legislative amendment enters into force from 1 January 2017. Ladies and gentlemen, I thought it was important to state this in order to be clear about what this proposal is about. Congresswoman Márta Demeter started by saying that there is a huge lag in the area of salary increases. Madam Member, I would like to say that if there had not been the pay conditions between 2002 and 2010, if they had cared about the salary of the stock, the situation would have been different. At the time, I was an opposition representative, and I tabled countless amendments to the annual budget, Hst., to improve this, but I did not achieve a result. So if it hadn't been the base we had to start from in 2010, then the stock situation would have been much better. Then he also said that there was no salary increase between 2010-14. This is not true because, if you recall, an additional allowance was increased between 2010-14 for deputy officers and ensigns in several cases, i.e. for deputy officers and ensigns and not for the entire professional staff. Let's just be fair and be precise. In 2014, we promised to create a new career model. This was discussed on several occasions with the representative organisations of interest, the Hungarian Law Enforcement Faculty, the parliamentary parties, and then the law was submitted in spring 2015, as I recall, it was adopted in April, perhaps on 14 April, and this law entered into force on 1 July 2015. Since then, the promises we made have been fulfilled. We will meet the conditions both for achieving 50 per cent and for the other pillars of the career programme. It has also been said that there are situations in which professional staff are unable to carry out their duties as age progresses. In this regard, Béla Turi-Kovács also made a proposal. This is what I would like to say to the Member and the Members. With all due respect, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the current law of service, the new Hst, is currently in force. He is also familiar with the concept of pre-retirement provision staff, which was created by this Act of Service, which is available five years before the old age pension, so in the five years before the age pension is reached on the application of the professional staff, he ensures a decent closure of the career, adequate recreation and non-service, while ensuring that the salary is paid. In other words, one of the target systems for pre-age pensions is already guaranteed. So in a situation that my fellow Members have talked about, what if the professional is unable to do his job, well, then this can be used five years before the retirement age is reached, so he can stay at home and get paid by the professional. That is what I wanted to tell my fellow Members. [[Sándor Lezsák, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] As to the comments of Mr Adam Mirkóczki: I will not repeat the answer to the service pension. Congressman asked how many people would be affected by this new system now, according to our calculations. In view of the current data, if it came into force this year - but it does not enter into force now - only from 1 January 2017 - 113 people would be eligible for these forms of supply. He also suggested what was the situation caused by the damage to health during the psychic load. I would like to say that benefits also apply if psychiatric illness is found in a professional population. I think that's a clear answer. So we do not distinguish between sickness and disease. If a psychiatric illness is diagnosed, it also applies. Congressman Konya said that people work black. Congressman, black employment is an illegal act, if you know about it, act and comply with the obligations of your representatives. We hope that, as a law-abiding man, the congressman will do so. [[11.00]] As regards the comments made by Mrs Bernadett Szél, I have already partially responded with regard to the previous ones. The career law, he says, hasn't made any progress. Congresswoman, let me tell you that this statement is not true. I can also prove this by saying that if it were not so, if it had not reached its goal, there would have been no more than 1,500 people on the border hunting service. The recruitment started on September 1st, and now more than 1,500 people have applied to 3,000 locations. We are confident that this will be fully uploaded and that the new professional career will make this area more attractive. I think this number proves that this is not true. Congressman Ádám Mirkóczki suggested that he would like a picture of this law being put into effect. Well, there is no Member here, but I will tell everyone in reply that we have the parliamentary instruments for this, whether it is an interpellation, an immediate question, a simple question or a Commission report. Every year, Minister will report to the committee concerned, whether before the Defence and Police Committee, in the framework of the annual report. We will take advantage of the opportunity to inform this House of the results of this report or otherwise. I believe that the common goal is to ensure that this system works well, and this system is fulfilling the ideas on which we have created it. I would like to highlight one more thing: the state of public security. My fellow Member has suggested that public safety has deteriorated. That's not true. After all, we can say that public safety has improved significantly over the last six years. I'm not saying any numbers now, but they also confirm that the number of known crimes has decreased from 430,000 to 270,000. But let me tell you another data that people feel every day, based on their own experience, that, in addition to the increased border protection tasks, the protection of the southern border in September 2015, public security has improved further. So there are results, hats off to the professional staff. I, too, would like to thank the staff here for their service, either in the settlements or at the southern border or at any place of service. I think you're doing a good job, and I thank you for that. As regards the supply of those serving at the border, I would like to say that the Government, the Ministry of the Interior, the National Police Headquarters, the Ministry of Defence will do everything in its power to ensure that the conditions for effective and successful service are met, both in terms of accommodation, food, health care, equipment, technical equipment and the necessary protective equipment. I'd like to tell you that we're making sure that we're doing everything we can. I ask my fellow Members not to make statements that are not true. I mean, it's not a goal to dissuade the stock. The country is making enormous efforts to protect the southern border. Thank you for the police, border fighters and soldiers serving there, who successfully and effectively defend the borders of Hungary and the European Union. Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that this is a bill whose adoption is a significant step forward with regard to staff, I trust you to support it. Several people even asked questions about the Honvéd Health Fund. Congresswoman Márta Demeter also asked a written question in this regard, to which the answer was given. But I would like to say that the Honvéd Health Fund operates on a market principle, an association that provides services that complement social security benefits in the spirit of volunteering, independence and reciprocity. In this regard, we have answered several times in Parliament, myself and the representatives of the Ministry of Defence to the questions that are being said. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that we are at the general debate of a bill that serves the recognition of personnel, the enforcement of the law of service, the public safety of Hungary, the Hungarian people. I ask the Honourable Parliament to support this proposal. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-10-12-30	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. My compliments to my fellow Members. CXXXIV of 2013 on the provision of individual public services and related legislative amendments. General discussion of the bill amending the law until closure. The government referral is T/12369. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Secretary of State Tibor Pogácsás, Secretary of State of the Ministry of the Interior, author of the item on the agenda, within a 30-minute time frame. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2016-10-12-31	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, On 1 April 2016, the reformed waste management public service system was launched, one of the elements of which is that the National Waste Management Coordinator and Asset Management Ltd. collect a reduced public service charge from real estate users and pay the public service companies a service charge containing the total direct cost of the public service. The purpose of the legislative amendment we are discussing is to ensure that, in the case of non-regular shipments of waste, when the public service provider carries out the temporary supply on the basis of official designation, the rules governing invoicing and financing of the public service contract are applied, and thus complete the public service billing system. According to the bill, the total direct cost of temporary care to the designated service provider will be reimbursed in the form of a service fee, the specific amount of which will be determined by the coordinating body on the basis of a detailed calculation laid down in the Ministerial Decree. For the purpose of determining the amount of the service fee, the designated public service provider shall provide the personal data contained in the Waste Act and any other information on the basis of which the coordinating body can bill the public service fee to the public and shall be able to pay the service fee to the designated service provider. In addition, the designated service provider shall process personal data itself in order to identify and provide information to the real estate users. However, it is important to point out that in all cases the processing is intended and that the data subject is obliged to delete them immediately if the treatment is not for the purposes specified by law or its purpose is terminated. It is necessary to provide for the processing of personal data at a legal level, which is why the guaranteed rules described are included in the bill. Dear Parliament, The bill contributes to the implementation of a single waste management public service system by introducing appropriate funding for non-regular shipments of waste in line with the technical content of the service carried out, thus supporting the conclusion of public service contracts in addition to public engagement. Dear Parliament, Dear House, I'm asking you to support the bill. Thank you for the floor, Mr President.
u2016-10-12-32	Thank you very much, Secretary of State Pogács. Dear Parliament, We now have the keynote speeches in 15 minutes' time. First, I give the floor to Mr Béla Turi-Kovács, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group. [[11.10]]
u2016-10-12-33	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Following the adoption of the Waste Act in 2012, and even before that, the government has always sought to end unreasonable, unnecessary disputes in the field of waste supply and to make it clear that the government supports a lasting, safe solution in the field of waste management. It was a new element when the government also made it clear that in this area, as well as in this area of services and public services, the reduction of the rent is a primary objective which it intends not only to maintain but also to improve. A prerequisite for this is that the safe service that we are talking about should be implemented in such a way that companies are involved in the service and companies that are able to guarantee the service not only temporarily but permanently. Consequently, it was necessary to establish the State's preconditions which ensured that they were controlled and to ensure that these tasks were carried out. I believe that the entry of the coordinating body was not only necessary, but it was definitely a measure without which the objectives would not be achieved. However, it should also be noted that the increase in temporary benefits, obviously due to the fact that insecurity has appeared in many respects in the territory of the municipalities, these temporary benefits have now increased to such an extent that 127 municipalities are expected to need such services from 2017 onwards. However, there are a significant part of them, some 68 settlements that will no longer be eligible for this service. Therefore, the government had to move in a direction that guarantees safe service. I would like to say this separately, and I think that it is necessary to talk about this, that the municipalities have a kind of holding on to the emerging system. I would like to reassure the local governments from a pro-government point of view that there is not some kind of driver's license withdrawal going on. It is not a story of the intention of the government to reduce or squeeze the tasks of the municipalities, but of the fact that the possibilities of the municipalities are very different across the country. I do not think it is necessary to state that there is a situation today and that it will remain in the long term, I think, within the country, as is the case everywhere in the world, that there are very well-off municipalities, less well-off, and indeed there are some that are very difficult to exist. However, the government wishes to guarantee these services, and therefore the government's involvement should not be seen as some sort of unreasonable intervention, but as a necessary step, a step that I believe will guarantee a kind of balanced service at all times in the long term. This is precisely the purpose of this bill where it makes the two little changes that were needed. Bills cannot be collected in such a way that the data are not available, so it was necessary to create a condition for this, but at the same time to create a safe condition, and the law guarantees that no abuse of these possibilities will occur. Therefore, our faction supports the government referral. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2016-10-12-34	Thank you very much, Congressman Béla Turi-Kovács. I now give the floor to Congresswoman Anita Heringes, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group. You have the floor.
u2016-10-12-35	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, Yes, we agree that data provision should also be regulated when we are talking about a designated public service provider. My naive question is that if this whole system was changed on April 1, when the checks are now issued by someone else, not the public service company, then where has this been regulated since April 1st. If we just realized that the data service has to be regulated, it's been quite a while since April 1st, and that's when this thing was hanging in the air. But that should be our biggest problem, really, because this whole system is slowly collapsing, and unfortunately you can see that, but you just don't want to admit it to yourself. Before April 1, a company was set up that had only one task: to send out the cheques to the public, collect the money and distribute it back to the public service companies. Well, he hasn't done this job since April 1st. It's October now, fellow Members. When I said to a number of my fellow Members all summer that this was not going on, the people had not received the cheques since 1 April, the third quarter's check should have arrived, and there is an apartment, there is a citizen who has not received a single check since 1 April to this day. If this company has been operating since April 1st and you think this service is working, then I don't know where, because at the moment, a good part of the population sees it anywhere and nowhere. They only had one goal, one thing this company does better than any other, that they rented their own top-of-the-line cars and rented their own offices for 11 500 euros a month in the middle of downtown. 58 people work there for an average of 410,000 forints - the cheques have not been sent out since April 1st. If this were the way to do his job, the person who had to take the trash away from the residents' house would be standing in front of a crowd of eyes right now in front of the port of most of the population. Who's responsible for this? I haven't had an answer to that in a very long time, who's finally going to take responsibility for this. I understand that there are friends who have to start a company for a good salary, and they have to buy high-end mid-end cars by public procurement - oh, by the way, by the way, from Posta Cart Ltd. and that, by the way, the printing of the cheques will be done by a company linked to the Post Office, and by the way, the Post Office is doing everything around it, but it's got a public procurement written out on it, so maybe we can find something better, and then they just happen to be the only ones left... Ladies and gentlemen, Let's think numbers. So far, there has been a public service that has been able to deliver the cheque to the public for 50 forints, or otherwise, the fee-payer went around and collected it. At the moment, Magyar Posta will probably not be able to solve this at HUF 160. That's more than three times the price. We're standing here, and I don't know how many times we're changing this area, by the way. It's being absolved to use it as a campaign tool, and in order to create a well-paying job for friends, it's rented in the middle of downtown for 3 1/2 million a month. They rent the office for that. I think it is an outrageous thing that I cannot imagine, honourable Members, that this can continue to be done with honor, and when they look inside themselves, they do not feel that they are children, it really cannot go on like this. Normally, in a company operating on a market basis, if this is the case, if it hasn't done its job since April 1st, it hasn't sent out the cheques, it can't even print the checks, because they're giving certain public service providers the information that the billing image isn't right - so are we going to look out or are we going to do the job? I understand that the account picture is not appropriate because you have to write down the reduction in bills in better and larger letters, only gentlemen, it should not be used as a campaign tool either, but it should be possible to create a functioning system. When we said that the system was not working several times in the summer, we were told to calm down most of the opposition representatives who spoke because in August everyone would receive the checks. It's October, and with us, Pakson hasn't arrived yet. Then what is happening here, fellow Members? Of course, I'm more passionate, too, because I always hear in return that we just create tension. I just think it's facts. If the start of a task on 1 April and the checks do not arrive for the public in October, then probably the coordinating body is not doing its job well, then it should be held accountable. Then we really don't have the main problem that we're changing here, what information, data, and how long you can handle. This is also a very important question. This should also be regulated, but this should also have been well thought out, let us say, around April 1st. Let's be honest, it says here that it's the designated public service. When do we assign the public service? At a time when, by the way, the public service company that has worked there so far cannot continue its work at this price. This also shows that this system is not working at the moment. They have created a system that is nothing but to create an account factory where there are well-paying jobs, there are nice high-end cars, there are expensive offices, and there is nothing else, because the checks, I say once again, have not been sent out to this day. I have one question: will the three-quarterly check be given at the same time to the population who has not received it today? That's going to be an amount that's already unsuitable to an average family. You can say there's gonna be a payout, but the problem is, the details are gonna be unsuitable. [[11.20]] Please, fellow Members, look into your souls and tell your own government that this cannot go on, let us put this system in order. Ask the profession, ask the so far well-functioning public services, who were largely municipal-owned non-profit companies, that children, how can this be done well! You shouldn't use blinders, and you shouldn't just go where you think you're going, sometimes you have to say, yes, we've made a mistake, it was a bad idea, it's an unsustainable system, we've got it all wrong. You have to be able to say that, too, and I think you grow big in everyone's eyes when you can say that. It's not that big a deal. The only thing that can happen to the rural population is that it will not receive a check for three quarters, it cannot happen that the public service system in this area is completely collapsing, and it cannot happen that it is only important to you and only to create the GJU. Please, fellow Members, think about this, and we are available, and I think that we should sit down and discuss a longer debate on how this system should be fixed. Since the government has to present this, the law also says that the profession should be asked, that it should be discussed with society, that it should not be submitted as an independent representative, but that it can be carried through the social debate, and that then we could create a functioning system, rather than keeping it there - the word is also grammatical - that disaster protection is doing this work, and that it appoints the public service. The word disaster control is grammatically a wonderful picture of this. Thank you very much.
u2016-10-12-36	Thank you very much, Congresswoman Anita Heringes. I now give the floor to Mr Lajos Kepli, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group.
u2016-10-12-37	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, The main question, as has already been said here, is who pays for the check, who will pay for the government's faulty decision-making and legislative policy. Because on 1 April, when National Waste Management, Public Service and Asset Management Co-ordination Zrt. was established, you would have had the opportunity to grant this organisation a certain transitional period of time to be able to do what the legislation authorised it to do and at the same time required it to do the invoicing tasks. Instead, you quickly created the legislation, pushed it through Parliament, as usual, came into force, and then there was the organization, which already existed, with millions of offices, vehicles, etc., just couldn't perform its basic task, couldn't send invoices for shipments of waste to the public. Therefore, it is not the Hungarian population that is faulty and, of course, it is not the companies that perform the service physically, but the new mammoth organization you created, the new central coordination organisation, which was unable to carry out its own task for which it was created. It is quite unprecedented, I would say, but unfortunately it is not, because in recent years we have seen a lot of strange things in the Fidesz administration's legislative practice, but it also fits perfectly in the line. It would not be such a big problem if it were not for the public, if there were no risk of public service provision or the risk of not providing public service, or if there was no danger that the public would now have to pay several monthly or several quarterly invoices at the same time, as this is the case. In recent days, the Hungarian population has received a nearly six-month cheque and a half-year fee in many places, but as we have heard from my fellow MSZP Member, not everywhere yet, but it will probably happen in the near future in other places as well. How can it be, I ask, that these checks have not been sent out to the public in recent months? After all, it could be a positive thing that, for six months, the public received a temporary extension from the public service fee, but it is not, because now it is September, there is the start of school, there is the heating season and many other expenses on the neck of families, and now they are also receiving a fee for the last half-year, which, according to Jobbik's view, should be taken over by the government and the state, and the budget should be able to find a source to avoid burdening the population because of the failure of the government, because of the situation created by the legislation, rather than burdening the Hungarian government with the public's wallet. We have said this in a number of forums over the last few weeks that we believe this should happen. Yes, the story goes back to 2012, in 2012, when this new waste management, waste management law was established and the whole system started to build, it was already apparent that this system was not going to be a functioning system, but it would only make the system that wasn't very good even worse. Now I don't want to go back to the basics of waste management for a few sentences at most. If we look at how these huge regional systems of tender money will be sustainable, how they can meet the requirements of the tender, then we see that the reduction in the amount of money created by you and supported by Jobbik in many places in these companies is causing it, because elsewhere they could not replace their resources, that they could not provide the operating conditions required in the tender, which could, where appropriate, result in the repayment of some or all of the tender money, and, of course, of course, endanger the functioning of the entire waste management system, whether tomorrow, the next day, next month, who will deliver the municipal waste exposed to the house; that is, this is the case, translated into ordinary language. The creation of such legislation is clearly also intended to ensure that, if a service provider falls, the disaster management authority designates a service provider who can carry out the task or who is able to do the billing, who is temporarily entrusted with the task. Where does this lead, however, to be based on cases which are not normal, but the exceptional situation, so that we can create and adjust a quasi-normal situation in the situation where the invoices can be sent out by the temporarily entrusted company, instead of trying to re-establish the whole system, a functioning system, and otherwise lower than the current waste transfer charges could be achieved. Only the government is still unable to think in a whole waste management chain, or at least it does not seem to be able to, since if this whole waste management thinking were not concentrated, these situations would not be possible, since it could be an economical and financially profitable waste management system in Hungary. Instead, it is now, and several times, there have been complaints from several places in this regard that these regional waste management systems are saving where they can. For example, the large regional depot in Királyszentistván near my residence receives regular complaints from neighbouring settlements about the smell. Which comes from what? It is obviously due to the fact that on the one hand, large quantities of waste are not extracted and composting organic waste, as this is a cost and, on the other hand, it does not provide daily soil cover, which is also used to prevent odor effects. As a result, this regional landfill may have been fined several times, but it can't really do anything because it can't afford the conditions for its operation. So it's obvious that we're absolving it, but the whole system is bleeding from multiple wounds. And here again, I have to point out that if we are thinking about a full waste-life cycle, on the one hand, the public would sooner or later have to make actual use-based invoicing, which means actual invoicing, whether on a mass or on a volume basis. The second is that all segments of waste, whether in materials or in energy recovery, should also be subject to conditions and a profitable, profitable industry could then be created in the field of waste management. In the meantime, these laws only serve the purpose of sending the bill to the public, which, in any case, the public can pay for such cases as when a public service provider falls in, we can prepare for it, we can appoint another service provider, and that other service provider can do its job, who can send the bill to the public, which, in any case, the public can pay, but not in the worst case, because the government is putting extra burdens on it, from here and there, different yellow checks come, cover the mailbox, and people don't know which one to pay, which to put aside. [[11.30]] In the long term, there is an unsustainable financial situation in the lives of Hungarian families, which is what we see in most Hungarian families, but unfortunately the government has already been separated from reality at a level that we find in everyday life that it is unable to see through the problems of most Hungarian families, the problems of ordinary Hungarian families, and it is not able to guarantee solutions, whether by law or by other legislation, that would enable them to fulfil these financial obligations. Of course, this would be far from the problem of waste management, and I am not going to do that right now. What we always say, I conclude by saying that we would like to see a whole new system of waste management developed, that Jobbik is pushing for, and that is what Jobbik would do if it came to government. Thus, the process of absolving the current system is not a viable way for us, and we cannot assist in doing so. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-10-12-38	Thank you very much, Congressman Lajos Kepli. On behalf of the LMP Group, Ms Erzsébet Schmuck presented herself. You have the floor.
u2016-10-12-39	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, What the government is doing now is basically sweeping the bankruptcies it has created in the waste sector. First, by increasing the taxes on the sector, it decided on the majority of the public and municipal majority-owned waste services, and now, in fear of the consequences of a series of bankruptcies, it seeks to speed up and simplify the appointment of forced service providers to replace businesses in distress, so as not to flood the affected municipalities. Well, we already have a state douche bag, we have a designated secretary of state for waste, and you just have to convince yourself to find it in the wallets. Since the Ministry of Environment ceased to exist, most of the government members would probably be able to guess who the area belongs to. What's missing is a functioning waste management system. Most municipal waste managers have performed the municipal waste collection task without problems for decades, but the state waste monopoly created by the Orbán government is spectacularly inoperable. The harmful consequences of failed regulation and practice are not only seen in bankruptcy. According to Eurostat data, selective collection and recovery of waste has been reduced for years, there is no chance of fulfilling EU obligations for several types of waste, and this is not only an administrative problem, the remaining or unprocessed waste will sooner or later end up in the environment, or better on landfills, while it could be used in the economy. The LMP has been a sign of trouble for a long time, and we have also made proposals for a solution. We believe that the key to success lies in European waste management principles: pollution, i.e. waste disposal, has to be paid by the polluter, and the state has to help prevent, that is to say, less waste in trade and everyday life. This could be the objective of a rationally imposed green tax, as could the introduction of mandatory re-uptakes in beverage packaging. However, what the government does instead of a sensible and sustainable waste policy does not lead to anything. Bankruptcy, layoffs, and orphaned trash mountains accompany new government waste reforms. One of the country's largest local government-owned public services, Green Bridge in Gödöllő, has been reported for months, but there are problems on the shore of Lake Balaton, Debrecen, Nyíregyháza and many others. The state waste mammoth has not yet been able to cope with the difficult task of drawing up accounts, and it is already apparent that the operation of the new system will be much more expensive. Of course, there are also some who benefit: the state kukaholding spends hundreds of millions of forints on creating a new national billing system, which gives István Garancsi company partners another well-paying state mandate. According to LMP, the government's task would not be to steal the well-paying segments of the nationalised waste sector for buddies, but to provide an efficient, environmentally sustainable, high-quality waste public service to the public. So far, this challenge has been solved by municipal waste companies without any error. If the state doesn't go, then give the government back the opportunity, stop experimenting with the environment and people's tolerance. The proposal for a new miscarriage is not supported by the LMP - which we do not think is necessary by the government. Thank you for your attention.
u2016-10-12-40	Thank you very much, Madam Group leader. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. I will ask if anyone else wants to take the opportunity to speak. [[No one's reporting.]] I don't see any contact. Dear Parliament, The general debate is closed. I'll ask the author... [[Tibor Scone puts his microphone on.]] But I'm not asking, because I can see how you're doing. I give the floor to Secretary Tibor Pogácsás.
u2016-10-12-41	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, First of all, I thank you for your support in expressing support for the adoption of the draft law by the speaker of Fidesz. The opposition's comments were practically not related to the present draft law, but were general, and generally the problems of waste management were visualised. Continuously from the first minute of the reduction [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: Past events cannot be visualized!]] This is not the case, as has been proven in recent years. I call on this House to support the law. Thank you, Mr. President. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: This is a meaningful answer!]]
u2016-10-12-42	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Dear Parliament, A general discussion of the bill on the implementation of the 2015 single budget of the National Media and Infocommunications Authority will follow. Presentation by the Committee on Budgets T/10903. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr Attila Szabolcs, rapporteur for the Committee on Budgets, rapporteur on the agenda, in a 30-minute time frame. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2016-10-12-43	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear fellow Members, Dear House, The 2010 CLXXXV on media services and mass communication. Law 134. Pursuant to paragraph 2 of Section 2 of the Act, the National Media and Infocommunication Authority shall submit by 31 May of each year the accounts for the previous year, which shall be adopted by the National Assembly in an independent law. The authority has sent it to the Committee on Budgets on 30 May and has submitted it to this House. I stress that, at the committee meeting, there was no debate on closing accounts, with 10 yeses and 3 nos. This proposed discharge bill reports on the implementation of a total of four separate budgets. It includes the report of the National Media and Infocommunications Authority, the special report of the Media Council and the budget for revenue and expenditure managed by the Media Council, and the budget of the Media Support and Asset Management Fund. Allow me to highlight only the main numbers. The Authority's budget revenue in 2015 was HUF 32.7 billion, which is around 1 percent surplus compared to the initial statutory allocation. Expenditures were completed at HUF 32 billion, which is 98.7 percent of the initial appropriations. [[11.40]] The most significant revenue comes from the frequency charges, HUF 18.1 billion, followed by the ID fee with HUF 2.5 billion. In addition, the supervisory fee amounted to HUF 2 billion. The Media Council's operational budget amounted to HUF 173.9 million, which includes the members' fees, expert expenses and the amounts spent on the operating support of co-regulatory staff. It should be mentioned here that, when drawing up the accounts, the legal requirements have changed, for example, because of a government decree, the remnants of previous years and the general turnover tax should also be included. The total revenue and expenditure managed by the Media Council in 2015 amounted to HUF 1.43 billion. The budget of the Media Service Support and Asset Management Fund in 2015 was close to HUF 80.5 billion. In addition, MTVA has commercial and asset management revenues, which amounted to HUF 5.7 billion. The revenue and expenditure side of the budget of MTVA for 2015 was achieved in total at HUF 91.8 billion, together with the money remains of EUR 4.1 billion last year. Dear House, I would like to say a few words about MTVA's loans, as in 2012 MTVA purchased the headquarters of Kunigunda Street. The institution took out loans for the purchase of the headquarters and for the settlement of debts accumulated in previous years. The complex loan package consisted of HUF 36,6 billion of investment loans, HUF 20 billion of working capital loans and HUF 4 billion of overdrafts, and included a bank guarantee framework of HUF 1 billion. During 2015, MTVA cancelled nearly HUF 1.6 billion of investment and working capital loans. In order to manage liquidity, overdrafts remain available to MTVA for HUF 4 billion. Dear House, I believe that, by reviewing the report, we can conclude that the operation of the NMHH in 2015 and its financial situation have been given a real and reliable picture, and that this is also the conclusion of the requested auditor. Although there is no statutory obligation for the authority to audit, it is reassuring to all of us that its management has also been consulted by auditors. In view of the above, I call on my fellow Members to support the adoption of this motion. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-10-12-44	Thank you very much, Congressman Attila Szabolcs. The representative of the Government indicated that he did not wish to present his position during the debate. Dear Parliament, Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. First, I give the floor to Mrs Mónika Dunai, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2016-10-12-45	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, The draft law on the implementation of the 2015 single budget of the National Media and Infocommunications Authority, i.e. the draft closing act, reports on the implementation of four separate budgets, including the report of the National Media and Infocommunications Authority, the report of the Media Council, the budget for revenue and expenditure managed by the Media Council and the budget for the Media Service Support and Asset Management. For the first time, let us review the first small budget, the budget of the National Media and Infocommunications Authority. The Authority's budget revenue for 2015 amounted to HUF 32.7 billion, which represents a surplus of around 1 percent compared to the initial appropriations under the law. The most significant revenue comes from the frequency charges, HUF 18.1 billion, followed by the ID fee and the $2 billion supervisory fee. VAT revenue is also charged on the first two items, amounting to HUF 5.5 billion, which will be paid into the state budget in a similar order of magnitude. Expenditure was completed in HUF 32 billion, which is 98.7 percent of the initial statutory appropriation. The main items are: personal allowances and contributions HUF 8.1 billion, real estate expenses HUF 10.5 billion, other operating expenses HUF 10.9 billion, and accumulation expenses HUF 2.5 billion. As a balance between the use of reserves in previous years and the provision of reserves for the year, HUF 6.7 billion of money was created, the proposed use of which was as follows. The 2015 liabilities cover HUF 1.4 billion, the operational reserve of the following years HUF 4.1 billion, Mttv. According to its section on media awareness development, HUF 1.1 billion, and HUF 0.1 billion for Digi 2 technology change. The second major unity of the proposal submitted is the report of the Media Council. The budget of the Media Council contained only the members' fees and expert expenses, as well as the sum of the co-regulators' operating grants, with HUF 173.9 million in revenue and expenditure. In the report, the report included a report on the accounting of public finances on 4/2013. the revenue and expenditure of the general sales tax planned as non-budget and the reserves of the previous years, as required by the government regulation, shall be entered in this budget. Delivering an amended estimate of revenue is HUF 600,9 million. As a result of the cost-effective management, the implementation of budget expenditure proposed spending HUF 471 million and HUF 82.2 million for the year for the NMHH. Our third major unit, our chapter, is the budget for revenue and expenditure managed by the Media Council. Revenues from the media market are included in trends managed by the Media Council, the main element of which is the media service fee. The revenue was HUF 1.2 billion, which represents a 16 percent deficit compared to the initial allocation of HUF 1.4 billion, due to the VAT transfer mentioned in the previous point. The fourth major chapter is the budget of the Media Service Support and Asset Management Fund. The backbone of MTVA's revenue budget is the public service contribution, the sum of which is Mttv. was designed on the basis of HUF 70.6 billion. In Hungary's 2015 budget, the inflation rate was lower than expected, so this amount was adjusted to HUF 69.9 billion. The decrease was compensated for by the excess performance of other commercial revenues. Total revenue was HUF 91.9 billion, while budget expenditure amounted to HUF 86.5 billion. [[11.50]] The HUF 5.4 billion difference for out-of-budget items was mainly due to credit repayment, as stated in the author's exposé. Dear House, It is also important to stress that, in the absence of legislation, the institutional annual budgetary accounts, which are the basis documents of the draft closing accounts bill submitted, were considered by the independent auditors invited by the Authority and the Media Council, taking into account the principle of sound management control, according to which the accounts give a reliable and fair view of the implementation of the budgets and the financial and income situation on 31 December 2015. A similar audit report and opinion were prepared on the examination of the budget and the management of MTVA. As a whole, it can be concluded that the institutions concerned have carried out their duties under the Finance Act and the Media Act in a transparent manner, in compliance with accounting and public finance standards. Ladies and gentlemen, On this basis, I would like to inform you that the Fidesz Group supports the proposal tabled by the Committee on Budgets. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2016-10-12-46	Thank you very much, Congresswoman Mónika Dunai. I now give the floor to Mrs Dóra Dúró, the lead speaker of the Group of Jobbik.
u2016-10-12-47	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, On the culture of public finance accounting in Hungary, it says a lot that, in the case of such a proposal, the government does not want to be represented in the debate. No member is present, and according to the President's information, they do not wish to make their views known. I think it speaks for itself. Congresswoman Mónika Dunai also pointed out that it was an auditor who practically examined the presentation and this four-part accounts and gave a professional opinion on this, but, in our view, this is a systemic problem and a fundamental error. We believe that, since it is a matter of public funds, it would be up to the State Audit Office to audit the NMHH's financial statements, since they are public funds. Without giving an opinion on the audit's work in any professional way, this cannot be regarded as anything other than an internal audit, a self-control, since it is entrusted and rewarded by the same body to which an opinion on its management is to be given. We think it's a problem. It could or should be the State Audit Office which, since it concerns public funds, checks the management and accounts of the NMHH. Another problem is that the professional activities of the Media Council and the NMHH separate in this report before the National Assembly. That way we could review this structure in a uniform way, so that we could give a real opinion on how much public money was spent and what it was spent on, if, in addition, the National Assembly was also informed about the professional activities of these bodies. This is partly happening. We are discussing the report of the Media Council in the committee, but this is not possible here, before the plenary session, and the two proposals are not linked with regard to the negotiation. We therefore believe that this method of negotiation is not suitable for giving a full picture of what these funds actually spent on, what it was that the media consumers themselves received and how much it cost the taxpayers. At frequency charges, we see a deficit, an unsubscribed deposit, that's what's causing it. I would like to ask the rapporteur if he can answer that question, since it is another problem that it is a budget committee that is proposing this proposal - whether this frequency fee was paid in 2016. If we stop at the Committee on Budgets for a moment, we should also draw attention to the fact that it is a body of Members of Parliament. If we are talking about closing accounts and the budget, then it obviously requires financial planning, it requires financial knowledge, it requires background work, it requires data reporting, it requires knowledge of the system's operation, so that someone can be a well-founded author of such a proposal. Members of the Committee on Budgets are Members of Parliament, which is another occupation than that of someone involved in such planning. None of the policy makers can be regarded as professionals in this sense in terms of a budget or a closing account. So we believe that this is also a problem and makes control difficult and that the head of the media authority itself cannot be asked. You can see it from the accounts, and I'd like to talk about it in the budget, that they're a remnant, which we don't understand why. Why is it necessary, say, to have a remnant, when there are many questions, even by law, on which I could spend this remnant? For example, digital radio would be a step forward for Hungary, which had a legal deadline earlier, on 31 December 2014, only found a loophole, which did not actually have to do with the entry into force or the launch of this. The loophole that the law contains basically applies to access and devices. The law requires that this process can only be started if a certain percentage of the population has digital media reception equipment. If this remnant, which is included in the closing accounts and is planned for next year's budget, would be completely unnecessary, we believe that only a fraction of it would be used to start the switch of devices among the population that was made in the digital transition with regard to televisions - a public programme with public financial support - then digital radio broadcasting could also start in Hungary in the near future. Obviously, it would be up to professionals to determine the rate at which this can be done, and what kind of budget resources it can be co-ordinated. We see that this would require most political will. In our view, there is a lack of political will, because in the case of radio transmission, it would reduce frequency scarcity if Hungary switched to digital broadcasting, digital radio, and this would not be in the interest of the current government at all in the current media market situation. As far as MTVA is concerned, by this chapter, we see that they are simply unable to plan their budget. And here I do not want to pick up any political strings about how much money MTVA manages, but at the same time it has to be pointed out that such interim support was an example only for KLIK, but that a budget should be supplemented during the year with its one-week share is completely unprecedented. I could also ask the author who is responsible for this. Who makes such professional mistakes that they are so underplanning the budget, and what were the reasons why they had to be supplemented with such a large amount of money? This year again, they received HUF 6 billion in this respect. I'm gonna have to talk to you about taking over the debt in public media. The government has taken over HUF 50 billion in debt to the public media. It is all right that this has happened, it is acceptable, I believe that it is an act that can be accepted by citizens, but at the same time the name responsible has not been mentioned here. Who are responsible for operating the public media by raising a debt of HUF 52.5 billion? What'd he go to? What kind of contracts were those? Who gave you permission to pay them? Therefore, the accountability was not carried out in this respect either. [[12.00]] All these are the values, political and professional reasons on which Jobbik cannot support the proposal. Thank you for your attention.
u2016-10-12-48	Thank you very much, Congresswoman Dóra Dúró. I now give the floor to Mr Gergely Bárándy, on behalf of the MSZP; he tells his speech.
u2016-10-12-49	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I, too, am truly sorry that this is all the address that can be, and I cannot welcome the representatives of the government here in this Chamber, and what I still feel is an enormous lack of feeling is that I cannot welcome the President of the NMHH here in this Chamber. There has been a debate of this kind, and my position was still that when, let's say, we are discussing the accounts or budgets of the Mansion, let's say, the issues relating to the State Audit Office, the OBH, the Ombudsman, the Chief Prosecutor, the Chief Prosecutor's Office, the leaders of these organisations are always here in Parliament. Ladies and gentlemen, It's amazing and brazen that the president of the media department isn't here, but I can only welcome a coworker here in the box. I find this unacceptable, as I find it unacceptable, as well as what my colleague Dóra Dúró said that the government is also not represented. He is probably afraid of responsibility and accountability, which could at least happen verbally here in the Chamber. He is afraid of being confronted by opposition representatives about what kind of money is being spent practically - and let me be clear - government propaganda, because the public media today is no doubt about anything else in Hungary. And the fact that there's a supervisory authority in this, by the way, there's nothing to see. Public media works just like the media representing government propaganda in a virtual dictatorship. Compared to this, there would be an authority to which Hungarian citizens spend tens of billions of forints a year, where 650 people work, and they are unable to create at least the appearance of official control. Ladies and gentlemen, A series of analyses - and I do not want to repeat this here - are born about how public media and MTI do not perform the public function for which they were created. That in the public media, let us say, after the referendum, two pro-government representatives will analyse what the results of the referendum are; that opposition politicians will not be invited to appear in the public media for years; that the structure of the programmes has such a structure that it is only bad about the opposition and good about the government; that the MTI, which is in a monopolistic position in Hungary today's news production, is forging and distorting news, and that the NMHH has so many answers, honourable Members, that this is not their concern - this is outrageous! Then tell me in this Chamber: why the hell did taxpayers pay tens of billions of forints for the operation of the NMHH when they did nothing in the world? ! It's no use at all! [[Lajos Korózs: Shame!]] Let me ask you, though I do not know from whom, because I say once again, the head of the NMHH is not here, the representative of the government is not here; then someone should give me an answer - perhaps my colleague Mónika Dunai, who is the rapporteur - why the NMHH believes that he does not have to investigate the submissions for the MTI. Why does the NMHH believe that if MTI, according to the petitioners, is forging news that if MTI is not willing to publish embarrassing news and communications to the government, then why does NMHH not have to act? Congresswoman, please answer that, because I don't know that. But the court would have ordered the NMHH to do so, which it didn't do a second time. I would like to note that we will certainly take this matter to Strasbourg. And I am also sure, ladies and gentlemen, that one thing will be said in the judgment in Strasbourg, that it is untenable in itself, that news production is in a monopoly situation today and that it is being exercised by the MTI. This is untenable and intolerable! And the fact that a media authority believes that, by the way, he has nothing to do with a news producer in a monopolistic situation is more so. But let me also ask you, why do not the Communications Authority investigate those biased and propagandaist programmes that also received submissions to the NMHH? Why don't we just meet up with the fact that sometimes he keeps the public media? And again, why should we pay for an institution that doesn't do anything that doesn't do any good? There have been problems with ORTT, I do not dispute this, but we have managed to create an authority and fill it with Fidesz's own people for many years, which is perfectly, now not only according to assumptions, but also according to our experience, completely inadequate to complete its task. And just so we're looking at numbers, what's the support of everything over the past year? 112 billion forints. 112 billion forints! The entire court structure, the entire court system, is run by the state from HUF 80 billion a year; the entire prosecutor's organisation is run from some HUF 40 billion. I say these two because this means that the Hungarian entire justice system operates from the same amount that only the NMHH received. Only the NMHH! And you know, fellow Members, here we have also made a summary of the total budget of the NMHH between 2011 and 15th? 600 billion forints. For what? For what? To make an average gross HUF 800,000 at NMHH? Because it's a huge part of this budget. I am not sorry for the good salary of anyone who earns it, so tell me what the NMHH has to do with 650 people for an average gross price of 800 thousand forints! We don't hear the news of this organization. We don't see any trace of it. What the government's doing to the media, by the way, I think it's clearer than the sun today. The fact that he's shutting down opposition press organisations, if he doesn't know that he's gonna ruin it if he doesn't know that he's gonna launch an open state attack on him, like he did against RTL Klub at the time, is so lucky that there's a big company in Germany behind him, which the government isn't so easy to take out - let me use that word here in Parliament as well. The Origo has been eradicated, and Népszabadság has now been eradicated. Otherwise, people would be left with public media for objective information, which is basically for propaganda purposes. My fellow Member, Imre Vas, must be very funny. [[Dr. Vas Imre: I'm just laughing at the fact that the Origo works.]] Is Origo funny? I don't think that story was funny, nor was the story of Népszabadság. I think that what I have just said here, and we have said to you, is much more sad, and I say again, it is even sadder that those who are involved, those who are the clients, that is, the government and the man who is responsible for all this in person as President, will not do enough to come here and listen to the debate. The president of the NMHH may not be able to answer here, but he has ears. You can listen to the criticism. And probably if he had some honor, he'd answer in writing, like the Attorney General did. He said he couldn't do it here, but he could answer it in writing. Looks like we're gonna wait for this in vain. [[12.10]] So, ladies and gentlemen, as far as the past is concerned and the authentication of it, if you will, by the Parliament, we certainly cannot be partners in this. As for the future, my fellow Member, Mr Korózs, will tell you on the next item. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2016-10-12-50	Thank you very much, Congressman Gergely Bárándy. I give the floor to Congresswoman Mónika Dunai, Fidesz.
u2016-10-12-51	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to respond to what has been said in the main speakerial round for some thought. I will start with the issue mentioned by my fellow Members Dóra Dúró and Gergely Bárándy. You are now missing a representative of the government from the walls of this House on this agenda. I would like to inform you that the representative of the government is consciously absent from this item on the agenda. And it is no coincidence that the government will not submit the implementation budget to this House, but a committee of Parliament, because we want to exclude any connection [[Lajos Korózs: Oh, my God!]] on the subject of the Government's desire to exert any influence on an implementation budget. According to the law and applicable legislation, NMHH prepares its own budget, and then it would be weird to submit it to the government, and the government will look at it, regardless of who is on the government. That is why the regulatory system, which I believe to be in line with parliamentary democracy, is being submitted by a competent committee to the Committee on Budgets and discussed by the Committee on Budgets. By the way - and I would like to underline this - your representatives, MSZP and Jobbik are also present in the Committee on Budgets. I believe that at this committee meeting, when the first round is discussed by a committee of Parliament, there is an opportunity for all Members to comment, to ask questions and to get answers to them. This was the case, because at the meeting of the Committee on Budgets - and here Gergely Bárándy asked when and what answers they would receive in writing, I think it is not my place to defend the leadership of the NMHH, but I am quite certain that if you, your group or any of the Members address a question to the head of the NMHH or its leaders, you will respond by reason of your statutory obligations. This was the case, since at the meeting of the Committee on Budgets, our colleague Mrs Loránt Hegedűs addressed a whole series of questions to the head of the NMHH, for which he was given a detailed answer. These were detailed justifications for the reserves. This can be achieved, if our fellow Member has not received it, I believe that the Committee on Budgets can also make this available to you. I'm holding it here, by the way. [[He's showing it to me.]] It's really an all-round, fair and detailed answer that Mrs. Loránt Violin got. Thus, the fact that a Committee on Budgets is its rapporteur shows that any Member, member of any faction, has a say in what majority or minority opinion a proposal is submitted to this House. The question, as I mentioned, is, of course, also possible on site and in writing. The question concerning the auditor: Dóra Dúró raised the question whether the auditor's opinion could be accepted and accepted here within the walls of this House. I think there is nothing wrong with the fact that the auditor examined the proposal in accordance with the legal procedure, found it suitable for discussion and proposed it to be adopted. Today, an auditor has full professional, personal and financial responsibility. So also the word, "independent" means that no one can control the influence of anyone, either on the part of the client, or on the part of the supervisory body, or on the part of the Parliament. Otherwise, if he did, it would be very bad for any auditor, since he would sooner or later be caught in the act, and, as I said, he has full professional and financial responsibility. So you have nothing to do with it, and I don't think it's appropriate to question a professional, that he has given his signature and signed his opinion to the best of his knowledge and abilities. The points that have been raised here as a question, which I am sure are legitimate questions, because if a Member cannot read out of the proposal or needs more information, then it is perfectly natural and good to be asked in today's general debate as well as in the Committee on Budgets: I would like to warmly suggest to my fellow Members that next week - but I am looking at Dóra Dúró as chairman of the committee - the meeting of the Cultural Committee will begin on Tuesday at 10 a.m. [[Dóra Dúró nodds.]] As the head of the NMHH and the economic leaders will be present as such, I would be pleased to ask you to ask your questions at the detailed discussion stage. Now, indeed, they are not present in the general debate, but the detailed debate, I think, is the stage in which these questions and answers can be returned in substance. So I call my fellow Members with respect to the meeting of the Cultural Committee on Tuesday. One more thought: I would like to reject this here, whether the government or the media authority shut me down - that is the word he used, if I recall correctly, my colleague Gergely Bárándy [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: This!]] - press orgasms. Well, the government can't do that, and it doesn't. The media authorities can't and won't. The media authority has a registration function in relation to the registration, notification and possible termination of the press organ. This case, which you have just mentioned here, is not a matter of the media authority, nor of the government, nor of the economic issue, nor of the influence, nor of the right to order in this matter. I ask for recognition of this. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: Congresswoman doesn't believe that. The president's ringing the bell.]] and take note of it as well. I believe that what hurts the MSZP is that it has released ownership rights and no longer has any effect on it, hasn't had any effect on their own former press organ lately. Now what happens to the page is a story outside the walls of Parliament and the walls of the media authority. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: That's not true! Within the Prime Minister's Office...]] I'm asking you not to wash the two together. In conclusion, it is worth commenting now after the main speakerial round that, basically, the factions seem to be in such great trouble with the text of the bill submitted, and Dóra Dúró asked some substantive questions that are really worth returning to in the detailed debate. But what my fellow Member Bárándy has said is basically suggesting to Parliament... and calling on the government or the committee what kind of content broadcasts television broadcasts. [[12.20]] And there's nothing the government can do about it, me, you, the Fidesz faction, the MSZP fraction, or any other party. We do not need to talk about content issues today, but about the proposal tabled, which is a law on budget implementation. If comments have not been made on this point, they must be so agreed and have substantive questions. But once again, I ask that we do not debate content issues between the walls of this House, because we cannot do that, because the media is independent. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. Expansion on the opposition olsal. Dr. Gergely Bárándy: That was the joke of the day!]]
u2016-10-12-52	Thank you very much, Congresswoman Mónika Dunai. I give the floor to Congresswoman Dóra Dúró.
u2016-10-12-53	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would like to respond to what Mónika Dunai said, but the two minutes would not be enough, given that it covered several questions, so I have to say the things I think are important in a normal way. On the one hand, I believe that the presence or absence of the government is a symbolic issue. If this is about what you said, Congresswoman, that the government would like to avoid even the appearance of having anything to do with the operation of the media authority, the NMHH or, in general, any media organ in Hungary, they could find better means to do so. For example, it would be a better tool to clarify what their relationship with Árpád Habony, who Árpád Habony is at all, how he is in contact with the Prime Minister, how it affects certain press organisations, how it affects some people, even media authorities. But now that the government is trying to demonstrate with its absence that the media authority and the NMHH are so independent that the government does not even want to secure its presence in this debate, I believe that this is a false legal act. This is not why someone will influence the work of the media authority or the media market in Hungary to participate in such a debate. In addition, we are not discussing NMHH's report here, but a closing account, the closing account of a public entity. And yes, if we look at the closure of a public body, the minimum is that the Minister of National Economy or several ministers of the government are present in such a debate. Unfortunately, that is not the case. The Committee on Budgets shall be the rapporteur. The budget is basically a draft, the result of a plan, how the annual budget of a body of this magnitude and of several bodies will be established. The Budget Committee does not deal with planning. So the actual work that gave birth to this proposal was carried out by a body, experts that were not the applicant. The Committee on Budgets didn't plan this budget, but he's putting it in front of the House. I object to this because the principle of accountability and responsibility is violated. Neither the State Audit Office nor the Fiscal Council has an opinion, nor does it say anything about this budget. He mentioned the professional responsibility with regard to the auditor. I did not want to give an opinion on the specific professional work of certain auditors, because, as the members of the Committee on Budgets, I myself do not know this field. Otherwise, an examination of the SAO and an opinion of the Budget Council would serve this state. When it comes to public money, these are the bodies that are supposed to control the use of this. But my excuse in principle is that whoever entrusts the auditor has to give an opinion on his management. I think it's a systemic problem. Obviously, the employer who pays for his opinion on his farming - if it is not understandable to you, I am very sorry - I do not think we can talk about responsibility in this case either. The budget of MTVA had to be supplemented by more than HUF 10 billion during the year. I'm not a professional, but 10 billion forints is a lot of money. When it comes to public money, it's definitely public money. If other market players have such a misstep in budget planning, people are often held accountable. But since we do not know who is actually planning this budget here, in Parliament, because the authors are not planning this budget, we do not know who is responsible for adding such amounts of money. The second is that the rapporteur mentioned that in the Committee on Culture it is possible to discuss the reports of the NMHH and the Media Council. This is true, but negotiating a proposal within the framework of a parliamentary committee does not mean the same publicity as in plenary; on the one hand. On the other hand, as Chairman of the Cultural Committee, I have been trying to invite the president of MTVA for over a year, and we have been planning this for over a year, but he has not been able to appear before the committee in a year. There was an appointment he gave me, and then he canceled. There is another such government player, Andy Vajna, who, as head of the Film Fund, cannot be at the disposal of the committee. So in this sense, the fact that the head of the Media Council is not here, and the CEO of MTVA has not been at the committee meeting for a year, I think that the effectiveness of control is greatly impaired. Thank you for your attention.
u2016-10-12-54	Thank you very much, Congresswoman Dóra Dúró. The next speaker is Mr Gergely Bárándy, MSZP.
u2016-10-12-55	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to respond to the speech by Mrs Mónika Dunai, who told the joke of the day when she said that the media is independent in Hungary today. Let's be straight, the reality is that a XXI. The budget of the public media and its salt office of the century dictatorship is what we are discussing here. So this is reality. Nevertheless, thank you for responding to the points, of course, whichever one. I'll go back to what our content is. Our content objection, Congresswoman, is, as I said, a XXI. I think the salt office that oversees the state media of a dictatorship in the century has a lot of 122 billion forints. That's our basic problem. We think zero forints would be the right thing to do, because if we're already running a dictatorship, there's enough public media to do that, there's absolutely no need to puppet it because it's not under control. But it's a waste of money, and I think that within a dictatorship it would be a better place to spend 100 billion forints elsewhere. That's my objection to that. The other is that the government is consciously present or absent. Madam Member, I am asking your inverse: was the government present in the report of the President of the Curia, the prosecutor's report, the Ombudsman's report, because you want to influence these institutions? Because if you say that you are not present now to avoid even the appearance of this, then you were obviously present there because you want to influence the Hungarian justice system. So I think this argument is quite weak. We also agree that he is consciously absent, but the reason is different, the reason why he does not want to go through this scandal and, if appropriate, does not want to answer the questions that opposition representatives are asking in relation to this agenda. The other is who can and can't shut down what. Obviously, it's not the government's order, and we're not there yet - although we may be around here in six months - that the government's authorities are shutting down press conferences. We were close to this, by the way, when the Prime Minister personally ordered the harassment of civilians in an official paper, but we are not yet here regarding the media. We are there that in Fidesz this task falls on the oligarchs, they buy it, then destroy it, and transform it into a pro-government medium, a press organ that was once a government critic. By the way, this is also a well-established method of XXI. The dictatorships of the century. There is a great book about this which analyzes the dictatorship of Putini, the dictatorship of Chávezi, and Asian dictatorships are analyzed by the XXI. In the century. These are the methods you use, honourable Member. The government doesn't shut down the media there. It buys an oligarch, then it transforms it or destroys it. The name of these people in Hungary is Andy Vajna, Árpád Habony or another, István Garancsi, and I could say more, or one of the cousins of György Matolcsy's central bank president. This is the situation in Hungary today. [[12.30]] To talk about the independence of the media here, I think it would make Hungary smile, not just for an ordinary person, but even for an average child. Then whether you are here is not here - and this is correct or wrong - the President of the media authority: well, honourable Member, I can say that I am a full Member of Parliament, and behind me is the support of tens of thousands of citizens, if we look at the elections, and for example I am not a member of the Committee on Budgets. So I can't go there, and I can't ask him there, and I can't hold the president of the media authority accountable, because I'm not on the committee. But I take your speech as an invitation. So on Tuesday, I sincerely hope I haven't looked at my calendar yet, but if I can, I will go there, and obviously the Fidesz faction will vote to speak to me, and I will be able to state these arguments to the president of the NMHH, which he refused to answer here, and I can also ask him there why he was not here at the general debate. I think that this is also his duty, because if we are talking again about the leaders of independent public bodies or even the leaders of independent branches of power, these are, once again, the general prosecutor, the President of the Court of Auditors, the President of the State Court of Auditors, appearing at the committee and plenary session. He puts these two programs in his calendar somehow, and even a so busy leader succeeds. Although the president of the media department, I don't know, I'll tell you again what he's doing, because otherwise, he's not doing what he's doing. Finally, honourable Member, I just wanted to say that these were important issues that we have raised here and which we are debating. Once again, I appreciate the fact that during the debate you are also responding to the arguments, but for example, why the media authority is not acting at MTI, when I think you should act on how, in the public media, two pro-government politicians are analysing a referendum result, how can it be that they are only saying bad things about us, they are only saying good things about you in an independent media in principle, and it is possible that leading opposition politicians have not been invited to public television for years or public radio stations, why the media authority here is not paying them so much money - I would be happy to get answers to them. So, if you're still going to answer these questions, I thank you. And once again, if I have time, I will take this as an invitation and a call, and I will go to the committee meeting for a detailed debate. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2016-10-12-56	Thank you, Congressman Gergely Bárándy. I give the floor to Congresswoman Mónika Dunai, Fidesz.
u2016-10-12-57	Thank you very much. I want to answer. Answering questions that are not for me, but for the media authority, obviously I don't want to or can't answer. So at the committee meeting, in the detailed debate, you will certainly receive the answers orally or in writing. What you've been putting up here at the end, I would like to point out once again, content issues. It is unfortunate that Members of Parliament, both inside and outside the walls of Parliament, will begin to dissect the content of each press organ, whether it is a public media or a media organ maintained by another. This is not the subject of our agenda today either, and I would like this to be not part of Parliament's debates in the future, who will be invited, when we are invited, what kind of programme editing, what kind of programme policy they are pursuing. By the way, the laws in this regard exist, with the principle of equal information and balance in mind. Otherwise, those legal institutions also exist; if you think, my fellow Member, that something is not met and that it is against the media law, then you have the means of redress with which I think you have the right and duty to exercise as a Member of Parliament. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: I will.]] Therefore, I do not want to go into the content issues in any way. And one last thought as to why the Budget Committee is the petitioner. Under current rules, given the general independence of the media, bearing in mind its requirement, by virtue of the law, the single budget should not be part of the general government as a whole. Therefore, by law, it must be negotiated separately. And if this is the case, then there is only one thing that can be done, which has now come between Parliament's walls through the Committee on Budgets. Thank you very much for your attention. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-10-12-58	Thank you very much, Congresswoman Mónika Dunai. I'll see if anyone else wants to comment. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. Dear Parliament, The general debate is closed and I give the floor to the rapporteur, Mr Attila Szabolcs, who clearly wishes to respond to what was said in the debate.
u2016-10-12-59	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Congresswoman Mónika Dunai has responded to a large part of what has been said. But let me just say that the president of the NMHH can't submit a law. Obviously, this is why the legislation provides that the competent commission should present the budget law applicable to it. Congresswoman Dóra Dúró deals with the auditor. I know that all metaphors are lame, but in the municipalities too, the auditor is elected or appointed by the body of representatives and examines the municipality. This does not mean that the Court of Auditors may not carry out an investigation on an occasional basis, at random or on a timetable. I assume that this is the same with the NMHH, if the Court of Auditors considers it appropriate to include this study in its work plan, then it can carry it out. Congressman Bárándy here was talking about the programmes. This has already been said by Congresswoman Mónika Dunai that we are talking about the budget, not the type and quality of programmes. Even Congressman said he'd give me zero forints. It should be said only on the next agenda, not in the debate on the draft law on the implementation of the 2015 budget. So I will continue to ask the fellow Members to support the bill. Thank you. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-10-12-60	Thank you very much, Congressman Attila Szabolcs. Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Now, Honourable Parliament, the general debate on the bill on the single budget of the National Media and Infocommunications Authority for 2017 will follow. Presentation by the Committee on Budgets T/12348. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr Attila Szabolcs, rapporteur for the Committee on Budgets, rapporteur on the agenda, in a 30-minute time frame.
u2016-10-12-61	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear fellow Members, The T/12348. The draft law on the 2017 single budget of the National Media and Infocommunications Authority is in front of us. The aim of the NMHH is to ensure a predictable, consistent balance between respect for freedom of the press and the protection of the public's interests, consistent with the guarantees of the rule of law and European practice. [[12.40]] I think we all see every day how fast the media market changes, a number of new media market services appear, media consumption patterns are changing, and public service media must compete in this competition, so it is essential to provide financial resources for the public authority. The Committee on Budgets discussed the item itself at its meeting on 3 October and considered it appropriate for a general debate. Of course, representatives of the NMHH also appeared at the committee meeting, who presented the prepared budget proposal and answered the oral questions raised. It is pleased that, compared to previous years, the detailed justification for the budget also includes the allocation of frequency charges by title. I note here that this was specifically the request of the former member of the Committee on Budgets, Mr László Szakács, to the Authority, and thank you for preparing the budget in this structure this year. As we know, the proposal before us contains not one budget, but four budgets: the budget of the National Media and Infocommunications Authority, the budget of the Media Council, the appropriations for revenue and expenditure managed by the Media Council and the budget of MTVA. In the case of the National Media and Infocommunications Authority, we can talk about HUF 35.3 billion in expenditure and revenue estimates, which is HUF 3 billion more than in 2016. The Media Council's budget is divided into two parts. One is related to operation, with an operating budget of HUF 173.9 million for years. The second is the appropriations in the management of the Media Council, where the amounts of media service and tender fees, penalty, fines and interest on late payment to be billed by the Media Council but in respect of MTVA are planned. This practically includes media service charges from the media market, which are managed by the Media Council, which is practically a transit item, since it is transferred to MTVA, and this is also the source of the Media Patronage program. The total revenue and expenditure of the budget of MTVA for 2017 is HUF 79.9 billion. MTVA's revenue consists primarily of a public service contribution, which totals HUF 70.1 billion in MTVA's revenue, and media market revenues amount to HUF 1.1 billion, and to HUF 8.7 billion in commercial and asset management revenues based on MTVA's business activities. At the committee meeting, we learned that the number of minutes of programmes produced by MTVA has more than doubled compared to 2009, while since 2011, the public service contribution has changed substantially in the same way as the rate of inflation in that year. A number of new channels have been launched, and for these additional tasks, MTVA seeks to solve the source through a number of cost-effectiveness improvement measures. To this end, unfortunately, there will be a downsizing of 145 people, which will save 300 million people next year. In short, I wanted to give a brief presentation on the budget of the NMHH for 2017. Mr President, Colleagues! On behalf of the Committee on Budgets, I propose that Parliament adopt the proposal in support of this proposal. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-10-12-62	Thank you very much, Congressman Attila Szabolcs. Dear Parliament, The representative of the Government indicated that he did not wish to present his position during the debate. Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. First, I give the floor to Mrs Mónika Dunai, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2016-10-12-63	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, The draft single budget bill of the National Media and Infocommunications Authority for 2017, as in the previous agenda, contains four separate small budgets: the budget of the NMHH, the operating budget of the Media Council, the budget for revenue and expenditure managed by the Media Council and the budget of MTVA. If you look at the first of these, the budget of the National Media and Infocommunications Authority, then the following figures and trends will emerge. In terms of revenues, public revenue increases significantly according to the plan, by HUF 2.7 billion. These are additional frequency charges, 2,3 billion surplus, 0.2% billion surplus in other fines, and 0.2% billion in additional administrative service charges are planned. Operating revenues increase by HUF 0.3 billion due to the VAT content of frequency charges. The main revenue amount is HUF 35.3 billion, which represents a HUF 3 billion surplus, an increase of 9.2 percent compared to the initial allocation in 2016. In terms of expenditure, the allocation of staff allowances and contributions includes an excess of 3.8 percent, which is necessary and justified due to increased tasks. Here, as an example, the two media understanding centres in Budapest and Debrecen, the successful operation of which justifies the increase. The budget for rem is increased by HUF 0.5 billion, this represents a 5% increase, most of which is used to cover the VAT to be paid, about HUF 0.3 billion. The accumulation costs will also increase according to the plan, HUF 1 billion, which will be used to purchase IT tools, necessary and modern IT tools, according to the draft. If you look at the reserves, the plan expects a reserve of HUF 10.2 billion, which shows an increase of 1.1 billion, that is 12 percent. The total amount of expenditure is HUF 35.3 billion, equivalent to the revenue. Our second major unit is the Media Council's operating budget, the content of which is the personal allowance and contribution of the five members of the Media Council, as well as the coverage of expert expenses and the amounts of the co-regulators spent on supporting the operation, with a total revenue and expenditure of HUF 173.9 million. The operating budget includes, in addition to the above, the VAT content of the revenue appropriations managed by the Media Council in accordance with the accounting rules in force, in the amount of HUF 278,6 million. The total amount of expenditure and revenue is HUF 452.5 million. After the Media Council's operating budget, the budget for revenue and expenditure managed by the Media Council is included in the bill. [[12.50]] Revenues from the media market - HUF 1054 million - are included in the appropriations managed by the Media Council, the main element of which is the media service fee of HUF 963 million. The Authority shall transfer the proceeds to MTVA. The VAT content of the fees is included in the operating budget. The total amount of expenditure and revenue is HUF 1054 million. The fourth unit is the budget of the Media Service Support and Asset Management Fund, i.e. MTVA. If we look at the revenues of this, it can be seen that MTVA's three main revenues are according to the next year's draft. The public service contribution is HUF 279.4 million higher than in the previous year. The increase amounts to expected inflation in 2016, i.e. 0.4 percent inflation, and includes an increase in this. The other revenue is media market revenue, which is HUF 1054 million. Of this, the media service fee is HUF 963 million, tender fees worth HUF 69 million, penalty, fine and late payment interest in total value of HUF 22 million. The third major item in revenue is commercial, asset management and other revenue. These include advertising and other business revenues, totaling HUF 8681.8 million. The total revenue is accordingly HUF 79 976.2 million. If we look at the expenditure, there are five large areas, which can be seen in the draft. The transfer of the public service contribution amounts to HUF 2630.7 million. It refers part of these transfers to the Media Council, HUF 173.9 million, and another part to the Media Council's official body, HUF 2224.4 million, and the third amount to the Public Service Foundation, which carries out very important cultural tasks, with an amount of HUF 232.4 million. The second major expenditure item is support for the media field, which is a very, very important support system in Hungary today in the local and smaller media market. The third is Duna Media Provider Nonprofit Zrt. The transfer of the contribution to the bank is HUF 1700 million. The following is the amount spent on the operation and production of MTVA for HUF 70 598.5 million. The last item is the other items within the expenditure, with a total amount of HUF 1802 million in the draft. This is the Public Service Culture Nonprofit Kft. support, support for the Foundation of the Civil Service Media Academy, as well as copyright royalties, interest payments and other costs. The total cost is HUF 79 976.2 million. Overall, in terms of the four budgets, the Fidesz Group states that the budget submitted and the sum of the smaller budgets are sound, balanced, predictable and transparent in all respects. Therefore, the Fidesz Group supports the proposed legislation. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2016-10-12-64	Thank you very much, Congresswoman Mónika Dunai. I now give the floor to Mr Lajos Korózs, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group. You have the floor.
u2016-10-12-65	Thank you very much. Dear House, Mr President, I cannot separate myself from the fact that, on the previous agenda, this very body had to be accountable to the public, if at all, for its closure. The reason why I cannot separate myself from this is because, as my fellow Member Attila Szabolcs presented this 2017 budget to the Parliament, there was no indication that they would change the trend or the system they conducted the previous year or the year before. Look, most likely, those of us who are here in Parliament will be MPs for another decade or two. You know you're gonna pay a terrible price for what you've been doing here for the last six years, right? You do know that the country will pay a very high price for this, don't you? In a few years, I'm going to confront you with what you've been doing for the past six years. How they destroyed the culture, how they destroyed the media culture among other things in Hungary! We could also say that there were no democratic traditions in Hungary for decades, but, you know, after the change of regime, we had an attempt. We had an attempt, and during the Antall government there was a consensus in Hungarian society to have an independent media in Hungary. We chose intendants. We have put two excellent scientists at the head of the board, Professor Elemér Hankiss and Professor Csaba Gombár, both of whom were my teachers. Just like now, during the second period of his administration, the then right-wing government destroyed this body, humiliated these two scientists. I know we need to talk about the 2017 budget. They could ask if the money we are spending on this is a lot. Of course it's a lot, it's a lot. The Media Council can manage from HUF 452.5 million in 17th, of which HUF 278 million in operating income and 174 million in operating aid from within public finances. That's a lot of money for 70,000 million. Let's translate 70,000 million forints, which Mónika Dunai highlighted - what will it do? Government propaganda? I don't usually talk dirty, but now I have to say that Joseph Goebbels would lick all ten of his fingers. You'd be licking all ten of your fingers if you could've worked like this, or if you could've done what you did with a budget like this. I see that the Fidesz government is using its economic and political power to keep the media under full pressure. It can now be seen that there is a general tendency that the government, regardless of whether it is an electronic or a written press, is putting all the media that it does not like to see it in action. You say, Congresswoman, that the things that my fellow Member Barándy has said here are not within the walls of Parliament; that is why the committee has brought them here, not here; that is why the representative of the government is not here; that is why the head of the media authority is not here. They're sending in an unfortunate young man who, I see, is taking notes, but I beg you, there are ten more seats in the expert box! What kept the heads of the media bodies and their co-workers from coming here? ! We didn't ask them to speak up, go out to the pulpit and explain their credentials, because they couldn't explain their credentials. Maybe this isn't where it's decided. It is in Viktor Orbán's study that we are talking about here, my fellow Members. Looks like this farming, I might be able to compare it to the time when the death penalty pays for the execution. It's a scoundrel, please, what's going on here. Because it is quite clear that you are executing the freedom of the press in Hungary, using, among other things, the public media that we maintain or maintain from people's tax forints. [[13.00]] In my opinion, the Fidesz government is making people pay for deceiving and blocking them from the real news. It is simply unprecedented for a people to have billions paid for their own debauchery! What they call public media today is, in fact, the press department of Fidesz - the second villain. NMHH is currently a public-paid section of the Fidesz press department. In total, as mentioned by my fellow Member, 650 people work there, for a lot of people and a lot of money, because the total personal allowance and contributions of these 650 people are more than HUF 8 billion a year, which means that the employees of the media authority make an average of HUF 800 thousand a month. Now, that's the third villain. Of course, we know why we have to spend so much money on the media authority, because this is where the lies of the Fidesz party propaganda are approved, where they pass through the millions of misleading false triumphal reports, and here they turn a blind eye to manipulated reports, which is why the media authority costs so much; it works as a large factory of lies, and it pays quality inspectors - this is the fourth villainy. Instead of guarding impartial information, the media authority is doing exactly the opposite: it ensures that in the public media only Fidesz -. Only Fidesz! Let your lies lie in place. There's a lot of Fidesz Lying Workshops called TV2, called Pesti Guys, called Origo or Lokal or Ripost. But the propaganda class called the public media is the most expensive institution in the Fidesz government's lie portfolio, their job is to kill freedom of the press with lies, forgery, and misleading information - this is the fifth villain - while the press providing real information is being abolished, banned, trampled. It's not about economic matters, it's not about the functioning of the market economy. You can hear the answer there, in Viktor Orbán's office. That's what they did to People's Freedom a few days ago. It's a shame! This is not a public media that we are discussing here, this is Viktor Orbán's pinchy pack, which operates there on Kunigunda Street, one of the biggest shames of Hungarian history. I see that the media authority in Hungary has one main task: to deliver government propaganda to people under all circumstances and at all costs, therefore institutional and financial independence is an unknown concept in the public media. And the fact that Fidesz is also using public media as a paying place is really just a foam on the cake, and unwatchable, failed productions are financed by hundreds of millions - this is the sixth villain. The M1 channel, my fellow Members, is no longer watched by those who do the show - it's unwatchable! And I'm not the only one saying that, and everyone in the country knows now that the public media channel is unwatchable. I think this will be the TV channel in Hungarian history that will go into the negative range, as far as ratings are concerned. No forint should be placed in this news channel or in this institution, but it should be paid by those who have invented and run this corrupt system to its core. As Dr Bárándy mentioned in the previous speech, the MSZP will not only be able to accept the closure of the media authority, but we will not be able to accept its existence. The only thing we could accept about the plans for 2017 is that the whole lie factory would be eliminated and released. But if you want to spend so much money on something, fellow Members, then there should be room for this, there should be room for health care, there should be room for education, there should be room for this money to strengthen social security. They could either build a playground or give it to the zoo, because at least a few thousand or a few ten thousand children would enjoy themselves. But to the public media, which they call it, you must not give a naughty penny of Hungary's taxpayers' money, not a naughty penny! And remember, someday they're gonna be very ashamed of this. [[István Jakab, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] My fellow Members, spare me the spotlight on my comments. I don't want to know. I don't want to hear it. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2016-10-12-66	Thank you very much, Congressman. Welcome, fellow Members. Dear Parliament, I ask whether the Member wishes to speak from the KDNP Group. [[Dr. György Rubovszky is rising to speak.]] Yeah. I give you the floor, Congressman.
u2016-10-12-67	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, I'll be very brief. Joining the lead speaker of Fidesz in everything [[Defiance in Jobbik's ranks. Zoltán Haughty:]] T/12348 I propose the adoption of bill No. 1 and announce that our faction will support it. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. Zoltán Haughty interrupts.]]
u2016-10-12-68	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mrs Dóra Dúró, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group.
u2016-10-12-69	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, I did not think that I would comment on this item for a long time, since the structural objections that I said at the previous item on the agenda, in the case of the accounts, would otherwise continue to exist, and I did not receive a reassuring reply to them, but, at the same time, I think it is appropriate to respond to those speakers in front of me in the debate. On the one hand, Congresswoman Mónika Dunai said - I couldn't write all four adjectives, only three, sorry! - that the budget submitted is sound, balanced and transparent. The budget of MTVA, if you look at this section, doesn't change. But, Congresswoman, how can a budget be sound and balanced if it does not change compared to what it has been, and in recent years, let us say, over HUF 10 billion has been added in the course of the year? Then it is not a sound budget, and we can even say that this bill does not make any sense. It is more than HUF 10 billion of interim support that had to be included in the operation of MTVA, and you call this budget sound. It's not justified. On the other hand, at the end of the previous item, the Congresswoman mentioned that there is a law which provides that the budget of the NMHH is to be negotiated separately from the central budget, which is why the Committee on Budgets is submitting it, and in such a special procedure, we are discussing that we are practically unable to take account of anyone for what comes before us. It is submitted by a parliamentary committee, the parliamentary committee does not deal with planning, and practically the parliamentary committee itself relies on the specialised media authority when submitting the budget and either believes what is being said or does not believe it. Because if you say that budget experts are sitting on the Committee on Budgets, okay, but they are not media professionals, so those Members who are sitting on the Committee on Budgets are unable to properly assess with sufficient basis what media conditions are, what amount of money should be charged to carry out a given task, how the funding of these tasks will change over the years, whether on the market or in practice, and give their blessing to things they do not understand. And it's not the fault of the committee members that they don't know how to do this, that they can't be expected to know that they have a different job, that they have a different profession. But in this way, no one can be called to account, for example, because the budget of MTVA must be supplemented by HUF 10 billion during the year. It makes it more difficult for the head of the media authority not to be asked at the plenary session of the Parliament. The fact that we listen to it once a year at the Cultural Committee is fine, but this is not enough control, especially in relation to the amount of money that they are disposing - we also see from this presentation. I did not even get an answer to the previous closing report as to why NMHH is a reserve when, for example, Hungary is lagging behind in the case of digital radio, and we should have switched to digital radio by 31 December 2014 until the deadline prescribed by the law. I would also ask the representative of the government, if he were present, why there is no government intention, why there is no political intention to promote the digitisation of radio broadcasting in Hungary as well. As to how the media does not function legally in terms of balanced information, for example, I have to quote one of the previous annual reports: the Media Council itself states that the speaking time of politicians was a percentage of 76 per cent, and Jobbik's speech is 4% - 4 per cent! [[13.10]] So when we spoke about content issues in the previous debate, you referred to the fact that we have the appropriate laws that media service providers have to comply with. However, in terms of balanced information, for example, the regulation currently adopted by the National Assembly results in 76 percent relative to 4 percent, but also the Socialists' speaking rate is 12 percent. So I think that this part of the law should be reconsidered, because the blind can see that it does not achieve its purpose at all by the legislation. But to mention not only our own political business, the proportion of Hungarian music on 35 radios does not reach 35 percent of the statutory requirement. By the way, the public radio, for example, gives a very clever or cunning answer, because if a broadcasters have multiple channels, they must be treated and treated in one way, so that they can be treated in the same way on the less silent radios, because the proportion of Hungarian music is higher, so they can get away with the punishment that would be due. But for example, on the Petőfi radio, which flags the raising of Hungarian music and the support of Hungarian music, to provide young Hungarian musicians with the opportunity to appear, not to exceed the ratio required by the law, but not to reach it. In this sense, it cannot be taken seriously that Petőfi radio is on the side of Hungarian music, because it is not on the side of Hungarian music, because overall, as Kossuth radio broadcasts almost only Hungarian music, the majority of the music broadcasted on Bartók radio or Dankó radio is Hungarian, so they can reach it. But these radios were much less silent than Petőfi radio. So this legislation, too, I think, is wrong because it does not reach the goal of one radio, and the listener does not think that if he listens to Petőfi radio, that, yeah, Hungarian music does not work here, but because it is the same provider of Bartók radio, I can listen to Hungarian music overall, because it has a different target group, different nature of radio, different style and genre of music broadcast by radio. Therefore, if, let us say, we would like to assert that Hungarian music, even in the area of light music, which is the profile of Petőfi radio, should reach the ratio on Petőfi radio, on the public radio, which the law sets as a minimum, then this legislation should also be changed. So my reasons for the transparency, balance, planning, auditability of the budget, as stated in the previous item on the agenda, are also valid here, and we cannot support this budget in this way either because we believe that it is also the responsibility of the legislative body to make the system work more effectively, and that the objectives that are otherwise eligible are to ensure that Hungarian music is included in the radios and that there is a greater degree of balance between political parties, and that the current legal background is not suitable. This is why we cannot support this level of budget for the NMHH and the other organisations. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-10-12-70	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, I would like to ask you from the representative of the LMP... - but I see that you are not in the Chamber, so there will be no speakers from the LMP, so we have reached the end of the speaker speeches. I would now like to give the floor to the first independent Member to speak. Mr Szabolcs Szabó indicated that he would like to speak, but he is not in the room, so further speeches are now taking place. I give the floor to Congresswoman Mónika Dunai, Fidesz Group. Congresswoman, please.
u2016-10-12-71	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, My dear fellow Member, I also prefer that when good Hungarian music is played on the radio, even more than when we listen to ourselves and representatives in it. So I fully agree that it must be forced in some way and insist that there should be as much good Hungarian music as possible on all radio channels and individually, not just on the whole. It is particularly welcome that young musicians and young bands and singers could be shown and heard on the radio in a larger proportion than the current one. Lajos Korózs has already left the room, and I see from the MSZP that no Member is present in the Chamber, while Lajos Korózs said that he does not want our answer, but I would still like to say what is right for his words, I think that it might be a corrective reflection. He used words, and I tried to take notes from my MSZP fellow Member, who would execute him. [[Zoltán Grimlock: That's a very understatement!]] It's banned, obviously Fidesz or the government executes various media organs, bans them, talks about a lie factory, sets up types of scoundrels. [[Zoltán Grimlock: That's very solid!]] I think if someone knows that when we talk about the media, what is it that you execute alternative media organisations or ban them, or even allow them to run a press or a lie factory, or turn them into villains, well, the party of the pre-1990 era, the party of the state, knew that very well. There was nothing to do, Samizdat newspapers were published by those who thought differently. However, my honourable colleague, Lajos Korózs, who is not present, you don't think that single-plane information before 90 can be compared in any way with today's Hungarian media regulation, either with the principles that are legally guaranteed or with practice. Everyone turns on the television channel you want my fellow Member to watch ATV, or any citizen, then turn it on and watch it. If you want to watch News TV - I look at my better colleagues - then turn on News TV. [[Dóra Dúró: Alas, alas!]] If someone wants to watch the public media, and most of them are in Hungary today, they are watching it. Some people... I watch them all because it's important and I care which channel gives what and what values it transmits. I think that I reject this in any way, that any parallel can be drawn between the Hungarian media situation before 1990 and today's media situation, both sky and earth. What concerns the idea is that more money had to be put into the public media during the year: well, let's not forget that public media is the most dynamic development in Hungary today. [[Adam Mirkóczki: With so much money!]] Let's not forget where they want to withdraw money. Would you like to eliminate the cultural channel that just started? I think that a very valuable supply of public media is the new cultural channel launched in September. This obviously involves extra money, plus extra money. Or the M4, which, by the way, has already reached ratings peaks of its kind. [[Ready, Zoltán: How do you know that?]] Do my fellow MSZP members envy the money from there? [[13.20]] What medium broadcasted and bought the right to football-Eb when the country cheered together and watched the games and broadcasts on television? They were there. The Olympic broadcasts - their royalties - were all broadcasted by the new M4 channel. Yes, it needed extra money, and that was the basis for this service. He couldn't have done it without it. I think that it is necessary, for example, to have this mission of the Hungarian M4 and this mission of the public media, I think that no one wants it. And everyone will see it perfectly well, just as in the family, if one more child is born, then, by definition, one more increase, and it will mean more in material terms to the family. In the same way, if one more channel - even two more channels - starts, it will be an extra task, with extra money. I do not believe, at least I hope, that my fellow Members do not wish to cut this budget so that these services are removed from public media. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of Fidesz.]]
u2016-10-12-72	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, Mr Szilágyi György, Member of the Jobbik Group, will now take the floor. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2016-10-12-73	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. I would like to respond to the speaker before me, because, if I understood the words of Mónika Dunai correctly, he said that the pre-90 party knew well how to run a lie factory, dispose of and eliminate various press products and the like, and he is absolutely right about that. He forgot to add that the pre-90 state party knew this well, and the post-2010 state party knows just as well how to eliminate press products and how to run lie factories, because all we need to do is think about what kind of press products your dear friend Árpád Habony operates and how to publish them and what lies appear in these press organs. Then Mónika Dunai also said that he would like to hear more Hungarian music on the radios, as my colleague Dóra Dúró said. The difference between the two speeches is that Dóra Dúró told us what would be good and what would be right, and you say that you would like more Hungarian music to be played. Congresswoman! You are currently sitting in the benches of the ruling party. Don't love him, do it for him. Make sure you play as many Hungarian music as you can! Make sure the laws are laws to play Hungarian music! You could do a lot about that, since you have the opportunity to do it at the moment. Then I have to mention one more thing, and only because anyone who may follow the debate does not see the Members and does not see the expression of Members in some cases. Although, let's say, Antal Rogán's helicopter ride had a setup where you could see the reactions of his representatives, but not so much when discussing such a debate. That is why I would like to say to the record and to those who may be following the speeches here, only to see Dóra Dúró speaking, and, by the way, I feel perfectly normal, constructively, and I could even say that without any attack - so he has not attacked you as much as I am now - he has tried without attacking the arguments that he thought he should change. In the meantime, we could see that when he talked about the news programmes - and here comes what the pre-90 party was like and what the post-2010 party was - 76 percent of the pro-government politicians are present and only 4 percent of Jobbik's representatives, then Imre Vas laughed at and whispered to you with a lot of the expression of his fellow Members. So it follows that Imre Vas would like Jobbik not to appear in the media at all, so that 4 percent would disappear, and then the pre-90 pro-state model could be completely formed, which you are trying to continue to do, and that is the media being used to continue to operate this ruling single-party system in Hungary. I have some bad news, by the way, that you can give us only 4 percent, that you may instruct news programs to ignore us, and that you can still do a lot of things, that you cannot avoid the fact that there will be no one-party system here in Hungary once again, and that you will be relieved of this exceptional situation in which you will be sitting proudly and arrogantly. Thank you so much for listening. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-10-12-74	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, There are two-minute speeches coming up. I give the floor to Congresswoman Dóra Dúró. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2016-10-12-75	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, I would like to turn to Congresswoman Mónika Dunai. In the previous debate, Gergely Bárándy's argument about the various media being shut down and trampled, you said that the media was independent, and then in his speech he referred to, and I felt that ATV was linked to the MSZP, that News TV was attached to Jobbik - which I refuse, of course, because this is not the case at all - and he continued with the line as if the public media were connected to Fidesz, which you should most definitely reject. That's your list of ATVs and the betters, or the public media for you. So if, on the one hand, you're talking about independent media, how do you think any press organ can be connected to any party, and how does Fidesz relate to the public media based on what you said? I'd like you to answer those questions. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-10-12-76	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congresswoman Mónika Dunai, Fidesz Group.
u2016-10-12-77	Thank you very much for the floor. Thank you for bringing this up again, my fellow Member, because you may not have grabbed me in everyone as I have said. I said, as a completely exemplary example, that anyone who wants to do so will not be listed again, and I added that I am watching all of them. So I didn't connect our group to the public media, I didn't connect myself. I said that a lot of people, most of them, because most of the options, free radiation, are available to most people. I was careful to leave out any connection between the television viewing habits of my fellow factions or my fellow factions from this list. Once again, I said that I watch all of them because I think it's important, and I'm curious about what they're transmitting. However, it is important to note that the media is indeed independent, but we are not independent. So we are here on behalf of various parties, so I can say that the media is independent; I am not independent as a Member, so I represent Fidesz in Parliament and my constituency, Rákosmente and Kőbány. That's my short answer. Thank you very much.
u2016-10-12-78	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Vas Imre in a normal time frame. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-10-12-79	Thank you very much for the floor. I would like to propose to my fellow Member, Szilágyi, that, if he decides at any time to go off the political field and choose another occupation, he should not go lip-reading. [[It's a rare blur.]] Thank you very much.
u2016-10-12-80	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We will continue with two-minute speeches. I give the floor to Congressman György Szilágyi, Jobbik Group.
u2016-10-12-81	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr Vas, I would rather have listened to you disprove what I said, why you didn't tell me what you meant when you made that face. [[Mónika Dunai: There is freedom of thought!]] and what he said to his fellow Members when that was the case. It'd be a lot easier. So you'd stand up and tell me, and you wouldn't tell me if I could read lips or not. The whole situation was like that, and you know it, I guess I hit it, that's exactly what you said, pretty much, now I'm sure. The other is that my fellow Member, Mónika Dunai, says that he is not independent because he is sitting in Fidesz and representing Fidesz. My fellow Member, you should not represent the Fidesz, but the voters who put you in Parliament. We are also trying to represent them, we are trying to represent the Hungarian people as a whole, not just the better people, by the way, but all Hungarian people and all voters who live in this country, because that is our job, and we should not represent parties. [[13.30]] And how independent the media and the public media are in Hungary today is, let me just mention that the M1 channel is nationally called the "Migrant 1" TV. And the name of this "Migrant 1" TV is nothing more than the fact that you put M1 in the middle of a political hack campaign in the interest of the party, Fidesz. Public service is all about representing your interests, acting in your best interests, trying to rip more and more markets out of the media market. That is why TV2 Andy Vajna is now in the hands of you, who is also related to you, and that is why the Habony Empire is built out of public money, hundreds of millions of forints of state orders, which you are also building up to influence people with your lies through these press organs. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2016-10-12-82	Thank you very much, Congressman. We will continue with the two-minute speeches. I give the floor to Congresswoman Mónika Dunai.
u2016-10-12-83	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, If I were to grade György Szilágyi now, how he returned my message, I would say 50 percent. This means different grades in different places. [[Adam Mirkóczki: Point two!]] If someone is very mild, then on a scale of three, let's say, on a very strict scale of five, they can't even reach two, or even two, because they have a very high level of grade from 51 percent. So you gave me half of what I told you. I agree with you that I also represent my constituency, but that's what I said. That's what I said, and for that, the 50 percent minus, which you didn't hear, is that I represent the Fidesz, and my constituency, of course, and I even said, "Rakemen and Stone Mine." What I would ask you, is that at other times, if you would like to receive an "A" for the words you have said, you should listen carefully to what I have to say. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2016-10-12-84	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Zoltán Gőgös, MSZP Group.
u2016-10-12-85	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Ladies and gentlemen of the Government, I would like to ask if you have seen the report on Minister Rogán's helicoptering in the public media. [[Defiance from Jobbik's ranks.]] Yeah, have you seen him? Well, they didn't see it because it wasn't like that. [[Adam Mirkóczki: On TV2?]] He wasn't on TV2. Actually, the problem here is, you know, this whole thing, and we're arguing about what public service is now. Well, it's not a public service that's going on right now. In fact, there is no opposition alternative, no opposition voice. Months, for years, almost opposition representatives have not been allowed to appear, only if there was any internal conflict within a party. I think that was true of all opposition parties. I think that's not the job of the public service media. The public service media should report impartially on everything that is going on in the country - once again, report impartially - not filtered, not censored, and as long as that is not the case, this is nothing more than the stealthy construction of dictatorship and typical thinking of dictators. There's only one problem that in today's world, maybe North Korea can't keep the information inside, sit on its own and rule out the outside world. So it's a shame to try, because you can fail under these conditions, and it's a lot worse to fail than to behave fairly. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2016-10-12-86	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I'm asking if anyone else wants to speak. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. The general debate is closed. I will ask Mr Attila Szabolcs, as rapporteur, whether he wishes to respond to what was said in the debate. [[For signal:]] Yes, I'll give the floor to Congressman.
u2016-10-12-87	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear fellow Members, The subject of today's debate is the bill on the 2017 single budget of the National Media and Infocommunications Authority. In recent times, too much could not be heard about the budget: principles of programming, participations, everything was, only about the forints, in fact, in the previous agenda, Congressman Bárándy had a statement that he would put zero forints into the budget of the NMHH. Now we've had a lot of time, I'm not saying it's unnecessary, but not on the subject. I am sorry that Congressman Korózs has left because he has such a mild charm when an MSZP representative, former member of the government, talks about the destruction of culture. [[Zoltán Grimlock: What have we beaten up?]] when they closed the school. [[Zoltán Grimlock: We can talk about how many you have opened!]] They're the ones who started the destruction of health care. They're the ones who shut down the railroads. [[Zoltán Grimlock: Really, there is a new one in Felcsút!]] And now they're trying to account for that on their offspring. So here we need a little more modesty, especially for those MSZPs who had a decisive word at that time as part of the government. [[Adam Mirkóczki: Teach me out of humility!]] And Members, so that they don't forget what they've been doing for eight years, not to mention the predecessors we're moaning about right now. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2016-10-12-88	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Dear Parliament, A general debate on the proposal for a decision on a national referendum will follow until closure. Submission by the Judicial Committee H/12350 Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr Rubovszky, rapporteur of the Judicial Committee, author of the item on the agenda. Congressman, you have the floor.
u2016-10-12-89	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, When Parliament's work started after the summer break - I would like to remind you that during the summer holiday the various deadlines rest as required by the Parliamentary Act - we started the preparatory work on issues relating to the referendum, our first task was to seek out the electoral authorities in order to inform them of the costs expected to be incurred. This request was necessary because the law on the referendum provides for the parliamentary committee to determine in its proposal for a decision the amount to be charged to it, which the Parliament will then grant by decision from the budget in the event that the referendum is ordered. This request for a referendum was such that although it exceeded 100,000 signatures, it did not reach 200,000 signatures. Consequently, it is not compulsory for Parliament to decide, but for Parliament to decide whether to order a referendum or not to order it. I received the statement of expenditure from the Election Office on September 30th. This is on the parliamentary net, which found that the referendum costs HUF 4 billion and HUF 467 thousand and HUF 615. After that, the committee had already met on 3 October, arriving on 30 September, and was discussing this issue. The question was, and I prepared the hearing from the Justice Committee by drawing up a proposal for a resolution in which the Parliament will order it, in which it will determine the cost to be charged. [[13.40]] We have prepared a variation in which the Parliament rejects the motion for a referendum, and of course this does not have to be a summary. And we made a variation that was then accepted by the majority here, when, within a parliamentary resolution, we marked it in separate A- and separate B versions, with Parliament deciding here. [[Dr. Lajos Szűcs will take his place in the notary seat.]] In the committee there was a point of order debate - I regret that Mr Bárándy was not here, because he was extremely active in this order of business debate - and in the course of the order of business debate, the majority of the Commission found that it was presenting a proposal for a decision which had been submitted under number 12350, even on 3 October, which included that the Parliament had ordered the referendum in the A-variation, in which case the Parliament would provide the amount already stated for the costs of running, or a B-version which included the decision that Parliament would not order the vote. The majority of this variation means that, in all circumstances, in order for the House to decide on this at the end, this proposal for a resolution must be divided by an amendment, but that is no longer the jurisdiction of the Judicial Committee. I respectfully ask the House to hold the debate, to decide, as the committee did not want to adopt a clear position in this regard, either version A or variant B. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2016-10-12-90	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear Parliament, The representative of the Government indicated that he did not wish to present his position during the debate. [[Zoltán Grimlock: Great!]] Dear Parliament, Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. I give the floor to Congressman Vas Imre, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-10-12-91	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. As the chairman of the committee said, the Judicial Committee submitted a proposal for a decision in two versions. The main reason for this was that, in our view, Parliament must decide whether to order or not to order a referendum. There was no dispute in the Judicial Committee that if the number of valid signatures is less than 100,000, it cannot be ordered if the number of valid signatures is above 200,000, the Parliament does not have the right of discretion, but in this case we are talking about 106 thousand valid signatures, so Parliament has a discretion, which is why the committee decided to submit the resolution proposal in versions A and B. It is of particular interest that, when we initiated a departure from the house rule, the proponent of the referendum voted against it - by the way, not only for this, but also for negotiating the other referendum in a derogation from the house rule - it seems that it is not particularly urgent for the nationalist to take a decision in this Parliament. I personally regret this, so anyone who really takes the trouble to collect a significant number of signatures, I think - as a Member of Parliament - should have said yes, but that is my opinion. The other is the social support of this referendum. On the weekend preceding 23 October 2007, the activists of Fidesz collected signatures for the social referendum on three sheets, i.e. three separate questions. We started collecting signatures on a Friday afternoon, we collected them until noon on Monday - it was a public holiday on Monday, because Tuesday 23rd - while Fidesz collected some 440 thousand signatures as I recall, of which we gave 400 thousand to the Election Committee, of which the number of valid signatures was around 360-380,000, and in this referendum alone, where the participation was 50.51 percent and the valid vote was 50.21 percent. So, with such low support, so that in 60 days practically 106,000 signatures have been collected, this suggests that participation in the referendum might still be in the 13.5 percent in 1990. On the other hand, Mr President mentioned that the referendum itself would cost HUF 4 billion to HUF 487 million. This referendum would hold the Parliament for three years. This amount, by the way, exceeds the net difference between the state leaders who earn over 2 million - i.e. the net difference between the 2 million gross and paid - so, in fact, if the economy or social benefits of the referendum can be discussed, it would clearly cost more than the question raised in terms of economy if they held the referendum alone than the additional costs to the state, so in this spirit we will obviously discuss in fact at a faction meeting that we support the A- or B version. Thank you very much.
u2016-10-12-92	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Zoltán Gőgös, MSZP Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-10-12-93	Thank you, Mr President, for the floor. If, at the end of the day, my fellow Member Vas had not mentioned that it was the salaries of state leaders, then no one would know, nor would those sitting on the gallery, what we are discussing here. Here they gave orders and said everything, one thing they didn't say: this referendum is to take back the salary of the unspeakable high-ranking state leaders to 2 million, which, by the way, Fidesz has promised in every campaign that Fidesz has won and then raised. That's what this question is about. I would like to say one more thing to Imre Vas: in 2007, no one had to fear that if he signed a referendum, he would fly out of his job the next day. [[Dr. Vas Imre: I don't need it today!]] I would suggest a little confidence in that, my fellow Member. [[Dr. Vas Imre: I'm absolutely sure of that.]] Because I know for a fact that I have collected quite a lot of signatures, because this was a joint task with Zoli Ready - because our next agenda and the referendum on land - was a very, very large number of public servants who said that they fully agree with this question, but they won't even allow family members to sign it, because every such information that goes into any office managed by Fidesz will be returned to the party and the party will then abuse it. This is the typical pro-state case when they want to know everything about everyone. So let's not confuse the two things in any way. The other is that last week, you have come up with a new category, the politically valid category. Fellow Members, this referendum initiative is politically valid according to your logic [[Ready, Zoltán: And successful.]] And it's a success, because it must have gone far over 100,000. There was a lot more than 106,000 signatures here, because he signed almost 190,000 signatures. Zoltán's finished, they just forget to mention that the process of counting is that if you're sure you don't have the 200 grand you obviously knew when you handed it in, you'll only count until you reach 100 grand. So let's not talk about 100,000 signatures here, but 190,000 signatures, 150-170 thousand of which would have been valid, so it's much closer to 200,000 than 100,000, but I'm telling you this once again, it doesn't matter. If you're not cowards, if you're not afraid of the people, and you're not hiding behind such a stupid demagogy that it costs 4 million, otherwise, even if the two are written together, it costs about the same, you need a little more paper, because there's one more sheet... and don't be afraid to ask the people's opinion. [[13.50]] We know very well that the support for this issue is around 80 percent in society. You are afraid that this referendum, and if it were added to the other, would be a two-pronged referendum, which would show that the king is naked, and what you consider to be a victory report is not the majority that voted on the other day, but the minority. So that is your problem, that you can vote here only on what Viktor Orbán himself is submitting. Anyone else who does anything can't get a referendum out of it. Congressman, you have very bravely said what Fidesz is saying. I think you could have made a decision in two weeks. I would encourage you, however, that if you are already so confident and TV2 thinks that 98 percent of the country voted for you, then why are you afraid of this? Why, for example, are they afraid of this referendum? I don't want to go into the other one because I really wanted to have a professional debate with the government representative there. But at least we can achieve enough in relation to the question of bringing the issue of the ground business into Parliament, but even the government is a coward to take part in such a debate. He's a coward because he doesn't have anything to say, he's only doing one thing by force that you blindly give the background to. My fellow Members, it is much fairer if someone is truly serving his constituents and not the supreme warlord. I would be more careful because God doesn't beat me with a stick; that's what they say. I suggest that you do not think about this, let this referendum pass. I think in the privacy of the booths, we'll find out how much the real support for this is. Of course, this can no longer be trusted, because in the last referendum, the mayors threatened people - which in itself is a crime of eight years - that you will be able to see for yourself if you do not vote. I don't know how Members feel when they hear such news. And that in a village, with 80 percent participation, everyone voted no, and then they were asked, and they didn't even know what the question was - they said that only because the mayor said so. It is dangerous, my fellow Members, because this can be played in a dictatorship, a semi-dictatorship, where obviously all power forces and power formations are in your hands. But what if it doesn't? Then how are these mayors gonna think about how the prison grid got in front of them? Well, that might be a loose word for you to go, 'cause you can see for yourself. You should go because it would take you eight years to see for yourself in a decent, normal country, because no one ever has anything to do with who signs what, no one has anything to do with who goes where or does what or does what or doesn't. So this is not a normal democracy. And if you wanted to avoid at least the appearance of what you've done to the media and many things in the past, you wouldn't be cowards now, and you would let go of these two initiatives without further ado, because that would be really okay. But once again, in the other debate on the ground, I would like to discuss one or two absolutely specific professional questions with someone, if there were at all a normal professional to argue with, because my main problem is that in this House, a normal, fair professional debate cannot be held because anyone who knows it doesn't say that it is for this reason, but what they say to him. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2016-10-12-94	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman György Szilágyi, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group.
u2016-10-12-95	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, There was a very interesting charm of this introduction in connection with the speech by the lead speaker, since we heard from György Rubovszky what legal requirements, what laws are, and what opportunities we have in light of this. From the Rubovszky György, who recently declared it, and, to his great sorrow, a television camera also recorded that, if necessary, I would prevent the amendment of the basic law of Jobbik at the expense of breaking house rules, as this would mean that a quota vote should be held in Hungary. [[Hungarian Zoltán: Shame!]] That's what it was! If you hadn't rejected the amendment of the basic law of Jobbik, and then we would have amended the Fundamental Law, we would have saved this country about 20 billion forints, saved us the danger that Hungary has now been exposed to Brussels, and it would have been in the Fundamental Law for several months to ensure that no migrants can be deployed to Hungary. That's what you've prevented from doing in the name of great legitimacy, even by breaking house rules with your leadership. The other thing I have to mention here in the introduction is when Imre Vas talks about the costs. Well, my dear fellow Member, what were the costs of the quota vote that you consider to be valid only, which is politically valid? You know, this quota referendum is politically as valid as it is politically Hungary won the first World Championship match in Hungary. We won it politically, because we were better. It's true we lost 3:2, but we were better. And there were a lot more of them. Are you talking about costs when you can't find out - because it's just a check - it must have been more than that - that this whole referendum cost the budget about 20 billion forints? You've spent a lot more on this. If someone has been in the country and has seen the billboards, advertisements and advertisements, they know that it has cost very, very much, but they also know that it wasn't really about the quota, it was about the referendum, it was about a political gain that Fidesz made under this sky. Ladies and gentlemen, The question before us, according to Jobbik Hungary Movement, aims to seek the opinion of voters directly on an issue which is clearly an operational governance issue of government competence. The suitability of the issue for a national referendum was assessed and found suitable by the highly respected members of the competent body. However, I am afraid that it will not prevent the intention behind the question, i.e. the uncounted dispersal of public funds. We could also say that the question is hypocritical and demagogic, as it sends a message to all voters that the leaders and senior employees of high-profile state-owned companies are taking up unspeakable payments for their work, as Mr Orbán said at the time on 8 June 2010. With this question, we are sending a message to the electorate that the leaders of public companies take their wages undeservingly, which must be limited, because the work they do is not worth as much as the work of similar responsible, similar, competitive leaders. Let's face it, this is a misleading and harmful suggestion from all those who approach this problem in this way, and therefore also from Viktor Orbán. The system of wages and benefits for managers of public companies is an important issue, but it is primarily the responsibility of public bodies and public service personnel exercising ownership rights over companies. Any waste by the managers of public companies is also responsible for those who exercise ownership control or control over these companies. Let us not forget that as many companies, as many individual economic situations, are so many individual cases. It's a lawnmower rule that's more than stupid. That's exactly what Fidesz did when he took over government in 2010. They have established a magical ceiling, just this monthly gross HUF 2 million, which must not be exceeded by the salaries of the heads of public companies. All this was justified then by the fact that there are smug payments in this sphere, and this must be put to an end. They did not examine individual cases, they did not reveal the actual circumstances, they did not review the actual leadership performances, they merely sought to awaken the envy of the simple people with a very well-sounding, hypocritical statement. Of course, this decision was already wrong, even then it showed that Fidesz was unable to overcome the state prodigals, that it lacked the power to detect and sanction abuses. Since then, several long years have passed, and practice has shown that the bad decision of the time resulting from incompetence has had harmful consequences and that they were forced to blow back. Plus, it has to be added that by the time they called for retirement, they had already replaced the managers of all the state companies who were determined to pay up to HUF 2 million, and they had put their own friends, their own people, their own relatives in these positions, and so there was no problem that without any performance they could possibly receive up to HUF 5 million, because by then it had enriched the large family with Fidesz, and that was no longer a problem. The same damage to the Hungarian people is equally damaging to the Hungarian state, and it doesn't matter to you. [[14.00]] The two million HUF ceiling is the government 1660/2015. By its Resolution No.3 of the Government, it abolished it and replaced it with a more predictable system, which takes into account to a certain extent the specific features of the Government. It is, however, regrettable that the discovery of individual cases, the reduction of waste and undue payments have still not ceased. They still do not examine the real performance of the managers of each company. We should therefore think that the significantly increased wage ceiling in 2015 did not serve to put real professionals in charge of public companies and pay them fairly, but, as I said, to distribute greasy jobs to my friends. Indeed, for worthless work, not only the current five million HUF wage ceiling, but the two million HUF included in the question is too much. Incompetent drivers must be replaced, the eligible ones must be rewarded by their performance. Incompetents must also be fired if they may belong to the kinship of a Secretary of State or of a Fidesz Member, or if they are friends of a minister, possibly direct descendants. Incompetent people must not reduce their wages, but remove them from the position they cannot provide. This problem cannot be solved by pushing the pay ceiling. That is why I say that the question in this form is hypocritical and demagogic. Our fellow Member Zoltán Késző's efforts to combat corruption that is all-enhancing and suffocating our country with the means at his disposal, but this issue will not, in our opinion, alleviate the problems of corruption and state-level banditism as much as we would otherwise like. The national referendum is the strongest instrument of direct democracy, which can best reflect the opinion of voters. The institution and the weight of the referendum differ from one country to another with different democratic traditions. In Hungary, referendums do not have a very long tradition, especially on high-profile public-law issues in previous years. Of course, the question of visitation fees, tuition fees and hospital daily allowances was not covered, but the political consequences were very significant. The national referendum is therefore a specific legal institution for democracy in Hungary, which goes far beyond the question put in the case. The national referendum is therefore an important institution that I believe elected politicians should support, even if they do not agree with the particular question or the questioner. The referendum is the purest instrument of direct democracy, it activates voters, reminds them that they have a say in the affairs of the country. Today, in Hungary, it is the destruction of Fidesz propaganda that causes the electoral apathy. Fidesz constantly strengthens the worst reflexes of the Kádár system by stressing to Hungarians that only the road dictated by the current political leadership exists, which is not necessarily understood, since there is no alternative to the Fidesz road. We may be able to change this somewhat with the national referendum. The campaign on the issue of referendums may be the ground for the roll-out of arguments and arguments, so it can provide room for a substantive debate that we can now see almost or only missed elsewhere in the public sector. We could continue to argue, for example, if the Fidesz dared to argue - but he didn't dare. Orbán fled the debate even in the quota referendum, as he has been running away from public debates for years. He wouldn't dare argue with your Prime Minister, not even on this issue. It is also true that it is almost impossible to ensure the effectiveness of the referendum with the current rules. A possible reduction of the validity threshold should be considered. The current rules that Fidesz has created for its own political gain, and it has walked into its own trap in the last referendum, we should not even be concerned if the rules created by Fidesz were only harmful to Fidesz. But unfortunately, we all see damage to fidesz pompousness and arrogance, and this style has put the entire country in jeopardy in the last quota vote. Our decision now is not about how much the heads of state companies should earn, but about not being afraid of the institution of referendums, as he fears, because he knows that his crimes against the nation will sooner or later be punished by voters. For this reason, and because of the facts and arguments listed above, because of the possibility of debate, Jobbik Hungary's Movement believes that referendum initiatives for which so many signatures can be collected should be supported. The Jobbik Movement for Hungary supports this proposal, the Jobbik Movement for Hungary will vote in favour of a referendum on this issue. Thank you so much for listening. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-10-12-96	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The speaker of the KDNP Group, Mr György Rubovszky, will be here to speak. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-10-12-97	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, At first I didn't want to comment, but because of the speech by Mr Szilágyi, who reads and reads lips and minds, I am obliged. My person was attacked by an attack that had nothing to do with the agenda, from which he drew very unfortunate and very bad conclusions. Because if you had spent a few minutes preparing for it, the agenda proposal you were talking about would have come before the committee, as I recall, at the given deadline. There was no need to change the house rules, and the committee voted against it. So if he had been on the agenda a week ago, he would've voted it out the same way. However, I would like to refer to the fact that the meeting of Parliament's committees is public to the press, unless a closed session is ordered by the committee. Here in a vile way, but only the new News Television dared to do this, in a mean way, appeared with a remote sound recording camera. I made the mistake of allowing them to be in the Chamber 10 minutes before the start of the committee meeting. [[Zoltán Magyar: The fault of the camera.]] Before the committee meeting, they listened to a private conversation, in a mean way, as a spic, and anyone who uses it will be judged in the same way. [[Zoltán Magyar: The camera is after him.]] Dear Parliament, It hasn't gone without success, because since then, before committee meetings, the press has not been allowed to set foot in committee meetings, so that no more unwarranted... - a private conversation has been intercepted illegally. This is not the case in the Justice Committee, but in all the committees of the Parliament, because this is almost the same thing as the paparazzi driving the royal princess of England to her death. Well, that kind of attitude, thank God, the press department of the House paid him. [[Gergely Farkas: You don't have to be a politician.]] I would like to return to the referendum question, because that is actually the point of the speech that a motion has been tabled, which is variants A and B. I would like to say that on this issue, the Christian Democratic Group will support version B. I hope that a corresponding amendment will be tabled to this House and that this decision can be enforced. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-10-12-98	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mrs Erzsébet Schmuck, the lead speaker of the LMP Group. [[14.10]]
u2016-10-12-99	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Here lies a referendum initiative aimed at enabling people to express their will that the salary of state leaders in Hungary should not exceed HUF 2 million. Almost 200,000 signatures have been collected. We believe that this should be enough for Parliament and the majority of governments to vote in favour of this referendum initiative. However, we have no doubt that the majority of governments will not vote in favour of this. In this case, the government seems to be afraid. He's afraid people would go to the vote and say no. However, this would not only mean that the wage ceiling should not be HUF 5 million and that it should be lower, but that would also apply to the social and economic policy of the government. With this, people would say that the government's social policy has failed and that it cannot continue to break up the country. It is not possible to continue with fewer and fewer living in good condition and more living below the poverty line. In such a referendum, we believe that people would go even if there were no poster campaign like in the referendum on migration, when more than 10 billion forints were spent on various posters, in various forums, telling people to go to vote. What we see is that Fidesz completely denied its previous principles and earlier stand after becoming a power in 2010 and began to do something completely different than what it said before 2010. A few quotes, however; Viktor Orbán said in Parliament on 8 June 2010 that, when the economic action plan was launched, it is not acceptable that, while the country faces serious challenges, today these institutions also have payments of HUF 4-5 million per month, or even HUF 7 million per month. In comparison, after 2010, the pay ceiling was abolished for public companies, but for appearances, the two million-dollar payments were maintained. At the same time, bonuses, extra wage benefits, and rewards have been released. Then came another promise to stop the brazen bonuses. However, this failed, as we know. Last year, they finally gave up the fight, and they decided instead of taking a hard stand against the faceless salaries, they'd rather raise the pay ceiling. This is how we got to the point that 2015: the monthly payments of 4-5 million, which were considered unacceptable even by Viktor Orbán, are now declared by a government decision. As a reminder, the top executives of companies in the financial sector were included in the gross HUF 5 million band, but Magyar Posta, Magyar Nemzeti Vagyonkezelő Zrt., Magyar Tram Works, Szerencségy Zrt. and MÁV were also listed without justification. Forints 4 million can be made by the heads of state energy companies and strategically important companies, and 3 million by the other managers. The two-and-a-half-fold increase in wages is just the basis. That's important to know, which could come with a 20% bonus, plus other benefits and rewards. Together with Premium, the amount may be up to 6 million per month at an annual level of 72 million, but in particular, the Government's decision provides a higher premium if justified. I think that if you're on minimum wage, you're dreaming about income like that. After the state CEOs, the salary increase of the President of the Hungarian National Bank did not take long. His basic salary also increased to HUF 5 million gross, but the other central bank managers did not misbehave, and we even know that the Hungarian National Bank's supervisory board's fees were raised several times as well. What do you say to that? Obviously, George Matolcsy must be paid. If you are going to say no to this initiative, on the one hand, we must think that you want to pay György Matolcsy and that you do not want to pay György Matolcsy's $5 million salary to HUF 2 million. They obviously need György Matolcsy, because through the foundations of György Matolcsy they can make up a lot of public money for the backland of Fidesz. But further data: the increased wage ceiling has further increased the gap between the salaries of managers and workers. The wage gap between the minimum wage worker and the manager has increased from 20 to 45 times. Or, if you look at the worse-seeking nurses or social workers, nearly two years' salary for a nurse is paid monthly by the state executives who pocket $5 million. We think this is unacceptable. [[István Szávay is replaced by Dezső Believing in the notary seat.]] Workers' poverty has increased throughout the public sector in recent years, with nearly 200,000 public workers still earning under the minimum living. But in the meantime, the wages of the employees of the state companies have not increased in the last six years or less. According to the data requested by us, there was no wage development at MÁV until 2013, after which there was only 2.5 percent a year. The National Asset Manager hasn't had a pay increase in the last five years. This year, even a few percent wage increase was subject to conditions at Magyar Posta. In addition, last week, Nándor Csepreghy also said that the government would deal with the shortage of tens of thousands of people working in public administration and public companies. Shocking! So it is not enough that the increased wage ceiling has multiplied the difference between the salaries of workers and managers, and now even their poorly paid jobs can be feared by workers. However, what we need to see is that the government waterhead is only growing, and today the state is spending more on itself than ever. The number and number of Deputy State Secretarys and Ministers, the government waterhead employs nearly 200 top leaders, twice as much as in the 2010 government change. According to the LMP, it is unacceptable that while millions of people are in poverty in this country, the government raises wages for the few who are already earning well, the top managers of state companies can pocket several years' wages each month. It follows from this that the LMP strongly supports the government's understanding of whether they agree to reduce the wages of state leaders. What do people think of two and a half times the salary of state leaders in a country where 41.5 percent of the population live below the minimum of living, where two thirds of the workers earn below the average wage, where hundreds of thousands of people suffer from public wages below the poverty line? What do people think of the five million-dollar pay ceiling where the multi-annual salary of social and health workers lands as monthly wages in the pockets of state leaders? Where the level of government policy has increased the policy of cheap labour and low wages; where, on average, everyone can take a step forward - but this means that some people run ahead of miles and others miss miles. The LMP has also previously submitted a bill to reduce the wage ceiling, the essence of which was that we would have tied the payment ceiling to the minimum wage at any time, which is 20 times higher for all undertakings of publicly owned companies. This would have been a practical wage ceiling of two million today, but, as we are used to, this proposal has been voted out; as with all our proposals for the eradication of workers' poverty, which would have increased the wages of low earners by changing the tax system, it would have raised the net of the minimum wage above the minimum wage, without reducing the burden on employers. We have proposed real wage arrangements for the public sector, but this has not been supported by the government either. We suggest to the government that you be brave, dare to measure yourself, not only on the migration issue, but also on the everyday life of people. Thank you for your attention. [[Sallai R. Benedict: That's right!]]
u2016-10-12-100	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. The first independent Member to apply may now speak, and I give the floor to Mr Zoltán Késztő. Please, you have a 15-minute window.
u2016-10-12-101	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear House, Here in recent months we have learned that when it comes to referendums, the governing party is talking about a huge national unity. I was confident that, now that we are discussing two referendums here in this House, in a large unit, the pro-government representatives will be sitting here, and we can talk to my colleague Zoltán Gögös, but it seems that this national unit is more of a helicopter, and now there may be a single helicopter for government representatives. Thank you again for the floor, Mr President. Today, unfortunately, we have a lot to talk about again about whether there is democracy in Hungary. [[14.20]] Based on his political affiliation, temperament and personal experience, he proves his truth or the opposite of the other's claim. What the Orbán-habony regime is like, there are plenty of examples of it here, among the walls of this house. I should feel almost exceptional at the moment when I can speak as an independent Member, because although the people of a constituency have honored me by choosing me as their individual representative, as an independent member of the Parliament, I have much less opportunity to speak than my colleagues in a faction. This clear injustice affects three constituencies out of 106, which discriminates against nearly 250,000 people. There is something to talk about, for example, about Veszprém's constituency number one. If I could, I would ask you every week when Veszprém will receive the source that Prime Minister has been promising for almost two years in order to build a race swimming pool in our city. Or I would ask you when the resources promised several times over the last ten years will be available to build the southern section of Highway 8 that avoids Veszprém, so that no more deaths will be claimed by the life-threatening section of the road. I would suggest that the funds from the EU be used for this investment, for example, rather than that local Voldemorts and kissing party secretaries should be able to hand out public funds to themselves or for unnecessary investment, as if they were doing so from their own. Respecting that the debate is now on a referendum initiative, I would rather talk to the institution of the referendum myself instead of further lobbying. All the more so, because when I was elected, I promised that, in addition to the people in my constituency, I would be the voice of civilians in Parliament. Having joined the anti-theft referendum that I initiated by dozens of NGOs and nearly 200,000 people, I dare say that they are facing the majority of Hungary if they do not support the launch of the referendum. Ladies and gentlemen of the Government, On the initiative of your own government, you forced a failed referendum on Hungary. It was a purely political decision, contrary to the beautifully-sounding lying words, to drive the country up against a real problem, but not on existing provisions, with propaganda that would make the country hate out of public money. It was a political decision to stop Fidesz from losing popularity, while at the same time creating an anti-EU mood. It is a matter of fact, and your National Election Committee was forced to say that the quota deficit was invalid. It is invalid, because of the new electoral law you have created, which requires a minimum of 50 per cent plus one person participation. It is invalid, because there were millions of people who saw through the situation, and although they agree not to come to Hungary illegally, millions are more afraid of the power of Fidesz than of a few thousand refugees. Yes, don't doubt that the referendum was invalid because it was initiated by the government, and today the Hungarian government does not have a majority in this country. There are more people who don't like what the Orbán-habony regime is doing than those who can be pissed off with a 15 billion forint hack. For one sentence, I would like to mention this mercilessly large sum, which was used for propaganda, from which we could have built three race swimming pools, bringing up my previous example in Veszprém. For a year and a half, Hungary was pissed off with various poster campaigns. They sent a message to Brussels; as a schoolboy, they tested the Hungarian population to see whether or not they knew their lies. In the campaign period alone, more than HUF 8.5 billion of marketing costs are recognised, not including spending on similar topics in the previous year, spending on the referendum of HUF 4 billion, brainwashing public media from more than HUF 80 billion for a minute, and public relations of TV channels purchased from state funds. So the estimate of HUF 15 billion can even be considered particularly modest. It has undoubtedly been achieved that despite misappropriation of public property and public advertising, Árpád Habony's cesspool and Andy Vajna's television have been capitalised legally. This was the referendum of Árpád Habony, on behalf of the government. Just so there is no doubt that today the two are almost the same in Hungary. They've made it possible for our billions of dollars spent on invalid referendums to get richer. It's almost time if it hasn't happened yet that these friends don't have to rent a helicopter, but buy one instead. You don't have to pay 110,000 forints in a mansion suite for one night, but you can buy the whole hotel. You can continue to do what you have done for six years, with the money you stole from us, you can live as party barons while watching the Hungarian misery from above indifferently. This was achieved by clapping another HUF 15 billion, and by stealing even this money instead of seeking the most effective campaign to make the referendum valid. Instead, the invalid referendum has thrown 4500 HUF out of our common register for each sex. We'll raise you 4500 forints for a vote. This is the most inefficient campaign in Hungarian history. Everyone would have been better off even if every citizen in the referendum had received this amount in cash, except for, say, Árpád Habony, Andy Vajna and other kissing pressmen. Instead, what did they do? An invalid referendum on whose tail they wish to amend their granite-solid Fundamental Law was shattered. Dear fellow Members, In the spring of 2016, we took a referendum initiative on two issues, asking for the help of Hungarian citizens. One was about stopping the theft of state land, and the other was about a monthly wage ceiling of HUF 2 million for state CEOs. Meanwhile, the Hungarian Socialist Party had a third initiative on Sunday's shutdown, in which they fled cowardlyly and did not want to hear the opinion of the people, but quickly withdrew their insane proposal. Only in parentheses: they referred to the desire to govern with people and understand that the vast majority of people could not be convinced. We could have saved a minimum of HUF 15 billion if they had done the same on the quota issue: instead of an invalid referendum with almost identical results, they would have been able to include their current decision in the Fundamental Law for six months. The state wage ceiling and land affairs are symbolic issues. One is about the fundamental credibility of the government and the other is about the fate of our country for decades ahead. In 2010, your Prime Minister Viktor Orbán campaigned with this and demanded that there should be a pay ceiling and that state executives should not earn more. And then when his own buddies got there, he was suddenly wiped out. If you do not feel the cynicism of this, then go out among the people and ask them if they agree with the question and if they want to see that there is a pay ceiling again. When a survey was conducted, 85 percent said yes, so be it. Since 83 percent of the Fidesz voters, 91 percent of the Jobbik voters and 87 percent of the left-wing voters thought so, we can safely say that there is a cross-party national unity on this issue. The issue of banning the sale of state land is a question determining Hungary's fate for decades. It is not about whether a foreigner may enter Hungary, but about who owns the Hungarian land. For Hungary, for the Hungarian people, or for a few thousand chosen fiefs, for fidesz landlords, whose servants we can be in the next few decades at the most, simply Hungarian people who are unable to find a job? This is a national matter affecting the family of a large part of the Hungarian population and the fate of their children, in which there is also a cross-party national unity. When a representative opinion poll asked whether to prohibit the sale of Hungarian land, 76 percent said that they would, in any case. 75 percent of Fidesz voters, 83 percent of left-wing voters, 87 percent of Jobbik voters think so. I call on you not to go against the will of the people, and you have two choices to do so: either you propose a referendum on these two issues, or you will amend a law similar to the abolition of the lockdown on Sunday. For both referendum initiatives, the National Election Committee noted that they had reached 100 thousand valid signatures, but did not reach 200 000. It came together, with some 190,000 signatures at least as successful as the 3.3 million voters in the quota vote. I would remind you once again that you spent HUF 4,500 on every non-voting vote. For these 190,000 signatures, we don't even have 45 signatures per piece, and for private money, private people's donations. Not only did we have 15 billion forints of public money, but we didn't have any. [[14.30]] In light of this, I am convinced that they have an obligation to live with Article 8 (1) of the Fundamental Law, according to which the National Assembly may order a national referendum on the initiative of the President of the Republic, the Government or a hundred thousand voters. As they supported their government in the launch of the referendum, they now have the responsibility to support 190,000 signatories and the Hungarian people who agree with the initiatives in the same way, which represents a 75-85 percent national majority. To sum up, your government had an initiative set up for a national cause, in which it wasted HUF 15 billion of public money, spending HUF 4500 for one vote, they brought together an invalid referendum, which, on the basis of an unsuccessful referendum, wants to amend the Fundamental Law on national unity. On the other hand, 190,000 Hungarian citizens have two initiatives concerning national affairs, for which not even one forint has been used, and for one signature we have not spent 45 forints, even though more than three quarters of the country agree, and so many supporters have come together to give Parliament the opportunity to call a referendum. Now it's your turn to prove no double standards. If they really consider their own referendum to be successful, they must also assess our referendum initiative successfully on the basis of equal standards; and they can also prove that your employer is not the government, but the majority of the citizens who sent you to Parliament. Once you have started, let us broaden the cases in which there is a cross-party national unity, so that we can return to the road leading to Hungary, which holds national unity instead of a controlled, guardian democracy. Support the referendum or change the law on land sales and the state wage ceiling as the majority of the population expects! I wish you an honest decision. Thank you so much for listening.
u2016-10-12-102	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Since no one has made a two-minute speech, no one has made a written statement, the speeches will now take place within a normal timeframe. I give the floor to Congressman Robert Benedek Sallai, the LMP Group. Here you go.
u2016-10-12-103	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear fellow Members present, The main reason why it is interesting to talk about this referendum is that you introduced the concept of "politically valid" into the Hungarian political public, when something is almost valid, because many people expressed their views, and yesterday I asked it, and one of the FM State Secretary replied and said that there was no such thing. What I don't understand is how the fundamental law amendment or everything they've been communicating for the past two weeks can be undertaken. This case also clearly points to my view that a well-organized criminal group has been incorporated into Hungarian legislation, they are implementing efforts to expand public wealth, they are doing market redistributing in many areas, but at the same time the Hungarian society has lost its representative body, the Hungarian Parliament. You represent not the Hungarian voters, but the leadership of their party, its PR and power goals. And in all respects, if these referendum initiatives are not supported, only this will be confirmed, and new arguments will be put forward. For my part, I have to tell you, and allow me to argue a little bit with the situation as to whether the wage ceiling is a good institution. I don't think it's good. I think that the good thing is that every Hungarian citizen would make 2 million or make more than that. The unworthy and unacceptable thing about this whole system is that you are making these particularly insufferable wages by allowing the vast majority of Hungarian society to live on pennies, making a living of fifty thousand or sixty thousand. This is how much you spend each week or less, not to mention those leaders, because I do not want to personalize with Members, because it is not your income, it is the government executives with a salary of 4-5 million who, in principle, should serve the Hungarian public wealth, what they produce, should create public goods, and it would be necessary to carry out public tasks. And compared to that, they let this wealth, this capital that they produce, very often at a loss, because there are several managers who have a completely loss-making public company with a salary of 5 million, I can give an example of the case of public forestry, where, with gross incomes of over 4 million, FM support is needed to prevent them from falling. Under these conditions, it is unacceptable, completely impertinent to vote and support these wages. I therefore think that it is not certain that a referendum is a good institution, because obviously Parliament should have the ability of reason not to allow it. If it were still a representative of the people, it would not allow these social injustices that you are doing to your state leaders. I think that it would be necessary for some time now that the pay tables, the civil servants' and government officials' pay tables are defined by a simple multiplier that is linked to the minimum wage at all times, with nothing else, and that they should never be able to raise their wages, never be able to raise the wages of state leaders without raising anyone else's wages. The way to achieve justice in society is to raise the low wages, to hold back the high wages, and obviously you are already against it from your point of view, because the single-key tax allows billionaires to be given even more help while the poor are left in poverty; but if there were to be an effort to do so, by setting a minimum wage and determining the multipliers applied to it, legislation would be closed to the possibility that only by raising the income of the entire Hungarian society would it be possible to pay higher wages to any public official. That is why I feel that it is practically unacceptable to take the view that they do not want to open a debate on this. Most of Hungary's individually elected parliamentary representatives are from the Fidesz-KDNP, and you represent specific constituencies. I would very much like to know how many of your constituents have been consulted on this issue before voting today, how many voters have asked for their opinions on how to take a stand on the issue that our fellow Member Zoltán Készt has initiated. In my opinion, the opinion of the Hungarian society is quite uniform, that these incredibly high public wages should not be allowed and should not be allowed. Then there may be a time when all Hungarians earn enough to send their children to school once a year to go on vacation, so that every child who graduates can see London or Paris and gain European visibility, and then if the welfare country that you have no chance of ever creating under your government comes, then I say, of course, that the wages should be as high as possible and that we support it. But now, while they are destroying the issue of education, they are bleeding out the health care system, the rural road network is usually demolished by infrastructure, a completely impertinent act for some state leaders - unfortunately not so few, but quite a few state leaders - to pay such impertinently high wages. Accordingly, I think that if you do not have the ability of reason to represent the opinion of your voters in the Hungarian Parliament, then there is nothing else to do but to ask society directly. And from now on, unfortunately, after we have lost the opportunity to make a wise decision in Parliament with reasonable judgment, we must go out to society and ask their opinion. In recent weeks we have heard many times that we need to ask the opinion of society on important issues, and we have often heard that the most important instrument of participatory democracy is a referendum when citizens can express their views - but in this case you did not want it in any form. It would not have had any additional costs, it would have had no material impact if we had voted off these three referendum questions on 2 October, it would not have meant additional costs, it would not necessarily have meant any additional administration, it would not have meant additional tasks, it could have been done with the same infrastructure and personnel background. But you do not want to ask the Hungarian people. How do they carry out their role as representatives of the people if they do not essentially represent their constituents and do not want to allow them to be represented by other initiatives? I believe that this position is fundamentally unacceptable, that it is unacceptable to see democracy at the moment with their attitude, and I can only hope that once there will be a normal government of Hungary that seeks to govern Hungary by asking Hungarian society and by asking the opinion of Hungarian society. Everything that happened on 2 October was an act, a PR farce, a rather expensive event in the history of Hungary, but the fact that on such crucial matters as this and the two referendum issues that were clarified at the next item on the agenda, I do not think that everything that Hungarian society wants is completely unacceptable. Let me tell you one more important thing, because there is a difference between a referendum and a referendum. I know that most of the opposition parties were involved, or, I don't know, most of them were involved in the collection of these, but in the case of the grounder, there were very, very many LMP activists out there. I would have wished for you to collect signatures, all those sitting here, would have gone out once to collect a referendum on your quota referendum and brought it here! [[14.40]] But instead, using a power of power, a government position, for PR purposes, this participatory democratic system was used, while those who suffered and worked by channeling the opinion of the Hungarian people into a referendum initiative, but they do not want to give room to them, and who knows if they are together more than 300 thousand, so nearly 400 thousand Hungarian voters and voters who wanted to express their views. In fact, I consider the position of Fidesz-KDNP totally unacceptable in the event that you do not change these regulatory factors relating to the wage ceiling if you do not give the Parliament the opportunity to decide to take back these impertinent wages, but you do not want to allow the referendum to take place. Accordingly, unfortunately for my part, after the Fidesz-KDNP has left me no other way, and I do not see much of any other space, I would support in everything that this referendum should be created, and I would also ask my fellow Members to give this space, if possible, because this is what the principle of participatory democracy and social justice requires. Thank you for the floor, Mr President.
u2016-10-12-104	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman György Szilágyi, Jobbik Group. Here you go.
u2016-10-12-105	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. It's only good that it's H/12350. Parliamentary resolution No.1 has been put before the House, because we now have the opportunity to debate at least a little on two important issues. One is that the managers of state-owned companies and their senior employees deserve how much money for their work, and I say that Jobbik's position is a little different from that of others, because we say that each of these state-owned companies should pay performance rent tailored to the company for the managers who work, and that it should be decided whether someone works well or works poorly. Those who work poorly, as I said, may have relatives, friends, acquaintances, who should be fired, who are doing well, who may have to be paid, because this will also make us able to keep the leaders in the competitive sphere who would know how to, let's say, direct a state company, so that they can get it to serve the state as much as possible, stay there, because they make a lot more money there. So I think it's a more complex question. The other issue that we can debate here is the attitude of the various parties to the national referendum, the strongest instrument of democracy. So what is the attitude of Fidesz to the referendum, for example. In recent years, we have experienced three kinds of attitudes on the part of Fidesz. The first was when, even by hiring bald people, he was willing to prevent the question from being raised at the National Election Office at all, so they sent different beating men there so that he couldn't officially submit a party's question. It is the other attitude that will probably be now, because it has not yet been said, but it can be taken out of your words, but disprove me if I have misinterpreted it, because if you do not support this referendum now, you will not support it with your vote, and you will not give me the opportunity to have a referendum on this matter. And their third approach to the referendum and we are talking about the same thing, so we are talking about the same, the strongest instrument of direct democracy, and the third is when Fidesz would like to issue a referendum, because he believes that it is appropriate for his political purposes, and then, as we have heard from Sallai R. Benedek, he does not collect different signatures, but, taking advantage of the majority, he writes a referendum through Parliament. And here's the thing: when a fundamental law amendment would prevent that, it could be prevented by breaking house rules. After all, I say to Congressman Rubovszky that I do not read lips, this has been factually recorded by the cameras; that you and Imre Vas sitting behind you are speaking to each other before the meeting of the Justice Committee, and you say there that you can prevent the amendment of the basic law of Jobbik even in breach of house rules. By the way, and that is the most serious thing, Congressman, is that you are the chairman of the Justice Committee. Chairman of the Justice Committee! And when you say that you've got a mean record of what you've been wearing? The truth. What you... well, Congressman, I don't think you lied to Imre Vas, Imre Vas, and told him the truth that you're going to prevent him from breaking house rules. And he says it wasn't a house violation. I really respect your age, which is why I say that you remember this wrong, because the house rules say that when a committee is appointed, that committee has 30 days to decide and negotiate that amendment, the law in question, 2016. CHAPTER IV The Judicial Committee was appointed on the 13th of October. That meeting, when you were on camera, was the last one that could fit into the defined 30 days, by the way, after that, when the decision was made, that was 2016. It was the 18th of the month, so beyond 30 days, they had already made a house-breaking decision about all of this. And what happened, by the way, when these cameras - and it's clear that that camera, that trash camera, is to blame, so that's true, because why was it there - they recorded the truth, what was the consequence? He did not resign as Chairman of the Judicial Committee, because he says that he is housebreakingly blocking a parliamentary party's proposal to negotiate. No! He just told me the cameras were banned from the room. Well, it's about dictatorship. Well, that's when someone picks up the truth and then makes it public, so what's the consequence? It is not the consequence that a person draws conclusions and tells me whether I am worthy of running the Justice Committee, if I consciously violate the laws and house rules; no, they ban the cameras so that they can't take any more of these. In my opinion, this is outrageous, and it shows that you are not trying to govern this country by the principles of democracy, not by the law, not by the principles of democracy, but by the principles of the referendum initiative, but by looking at one thing: this is good or not good for Fidesz. That's not why you were put in this house. Your job is not to focus on what is good for Fidesz, but on what is good for the country, what is good for the Hungarian people, what is good for the Hungarian people, what is the interest of the Hungarian people, what is the purpose of the Hungarian people. The Hungarian people were not interested in throwing 20 billion out the window. It would have been in their interest, Mr President, to have you voted properly, in accordance with house rules, on the amendment of the Fundamental Law of Jobbik, and if you had put your hands on their hearts and knew what was in the interests of the country, you would have been allowed to come before the House, and we would have amended the Fundamental Law a long time ago, six months ago, and there would not have been such a referendum. That would have been in the interest. Now, when it is in a different interest and perhaps a referendum should be put in place, you will again have the interests of Fidesz in mind, and that is why you will probably not allow it. This isn't how it's supposed to work, believe me. We are all here, at least we should sit here so that this country can be as good as possible, the citizens of this country as possible, so that this country can grow and grow, and you will represent not only the Fidesz voters, but all the voters of this country, as the Movement for Jobbik Hungary will and will continue to do in the future. So what I'm saying is that I want you to get a little involved in this issue so that you can look at the interests of the country, start with the question of the referendum in such a way that you look at the interests of the country, and, yes, it would be good to have an inquiry into the matter that you also voted off - a committee of inquiry could not stand up or stand up in Parliament since you have been in power - for example, who sent the balds to the referendum initiative, who ordered it, and why they did this. Thank you so much for listening. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-10-12-106	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I'm asking if anyone else wants to comment. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. The general debate is closed. I will ask President György Rubovszky if he wishes to respond to what has been said in the debate. [[Dr. György Rubovszky: Yes.]] Yes, you have the floor, Mr. President.
u2016-10-12-107	I would like to reply very briefly, Mr President. Thank you very much for the floor. Dear Parliament, The unsubstantiated bluffs that have been made here are basically just making me smile. I do not know, my opposition colleagues do not look at the polls, my opposition colleagues do not know the legislation, my opposition colleagues do not know the agenda. At the moment, we are talking about the agenda initiated by Zoltán Kész, yet five or six speeches have been made in this House on the ground, which will be the next agenda. [[14.50]] I would just like to point out that if at least one thousand were right about the unfortunate misguided conclusion we heard from the opposition benches, this referendum questionnaire would have more than 200 thousand valid signatures, they would have made it easier for the Justice Committee and Parliament, because in this case it would not be a matter of discretion, but a referendum should be written out. But with respect, in its country entitled to 8 million elections, it means that almost 200,000 people are in favour of it, which means that there is in a dwarf minority the kind of initiative that has been brought here to this House. I said that the KDNP - although this is not part of the closing line - took a position. I look forward to the amendments here. That is all I wanted to add to the debate that we have heard. My opinion on the idea of György Szilágyi remains unchanged. A man who takes advantage of and takes advantage of that war of filth, I respect that opinion as much as you do. So, on my part, I'm done with the question. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2016-10-12-108	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Dear Parliament, A general debate on the proposal for a decision on a national referendum will follow until closure. Proposal submitted by the Judicial Committee H/12351. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr Rubovszky, rapporteur of the Judicial Committee, author of the item on the agenda. Mr. President, please.
u2016-10-12-109	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, In view of the fact that the debate on the referendum issue that has now been on the agenda has been partly over, I do not want to repeat, as rapporteur, the details of what I have said. What I would like to do remains - and that is the point - is that the Justice Committee has not taken a position on this issue. We now have Congressman Bárándy, who can confirm that there has been a great debate on this issue. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: The decision was wrong.]] The decision to bring this A-B resolution to this House was the decision of the order of business. This also encourages the House to clarify the proposal for a parliamentary decision by means of a motion to amend the final decision. I, of course, maintain the amendment tabled on behalf of the Committee. I ask this House to discuss the matter and to make its decision. Thank you very much.
u2016-10-12-110	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, The representative of the Government indicated that he did not wish to present his position during the debate. Dear Parliament, Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. First, I give the floor to Congressman Vas Imre, the MSZP... [[Intercoms from the opposition benches: No, no, no!]] Head speaker for the Fidesz Group. I will follow you, Congressman, here in this huge debate, the President-in-Office of the Council may miss a word. You have the floor, Congressman, as the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2016-10-12-111	Thank you for the floor. Indeed, by the way, we all miss from time to time. And even at times, I can agree with my fellow Member, Mr Haughty, that when it comes to a referendum initiative, it has nothing to do with anyone else who signs what. I believe that since 2010, it has been particularly important. You said before that you didn't sign... And here the rates have improved, because in this referendum initiative, 181,000 valid signatures were found by the National Election Committee. So I really think, like no one really has anything to do with... And what you said earlier, because of the information that you have, if you are aware of it, you should be kind enough to press charges, because at least it would be an abuse of office. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: Let's cut the crap. Peter Polt...]] The fact that there was someone else in 2007 who was afraid of him, I'm sure he was. They also complained that they would not sign it, and this was the collection of signatures for the social referendum. So that some fear might have been in people then, but, as I mentioned earlier, in four days we were able to collect a valid signature of around 360,000 for all three questions. It also came up here because how much easier it would have been if we'd written it together. This just came before the Parliament, and the referendum held on 2 October was decided by the Parliament at some point in early June, so this could not have been held together. I think there is no debate between us that it is cheaper to keep two or three referendum initiatives together. Here, too, it is clear from the document of the head of the Election Office that if we add a second question, it means 180 million HUF plus compared to 4 billion 487 million. It's probably the cost of producing and delivering ballots. I think it is particularly strange that a representative of a party that encouraged voters not to vote in the referendum on 2 October will initiate a referendum. I think that raises very interesting moral questions. It also raises very interesting moral questions that when we tabled a decision on the issue of the referendum, whether or not the Parliament will order it, you voted against it. So you probably gathered - true - with your activists, along with your fellow parties, 181,000 signatures in 60 days, but it was not so important that you or your fellow factions could contribute to the decision that we could have made yesterday, during Monday night negotiations. I would also like to return to the debate on the Justice Committee, where my fellow Member Bárándy and I discussed what the Curia has reviewed. I have read the order of the Curia since then, and on page 4 of this order, the Curia clearly describes in the signatures that these signature collection sheets did not comply with the referendum law 15. § 4 and even in the case of 701 records, not disputed by the applicant, did not comply with Article 15 of the referendum law. Paragraph 4 of this Article. So I maintain that this, i.e. the validity or nullity of the signatures, has been fully reviewed by the Curia [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: That doesn't mean Imre! You've got it all wrong. He didn't examine the signatures. Zoltán Grimlock: You're reading this wrong! The president's ringing the bell.]] Article 15 of the referendum law, and even in the case of a sheet of 701 which the applicant does not dispute, has not been complied with. Paragraph 4 of this Article. So I maintain that this, i.e. the validity or nullity of the signatures, has been fully reviewed by the Curia (Dr. Gergely Bárándy: This does not mean Imre! You've got it all wrong. He didn't examine the signatures. Zoltán Grimlock, you're reading this wrong. - The president's ringing. , obviously as indicated in the application. That's what I see from the Curia resolutions. I think, by the way, that the National Election Committee's decision can be fully reviewed by the Curia if there is a request for this. From the Curia's order, I can see that there has been a request for this, by the way. And we also told the Justice Committee that the Parliament is not a review forum for the Curia's decision. [[15.00]] As far as the substance is concerned, I understand that on Friday this week, two days from now, the Parliament will discuss three motions that make the referendum initiative virtually non-reasonable. In view of all this, our faction will obviously decide whether to support the A- and B versions. Thank you for listening.
u2016-10-12-112	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Zoltán Gőgös, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-10-12-113	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Our fellow Member said a lot of interesting things. [[Dr. Vas Imre: I'm happy for you.]] On two or three, let me respond quickly. One is this deviation from the house rules. Congressman, why should we now assist in breaking the law of this House and solve it quickly? There was no other reason for this deviation from the house rules than the fact that they were unable to deal with this matter within 30 days. That's it, isn't it? That's why they wanted to push him in some way, so that we could talk about it at 3:00 a.m. anyway. Isn't it more convenient to talk about this now than at night? That was the reason why we did not support either us or the other opposition parties. Don't make us look like idiots. [[Dr. Vas Imre: He didn't want a referendum!]] They simply did not want to bring the matter of the earth before the referendum on 2 October, because it was delicate, so they decided to commit the failure of law at the time, which is not an individual case, and it happens quite often at Fidesz. So that's it for house rules. [[President Tamás Sneider, Vice-President of the National Assembly.]] The other is who has the right to do what they have the right to do. So, ladies and gentlemen, when I submitted this referendum initiative, I think that we, together with the other opposition parties, have already made it to the point where we have tried everything that we have tried to do at the 21st meeting. We will prevent the greatest villainy in the beginning of the century. Because I can't put another word for the procedure in which all of our most important assets were lost by the government and Fidesz. And we've done a lot of experiments to prevent it, and we've had success, because now there's a lot of confusion about what to say about what to spend the money on. It seems they're trying everything now, it's been all about everything from industrial parks, and now it's the latest to reduce public debt. No, it does have to be for rural development purposes, and I am also presuming, obviously, that we will not support the legislative amendment that has been invented to include a reduction in public debt in the NFA Act. You'd have to spend less on stupidity, and then you wouldn't have that kind of public debt. So I think that this referendum initiative was particularly important to me because I know exactly - I worked for a company that has done public areas under market conditions - I can firmly say that the exploitation of state wealth is possible with a proper institutional background and proper control, even if we have a good rental arrangement for it and, say, a condition for it to have an active role in rural employment. In any case, this is the most active rural development instrument, because it is a value that can produce very high added value and very serious production in the countryside, especially if it is well organised. But by selling this property, the state will fall from this opportunity, and from that moment on, there will be no say in what happens to this. We can also see the consequences of the land sold, for example, by the NFA registering the land with continuous lawlessness to the winners of the bidding. Because I have two letters: one is what the minister described: that only in the event that the local residents make a wrong declaration of rights, there is another one from the NFA, that they do not consider to be preceded by the declaration of law in the settlement, let us say, by other players 20-25 kilometres, who won the bid, because in the government decision they have entered that the person who acquires the land on a bid has a pre-emptive right. Now, this is gonna be a crowd of lawsuits, a crowd of people, that's for sure, and the NFA is gonna do the stupid thing of not informing the law maker that you're a crazy man, we've already registered the land with the Land Administration, which you're rightfully declaring. Not to mention the situation where the winning party starts blackmailing you, especially when you have a lease, let's say, the former user. This is a typical case, moreover, by asking for an extreme rent - this is now between HUF 180 and 200 thousand to understand my fellow Members - by not adding an expert opinion to it. The Parliament has made the mistake of including in the law that this procedure can be initiated with an expert opinion, but there is no need for this expert opinion in the part where the requested party has to react within 15 days, because if it does not respond, the legislator considers the increased rent to be acceptable even without expert opinion. So I'd like to send a message to everyone from here who has such a request to go to court, and don't sit still and say that there's no expert opinion, then it's nothing. It's not nothing, I'd like to signal it, it's brilliantly invented. So the only reason I'm telling you this is because of what's happened since then and how people got to the ground without ever having anything to do with the business in life. Not to mention what was said very, very many times in this House, and it was already said before the referendum was launched that a mass of people appeared in Hungarian agriculture and on the Hungarian land market, who had obtained the right qualifications for this in two or three days. I asked the Prime Minister here if he would operate with a gold scalpel surgeon, because it's at least the same tragedy if we give the land to people who don't know the ground, because he's either a speculator who obviously wants to make money in the short or medium term, or a scoundrel who's going to ruin it. We see what is happening, for example, in the areas rented to Hortobágy. By the way, I've got a report by now that I'm gonna be doing for damage to nature and for sloppy treatment, because it seems like no one's keeping anything from any of your business. Now, the same players - let's say not on Hortobágy, because the nature reserve - have the right to purchase the areas they have won with a completely uncredited and fraudulent tender. And I'm not saying that, I'm sorry, it's the suspended procedure of the Metropolitan Court and the decision of which one point is that it violates the UN Convention against Corruption. It's a pretty lousy statement, let's say, from a court, but the rest is about and it's a professional statement that you can't cancel, for example, a pre-lease right with a contract. By the way, these are won by those involved on a series of occasions, because there is no such thing. So, by law, bilateral pre-lease rights cannot be removed, they can try, but this is almost certainly unconstitutional; what this Constitutional Court will decide and what it will not. The other is that there is no government measure for which there is no remedy; it is not the winning party and the losing party, because there are a lot of civil lawsuits in it, but between the applicant and the losing party, because there is no such case law. I think, and it is good that the Chamber President has come in, because very, very tragic things are happening around the registration of the purchased land, and the Chamber would have to protect producers everywhere in the Zirc area, the local producers, who sought us out in a mass, to reject their declaration of rights. I've been told by the Minister that I'm sure I have your letter because it's wrong. No, it's written by three lawyers, there's no mistake in that, it's just that the NFA doesn't follow the law. And if there were no urgent changes and steps in this, then land would be in the hands of a lot of people who could only get the land from the resident because the resident did not want to bid any more, because he thought he didn't have any more money, and the Napper had unlimited opportunity; because he thought, and everyone suggested, that he didn't even have to bid the price, because it could be obtained with pre-emption rights, which, by the way, doesn't seem to exist in this case. Now, I didn't see a law amendment like that before the people who live physically in the settlement got the land at auction, there's no such thing. Here's the letter, Balázs, and I'll read it to you if you think the letter from the NFA doesn't precede your pre-emptive right. This was described by the NFA, despite the Minister's opposing opinion. Now, if this doesn't work out, I'm gonna say this again, there's gonna be a lot of lawsuits, and it's gonna lead to huge disputes. It also shows that this is all thoughtless, meaningless, and not for that purpose. Speaking of foreigners, this case has come up. It doesn't matter that you bid to win the foreigner, then the pre-buyer buys it. You never will on this basis, so if this is the practice of NFA, you never will. And once again, I hear about extreme rent increases that are not in the interest of the industry, it is in no interest for them to pump the profits out of businesses where they are still giving jobs to people and not little. [[15.10]] It would be more in this country's interest to appreciate those where they operate at least employment sectors. It's getting less and less. It's getting less and less! Everyone wants to produce wheat, corn, barley, rape, which can be about two to three months of work, with relatively small risks, although it is possible to scold the market when prices are low. They will also be if there is no internal market for fodder plants, for example, but otherwise a very comfortable condition, especially with a HUF 70-100 thousand or a HUF 200,000 per hectare premium on Hortobágy. This whole story that goes on in the Hungarian agricultural market is a cabaret. The only problem is, this cabaret is gonna have some serious consequences, and we shouldn't let that happen. We're talking about all the signatures and stuff. Zoltán Késző told us about the social support of this issue, it was an official measurement, so there was no trick in it. There was nearly 80 percent support for both issues that we are discussing here. Many times, my fellow Members also refer to polls, and now I hear that 98 percent of the country has gone to vote, which is what TV2 said the other day. You're probably saying that because that's what you have to tell them. I'm guessing those guys aren't that dumb, they just have to read the script. But again, that's not the basic problem. You say you listen to the will of the people. There are 181,000 signatures certified by the election office. By the way, to this day, we still don't know what the fate of that 20,000 has become, which, by the way, we continue to claim has been misplaced. Otherwise, if that's not the case, feel free to go ahead and write out the referendum, because it could completely close this problem. From then on, the debate was over, because Parliament felt that it was very close, because no one was arguing that we had more signatures. It was also said here that we photocopied. And that's a dirty lie, because there was only one photocopied signature, but there was a line of electoral statistics with photocopied signatures and a zero that big written there. I'd be more careful with that, you should be more careful with it, because it's a pretty serious threat, and we didn't say anything about what we photocopied. No. In our opinion, the amount of signature was in line with what was required. We've run almost 28,000 sheets, over 250,000 if it's all full, but obviously it wasn't all full. So we're arguing about 240,000 signatures. This may be true that there are 18,000 doubles, but we couldn't even check that because we could. The other is that there were rather interesting guides mixed at the Election Office at the time, and only one thing of the four parameters was taken into account as to whether or not the personal number was available. However, even in the case of parking on the phone, a number is taken into account for each legal remedy. The Election Office wouldn't do that. And no one from the Mansion expected him to recalculate 200,000 signatures in five days. Because the law and the extreme is that what the office has to do for three months should be done in five days by the Mansion. So I think if you're brave enough, you should go along with it. Zoltán Kész said that there are other ways to resolve this issue: if the right law is passed before Parliament on the referendum issue. I would very much like to stress that what has been submitted has nothing to do with this. It is written there, which we will discuss on Friday, that the land will be stopped by the land auction in the framework of the programme for farmers. Then the next month will come, and they'll write that we'll continue in the form of a Darányi Ignatian plan. No, ladies and gentlemen, either they mean it, and then a law comes in that in Hungary in the near future, the small public territories, which are over three hectares, cannot be sold - then I think that a referendum can be made without cause. But as long as it says that they want to stop auctions under a specific programme with a law and replace a referendum, I think we shouldn't think of anyone as stupid. So I strongly suggest that you do, because this thing really, really doesn't work. The other thing I said was that the amendment to the NFA Act will not work either, because I really hope we will not assist in taking away from the countryside the money that has flown into the system from the last marketable property in the countryside, because now it is about to be put into the private pension fund as savings - and then, of course, it has not - into a big hat that the rural people will see the least of it again. State land would have a huge impact and potential in the implementation of normal agricultural-rural policy. But if you look at the 60-page stunt that is now on the website as a draft for a food strategy, then I think you don't have a lot of questions if you've seen this profession up close. Because it is full of contradictions, it is full of professional nonsense, because at present there is no professional management, but they have said a number on what proportion of farming in Hungary should take place, and no matter what the consequences are, they want to achieve it rigidly and hardly. So, fellow Members, be brave, write out these two referendums together, write them out together, save money, and see what the consequences of this will be, how much support will be behind this. Thank you so much for listening.
u2016-10-12-114	Welcome, fellow Members. I now give the floor to György Rubovszky, the lead speaker of the KDNP Group.
u2016-10-12-115	[[Without microphone:]] Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Christian Democratic People's Party... [[Intercoms: Microphone!]] Excuse me. [[He's adjusting his microphone.]] Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Group of the Christian Democratic People's Party, I would like to announce that we will support version B of the proposed resolution. I think there will be a corresponding amendment. I do not wish to justify it in detail, I have already said it in the previous legislation. I would like to highlight one issue from the debate before the Judicial Committee. Mr Bárándy referred to the fact that the Curia did not check the number of invalid votes during the review procedure. I would like to point 13, 14, 15 and 16 to the order - the order of the Curia in my hand. First of all, point 14 begins:. The applicant did not, in the case of 701 sheets, comply with the referendum law 15. Paragraph 4 of this Article. The important thing for me is that Congressman Haughty has also acknowledged this. The issues that the Election Office did not accept were examined in detail by the Curia, and in paragraph 15, the Curia states what formal deficiencies were supported by the Election Office's decision. And at the end of point 16, the Curia refers to the fact that the applicant did not specify which signatures for another 45 signatures, and in view of this, they could not be examined in the absence of identification. I'm only saying this for the attack that it was said that there were far more than 200,000 signatures here, but the Election Office prevented these 200,000 signatures from taking effect. Well, they didn't stop him! The Curia has examined it accurately. [[Zoltán Grimlock: No, he didn't.]] With regard to sheet 701 the author declares that it recognises that it is invalid. [[Zoltán Grimlock: No way!]] He doesn't specify. So I would just like to refer to the fact that, as far as possible in every detail, the Curia considered and made its order on the basis of its proper examination. Dear Parliament, I maintain my previous position. If you really had as much support as you have dreamed, and every reasonable argument contradicts your dream, then obviously there would have been a lot more signatures here as well. Let me just give you an example. In June, Fidesz started collecting signatures on the introduction. Two million signatures exceeded the number of signatures. [[Zoltán Haughty: And who saw it?]] [[15.20]] Two million! Not 150,000 or 140,000! [[Zoltán Grimlock: We knew about 4 million. Sallai R. Benedict: We'll check it out.]] That's very good. We need to collect more than 200,000 signatures, valid, not on invalid sheets, but on a valid sheet, and if this is done, then this debate cannot take place, because then there is no other solution than that of the Parliament to issue a referendum. This debate came about because you only talk on a balloon, and all the data is lacking in what you say. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of Fidesz.]]
u2016-10-12-116	I give the floor to Zoltán Magyar, the lead speaker of Jobbik's group.
u2016-10-12-117	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Fellow Members! I would like to start by saying that Jobbik supported this referendum and that we wanted it to be put out in the end. And not only because we agree with the question put in this, and we also believe that public land should not have been privatised or that the remaining ones should be preserved for future generations, but also because of the general justification that my colleague György Szilágyi has already said on the previous agenda, that is to say, we generally agree that on issues of this magnitude, citizens' opinions should be asked in the context of a referendum. And if we start from pro-government logic, then it doesn't really matter how many people would go to such a referendum, because it could be politically valid for any participation. Of course, in practice, this referendum would have made real sense and would have been able to provide real protection if we had written this a year ago, actually a year ago, because then it would have been able to protect most of the state land from you and your friends in practice. The story is that about 4 percent of our agricultural land has been sold over the past year as a state agricultural land, and I find those arguments from the pro-government benches quite hypocritical, why the opposition deals, why Hungarian farmers deal with this modest figure, this 4 percent. I'd rather approach it from somewhere else, and I'd say it's kind of sad that that's all there was to it, and they were able to squander even this little. If we were not talking about the Fidesz-KDNP government, it would not really be such a shock for us, but it was you who, in 2010, announced in the national rural strategy that the state had a greater role to play in agriculture, rural and land policy, and that you were the ones who announced - even referring back to the programme marked by József Ángyán - that the state land could be the key to increasing the ability of the countryside to maintain it, so that we can create a sufficient quality and amount of jobs with the help of state land. If you hadn't squandered, this land wouldn't have gone to the narrow elite it came to, and perhaps it wouldn't have served the goals that we're seeing in practice, i.e. not the Mészáros family buying state land worth 2 billion HUF, but maybe we could have put small and locally living real family farmers into viable estate size, refocusing traditional farming methods that would have been very useful to help through public land. Where is it, my fellow Members, the demographic target programme that they also wanted to build on state land? You said that we could support it, but you were the first ones to blow it up in the walls of this House, and, as I say, on the bright side, this programme would have enjoyed a great deal of support. How will this be a social land program? Or to go further: we are now in Fidesz municipalities, looking for us good people to try to lobby you from the state land for municipal projects - whether the Start Work Programme or no matter what other job creation programs - to get a little land, not for free, but even to buy it, so that they can start the local job creation they promised to their voters. Not only were the municipalities unable to kick the ball, but even before the announced proposals, they refused to hold a kind of consultation that they asked for and requested, and they refused to keep it for the municipalities. So we came to the conclusion that the state land at the border of that municipality, which could otherwise have served noble public purposes, was in the hands of a lawyer in Budapest, who, of course, complied with the laws you have written. Because no one disputees that he has completed the three - day goldfish course, or that he has also provided the apartment locally with a relative, acquaintance, or stooge. The property policy that you announced in 2010 and before is 180 degrees opposite to what you did with this privatisation. Of course, statistics and numbers are very well tricked, very well treated, and we always knew that about you, so it could be that they constantly emphasize and focus on communication about how much more landowners have become in the privatisation process than the previous tenants of state land. Well, that's out of the question. Nor do I claim that the former rental system, which was largely developed by socialist governments, should have been maintained. No one said that. That is why we voted in favour of the National Earth Fund Act, which is why Jobbik's faction has given us its trust, because we also thought that that system should be changed. But in our dream, we didn't hope that after your prime minister's fight with his dorm roommate, the result would be that they would go against their own promises and sell all the state land. It could not be written in legislation that only the land in question was sold, so it was placed under a hammer on all national land assets, and thus virtually nullified the possibility and assistance of rural development in this way. It would be good to see statistics when they do not want to let go of such a referendum initiative about how many jobs this series has created. We would get very interesting figures that for families where the existing 800, 1000, 2000 hectares have been extended with a few hundred hectares of state land, it has meant any new job creation at all. 'Cause back to the numbers, it does say a lot about how many people could buy from state land. Indeed, from the half-, one, two, three, maybe five acres of diribe land, quite a lot of people were able to obtain it. And I also know I accept, I can see that you didn't always need Fidesz's ID. But the greasy pieces, the large pieces of land in one area, which are really suitable for profit training and need capital power to acquire them, were acquired by business circles linked to you almost without exception. When they argue with this, they disagree, they are practically attacking facts and statistics. We've been through this, we've been through these numbers. If you look at the size of the land, about two-thirds of it was acquired by a narrow circle of 15-20 percent. So we see exactly the same reverse disproportionateness that we have already said in the area of subsidies, but I really will not agree to that, because today's referendum initiative is not an issue. I would also consider it important that we continue and have a referendum in this case, because, however they promise to stop the ground privatisation, on the one hand, we cannot believe you because you have previously promised that there will never be such a process, and on the other hand, the five-party negotiations have already started to raise the three-acre rate - the three-acre area would continue to be kept as privatizable land - to five hectares. So it's already begun to relax the system, so that they haven't officially stopped selling land. And let us not forget that there are still a few thousand acres left, not to mention the forests. We know the fidesz attitude and the methods, and they have started to discredit the public forestry - sometimes rightly or less rightly, but this is not the topic - which serves nothing but to support public opinion in order to start privatization of public forestry. Maybe it's just the companies first, then the forest areas later, but it all points to that. The same series, the same preparation, was made before the privatisation of state lands. We remember at that time Minister Lazarus said that they had stolen, defrauded the public economies - and thus justified the opening up of privatisation - and that we are hearing the same words in terms of forests. The question of money is also important, what we are spending this 250-270 billion forints on. I find it quite brazen and amazing, as the previous speaker said, to privatise, sell, and not to develop the countryside, not to help rural people, not agriculture. [[15.30]] For these reasons, I would consider it very important for this referendum to go on, even if it had actually achieved its real objective if it had already been decided a year ago. But no one could have known at that time that you were so opposed to your earlier beliefs and promises. So I ask you, too, to let go of this referendum, not to be cowards, to see what the Hungarian people think. And in order for this referendum and any future referendum to have the chance to take the obstacles, I suggest that we return the threshold to 25 percent, for example, which will allow a referendum to be valid and effective in public law. After all, it is clear that even such a referendum, supported by billions, 15-20 billion forints, is not capable of jumping 50 percent, so let us give you the chance that a referendum that, any opposition party or any civil society organization, will obviously not get that much money. This is also directly related to the fact that you have less chance of moving millions. Let's give him the chance to go back to the former border together. If you had thought about it in time and did so, this stabbing on your own side, which you did with this previous quota referendum, would not have happened. So, in trusting in their vision of the future, we also put this once again as a suggestion. These were the most important arguments, so overall we would like you to go on. Don't be afraid of him, listen to the people's opinions, it's going to be politically and politically. Thank you, Mr. President. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-10-12-118	I now give the floor to Sallai R. Benedek, the lead speaker of the LMP Group.
u2016-10-12-119	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. They've appeared in a very small number! Ladies and gentlemen, In practice, Parliament should now debate whether or not Parliament will issue a referendum on the ban on the further sale of state agricultural land. Compared to this, we hear or tell each other our own arguments very, very narrowly. President Rubovszky, if I may, I would like to ask you a question immediately and signal something. You could say that the opinion on which only 180,000 signatures can be collected is in a dwarf minority. Let me ask you how many signatures you've collected for your referendum. Yeah, zero, nothing. Then how could that be written? Well, you didn't have to collect signatures. How many signatures did you collect specifically? Then what kind of legitimization did you have if you said this didn't exist? [[Dr. Bence Rétvári intervenes several times.]] My second question: let me ask you, as a person who understands the law, that if Hungarian legislation creates a specific opportunity... - Bence of Rétvári, I don't know, did you get a word in, or can I keep going? So overall, my second question is that if Hungarian legislation says that over 100,000 signatures can be brought to Parliament and considered, why do you not consider? [[Dr. Vas Imre: Consider.]] Well, why don't you just tell me, please, what's the reason you're letting one pass? Then how much should it be? So it's got to be 199 999 to get through? Or what subject should it be to be passed through with this legislative mandate? This legislation, which you know better than I, does not say that if something fails, it must be thrown out the window, but that it should be placed under the authority of the Parliament. This authority will be thrown out without consideration and you will say that this is not necessary. Obviously, it is important to talk about this because it shows your culture of democracy, what the country can expect and what we can expect. President Rubovszky also said that, here on Friday, the legislative plan for the closure of agricultural land privatisation will come in the form of a parliamentary resolution, and you believe that this referendum has become obsolete. Please, there's no reason for that. Why would he have no reason to be? They're about to speed up the amount of the theft. So far, the NFA's land has been offered up to 3 hectares, and in a relatively impertinent frame in 2013, you have raised it, despite opposition protests, from 1 hectare to 3 hectares, three times so that there is no need to create transparency, but someone goes into the NFA, makes an offer, and the president of this NFA gives the land. Now they want to increase it to five acres. Well, please, this isn't about you trying to stop this. You hypocritically claim that while you want to speed up and exclude public bidding from the system of this whole thing. From now on, we will start talking about the subject of arguing why the Hungarian Parliament should write out that referendum. My fellow Member, Zoltán Gőgös, drew attention to a very important point, since the land privatisation and the processes that preceded it caused a very important change of perspective in the sector. This is the strengthening of the ownership approach vis-à-vis the land user, i.e. the farmer. You have completely backed out from behind farmers, backed out from farmers, and, if possible, now give most rights and opportunities to owners. This is why the legislation is being amended, which is why it is possible to initiate an increase in the land use rent per golden crown. That's why it's not about who uses the land, who finds a job, it's about who owns it. Obviously, it's important to talk about this because it wouldn't have happened if it hadn't been for the first time in the land traffic laws. It was the first of many crimes in the Land Traffic Act, but now I just want to talk about property policy, but that's where I'm embedded in it. They opened the loophole for their own lawyer buddies, and here they are, right, just two lawyers saying that I'm leaving with a gold-gold host course, that's gonna make me a farmer and buy land. With regard to land privatisation, it is not a coincidence that nearly 10 percent of the customers indicated by the title of doctoral school, because this is basically what makes it possible that rose hill lawyers bought from the field. Obviously, that was the first sin. Second in possession policy. In 2011 the lease system was launched with the title "Earth for Farmers." Obviously, with the rental system, everyone now knows, not only are there Ángyán reports on this, but a number of press and investigative investigations have revealed this, giving the land to their friends. In particular, the lease rights were committed for 20 years, and when the new tenants settled in and registered their 20-year lease rights, you decided to sell the land in addition to the lease rights, and this was pre-occupated with the right to use it. Please, this must have made one sense, which is that no one else should buy the land, no matter what the public bid is, like the one you've already given it to as a lease. Basically, this is the process of land robbery and land privatisation, which was born in sin and carried out in sin, and virtually everything could be decided to close the process. In Hungary, a referendum is obviously necessary because you cannot be entrusted with anything, because what you are entrusted with public property is either disappearing or losing public property, transforming into private property and from then on increasing private assets. The same thing happened, obviously we know that, with the National Assembly. It also lost its representative character and became more of a representative body and legislative body for Fidesz crime families. But now, overall, we need to talk about whether this referendum is necessary. Besides, I'd like to argue that there is. Basically, if the country had a normal government, and the Ministry of Agriculture had a little bit of competent people sitting in it, and they wouldn't also give their country attorneys their wallets to their colleagues, then in the event that... [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: What is this anti-lawyer thing?]] Thank you for this observation from Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Why do we have to talk about this? I want you to name the State Secretarys with an agricultural degree in the FM. The minister is a lawyer, he's never worked in his life, he's been a mayor. The Secretary of State for Land Affairs is a lawyer, he has never worked a regular job in his life, he ran a party line, so they say, in quotes, because he only worked for the parties. Well, let's just go over who's in charge of professional areas. Of course, I argue that it is not possible to entrust the rural and agricultural affairs to people who have nothing to do with it. The problem is basically that the referendum on this issue has to be issued precisely because the property policy has failed to such an extreme extent that what has created, as far as possible, the one against which they have been constantly fighting until 2010, is now to be the biggest authors of it. Until 2010, as long as the MSZP governed Hungary, my colleague Sándor Font every time I heard about small and family farms speaking in a credible and correct manner. Then, after 2013, as József Ángyán left the FM, this turned around, and the same politicians started pushing the cart of the estates, giant estates. It is practically this property policy that makes the referendum even necessary. This means that we have to talk about the fact that, in terms of property policy, you have served the countryside in such extreme ways, partly to your friends who cannot create jobs, and partly to those giant estates which, due to efficiency factors, do not have an interest in having a number of people employed, that it would be good for the Hungarian countryside, especially for the agricultural society, to give an opinion on this. [[15.40]] Basically, of course, they're protesting. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Then why didn't the 200,000 signatures work out?]] You are aware that the direction is completely wrong, you are aware that what has been lured away and stolen from all these systems is lacking in the employment of the Hungarian countryside. You know that. You don't want a referendum for nothing. If they were not afraid of this, they would go into it without further ado, if this could be used for PR purposes and any advertising space should be given to Minister Antal Rogán's neighbour, then they would obviously take this opportunity, but now they are reluctant to do so, so much that nobody is sitting in the benches of Fidesz, and we have to debate here with some KDNP about how to vote on this issue that determines the fate of the Hungarian countryside. I will continue to argue for the launch of the referendum. Basically, state land is able to maintain rural jobs in the long term in the amount still available. In the fragmented system that you have created in the field of employment, it would be essential for the public work programme to be transformed into a form that is capable of producing, becoming a primary labour market. And yes, if, as a result of the misguided estate policy, they could not do anything to strengthen small family farms, then it would be up to the state to make efforts in this respect at least in the municipalities, in the social cooperatives that you have initiated, supported by you... - let us say, to create an opportunity for employment, but for you this is not a goal. These state lands could be given to those who undertake to employ as much of them as possible. Let's look at the number of jobs per hectare coming into these areas, see what happened to the lands of your friends, the Fidesz pals, the local council representatives. Since they were rented, since 2011, they have been leasen, hired, hired, not employed, received, sold, even for grasslands, and this is a pure profit, just because the countryside has not gained anything, because there has not been a job, there has not been any goods created that the countryside can exploit. The announcement of a referendum on agricultural land is about whether it is possible to stop this, not only for you - there can be even a more thieving government here, and I do not deny it, so not only for you - but for any Hungarian government, so that the common property, the national property, can be protected for all Hungarian citizens. The referendum would give Hungary an obligation to do so, as opposed to what you are pushing in front of us on Friday, in a rather hypocritical manner, and bringing it to Parliament, that they want to close that referendum on paper, while they want to speed up the extent to which they do not have to bid with public bidding, so that the system is not transparent now, but that an offer can be made to the head of the NFA - the office will not stay, because only the Earth Fund itself will remain - how to go in, say, to the President of the Council of Land Policy, who is the Secretary of State for Land Affairs in the FM by accident. That can be prevented. It is possible to prevent the common ownership of agricultural land, which is the basis for the future of Hungarian society and the future of the Hungarian countryside. To do so, you can ask for the opinion of the Hungarian society, and you have to ask your permission to do so, because, since your interests are contrary to that, the agricultural baron families who move you and move Magos, who betrays the Hungarian countryside, obviously have no interest in this. I was not interested in creating jobs, I was not interested in maintaining the Hungarian countryside, just as I was not interested in strengthening small and family farms. In addition to the launch of a referendum, all professional arguments stand, in practice, the protection of common property must be achieved, and decisions must be taken accordingly. I would ask my fellow Members to support this. Thank you for the floor.
u2016-10-12-120	We have now reached the end of the speaker speeches, and now we have two minutes. Congressman Zoltán Haughty has checked in. You have the floor.
u2016-10-12-121	Thank you, Mr President, for the floor. I would only have a reaction to my fellow Member, President of the Commission, Rubovszky, that I have never known any signatures, that 700 sheets, in fact, were the most controversial of all, that the sheets were thrown out because the collector had some identification problem, I will tell you what it was like. It's like, say, I'll say a name, it wasn't her - Mrs. János Kovács, and after the ruby in which the personal ID was to be entered, it wasn't as many rubles as it usually was written at the personal number, but it was a cube for such an infinite series - because there could be something else to write in, because in principle, a foreign citizen could collect signatures, and it wasn't forbidden, and he had a different number of naturalization papers - so he didn't write that two, all numbers were right. I think that if an office works normally, then it can be accepted, even if the computer brings out that the two is missing, and all the others pass, only we challenged it, and that's why we went to the Mansion - but no one thought that the Curia would recalculate the 240 thousand signatures in five days, because it's physically impossible - we only went because we said that there was an example in the election process, just when the Supreme Court said at the recommendation coupon, that even the voter's will should be taken into account if a number was written in his personal number. They were crowded, massed, I'll say it again, with which the nine signatures were thrown out, because they were not clearly identifiable, and the 700 sheets is exactly... I never said we would accept it, we said it wasn't true that if there were four identifying data on a sheet, only one of them would be taken into account by the Election Office, only one, the personal number. They typed in the ID number, it didn't match, it's thrown out, but if they'd seen what's still on it, because the birth year, the name and the mother's name are usually identified by anyone. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] I didn't even need an ID number for that. So that's what we were arguing about, and that's why we're saying that there's a lot of signatures out of the system that we think were valid.
u2016-10-12-122	I now give the floor to Congressman György Rubovszky in two minutes.
u2016-10-12-123	Thank you very much for the floor. With all due respect, I didn't take part in this lawsuit, I read the order in my hand, but let me just say that if you'd listened to it, in the vote in this referendum, if anyone misspelled your mother's name from abroad, you'd have been thrown out and said it was invalid. The law on referendums does not give anyone the opportunity to go beyond faulty data. [[Zoltán Pride: That's the mistake!]] I didn't say that I wanted to read it literally, paragraph 14:. The law didn't come true in the case of 701 sheets that the applicant didn't dispute. If one of the four data is wrong, it's done. In the referendum, in the current referendum, it was misspelled - that's what could be heard in the press - first it was checked in the Election Office to see if the data were correct, and the referendum envelope itself was not opened, and if the mother's name was written off, it was the most. That's what the law says, the office can't fix. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-10-12-124	I now give the floor to Congressman Sallai R. Benedict in two minutes.
u2016-10-12-125	Thank you very much. For the record, I'm telling you, Mr. Secretary Bence Rétvári yelled out why they didn't sign, and that's all I wanted to respond to. Minister of State, I see that he is a capital child, less familiar with these small communities, practically in the Hungarian countryside your party and your government have built a feudal feudal feudal system. Here, practically, people in rural areas have not dared to come here many times in a small community because everyone knows everyone, and your local people - mayors, congressmen and everyone - are destroying them. There have been many who have said that they are going to vote because the committees are watching who is leaving, who are not, and civil servants and civil servants are afraid to do so. This is the level measure of your democracy, how many people take their names and how many people give their names to create a referendum. And the other is, let's not forget that there's no reason why they didn't sign. It's signed, so more than 200,000 signed it. Some have misspelled their personal number, or have made a mistake in saying that he signed it twice, which could not be noticed, when several parties were collected and several civil society organizations, and there are a lot of human errors involved in one of these when he doesn't have his address card and writes his personal number by heart. It's not that they didn't sign it, they signed it, only the National Election Office said that some of this was invalid. In such cases, the legislation says that it is possible to come before Parliament. We ask for nothing else, after a legislative mandate has given us the opportunity for the Hungarian Parliament to support this signature initiative, taking into account the amount of the signature, taking into account the importance of the public administration of the subject. Obviously, there would be another option if they stepped out of this robbery voluntarily, but they do not, which is why the institution of the referendum and the principles of participatory democracy should prevail. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. [[15.50]]
u2016-10-12-126	I now give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári in two minutes.
u2016-10-12-127	Thank you very much. I would only respond very briefly to what Mr President said about the mention of my name: Fidesz-KDNP has managed to collect people's signatures for either a referendum or a two-million-dollar scale in opposition time. It may also be an interpretation of what you are saying, honourable Member, but it may also be an interpretation that people disagree with you. What you think is a problem is being played a little vehemently in Parliament, people don't feel that when they say that, they're talking about a real problem, a mass problem. Because when we talked about a visitation fee, a hospital daily allowance or a threat to immigration, people felt that it was really their problem, indeed, there were parties in opposition or government at the time, Fidesz and KDNP, in their interest, and therefore there were far more signatures than any other question. Honourable Congressman, You may be arguing with us, and you feel that way now, but you might actually need to look behind you, so when you say that hundreds of thousands of people are involved, are those people really there for hundreds of thousands or are they saying... [[Dr. Vas Imre: Hundreds.]] or perhaps just a hundred, yes, as Congressman says, and in fact, most of the people in the countryside, many of them, feel that things have turned in the right direction in the country. Because you're talking like the socialists now, while you're saying you don't want it like the socialists. Then why are you talking the same way they do? And obviously we could say that to the Jobbik. So maybe that's what you're saying here, and that's how you understand it, but there's also that you might be talking about hundreds of thousands of people, but that's not what they actually stand for, that's not how they feel in their everyday life. [[Zoltán Haughty: Let's try it.]] They don't see things going the wrong way. They feel that things are going in the right direction, in a positive direction for all of them, and that they do not simply go to your stands and sign the signature sheets to the extent laid down by law. Because they do not feel that the opposition is right on this issue, but that they feel that the parties of government are right. In this matter, which you have also called a translator of fate, and have used a wide variety of adjectives, there were not 200,000 valid signatures behind it. I think it may be more worthwhile for you to think about this, too, that things may not go wrong on these issues, and at least people should convince you. When you agreed with great vehemence on this matter, there was no minimum social support, and let alone the proportion that the Fidesz-KDNP had previously collected in the millions, but not even the 200 grand scale, you may not hear the people's voice all over the country. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2016-10-12-128	Thank you. I'm beginning to see more speeches on the screen than we are sitting here, because everyone's logged in for two minutes and for a normal word. I now give the floor to Zoltán Magyar in a normal time frame, because he has been waiting for this for a long time.
u2016-10-12-129	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Well, I've been inspired by some comments. Secretary of State, Jobbik doesn't speak like the MSZP or the LMP, but speaks like you spoke before. So we now represent what Fidesz represented in 2010 and in order to prevent it with the Hungarian land fortune. So you're in a debate with yourself when you're defending privatisation, and you're defending it to put out a referendum that's trying to stop at least the rest of it. So we will just carry on your previous idea, with so much difference that we will also keep this road on the government, and we will be interested in maintaining and increasing Hungarian national wealth. What Hungarian society is behind and behind is probably not going to show how many signatures such an initiative has collected, as the polls, but whether you order from your own companies, have proved, published, it is clear that all three factions that we have now affected or in the electoral camp are far above 80% of those who want to stop ground privatisation. The majority of Fidesz voters also condemn this process, according to polls. And if you don't agree with that, I'll say it again, trust a public opinion polling company, or it's even simpler: let go of this initiative, and then it becomes clear what the people's will is. And the real problem is that, unfortunately, people don't have the guts to sign a petition or an initiative that might be against the interests of the ruling parties, and it's not an argument that you have been able to do so in opposition. In fact, you are precisely qualified to have a system in place when you enter the government, where, unfortunately, people's previous reactions have been reversed, and you do not necessarily have the courage to sign such an initiative. Mr Secretary, think about it, in that simple situation, no matter which government we are talking about earlier, that if you had launched such a privatization wave with regard to the Hungarian land fortune, what would have been here, Mr. Secretary of State. For months there would have been tractors in Kossuth Square, and they cooked in large tents here in the Condér, even in those days, the food at the showrooms was massed and caused serious outrage. What would have happened to the current Magos leaders? I suppose they would have spoken on the podium, quite rightly, against privatization. Compared to this, now that they have bought these interests from the Hungarian countryside, it is not in the interest of their leaders to sit in greasy jobs and pro-government positions, and the same is true of the agricultural chamber, at county and national levels, so these organizations, no matter what other colour governments, would protest the most loudly against such a privatization wave. And when you're speaking for the farmers, there's still a very important difference between us. In your view, the Hungarian farming community is the 15,000 farmers who really thank and are well. A serious estate size has been developed, XXI. They work with technology of the century and create a job of 300-400 ha. In your eyes, this is the economic society, and this is agriculture and this is the Hungarian countryside. I would like to inform you that this is not the reality, this is not the European way, and this is not the way that you, too, have taken in opposition and demanded so loudly. I don't want to judge this 15,000 family, I'm not jealous, I'm glad that they're doing well, I'm glad that their situation is stable, but in a country blessed with such agricultural qualities, this number shouldn't be 15,000, it should be about 10 times the number, but I might even have said a very low number. This is exactly the number that should have been played out with the state's land fortune, the number of families who could create a viable estate size, a viable vision for themselves and their families, this was zeroed, and so I would ask you to be courageous and to size this issue in a referendum. The Parliament has every opportunity to do so now. Thank you. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2016-10-12-130	I now give the floor to Congressman Gergely Bárándy in a normal time frame.
u2016-10-12-131	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Parliament, First of all, I would like to respond to what was said in the debate, as my fellow Member Zoltán Gőgös, but also other fellow Members, who obviously spoke about why this referendum is necessary from a professional point of view and why it is justified from a political point of view. Let me say one thing in this round, however, that we have heard a lot from my fellow members of the Government, why we are not as we say, but we have not heard one argument why this question is unnecessary, why it is not justified to write out a referendum on this issue from a professional point of view. I'd love to hear that. So what you think is the problem with the people, let's say, having an opinion on such a question. That'd be nice. That they didn't sign? 181,000 people have signed, Mr. Secretary of State, which I think is a big enough number to ask the people. With you, one person, Viktor Orbán, wanted this referendum out of his own government, which eventually became invalid and ineffective despite the many billions of government propaganda. At least 181,000 people want that for sure. I think it is much more than that, by the way, but I will address this in my speech. I would like to hear, in addition to the technical arguments, because this is the only thing Mr. Secretary has been shouting at right now that we don't have the right signature number. But, Mr. Secretary, I'll correct you, I've got it. You know what? It takes over 100,000 to enable Parliament to decide on this. And we've got over 100,000. Undisputed. That is, Parliament can decide yes. Compared to this, we should now just argue about the professional arguments on the basis of which the referendum should be written out or not; I have not heard a single word about this from you throughout the debate. Only and only procedural problems have been mentioned so far. The other is that Marco Polo's book of travel is called the Book of Millions, and I now say the same thing to the KDNP and the Fidesz Fragment that millions of parties or millions of fractions. [[16.00]] 'Cause we know that when you don't have to prove something, you always talk in millions. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: That's how many people supported us!]] Of course, you have collected a million or two signatures, but no one has ever verified to you that this has actually happened. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: In the visit fee referendum?]] Of course, we also know that, Mr. Secretary of State, [[Dr. Bence Rétvári interrupts: In the visit fee referendum? The OVB!]] that in 2002 more than two million people participated in their rally, according to the announcement by Philip Rákay in Kossuth Square; it is true that only one million people can fit in Tienanmen Square [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: I wouldn't compete with the parades there!]] Which, in my experience, is significantly larger than Kossuth Square. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Don't be romantic.]] But somehow, in Kossuth Square, more than two million people were able to gather for your assembly. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári is leaving the meeting room.]] And at the end of the vote in 2002, they didn't even get so many votes, they didn't get two million votes, and if they had gathered so much in Kossuth Square, they probably should have reached it - I'd like to know, of course, how this could have happened physically, and since then Rákay Philip has been indebted to us with these numbers. So, you really are the party of the millions, when you have to do something to announce, but when you have to prove the real numbers, you see that the result is that the referendum is invalid and ineffective, so you have not been so clever, Mr. Secretary of State. However, a word is worth talking about, or it is worth considering, the decision of the Mansion. My fellow Member, Mr Rubovszky, the Curia does not verify the authenticity of the signatures in five days; it accepts the data that the National Election Office announces to him and says that if and if it is true, what the National Election Office has said is, of course, legally so. [[Dr. Imre Vas intervenes.]] Congressman Vas, really, I say, I would love to listen to you, and sometimes I would like to hear your own thoughts, but tell me, if the Election Office needs a month to check the data with a dozen colleagues, and who is using this time, the President of the National Election Office will tell you this, then tell me, will it be so good to have a three-member council in five days to recalculate these votes and check them out, and what record is it based on? ! [[Dr. Imre Vas intervenes.]] [[Dr. Imre Vas intervenes.]] Don't be silly. It is clear that from a technical point of view, the findings of the National Election Office will be accepted, which is valid and which is invalid, and they will not recalculate the 240 thousand signatures. (Dr. Vas Imre interrupts.) And why we filed so much? [[Dr. Imre Vas intervenes.]] [[Dr. Imre Vas intervenes.]] The answer to this is very simple, ladies and gentlemen: in general - and this is demonstrated by very, very, very long years of practice on referendum issues - 15 percent of the signatures submitted are usually invalid. We went for sure because 15 percent of the 240,000 signatures are still well above the 200,000 threshold, well above it. (Dr. Vas Imre intervenes. ) Interestingly, just on this issue, just in the case of the MSZP referendum question, this 15 percent almost double that! How interesting. The signature collectors must have boycotted this thing on purpose. [[Dr. Vas Imre: Maybe they didn't agree with him either!]] I'm sure they were trained and asked, if possible, to give off the wrong sheets. They must have been a lot more clumsy than the last few years, I don't know how many referendum initiatives you've taken. Just this one signature, they were twice as clumsy. Come on, let's be serious. This referendum was simply deceived by the National Election Office, that is the truth and nothing else. And since the Curia did not have the opportunity to recalculate, it was forced to accept these findings of the NTI, from which, of course, if it accepts them as true, the same legal conclusion can be drawn, which is in the decision of the Curia. But you don't want me to believe that since the change in the system, there's about the same number of invalid signatures for a quantity like this, just by chance, right now it's double? ! I think, fellow Members, that it is this fact in itself that we can conclude that you are here to cheat a valid referendum. And in fact - I would like to return to the question that I asked the first time - listening to the debate and really listening to the arguments that both my fellow Member and Jobbik spoke, both the lead speaker of the LMP said where the rebuttal was? [[Dr. Imre Vas is talking to Dr. György Rubovszky.]] Congressman Iron, listen to me for a second. [[Dr. Vas Imre: For what?]] Where's the rebuttal? Because I didn't hear it. What are the arguments, the professional arguments that contradict what we have said? Why, why don't you guys want to write this out in terms of content? 'Cause otherwise, the National Assembly could do it. I want you to do this for me... [[Dr. Vas Imre: Because you don't have your social support!]] He doesn't have the support... [[Dr. Vas Imre: You don't have your social support!]] He doesn't have social support. That's the professional argument? Shall I explain to you what professional and procedural arguments mean? 'Cause we're talking about the procedure again, whether we have the 200,000 or just 181,000 signatures. We've got over 90 percent. But let's not take that, Congressman. We have social support for it. [[Dr. Vas Imre: No.]] To discuss whether it's good or not from a professional point of view. 'Cause over $100,000 is 180, right? You admit that, don't you? [[Dr. Imre Vas intervenes.]] It's okay. Then I ask from this point on: since we have the support to debate here from a professional point of view whether it is worth or not to issue such a referendum question, now tell me, Congressman Vas, that the arguments that we have said here, why is it worth writing, how do you contradict them? [[Dr. Vas Imre: Friday's last schedule!]] Friday's last schedule... [[Zoltán Grimlock: It's not the last, because three are together!]] Do me a favor, then, so you can repeat these here, okay? [[Zoltán Grimlock: What is it? Tell me. What? What's the point?]] I'd expect an interest. So if it's the same subject on two agendas, then it's customary for me to make the argument here and there - I would expect you to do the same, because we won't be able to argue about today's agenda if you're not going to say it on Friday, or on another day, those arguments [[Dr. Vas Imre: No! The agenda!]] Which, by the way, should be here. So I would continue to look forward to these professional arguments on the basis of which you do not wish to write it out. Finally, in order to return to your favourite subject, the procedural problems, honourable Members, the Justice Committee should have made a clear presentation in my view, and in this respect I agree with Commission President Rubovszky, we also agreed on this at the committee meeting. I don't know if he was in favour of "yes" or "no," we haven't made it this far, but I'm sure that "or" or "no" is not house-based, and it couldn't have been presented. House rules and legislation require the committee to put forward a clear position. That's one way or another, that's all, but it's not clear. Therefore, we propose an amendment, and I ask that this be supported by the committee, according to which the Parliament should only discuss the version and vote on the version to accept and issue the referendum. That is what the committee should have done, I say once again, and we have tabled an amendment to this, and we will be discussing this in the detailed debate, as appropriate. On the basis of these arguments, honourable Members - and once again, I do not want to repeat what Mr Haughty and many people have said from a professional point of view - the only way that the Parliament can make the right choice is to issue this referendum. Not only because more than 90 percent have the validity, the mandatory validity threshold, and 180 percent have the potential, but also because there are serious arguments to write it out, and so far we have not heard one against writing it out. Thank you very much.
u2016-10-12-132	Thank you. I now give the floor to Congressman Sallai R. Benedek in a normal time frame.
u2016-10-12-133	That's good. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Defiance in Jobbik's ranks.]] Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, To my great sadness, Secretary of State Bence Rétvári left the room, even though there was such a good conversation that I would have liked to have said it. The reason I'm happy about the presence of stenographers and the recording is because you said Secretary of State Bence Rétvári that the KDNP itself was able to collect millions of signatures, that's what you said for the first time. I saw it, I watched it on purpose, it didn't blush, so it sounded like KDNP could do it itself. I'm asking the good Lord to let the KDNP run for office once. [[Defiance in Jobbik's ranks. Dr. Bence Rétvári returns to the Chamber.]] Please make sure to measure yourself once a percentage of your social support, while such self-confident sentences are made out of the mouth of each of your representatives. [[Dr. Vas Imre: I'm sure it's more than LMP!]] [[16.10]] We would be very, very happy if they gave us the opportunity to get out of Fidesz once and test their own support in Hungarian society. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári returns to the Chamber.]] Thank you very much, I don't think it's in my honor. [[Dr. Bence of Rétvári: Yes, you can.]] But thank you very much, I am very pleased that the Secretary of State has arrived, and I just wanted to respond to a few thoughts, because he still says why there is no tractor in Kossuth Square, if the support was so great. I don't know if you've noticed that tractors have been banned, so it's practically forbidden to come in here with an agricultural machine or a weight limit. There is therefore no chance that a farmers' demonstration can be convened in the territory of the capital right now. Believe me, I've been all over this because I really wanted to, but you're practically so afraid of this. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: He was in the area of the 56th!]] The fact that it has been prohibited by law to drive an agricultural machine into the territory of the capital. Kossuth Square has a weight limit. You can't come in. I tried it, I came here with an MTZ with a tractor, I got chased away, and I was fined because I drove in with MTZ. Of course he won't come up if you won't let him! Of course there's no democracy if it's suppressed! Of course people don't make an opinion! [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: There are no people behind you!]] I'll tell you what's wrong. I saw now, I didn't pay attention earlier, forgive me for being so unprepared, I didn't notice why he reacted so sensitively when I made comments on the lawyers in Pest, who dig into professional areas. I'm sorry, but I can see that on the Pázmány, I understand that it was a history audition, so that I don't have to go too far, I'll make it clear to you. In the Hungarian countryside, in the Hungarian countryside, agriculture and agriculture have been dominant in employment and the preservation of the population, since the Hungarians have been here. I'm sure you're fully aware of, say, the XIXth. At the end of the century, before World War I, before World War II, what employment data and how the population could be kept. You know, the interesting thing is that there was a very strange situation, because the fall of the feudal estate was so easily possible, and the reason why they were able to build the TS and the state economic system in the communist system is because practically there was a feudal system of agricultural understanding who took over the great estate, and in those parts of the country, let's say, in Fejér County, this could be accomplished in a lot of other places. This is why, in virtually all the years of communism or socialism, there is still a significant proportion of agricultural employment. And the terrible thing is that, after the change of regime, when the agricultural employment rate began to collapse and the various government measures followed each other and failed to restore this, you criticized the opposition - as my better colleagues have said - all along. It was about how agriculture and agriculture can be maintained in rural areas, which, by the way, has always been there for centuries. I'll tell you why, because he's also asking why they don't sign in the country and stuff. It's very simple because they're not in direct contact with him anymore. As long as they were working in the state economy or working in the public sector, or when the small farms and the number of family farms were available, there was a direct connection. Now, if I go to the store clerk to sign a land referendum, he says it's been stolen up until now, it doesn't matter, it's not just the store clerk, it's what your minister says, obviously. So he doesn't care, he doesn't understand how this employment can be re-established in rural jobs. It's so simple. Mr. Secretary of State is a man of the world, tell me another country where the share of agricultural land in the total area would be so high and, let's say, there is no agricultural machinery. Let's take a look in Europe. In practice, Hungary has destroyed and destroyed the potential of agricultural products for processing, processing... [[Dr. Bence Rétvári pointed to the representatives of MSZP: Spontaneous privatisers!]] I understand. Again, I'm commenting that Secretary of State Rétvári is pointing to the MSZP, but that's not the problem. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Isn't that the problem? Is MSZ okay?]] So I believe you, but you've been in power for years now, and you haven't done anything to restore it. And it's not just that they didn't do anything, they made things worse. This privatisation of agricultural land, which my fellow Member Zoltán Gőgös initiated to stop in connection with his referendum initiative, is about how to stop agricultural employment, thus keeping rural jobs, from getting even worse. That's what this is about, and that's what you don't want in any way. Then you liked to say it because it inspired me, he said here in public that things are going in the right direction, maybe that's why we can't collect signatures, because everyone is so pleased. I am stressing this because I hope that more people will hear that KDNP says everything is going in the right direction and things are very good. However, forgive me, but I have listened to a lot of retourism here in Parliament, but I am aware that you know what problems there are in health care, in education and in rural infrastructure. You know why the vast majority of Hungarian society has to live below 100 thousand HUF net per month. And when you tell me that everything is going in the right direction, I'm sorry, it's so amazing that you really can't see out of that ivory tower, the D.C. Ministries. So you do not see the reality of Hungarian society, that this is not about going in the right direction? No, the fact that a referendum initiative doesn't work out, the fact that people aren't active, even when 17 billion is spent - or I don't know how much gross, net, 14 billion or 17 billion are spent - for a referendum, why aren't they active? Because the whole Hungarian society has resonated. You will also take out the slightest democratic need to participate in the administration of public affairs. The concept of public life and politics has been derailed at such a level that it is practically a shame to be a politician in Hungary, because it is very, very difficult to have a collegial relationship with a community that is full of Fidesz-KDNP representatives and then asks that it is not interested. And then let's talk about one more thing, which is also interesting, this is the question of privatisation itself. I believe that they are also informed, as most of them can be informed by their age, about what happened to the state fortune following the transformations in Hungary called a change in the socialist state-party regime. This was not just done by a government, they were constantly involved, and when you were in opposition, you were right to criticize it. Explain to me how it is possible that there is now only 10 percent of the state's wealth available in 1990, and you are speeding up this process, so that you can play out the commons, that you can sell the commons, that you can do all this in a way that is good for your own interests and for your own moonyard. And you know what's amazing about all this? 'Cause there's been a lot of references here to Friday. We also need to talk Friday about what's going to happen to the source. You had virtually zero campaigns in 2010, zero promises, one thing was certain, what we heard a lot of times, is that you declared war on public debt. Their results are pretty much zero, just like their campaign. What happened? First, the private pension fund assets of Hungarian citizens were einstantised to pay off because their own economic policy was not able to pay off or reduce public debt. Recognizing that, what's happening now? They're selling state assets to reduce public debt, which, by the way, doesn't fall statistically, that's all they want. Please, do you want to pay off loans from the sale of common property? When does it say to Parliament that the house is for sale? [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Socialists put him in the IMF loan!]] So this approach is why it is justified for the National Assembly to establish a referendum and to issue a referendum in order for the Hungarian society to be able to form an opinion on the fact that this privatisation, this robbery management, of which you have been integrally involved in the past 26 years in Hungary, can be ordered to stop when the sale of agricultural land can be stopped. The Hungarian electorate has the right to decide on common property and the fate of common land, so it is necessary that all four of the KDNPs are in here, and all the zeros who sit in the horseshoe from the ranks of Fidesz support them. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári points out to Dr. Lajos Szűcs in the notary seat.]] Oh, I'm sorry, I didn't know you were sitting there. He doesn't want to sit here, he wouldn't be here if his duties as a notary weren't mandatory. [[Dr. Bence Szabolcs Rétvári pointing to Attila Szabolcs: And Attila?]] So I'm trying to convince you, four of you, to give it to your other accomplices, please vote for this referendum initiative. Thank you for the floor, Mr President.
u2016-10-12-134	Now it is possible to make two-minute comments. Three people signed up for this. I'll give the floor to Congressman Vas Imre first.
u2016-10-12-135	Thank you very much for the floor. I applied when my fellow Member Barondy didn't understand what I didn't say in an inappropriate manner. [[Zoltán Grimlock: He'll be right back!]] but what I wanted to say is that on Friday, at the last agenda, Parliament will discuss - and here, in particular, item (c) of Agenda 3 - the 2010 LXXXVII on the National Earth Fund. a proposal to amend the law. [[Zoltán Pride: But that's not what this is about! The first one's about that! Dr. Gergely Bárándy returns to the Chamber.]] So I was referring to this, not that I would like to say it on Friday, but that the debate on the last agenda on Friday makes the referendum ineffective. [[Zoltán Grimlock: Only not the NFA, but the other point!]] But so are the other two. [[Zoltán Haughty: NFA doesn't!]] So, in effect, the last agenda makes the referendum ineffective, and I will say this once again, now that my fellow Member Bárándy has come in, as a professional argument. And the other thing I said was that he didn't have social support at the time, I told him that on the weekend before the last of October 2007, in four days, the activists of Fidesz and KDNP [[Zoltán Grimlock: And two months before that!]] for three questions, three questions separately, so for each of them 360 thousand valid votes were collected, and then in the referendum there was 50.51 per cent participation and 50.21 per cent valid votes. [[Zoltán Grimlock: They were afraid that it was going to happen again!]] And 3 million 380-something thousands voted in favour of these questions. [[16.20]] I would add that, speaking of millions, on October 2nd, 3 million 365 thousand voted for the gender supported by Fidesz. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: 5 million didn't leave.]] Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-10-12-136	I now give the floor to Congressman György Szilágyi in two minutes.
u2016-10-12-137	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. As long as we are discussing whether you support a referendum initiative or not, historical events are happening here. After all, I read in the news that today, as a result of the invalid referendum - with which Fidesz and KDNP put Hungary in danger and gave Brussels a huge hand in the hand of Hungary - this referendum, another referendum, has resulted in an Orbán-Semjén summit today. [[Defiance and interruptions from the ranks of MSZP and Jobbik: How did they come up with this? It's a rare applause in the ranks of the Jobbik.]] On this, Zsolt Semjén, the leader of KDNP, said openly the position of KDNP. He told Mr Orbán that his party agreed with the direction and content of the constitutional amendment proposal, and his representatives would support the amendment in the parliamentary vote. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: What about Jobbik?]] My question is whether the KDNP Members may have some internal information that I think this summit also raised the fact that there are two referendum initiatives being discussed here by the Parliament, and the House must vote on what was the position between the two summit participants on whether or not to support these referendum initiatives. Because I think you agree with me that the national referendum is the strongest instrument of direct democracy, so you should also be able to support it in any way so that the people can express their views on these issues. So I ask Mr Rétvári or Minister of State, a columnist member of the KDNP, that he knows something about the fact that between Zsolt Semjén and Viktor Orbán at this summit - which is something many people refer to as [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: And what will Gábor Vona say?]] as yesterday's Putin-Erdoğan meeting, so it was about the same level - what was said about the referendum. Thank you so much for listening. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik. Dr. Bence Rétėvári: Was this the comment?]]
u2016-10-12-138	I now give the floor to Congressman Sallai R. Benedict for two minutes.
u2016-10-12-139	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. For the sake of my fellow Member, Mr Vas Imre, many say that I am wary, now for your sake, I will try to say it more slowly. There is no reason to decide, because what you want to bring to the Hungarian Parliament can speed up the sale of agricultural land. Because it wants to increase the rate of land sold by NFA from 3 hectares to 5 hectares. But even if this doesn't go up to three acres of space, they can continue to sell. I don't know how clear that is. You're not out of reason. You continue to sell. I don't know if I'm making myself clear, or should I be more specific? [[Dr. Vas Imre: That's not what we read out of the law.]] So you can say ten more times that you're out of reason, but it's not true, so it's obviously untrue what you're saying. And it's certainly a little cheery that they had one valid referendum in the history of KDNP-Fidesz together, and now with this teenage story, it's flashing, what a great thing it was. It was a big deal, and I agree with that, but now show me where you can find me. Now they can't create a valid referendum by spending $10,000! What is the message of this for you? [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Are you a quota protagonist?]] Wasn't it because they looked credible from the opposition and completely discredited from government? Isn't the fact that they had mobilizing power from opposition, and now they're practically converging to zero and buying votes by billions? Obviously, this is the view that it is when we say that another referendum on another matter may indeed have a right for Hungarian society to give its opinion on this. That's what I'm asking all four of you to understand, and I'm asking all four of you to forward it to, I don't know, one or two of your factions, in case there's someone there who's willing to think at least. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-10-12-140	I now give the floor to Congressman György Rubovszky in two minutes.
u2016-10-12-141	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. I would like to say to Mr Sallai that I have never made a statement that this referendum has no cause, because such a decision is a decision. You have to pay attention, and you don't have to mix names. I didn't make that statement. Besides having problems thinking, that's okay - but he can't read either! How can we not allow Parliament to decide? The same objection is raised by Congressman Barándy on the other hand as to why the Judicial Committee did it, that it brought variation A-B to the House. So, we need to bring this in a little bit of harmony. Allow me to reply to Congressman Szilágyi. The earlier speech was very witty. I'm really glad that this was a parade thing. The problem is that it cannot be said by a betterman, because I understand that the meeting with the party presidents was initiated by President Gábor Vona, and the Prime Minister will meet all party presidents accordingly, including the Christian Democrat. So this is no joke, Congressman. [[Defiance and interruptions from Jobbik's ranks: yes, you can.]] Your level of morality, that's fantastic! Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-10-12-142	Ladies and gentlemen, There are no two-minute speakers now, and I am giving the floor to Congressman Zoltán Gőgös in a normal time frame.
u2016-10-12-143	Thank you, Mr President, for the floor. I didn't want to squash the response to different opinions in two minutes. I would like to ask the Secretary of State - when he said here that there must be insufficient support for this referendum - what support you have for closing the shops on Sunday. Where was it written, say, in KDNP's program, election program - or in Fidesz-KDNP's program, because it's a team - to shut down stores on Sunday, for example? Where was it written to sell state land? We want a referendum precisely to see if Hungary agrees with this. Because you didn't ask anyone about it, but brought it to Parliament; I'm sorry, the sale of land wasn't even brought to Parliament. At least now is the moment when we are not really having a professional debate, because here, let's say, perhaps the three of us could have a professional debate, in particular, not hurting the others, so a specific agricultural debate, because even the government couldn't, Mr State Secretary, once to show up and defend its own position! 'Cause here we've been arguing for a long time about what 100,000 is and what 200,000 is. This referendum, both of which I would like to point out, has exactly the same legal basis as Parliament's decree on quota at the beginning of summer. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: The one you boycotted.]] Exactly the same, because a referendum can be initiated by the President of the Republic... - [[Dr. Bence Rétvári's intervention.]] Excuse me, one second. - the President of the Republic may take the initiative, the Government may take the initiative, or at least 100,000 voters' signatures may be used. So what is it? They loosely wrote out one that fulfilled one of the conditions, only because you are in the majority, then complain that you have spent 20 billion - or 17 billion - to be exact, but who knows how much more they have put in their pockets, because here I hear 500-600 activists from every constituency moving, obviously it wasn't for free, and it wasn't for free, and it wasn't for free, which was definitely nowhere to be accounted for. But in the Voldemort case, we know that's why there are state defense funds or constitutional defenses, which obviously can be used for this. I'm asking you, Mr. Secretary, on what authority did you decide to sell the state land? Where is it written in any Fidesz program to sell the land? We've never written down anything in any program that we're going to sell state land. We didn't sell it. We bought 40,000 acres, I'd like to signal. We didn't sell, we bought. That is why we have a moral basis, we have a legal basis and a professional basis for it, and we ask Hungary whether it agrees with the fact that the rest of the state's wealth is now obviously in the first place, but I would like to point out that if this referendum goes through with high support, then a next government has a much greater professional basis and a moral basis for undoing what has been done in this case. Luckily, they created laws that could solve this without a problem. In fact, I've got the sample. What's been going on? Land for the farmers! and then state Mezőhegyesi Ménes estates. So how is it now? Now, did you need the stud property to keep 400 jobs, or how is it now? They just bought it. The resolution just came in for 2.1 billion. [[16.30]] Somewhere these two logics don't fit. I very much agree with him that the company has survived, because it has ecological foundations and a production base that could not be ripped apart. And there are a few more that should be run as a model farm or a school farm. But you didn't do this, but you set up an ideology, and then Lazarus told you that the current management is always stealing the wealth, which, by the way, I strongly refuse, I have never been the top manager of such a company, but I have worked in this for quite a long time, and I can firmly say that we have not stolen anyone's property, because we don't have the wealth to fly a helicopter now, let's say, 200 kilometers, even though we have spent a long time in productive activity, and we have not only torn our mouths here, like the current minister, but we don't have such wealth, and we don't have such an opportunity. But I also say that at least in that business, we were able to support one person in about five hectares, because we normally took advantage of all the other opportunities from the agricultural land, from the food industry to the service activity, to the help of small producers. And this is what we should be trying to do, if there are already such businesses or there may be such businesses, then through this we will bring back real integration, not something that will now be made at the TIG warehouse, where, of course, there are no dryers, but no one will think about it. I am very sorry that there is not one Fidesz representative here, and there is no one from the government here who would dispute the professional part of this bill. We say that public land is not meant to be abandoned and to enrich its own clientele, sometimes even foreigners, but to make an active rural policy. It is already possible to argue within a country that the proportions of how much of this should be, let's say, the type of integrating, service-providing larger state estate that rents the land in the long term and cultivates it with the right parameters and with the right employment constraints, and how much of this should help those semi-subsistence or almost market-based small farms that might have needed exactly 20 hectares, but you took it and gave it to someone else instead. So that's the terrible thing about it, that there's nothing so sane about it these days other than to gloat and to collect for ourselves - not for ourselves, but for you. I've told you many times when I hear that between two gas installations now, Lőrinc Mészáros doesn't have time to see how much he's bid on so far, and he's already bid 100 acres more than the family can, and he's gonna lose 60 million, but what difference does it make, he's gonna land on a yacht a little smaller than Rogán's helicopter. That's the problem now, you know? When the current power doesn't understand the huge money we have now, the company that cries out billions of dollars doesn't have a trailer behind the coffin. No! And we should also leave something to the unfortunate rural people who may have gone to vote for your call because they fear for their net public work money of HUF 55,000. But that's not perspective, my dear friends. The perspective would be either to leave the family alone to thrive, preferably by getting them to do not only basic activity, but also to do exactly the same for the wider range of eco-management... - and then there was the sample from Kishantos. Unfortunately, we will have to bury our poor friend tomorrow, the father of Kishantos, Feri, who was destroyed by ruining their life's work by cutting a single hoe when they gave the land to a contractor. And it is not true - if the Secretary of State were here, I would say to him - that it was a newly formed enterprise, a big fucking deal! He's been working on construction for decades, only - I think - he's joined the Fidesz campaign, and he had to get back from somewhere the money that's easiest to get back for an area that doesn't have to do anything, he's just taking on state support, more precisely, the European Union's support. With a dozen of them, Hortobágy farmers were excluded from the possibility of working and living. Dozens of them! You'd better pay attention, it's here in 168 hours, it's written down, one said that it's gone now, and then I'll go back to community service, and I'll get 55,000 forints even if I don't do anything. Who is this good for, fellow Members? Who's good at this? ! This state asset could have been a very serious development, but it should have simply been taken into account, for example, the needs of municipalities. The municipalities have now taken everything away, so it will now be in the moon, but how much easier it would have been if they could have helped local workers with the help of professionals! There were a lot of these programs, in Igrici, in the other places, and then what? They gave Flóri Farkas the billions for all kinds of job rentals. Then where did he go? He's missing, he's in the rentals, and who knows where he went. But they're still hiding it, they still don't want it accounted for, and we still see that for some reason - he obviously knows a lot, and he took a lot of people to vote on ski shop money. Let's think about this. Here's an active opportunity for the country. My fellow Member Vas told me that there would be no reason for it on Friday. Have you read the text of the law that, let's say, will stop the auction? It is written literally that the auction process initiated under the programme for the farmers has been completed. And then, on Tuesday, they bring in one of those things where we're going to continue with the Dányi Ignatian plan, and the forests are going? Because the fish ponds and the orchards have already been checked out. Now, what is the guarantee that one and a half million hectares of forest or slightly over 1.2 million forests will remain in our common possession? Or what's the guarantee that they won't push through that part of the nature reserve is definitely not, because they're just low-quality pastures, you can take good money for nothing? Because that's what we see. So I think that you should be arguing here not about how much the signature is, but about what professionally justifies that this process has been initiated at all. But there's no sane explanation for that, but they say that because 30,000 characters have gotten to the ground. Did anyone check this out, say, 28,000 for 2 acres, 2 grand for 500? Anybody check it out? Because the big business was not the 2-3 hectares, but the big business was the very valuable areas where it was sold at a price in many places - like the wife of our fellow Member in Fejér County, let us say. Interestingly, as a fidesz political family member appeared, they dared not even make an offer, returning to who dares to sign. We were at the auctions, fellow Members. It's the cunning fear that's taking care of you. Well, who dares to confront a local king who says, say, the next day, that I'm buying your company now, if you don't give it to me, we're gonna kill you anyway? ! Now, not in the physical sense of the word, but economically. Why is it that they tell small businessmen in a small town in the country that you shouldn't exactly refer to your lack of income when you complain to us because we watched it at the NAV? - says a fidesz congressman. How'd you get a look at it at the NAV? On what grounds? Where do we live, people? ! Do we live in Russia or Kazakhstan, which is the pattern? Whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, We had a huge working fortune in our hands, with the best quality lands, which is to say that it was once in the hands of small farmers... It was never in the hands of small farmers, at least 90 percent, always so that it could be an active intervention. It's also an active intervention if I rent it out to someone who already has 50 per hectare, but I'm not sure he'll make it out of 50, and I'm not sure he can support his family. It's also an active procedure. And also, I'm sorry, I'm saving 3,000 acres if, say, there's 300 people's jobs. And will we issue the launch permit to the best producing companies in Hungary? Then we will describe in the food strategy the need to increase livestock production rates. Who are you going to increase it with? Who's gonna get up at 5:00 in the morning to milk a cow? They are now dealing with how much improvement has been made in terms of the relatively concentrated livestock production; how much more intensively less animals can produce the same amount of milk, for example, with half the amount of gas and everything. That's something to think about. But I'm sure there are plenty of places where there are no other options than Hortobágy, where there have been small farms and small, family-based sheep farming, because that's what it's supposed to be. All you have to do is understand what you're doing. And we should have gathered experience for the last 20 years, not here in Parliament, and then flying a helicopter. That is the big problem, fellow Members. So don't worry, I'm gonna say this again, because if they're right, it's gonna turn out that no one's going to go this way. All right, let's give it a try, and I think, 'cause if we don't try, you're cowards. And I definitely say they're cowards. 'Cause it's obvious that after they say he's out of reason, they're not gonna print this. By the way, the two should be written together. It's gonna be a real story, because it's gonna include the end of urinating in the central bank and all the other places, and the fact that we don't let the rest of our assets go away. So that's what we should be thinking about, not arguing about or thinking about how it is legally. Legally, it is the same category as that which was written out after the submission by Viktor Orbán, exactly the same. And now there are more of you, but this will not always be the case, I would like to signal, because either way, sooner or later, all power will fail; dictatorships are usually rougher, which is why I am protecting you. It would be better if they were a little more restrained in this, and they didn't clean up all the media products and media workers who, let's say, would record something or write something, but they should try to live so that they couldn't wear it or write about it. That's the whole point of it, because otherwise, there's reverse logic here. Thank you very much for your attention. [[16.40]]
u2016-10-12-144	Thank you. I now give the floor to Congressman Zoltán Magyar in a normal time frame.
u2016-10-12-145	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I'd like to point out here that I don't care at all how many valid signatures there were. If no valid signatures had been received for a referendum on this subject, by anyone, I would still consider it important to consult people on this matter. I don't even know how they took the liberty of privatizing one of the last national assets without asking people. And it's also a mistake to close anything on Friday. Here it was said that a simple word amendment could practically re-launch the privatisation, with which I agree, but I go further: it is still happening. At your group meeting, I am speaking to the Fidesz Members in the first place, and they have decided that it will continue, but not three, but now I would like to privatise these state lands virtually up to five hectares without a tender. And why don't we just believe that this process ends on Friday? On the one hand, I stress that if Jobbik goes to government, we will try to reverse this privatisation and recover most of the agricultural land for the Hungarian nation. On the other hand, they said exactly the opposite, and I mentioned this earlier today, and they stressed the need to increase public land and public engagement in the countryside. Because of this, the debate on Friday and the decision on next week can be amended at any time in a single minute, as you currently have the majority in Parliament. For the record, I would like to say that there is no one from the Agriculture Committee or the Ministry of Agriculture here, so we should now have a professional debate, talking about whether we should defend the Hungarian agricultural land as one of the last treasures of the Hungarian nation, whether we should put out a referendum on this, that there is virtually no person on the government side to discuss it with. I find this quite amazing, and after that the interest of Hungarian citizens, not their interest in the subject, is raised as an argument. If the Members themselves are interested in this issue in such numbers, then we do not expect such an interest in the collection of signatures. But I will go further: if you had initiated a referendum on migrant matters, quotas, resettlements, say, two years ago, not only would the validity not have been possible, but even the large Fidesz-KDNP probably would not have been able to carry out the appropriate number of signatures; quite simply because if people did not feel the problem, they would obviously not be motivated on such a matter. Let us show them, and it is the responsibility of this policy to see what could have been achieved with this public land, how many rural settlements, how many rural families could have been brought to home on the ground, to improve demographic conditions or to create a good quality of life. If you feel it on your own and experience that this state land is enough to reach the goal of tens of thousands of families, then let us ask your opinion. I'm sure there wouldn't have been a problem with collecting signatures then, so that's no argument either. There is a need for people to be consulted, and if this referendum does not reach the 50 percent participation rate that is now required, but it will be politically valid, as most of them will say that I am quite sure, even the majority of Fidesz voters, that we do not sell public land, and then their will must be taken into account, and this whole madness must be reversed. Not only do I say this, but not only do the sober-minded people say it, not only does the opposition say it, but there is also a judicial document about it, because in the case between the Ecoeconomy in Kishantos versus the National Land Fund Management Organisation and the Hungarian State, the judge has proposed the annulment of a number of the laws of the NFA Act for the Constitutional Court. If this goes away, we must have no illusions, because we know what level of political pressure the Constitutional Court is working under, but if it does, and these provisions become null and void, then what, fellow Members? So what happens? It would also be good to answer that, because such a referendum could also put an end to such a situation, because from then on, if these provisions cease to exist and we do not sell public land, this contradiction cannot arise. We're talking about these 250 to 300 thousand acres. This is NFA Act 15 and 26. The Court has raised serious concerns, even with regard to government decrees, and wishes them to be annulled retroactively. He mentioned, among other things, that the United Nations' anti-corruption treaty is in conflict with land privatisation and that at all, public affairs and integrity, accountability and transparency in relation to public property are in breach of all these laws, not to mention that they are contrary to several of the Articles of the Fundamental Law of Hungary that you have created. Here, he specifically named three, with which I deeply agree. We have already explained in detail why privatisation is going against land policy directives. So after that, I feel even more strongly that this referendum should be put out and at least that it should be politically valid, and then, of course, draw the right conclusions from it and destroy this madness backwards. The Hungarian nation, the Hungarian state, needs so much land, so much reserves because of the responsible behaviour we have already outlined and demanded many times, because this is the only way that the current government will be able to ensure that through land ownership policy we achieve the goals that you have said so much in opposition. So we still haven't heard any technical arguments - we don't know, because they don't have experts here - about why we shouldn't put this referendum out, they're willing to put themselves in such a procedural and different number of signatures, which, from our point of view, as I said, is completely uninterested. Thank you, Mr. President. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-10-12-146	At the moment, I give the floor to Sallai R. Benedict in two minutes.
u2016-10-12-147	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. All I wanted to do was apologize to President Rubovszky for his apologies, and the two times he said the words of Mr Imre Vas. So I wanted to apologize, please forgive me. There are very few KDNPs in there, they come in very few times, and they're so alike, I can't tell them apart. [[Defiance.]] That's probably the reason. I'm sorry.
u2016-10-12-148	Thank you. Since I do not see another candidate, I will ask Mr Rubovszky as rapporteur if he wishes to comment. [[For signal:]] It says yes. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2016-10-12-149	Thank you very much. Congressman Sallai objected to why the KDNP did not size itself. I would like to say, Mr President, that in 1990, 1994 and 1998, you were in a position to become an alliance in 1998, and since then you have been in an alliance in politics. This has to be said, because everything is new to the newborn, and you didn't even know where the Parliament was then, and we were parliamentary parties on our own. [[Sallai R. Benedek: Even during MSZMP!]] Now, on the other hand, because of the comments made by the Hungarian Congressman, let me make the comment that God is protecting the country from getting Jobbik power. [[Dr. Bence of Rétvári: That's right!]] because if the trust in the rule of law that Mr.Hungarian said is a party stand that he does not care about what valid signatures are, this must be written - it is called dictatorship if you are not interested. [[Hungarian Zoltán: Not from this point of view. Sallai R. Benedek: This is for demagoguery!]] I'm not afraid that's gonna happen. I would now like to return to the referendum exactly. I would like to remind Mr Barándy of the order of business debate, at his request, I asked the Judicial Committee who supported the variation that the Parliament should issue the referendum. This was the first point of order, and only the opposition Member voted in favour of it. I didn't go any further, because then I saw that there was no majority of them, but the fact that I didn't vote in favour of this question actually means that I wasn't in that position. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: That's why I said we agreed!]] [[16.50]] Now, however, I would like to have a substantive debate with Congressman Barándy. I don't think we have the right and the opportunity to criticize the Curia's activities. All the more so, because if you can read through what the Curia has written, it's exactly the opposite of what you assume they are. In point 16, it is said that in respect of 45 signatures - they did not specify exactly which one it was; they continued: - in the absence of a specific verification capability, the Curia could examine the infringement in substance and could not establish it. What's the consequence? For all the others, it's been determined in detail. Congressman, you don't have to watch the right ones. So 170,000, I don't know how much you don't have to watch. It has to be seen, and it has been verified, because whoever can read Hungarian contains this, so they checked what was contested in the review request. And here Congressman Haughty admitted it, it's a big mistake to forget to put a woman's personal number in two, and they won't accept it. But with respect, I've been involved in politics since 1989, starting with the four-yes referendum of 89, a single letter error, a single number error, or whatever it was, has rendered the signature invalid for every government period. You've been in power for 12 years, and in 12 years, you've never changed the fact that you have to stick so tight to the rules. We haven't made this up, it's been like this since 89. [[Zoltán Pride: That was not the rule! It was a sampling rule.]] It was checked by the Curia, because in point 16, it was unable to examine in substance - not that we asked it but that it was to examine it in substance - and it follows that the provisions of the review request have been verified. That's what I wanted to say as a closing point. Dear Parliament, In view of the fact that the Judicial Committee has adopted and presented an alternative variation, the positions should be clarified in the detailed debate, and then the Parliament can decide on this matter after a detailed debate. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-10-12-150	Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. A general discussion of the proposal for a resolution on the Memorial Day of Hungarian Marines and Hungarian Marines who died heroically will follow. Presentation submitted by Members György Rubovszky and Imre Vejkey H/11348. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr Rubovszky, the author of the item on the agenda.
u2016-10-12-151	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear Parliament, In view of the fact that it is now a hundred years of the great world burn that we simply call the First World War, during the First World War commemorations, I was in the lucky position to see the Hungarian chapel set up by Doberdó with Zoltán Lomnici, President of the Council of Human Dignity, and my fellow Member Imre Vejkey, honoring the incredible amount of Hungarian soldiers who died there. President Miklós Szunay not only built a chapel on the Doberdo plateau, but also fixed a lot of things. There I was delighted to see Minister Géza Jensenszky put a memorial plaque for the heroic dead Hungarians in 1992. After that, we went to Pula - just to mention that Pula was the center of the Austro-Hungarian Monarchy Navy - where we were forced to face the strange situation of the Austro-Hungarian Monarchy in 1886 or 1860-something, since it was his navy, he bought a cemetery for sailors and marine-related dead people. This cemetery is still separate in Pula. We went into this cemetery, and we were faced with the fact that despite the fact that the cemetery was purchased by the Austro-Hungarian Monarchy, Austria set up a huge monument for Austrian sailors, and despite the fact that the Austrian-Hungarian Navy had nearly 27 thousand Hungarian members, and there were over a thousand Hungarians in that cemetery, the Hungarian government did not erect any monuments for the Hungarian heroes there. Then we decided and announced at the first press conference that we would request a parliamentary decision. I would like to say, in addition to the memorial exhibition, that, until World War II, Hungarian sailors had a memorial day in Hungarian history. This was abolished during the dictatorial period following World War II. Dear Parliament, In the history of the Navy of the First World War, it was perhaps the greatest Hungarian loss when, on June 10, 1918, an Italian torpedoer torpedoed the battleship of St. Stephen, which was then the greatest warship of the Monarchy, bore the name of our state-founding king, and tried to break through the Italian blockade. As a result, the warship was torpedoed and the warship sank between the waves of the Adriatic. That's what we base our requests on in the parliamentary resolution. In the first part, we ask that Hungary celebrate the day of the Hungarian Navy, remember that. I think that the more worthy date than June 10th, when that great loss occurred, there is no way to find it in Hungarian history. It is also an expectation that Hungary will finally present a monument to the Hungarians there. It should also be mentioned that the Hungarians are not there unmarked. I was extremely ashamed once and very happy for the second time - and this should be pointed out - because the small number of Hungarian communities living in Pula put up a small plaque on their own strength, based on collection. At least they recorded and remembered the heroic dead. [[17.00]] Dear Parliament, We have presented this parliamentary resolution, and we ask the government to raise a memorial until 10 June 2017. Because we hope that it will be the first time that the Navy Day can be celebrated, and then the memorial will be held, and the Hungarian Republic will be able to honor the heroic dead buried there in front of the memorial. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-10-12-152	Thank you. I ask you on behalf of the government, do you wish to comment on behalf of Secretary of State Bence Rétvári? [[For signal:]] It says yes. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2016-10-12-153	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, A hundred years ago, on today's scale, an incredible amount of Hungarian soldiers fought on the fronts of World War I. We can't imagine how many of them died heroically, since 661,000 Hungarian soldiers never returned from the fronts. This is a greater loss than ever before, twice as much military losses as Hungary has suffered in the Second World War. World War II. It's the biggest loss we've ever had. It's just that 743 thousand were captured, and 734 thousand were missing, injured. If we add these numbers together, we get a very large number of nearly two million, but the most painful of this is obviously the 661 thousand Hungarian soldiers who never returned to their families. The situation in Hungary is unworthy, as we do not properly remember this heroic act, the stand-up for Hungary. We're talking about heroes like XX. In the century, there were many heroes who were underestimated today, and throughout history, during the 20th century, there were many heroes who were underestimated. Even in the century. Of course, there was a reason for that. This was not because the Hungarian people would not remember them, because we cannot go to a settlement in the countryside where we would not see a small monument in the middle of the village, the city, in which the names of the heroic dead of World War I are engraved. But in the communist period, they did not commit to historical continuity with this period, our heroic deaths in World War I were regarded as dead victims in a dynastic struggle. Therefore, the monuments of World War I heroes that were built or transformed in Budapest were destroyed. Some of them are no longer found, some have their pedestals, but other statues have been erected; some have not yet been completed, and of course some have been injured in the war. So we owe a great deal to these people, and that is because whoever gives their lives for their country can count on it for as long as the country lasts, in honor of the country, its grace, its recollection. It is therefore important that, on the occasion of the centenary, on the occasion of the 100-year anniversary of the outbreak and the beginning of World War I, we take as many ways as possible to understand and process the trauma of the past, and this serves Hungary's unity as much as possible. This is why the Government of Hungary has also set up a memorial committee, which has been organizing commemorations for two years. If I could highlight one or two of these commemorations, I am sure that among the first ones I would mention the exhibition New World - the Brotherhood of Europe 1914-18, which more than 20,000 people have seen. This is located in Budapest, at the Castle Garden Bazaar, and there will be further sequels. I think it's a fairly high-quality exhibition that shows well the happy times of peace, the early stages of war, propaganda, the situation of women and the change that many people experienced during World War I and the period prior to World War I. There are further sequels to this exhibition, as it is worth presenting either the dynasties or the consequences of the war, which has been reflected either in mass production or in the broadening of women's political rights, in a wide variety of consequences. It is important to be aware that these are all the consequences of World War I. If I can mention one or two programs from the year 2015 and the year 16 it is important that Frontmozi's screening series, which processes films on World War I topics, and then there will be discussions. But there was a round table discussion about war diseases, museums and monuments, and the situation of the theatre in the war was also a scientific conference on the use of new technologies, as well as XX. In the organization of the 100th Institute, there was a professional scientific event in the Italian Cultural Institute, as well as the winners and defeated among similar organizers in the same place. I could mention a number of conferences, but let me also mention some of the large state institutions that have lived with World War I theme events and exhibitions. The Budapest Historical Museum, the HM Institute of Military History and Museum, can see the exhibition there as well. The Balassi Institute organized numerous events worldwide. This is not only about exhibitions or conferences, but also about the presentation of the Csárdás Queen, which is a good impression of Hungary at the time, a good indicator of the time. The National Széchényi Library, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade also organized events, the National Theatre and a lot of civil society organisations submitted their applications and won them. We also strive not to stay in Hungary in a World War I monument that we would not renovate in the framework of the centenary. For it is the minimum of decency that must be given to the heroes of World War I to renovate these monuments. Here I have collected a list of references from a few months ago, which already includes 282 settlements, from Szentgal to Nagyvázsony, from Nagyszénás to Karcság, from Pusztaföldvár to Becske, from Vál village to Borota, and we could still classify the settlements, the smaller and the larger ones, where on the occasion of the 100th anniversary we will renovate the monuments to commemorate the heroes of World War I in a worthy place. In this series of remembrances, I think it fits very well that we also renovate or create, more precisely, the monument of the kind of forces that Congressman spoke of. After all, many of the Hungarian soldiers found their heroic death in a wave tomb. Their stand for his country is a duty to remember. Other nations, if they have properly commemorated the heroic dead of their own country on this site, are equally important for us to do so. Even because if we do not present these virtues, these examples to the Hungarian young people, to the Hungarian society, then there is a very great danger that these virtues will not be so respected, they will not be such an example, and they can affect the entire country, the future of the country, and weaken the presence of these virtues in society. But the appreciation of heroes, the cult of heroes, the role model of those who dared to stand up for a cause far from their everyday lives, beyond their lives, because it was about the country, the nation, the protection of our common country, serving the goals of the country, and therefore the greatest sacrifice that man can make in his life, they sacrificed their lives. Well, we always have to put these people on one of the highest pedestals, and we have to set them as a role model, at least as a respected person. We hope that there will never again be a situation in Hungary, Europe or the world where similar heroism is needed, but we can see that wars are still happening in many places in the world. And it is important that in Hungary the respect of the soldiers, the Hungarian soldiers who died a hero's death should not linger, no matter what kind of force we are in, and what we are in their direction we do, we pay our respects. But let's do this for our own future. For in Hungary this kind of standing, this kind of patriotism, the courage, the heroism, the camaraderie that exists in the character of the soldier, which is symbolically in these statues, and those who look up to them can see in these statues, well, these virtues, these qualities must continue to be valued and set as an example for future generations. Because only then can Hungary be a strong nation, only then can everyone have their thinking in place, I think, and this is also an important part of training for patriotism, so that we honor and remember our heroes in a worthy way. That is why we thank the Members for their proposal, and we hope that this memorial will stand until the deadline that Mr President mentioned and included in the proposal for a resolution. The Hungarian Government and the Centennial Memorial Committee, the World War I Memorial Committee, will provide coverage for this. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]] [[17.10]]
u2016-10-12-154	Thank you. Two factions have set up keynote speakers for the resolution proposal. First, I give the floor to the lead speaker of Fidesz, Imre Vas.
u2016-10-12-155	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, It is my fellow Members' proposal that the 10th June be the Memorial Day of the Hungarian Marines and their heroic deaths. The navy and the flotilla became an integral part of Hungarian history. The first shots of the World War were fired by the Duna flotilla, and during the World War, the naval force was approaching 35,000. The 10th of June is not the memory of the winning battle, because, as the author said, the battleship of St. Stephen was sunk on this day by the Italian Navy, yet Hungary has a duty to commemorate this day, all those who have sacrificed their lives for our country. The commemoration is not about a military event, but about sailors who worked or sacrificed their lives for our country. Ladies and gentlemen, The Fidesz faction supports the resolution proposal to commemorate regularly the Hungarian Navy and the Hungarian Marines who died heroically, and to commemorate the government. Thank you for listening.
u2016-10-12-156	I now give the floor to Congressman Gergely Kulcsár, the lead speaker of the Jobbik faction.
u2016-10-12-157	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, In relation to the proposal for a decision on the Memorial Day of the Hungarian Navy and the heroic death, I will convey very briefly Jobbik's position. I say that very briefly, because there is no point in the proposal for a resolution itself, no part of it that really provokes me to debate. We can support this proposal, we support it. Indeed, it can be seen as a replacement for a deficit, and we hope that the Hungarian Parliament will accept this proposal with complete consensus. I would also like to draw the attention of this House, as well as the pro-government Members and the government, to the fact that the establishment of the memorial and the introduction of the Memorial Day are very good, we must also remember our heroes, the Marines. However, there are some things that should also be taken care of. I am thinking of the graves of war beyond our current borders in Trianon. I had the pleasure of visiting some cemeteries in Transylvania, I was in Oradea, Maroshévíz, and there has been much talk of the saltfield military cemetery at the Ojtozi Strait. The Hungarian war tombs are treated unfairly, and there are some places where the monument cannot be erected. I know that the two states have an agreement to care for the graves of war, but this agreement is not being observed. In practical terms, Hungarian war tombs beyond our borders are in very bad condition, and we would expect action from the government on this. I would also like to draw attention to the fact that the 60th anniversary of the death of the last commander-in-chief of the Austrian-Hungarian military fleet fighting in the First World War will be next year. He was not only commander-in-chief of the military fleet, but he was also governor of Hungary for 24 years - I am talking about Miklós Horthy. I very much hope that the Fidesz government will not forget the 60th anniversary of his death in 2017 and organise worthy commemorations, since I believe that in our historical memory the person and personality of Miklós Horthy is not in place. In our opinion, Miklós Horthy could be set as an example for young Hungarians. I'm telling you, next year is the anniversary. We will, of course, support it if the government takes such steps. And if not, we will submit such a proposal. To sum up and return to the proposal for a decision, Jobbik will support this. Thank you very much.
u2016-10-12-158	Ladies and gentlemen, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. I don't see a candidate. I'll see if anyone else wants to comment. [[Dr. György Rubovszky reporting.]] Not on the government's side. Then I give the floor to Congressman György Rubovszky.
u2016-10-12-159	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, First of all, thank you very much for your positive attitude towards this issue. That's why I can't leave without saying a word... Not without a word; I have nothing against Mr Kulcsár's comment. I would like to remind you that Minister Csaba Hende and now Minister for Defence István Simicskó also put a great deal of effort into clarifying the issue of war graves across the border. As far as I know, because I used to have to go to HM in highland affairs, there's a separate department of the Defense Department that handles this. But I promise you that I will draw the attention of my fellow group member István Simicskó to a copy of this report, because I see this request as very positive. And the other thing about Miklós Horthy, I can only make one personal comment. I personally attended the re-municipation at Kenderes in the past. [[Dr. Csaba Gyüre: We too!]] We were present with a Christian Democratic delegation. But the only thing I can ask - and this is my office at this moment - is to support the resolution proposal regarding the Memorial Day and the Memorial of the Hungarian Marines of the Austro-Hungarian Monarchy. Thank you once again for your positive attitude, and I hope that this House will also vote in favour. Thank you very much.
u2016-10-12-160	Thank you. The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. That concludes the general debate. Excuse me, it's just the name of Congressman Sallai R. Benedek on my board, but he's not here. I was just about to say that the speeches after the agenda would be forthcoming, but two of them had previously withdrawn, and Mr Sallai, although his card is probably here, he is not here himself, so I will conclude today's work. The speeches are over. Thank you for your work. The Parliament will resume its work at 9 a.m. Friday morning. Thank you very much. [[Meeting ended at 17:17 p.m.]]
