u2016-04-12-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] Good afternoon. Dear Parliament, The 15th day of the spring session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that László Földi and István Ikotity will be in charge of the meeting. Welcome to our guests and to all those who monitor our work. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, On 7 December 2012, the National Assembly declared the starting date of the evacuation of the Hungarian population from the Highlands as a parliamentary memorial day. After the Second World War, the re-established Czechoslovak state collectively held German and Hungarian ethnic groups living in its territory responsible for the consequences of the war. With the approval of the winning powers, the Hungarian and Czechoslovak governments have concluded a public exchange agreement. The resettlements were forced to Hungarians and Germans for a great deal of help, political crime, and for a vile reason and for a profit. The first train carrying the displaced families started to Hungary on this day, April 12, 1947. Now, in peacetime, after the end of the world war causing millions of sufferings, history broke the fate of tens of thousands of Hungarian families in the highlands once again, still causing aches and pains. The population exchange lasted almost two years, during which 89 thousand Hungarians were displaced from Slovakia due to their origin. So many people had to leave their homeland to try to start a new life in the new land formed by history. That's how many forced to leave the house where they were born, the community they belonged to, the land on which they farmed, leaving behind the fruit of their lives, the tomb of their ancestors. Ladies and gentlemen, On 12 April, we remember our countrymen who were relocated to Hungary, deprived of their rights and citizenship, separated from their roots. We bow to those Hungarians who, leaving their past behind, were able to start a new life. We express our appreciation to those who have considered it important to preserve our common traditions, our culture and our sweet mother tongue in this painful historical situation. Thank you very much for your attention. Dear Parliament, István Tukacs, Member of the MSZP Group, applied for a pre-meeting speech:. Solidarity in health. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2016-04-12-1	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, In the title of my speech before the agenda, I refer to the fact that the government has doubled its solidarity in health care. Zoltán Balog, who is known by the press as the Minister of Human Rights with a great deal of grudge [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Since when?]] In his first hearing, he spoke about his commitment to maintaining healthcare based on solidarity and national risk communities, which means that those who pay contributions or taxes, if they are healthy, are in solidarity with others to get well; and they expect this when they become sick, free of charge and at a good level. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, You must find that this is not true for a long time. Statistics add 35-36 percent of the ratio that comes from our own pockets to our healing. So it is not true long ago that health care is free. Healthcare is no longer free, because not only medicines - because it is supposed to be paid for - but people who can do it from their own pockets to their recovery, rather than waiting at the end of waiting lists for diagnostic or screening tests rather than being there where their recovery is not guaranteed. The horror of this thing is that this money paid out of its own pocket sometimes legally into a normal private health care, sometimes in the grey zone in the form of gratitude money or in some other way in health care, and that's how people buy it, who can, the illusion that they can heal more easily. Dear Secretary of State, So this kind of solidarity has long since been abandoned, since it has not even been incorporated into the constitution you call the Fundamental Law, and it is implied that this is okay. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, It's not okay. On the other hand, the government has abandoned solidarity with workers in the sector, healers: doctors, workers, nurses, nurses. He gave up the solidarity you mentioned so many times yesterday in relation to trade workers. If you're so committed, why don't you care about those who are in place on Sunday, Christmas, New Year's Eve and Easter? These people work for an undeserving amount of money. These people say they need at least 50 percent raises. Dear Secretary of State, Then why don't they do that? I mean, if yesterday was so much talk about working on Sunday is bad, and they want it not to be, then they should care about people who have to work on Sundays, they have to, that's their job. I am bringing this up, Mr. Secretary of State, because healthcare workers will want to discuss this with you, perhaps not in a very civilized form, perhaps in the form of a strike or other movement. [[Németh Szilárd István: Are you organizing?]] ; on the 15th in a black T-shirt, honourable fellow Members. They're gonna talk about it, and they're gonna remember that you guys, who bang on their backs and announce that they're talking about everything, they're gonna consult with people, so to speak, the first time people wanted to talk to you about opening hours on Sunday, for example. Well, I think that healthcare workers will find each other, honourable Members, and they want to discuss this situation with you. Therefore, I think that this is what your Secretary of State, who deals with health, should be paying attention to. Because this secretary of state, the third in six years, has no program. He has five points: a super hospital in Budapest; a change of minimum hospital conditions, if they can no longer comply with it, we change it; a system of chancellors to become a human, quasi-commisar, who will repel these overspending hospitals; and, of course, he wants to deal with putting people who are both old and sick from the chronic inner classes, the so-called insane ones. That's their program. [[9.10]] Ladies and gentlemen, That's not what the program should be. The programme should be an immediate increase in salaries and at least 600 billion in healthcare. If this was the program, I wouldn't have to talk about it here. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Thank you for your attention.
u2016-04-12-2	Thank you, Congressman Tukacs. Bence Rétvári, Secretary of State, responds to what has been said on behalf of the Government. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2016-04-12-3	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, To hear a socialist party representative speak of solidarity in the field of health, so to speak, it brings about a rather lively experience from everyone. You spoke about the importance of solidarity on health at social level. But who was the only coalition in Hungary after the change of regime that wanted to break this social solidarity by several means? On the one hand, in health care, by privatisation, outsourcing, by handing over hospitals to HospInvest, by talking about a multi-insurance model. They're talking about the one who's in the hospital because he's sick, because he's supposed to be there, and every day, you have to pay money to stay in the hospital for the day. [[Dr. István Józsa: You can't go in now!]] What else would be the most fundamental breach of the principle of solidarity than what the MSZP and SZDSZ have done? I don't know if it was you who invented and executed it, or if the SDS was blackmailing you, and that's why the MSZ-SZS government had to do it. You stand up here talking about solidarity, but why didn't you talk to the group meeting or the coalition partner when every day they wanted to raise money from every sick person, young or middle-aged or elderly? You said very nicely what would be the principle of solidarity, that everyone would pay contributions, and when you get to the hospital, you will use these public services - but how does that make sense to you that you wanted to introduce a daily allowance? That is precisely the denial of this principle of solidarity. You stand up here and talk to us like you're talking to college students about the principle of solidarity [[István Tukacs: This is our relationship, Mr. Secretary of State. Good.]] And when they sat in the velvet chairs, they did exactly the opposite. Private: those who have money will go to an insurance company, choose a package, and they will receive care; those who do not have money may have relatives who combine the daily allowance, but otherwise expect nothing good. And you would have made this kind of social distinction, the interruption of solidarity, legal form with these measures. With regard to the dialogue with the professional representatives with whom we are constantly, I could say from week to week, but we may sit down and negotiate from two weeks to two weeks, that is not a short list, honourable Member. Hungarian Employees Democratic Trade Union of Workers in the Social and Health Sector, National Association of Rescue Workers, Hungarian Hospital Association, Hungarian Medical Chamber, Hungarian Medical Association, Hungarian Medical Association, Hungarian Pharmacy Chamber, Medicina 2000 Association of Special Care for Political and Parallel Patients, or the National Association of Basic Supply Doctors, the National Association for Basic Supply, the Hungarian Residents Association, and I can still clearly tell you who they are who we are sitting with from time to time, week to week, month to month, and with whom, for example, we were able to agree on the regulation of work and rest periods on 12 February. We hope that we will find a legal solution to sitting down as soon as possible, and not only in agreement, but also in a partial collective agreement, the objectives agreed by sectoral representatives and representatives of the government. I would also like to mention the various steps that we have taken in the area of individual solidarity, solidarity with those working in the sector. After all, in 2012-2013 we opened with a two-year wage increase programme exactly where we started, where healthcare workers had to be helped to improve working conditions. Obviously, the 500 billion HUF development package also helped them to improve the conditions in hospitals, but there was a 27 percent wage increase, and last year we adjusted the mobile rent elements to this wage increase. You said, honourable Member, that they are patients waiting at the end of waiting lists. Obviously, at the end of the waiting list, you feel that you are far from intervention, but how did these waiting lists turn out in your time, and how did they turn out in our time? In your time, you didn't even dare to create a national record of it so as not to reveal the real situation. That's what it was at the time. We created it, and when we received it, we found 77,000 people on the waiting list. And how much do you find today? 34,000! 34,000 out of 77,000! And they stand up here in Parliament and say how sad it is to be at the end of the waiting list. But now it's half the waiting list that it was at the end of the socialist government in 2010, and it didn't turn out to be on its own, but on its own. From a first 750 million forints, then from a 1 billion forint, a 5 plus 1 billion forint additional packages. What we have seen is that if we invest in health care, if we give 5 billion forints to hospitals, we can reduce the number of people waiting on the waiting list by 10,000. [[Dr. István Józsa: They dare not go to the hospital! István Szilárd Németh: You should!]] You could have done the same, but you didn't, because you saw a business in health care, you saw a privatisation opportunity, and that's why all you cared about was money, you cared about business, and it wasn't in the best interest of the patients. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-04-12-4	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. On behalf of the political group, Mr Schmuck Erzsébet has applied for a speech before the agenda, with the title 'Fidesz's banking policy failed. You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2016-04-12-5	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, The majority of the government, the government, are now not only closed on Sunday, but its banking policy is burned. It is now clear that the government, by financial stability, means taking control of all the means to finance the financial needs of Fidesz's economic hinterland in a stable way. The government party's financial policy is currently based on one thing: recapitalisation of its new oligarchs through taxpayers' money. This is so important after the Simicska-Orbán war that even increasing public debt is not expensive to achieve the goal. The fight against public debt could ultimately fail if the European Union's statistical office's proposal to count Eximbank as part of the general government sector is implemented. If the government debt has to be recalculated under this rule, it could mean that the government debt did not decrease at all in 2013 or 2014, not even on paper. The reason for this is that after an amendment to the Act of 2013, the lending by Eximbank increased significantly. Today, we also know that the increased lending of Eximbank was mainly driven by financing Fidesz-near entrepreneurs. It is a well-known fact that several companies not engaged in export-import activities received loans from the bank. István Garancsi received 16,5 billion for the purchase of the Kopasi dam, Andy Vajna 6.7 billion for the purchase of TV2, but even Sándor Csányi, who wanted a used rubber processor in Százhalombatta, which is geographically, however, located in Hungary. If the government cannot convince Eurostat that it is true, then these funds will all increase public debt. To be clear, the government is failing to fight sovereign debt because it was more important to fill the new oligarchs with money. Of course, speaking of banking policy, we can't just walk away from the MNB's agenda. For the Hungarian National Bank, fair monetary policy is no longer the priority. György Matolcsy's infamous creativity is now only using it to invent new ways of devising state money. [[9.20]] Ladies and gentlemen, The privatisation of MKB Bank is the culmination of a government scam. The increase in the domestic ownership of the banking sector and other Orbán speeches were false. For years, the Hungarian Prime Minister has fought for more than 50 percent domestic ownership in the banking sector. The government also claimed that these steps would lead to more active lending, but this did not happen. The privatisation of the MKB is therefore the admission of another failure of the economic policy in Orbán. Not to mention the way they decided to sell, however, not to mention the way in which they did so. They want to sell over HUF 100 billion of taxpayers' money to recently created venture capital investors from offshore backgrounds. Of course, it should also be borne in mind that just a year ago the government concluded an agreement with the banks to guarantee that it would not take measures that would undermine the profit prospects of financial institutions. Then, following this literally, he forinted the foreign currency loans so that all the burdens of it were paid by the authentic, while the MNB won over 100 billion. With this, the government has officially put down the gun in the freedom fight against financial institutions. Once again, these cases prove that the corruption machine built by Fidesz slowly, but surely puts the entire government in his hands. Today, the government no longer has an economic background, but a government of the oligarchs. Corruption is no longer a bad consequence of governance, but it is a complement to corruption. As one of the government's advisors said, what is called corruption is basically the main policy of Fidesz. Dear House, The term "configated financial institution" reflects very well what the reigning power is doing to the entire domestic financial sector by hand with the National Bank. But I ask you, are you really capable of risking the success of the fight against sovereign debt for all of this? Thank you for your attention.
u2016-04-12-6	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Government, Mr András Tállai, State Secretary, responds to what has been said. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2016-04-12-7	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and As the title of his speech before the agenda, he indicated the failure of the banking system, so allow me to speak a little more comprehensively on this issue. Let us conduct a situational analysis of what the Hungarian financial system looked like at the time of the change of government in 2010. The banks were weakened, deformed, unable to lend. They were in a vulnerable situation, the Hungarian banking system was essentially wholly owned abroad. In a worse situation, it was only the population, the part of the population who took out foreign currency loans. This has affected millions of people. They were unpayable, bankrupt, hopeless. The economy could not recover from the crisis, and in the crisis the Hungarian banking system did nothing to help them, in fact, the banking system was drifting along with the crisis. We must also state that the banking supervision system did not work, because the broker scandals and other cases that were subsequently discovered were not checked during that period. The Socialist Government has designed the regulation in such a way that it does not have to control banks and other financial services providers. In such a situation, the Fidesz government came, which immediately recognized and took action to transform the banking system, the financial system, in order to protect the population. Although it took a long time, but we managed to bring the population out of the crisis of foreign exchange lending, we managed to establish a system that the opposition did not, but at international level other countries acknowledge that the government did this work as well as possible with good results for the benefit of the population. We have managed to establish a regulation to protect consumers - a fair bank law - that will protect the Hungarian population from such crises in the future. We managed to account for the banks, because the transaction that banks didn't do fairly through foreign exchange lending cost the banking system a thousand billion forints, and all of this legally, because there are no tens of thousands, hundreds of thousands of lawsuits, because otherwise they could have been. We have managed to achieve the forinting, thereby essentially eliminating foreign exchange lending in Hungary in its entirety. The government also recognised the need to pursue a completely new banking and financial policy. The new role and task of the Hungarian National Bank was the primary part of this. The Hungarian National Bank essentially took over the lending of the economy from the Hungarian banking system; this was the specific growth loan programme. The supervisory system has been completely transformed, and there have been real checks, the result and the consequence of this is that the crimes committed by brokers for years and decades have come to light. The government also stated that it is wrong that the Hungarian banking system is foreign owned and that Hungarian property does not appear in the ownership and management of the banks, so it said that Hungarian property should be raised above 50 percent. This is why the acquisition of Budapest Bank, the renovation of the savings cooperative system, the contract concluded with Erste Bank, will be realised in the future, and the state ownership and subsequent privatisation of the Hungarian Foreign Trade Bank mentioned by you. As an evasive point, what you're saying to Eximbank is not true. Eximbank's activities were not investigated by the European Union and Eurostat. No individual lending case has been investigated and its operation has not been investigated. There is no injustice or lawlessness. There is a statistical debate with Eurostat, which is not only with Hungary, but also with several European Union countries, so this is not a unique Hungarian example. Besides, if it happens that Eximbank is to be classified in the government sector, the Hungarian government debt will still fall, and you will not be right about what you are saying here, that we would have failed any fight. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and The government has taken significant measures together with Parliament to reform the banking system, which will serve the interests of Hungary, the Hungarian people in the future. And the last time I gave you advice, I can give you the same advice: first think about what you read and then read it. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-04-12-8	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Lajos Rig, representative of Jobbik, also applied for a speech before the agenda, with the title "Bleeded-out basic care". You have the floor, Congressman.
u2016-04-12-9	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, From the world of money, let's go back to the world of moneylessness, basic supply. Last Friday, within the framework of the real national consultation, we consulted GPs, pediatricians, adult-house doctors and doctors with mixed practice. The consultation was attended by 22 doctors, which is a big deal. An interesting figure: their average age is, unfortunately, sixty years. It's national data, but it's also local. There have been a lot of issues raised, which is a problem with basic care. What we know is that last year we passed the Basic Supply Act, we put great confidence in it, that it will work, that it will change the system, make it more mobile and more transparent, but unfortunately, the picture is not like this. In particular, government assistance has been mentioned, which has already been mentioned in several forums at the promised level, the gross income supplement of 130 thousand HUF per practice. Well, this hasn't been on any of the GP's tabs yet. They said he might be here by June. The original goal was that it would be unmarked, usable for anything, and then over time it was labeled that it could only be used for certain tasks, and then only after completing additional tasks will this 130 thousand, I repeat, gross amount, which is about 80 thousand forints net. A GP practice won't help you out of trouble. They also mentioned that it was not enough that they did not receive this contribution, but that they were also affected by degressive care. We know that there are a lot of unfilled practices from which patients pass into the practices that the general practitioner fills, and in the expanded practice, after a certain number, the general practitioner is getting less and less funding, and this makes his situation completely impossible. The question of the waiting list came up. There was also a pulmonary doctor in the consultation who said that in case of cancer, the two-week period is actually working, that if sent to imaging diagnostics, they will do it within two weeks. The very big problem here is that access to specialist orders is very difficult. [[9.30]] Consider a simple example. Dermatology's a non-professional. The melanoma malignum, though, is now very widespread in our country, is at about the same level as the number of lung and colon diseases. Unfortunately, by the time you get to the specialty, because the waiting list is so long that it is impossible to get in, even with a statimos referral, by the time the surgery takes place, the patient will unfortunately be at a stage where it will be inoperable. With regard to the waiting list, Mr Secretary of State has also said here that the waiting lists have decreased. Indeed, in the field of manual surgery, yes, but unfortunately, this is not the case in outpatient practice. I mentioned the shortage of unfulfilled practices, and the problem was that it had been announced for several years that the government should set up a practice fund for practices that a doctor who is about to retire cannot sell. What we do know is that today's young doctor, who is a general doctor, wouldn't go into credit, even if the state gave it to him in such a way that OEP funding would pay him back. However, if the state were to take over these practices at a reduced price and give them to the general practitioner at even lower prices, this would be a working variation. They see this practice fund in the drawer and it's dusty. The issue of dual financing has also been mentioned, and business tax has not changed. The Basic Supply Act gives the municipalities the opportunity to waive the business tax. Well, that didn't work for Budapest either. We know that this is a very large item, and they passed on the responsibility to the mayors that we gave them the opportunity to take advantage of it. Of course the mayor won't give up his own income because he's protecting the viability of his city. If the business tax exemption is granted, I believe that an extra funding should help the municipalities so that the lost funding does not cause problems. They missed what we have said many times, the Ministry of Health, because the EMMI operates through a small ball that covers a lot of areas, such as the education, health and social sphere. Health care itself is such an area that it can't be maintained in this form. This is why they have asked for the establishment of the Ministry of Health in several forums, even in professional forums. There are a lot of problems that have come up, and I'll tell you about it at the next item on the agenda. Thank you. [[It's a rare applause in the ranks of the Jobbik.]]
u2016-04-12-10	Thank you very much, Congressman. Bence Rétvári, Secretary of State, will respond to what has been said on behalf of the Government.
u2016-04-12-11	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, I feel that this health consultation of Jobbik is very useful because it meets issues that have indeed existed for many years. I think it's very good that you recognize what's happened around Jobbik in the last six years. Congressman said the idea of a practice fund is in the drawers. I have good news, Congressman, it's been working for years, it's got 250 million forints in it, and every year, the Jobbik faction is voting on it here in Parliament. So it's not a dusting idea in a drawer, it's a very good institution that's been operating for years, which helps to provide opportunities for young people, anyone who wants to buy a GP practice, and obviously in a place where the practice has been empty for at least a year and there are at least a thousand children or 500 children to be provided. In this case, they receive not only interest-free loans from this 250 million HUF fund, but simply non-refundable grants, and 4 million HUF is the amount they have to pay to purchase the right to practice. But you can buy this practice. It won't cost them a penny, but the state will pay for it. So I am glad that such proposals are being put forward at Jobbik's forums, but the good news is that these problems were already seen by the government in 2010. It has therefore already provided a solution to this in the previous cycle. We would recommend that Jobbik support these proposals here in Parliament. But in the same way, the establishment aid helps to start the practice of the general practitioner. This is a larger amount than the purchase of the right to practice, both in the budget line and in individual support. After all, there is not only HUF 250 million, but HUF 500 million for settlement support, it is also a non-refundable grant, and not only HUF 4 million, but even a larger amount, or HUF 6 million for those who create a new practice. While the practice contest is supposed to serve the purchase of the law, it serves the local setting. It is therefore a free grant, and it is not binding on what title it can be used for. Obviously, there's someone who sets up his office, or buys a car to get out to his patients, each one that he thinks is useful and necessary to start his practice in an unfilled place, he can turn it to. This $500 million framework seemed sufficient to meet the needs that are coming to us. So if you are thinking about becoming a physician as a young doctor, you can expect this HUF 6 million grant to buy the practice, both for a non-refundable HUF 4 million grant and for starting, operating, starting up, buying equipment or buying any real estate or real estate. That's nearly 10 million forints to help you if you want to start as a GP. We did this because what you said, Congressman, is a real problem that the general practitioners are getting older. There are practices that are not filled yet of critical size, but apparently, as general practitioners get older, there will be a growing problem in the future. That's why we've already started it to make general medicine more attractive. And if someone doesn't have their initial capital to start it, then that's what they're gonna get. But in the same way, we have tried to set up additional sources in other parts of the basic care, since we believe that there is a kind of gatekeeper nature of general medical care. Early detection of disease risk is also an advantage for the patient and obviously also an advantage for the entire community, the medical register. That is why we would like to broaden the range of services available locally. Today we spend 40% more on basic care than in 2010, so that you know that inflation has not been very high in recent years; general practitioners, general practitioners, school doctors, nurses, dentists as well. If I look only at the monthly funding of the general practitioners, you also indicated that we gave the general practitioners a HUF 130,000 sum twice a month plus HUF 10 billion. In addition, we can talk about a HUF 50,000 asset support, which was HUF 6.2 billion in total between 2011 and 2014. The first phase was January 2015, with an additional HUF 130 thousand grant available for maintenance costs, and the second phase in 2016. However, this additional resource can help other players in basic care this year as well. It is very important to support young specialists, to support residents, in order to keep as many young people as possible at home, as many young people as possible continue their medical activities in Hungary after completing medical school. As a result of these programmes, the residency support programme, the young specialist program, we believe that the number of young residents starting their careers has now risen from below 500 to over 900. It took a scholarship, a career, and a lot of things. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-04-12-12	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Imre Vejkey, a representative of the Christian Democratic People's Party, also spoke before the agenda, with the title "Wraith Fire or Lighthouse," or the question of the compulsory resettlement of migrants. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2016-04-12-13	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, In the book of the prophet Ezekiel, we read that if the watchman sees the armed enemy coming, but does not blow the horn and warn the people, God will ask of him for lost human lives. God ordered us to be watchmen, and we blew the horn. We have highlighted that there is not a simple refugee crisis in the world today and in Europe, but that the world is being reorganized. Ladies and Gentlemen, Today, Europe's security, culture and faith are threatened by a threat that is more dangerous than almost all the forces we have ever had. Today, the most intensive migration of the world's history and the organised occupation of Europe are taking place. Millions march towards Europe from the east and the south. Today we also know that in addition to the real persecuted, there are also living immigrants, criminals, soldiers and terrorists. Many of them are driven by European life and money, others by conquest, hatred and desire to destroy. It is feared that the migration invasion will not only call into question the interoperability of borders, but at the same time the most serious threat since World War II is humane, tolerance, the coexistence of European nations, believers and atheists, different religions and world-viewers. [[9.40]] Ladies and Gentlemen, In history, aliens have never entered Europe so easily. Today's leaders in Europe demand unconditional solidarity, inclusion and tolerance for peace. Today's leaders in Europe are violating the sovereignty of nations when, without authority, millions of foreigners are invited and distributed among countries. Today's leaders in Europe have forgotten to ask Europeans whether they want Europe to change its composition, culture, order and faith forever - and there is no less at stake than the survival of European civilisation and culture. Ladies and Gentlemen, While Martin Schulz, President of the European Parliament, continues to require the compulsory resettlement of migrants, his national partner Hans Georg Maassen, President of the German Federal Constitutional Protection Office, has already declared that the terrorist threat posed by the migrant situation is much higher than the threat posed by the extreme left-wing Red Army Fraction or even the extreme right-wing National Socialist Illegality. Hans Georg Maassen says this is a war. Why? Because, for political reasons, RAF and NSU have assassinated certain individuals, decision-makers or members of a group of the population, while ISIS strives to kill as many people as possible in front of cameras, and the whole world is informed. Dear Martin Schulz, You, along with powerful forces, have moved in the direction that is seeking a solution to the ever closer European integration of nations. This is not a good way, Mr. President, because you consider the fire of social progress a lighthouse. Please listen to your fellow nation and listen to the people, just as Hungary does. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-04-12-14	Thank you very much, Congressman. On behalf of the Government, Mr Csaba Dömötör, State Secretary, responds to what has been said.
u2016-04-12-15	Honourable Congressman, I cannot respond on behalf of President Martin Schulz, but allow me to react briefly to other aspects. You have been asking a question that affects not only our daily lives, but also what Europe will look like in the coming decades. It is a matter that raises serious questions about what is a European identity, how to preserve European culture and how to guarantee the security of citizens. It is difficult to clean up the EU's declarations, but one thing is certain that the Brussels proposal for forced resettlement is always crawling back on the agenda, and it seems that Brussels is speeding up efforts and preparations for its adoption. This is also referred to by the statements of the President of the European Parliament, which, as usual, are inexorably offensive to Hungary. The government's position remains unchanged: it is not possible to make decisions over the heads of people that fundamentally define Europe's future. The decision-makers in Brussels have no authority to do so, especially without the majority of EU citizens supporting their proposals. We also want to make it clear that it is up to individual nation states to decide who they want to live with and who they don't, and by adopting quota plans, Brussels could take this freedom away from Member States, so this is a clear attack on national sovereignty. We have said it several times, but we are doing it now, there are serious safety risks to the mandatory quota, and it is also pointless, since it opens more questions than it solves, it is an invitation to millions more immigrants. This will not only be exploited by smugglers but also by terrorists, and will be exploited, as has been the case with lack of control. For this reason, all means must be taken to prevent the European Commission's quota proposals from being put into effect, the most important instrument being the referendum. If the large majority of Hungarians reject the meaningless plan, then Brussels cannot push regulations down the throat of Hungarians that Hungarians do not want. We think that instead of pushing forward pointless proposals, the European Union should focus more on strengthening borders, which means that instead of quotas, we need to strengthen the Schengen system. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-04-12-16	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Szilárd István Németh, representative of Fidesz, also applied for a speech before the agenda. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2016-04-12-17	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Since 2010 the anniversary of a double tragedy has been crushing the hearts of nations, including the Hungarian people, who love their country and who have brotherly solidarity with the Poles. Seventy-six years ago, the Soviet Communist Party's Central Committee issued an order for infamous liquidation under which the Soviet political police, the NKVD, killed more than 22,000 unarmed Polish citizens in cold blood in Katyń, Harkov, Kalininin, Kurapaty. There were also mass Polish executions in Minsk, Kiev, Herson and other Soviet prisons. And just six years ago, on the April 10th that the then Polish President Lech Kaczyński and his wife, Maria Kaczyńska, and 94 members of their escort, lost their lives in tragic circumstances in a plane crash near the Katyń memorial. For the second time, the land around Smolensk was watered by the blood of our Polish brothers and sisters who loved their country. We Hungarians must remember this dual Polish tragedy for a number of reasons, for a single drive. We need to know that, among the 22,000 Polish military officers slaughtered at Soviet execution sites, two of our senior Hungarian compatriots were there. Professor Aladár Korompay and Rudolf Kuehnel Oskár Oszkár, who, if they admitted then that they had been taken prisoner as Hungarians, the Soviet agents might have released them, as Hungary had not yet been at war with the Soviet Union. However, they remained with their Polish comrades until the last bullet, with their blood sealed the friendship of the thousand-year-old and holy Hungarian-Polish friendship. We also need to know that six years ago, President Lech Kaczyński, who sacrificed his life in the service of the nation, recognized the Hungarian martyr politician János Esterházy's oeuvre as President of Poland with one of the most prestigious Polish state awards. In this medal, Esterházy's solidarity with the victims of Katyń was a major factor. Esterházy, after the excavation of the mass graves in Katyn in 1943, condemned the terrible mass massacre in an editorial. This article became one of the main charges in the conviction of János Esterházy in Moscow in 1946, followed by his prison Calvary to the gulag and to the death. Well, the above few facts are proof of the relationship between historical and personal fates here in the Central European region. It is hard to imagine how many inseparable elements of our 1,000-year-old Hungarian-Polish history are. That is why it is our duty to learn about each other's fate and history, so that we can balance what is happening today in the light of the context, so that we can establish a proper system of value and action both for our present and for our future. Dear Parliament, In 1939, after the shameful Molotov-Ribbentrop pact with Germany in Hitler and the back attack of Poland, Stalin saw the destruction of thousands of highly qualified Polish officers in the camps. In the well-designed, months-prepared and then executed liquidation process, the death factories operated by NKVD officers wiped out a leading layer of the entire nation with systematic thoroughness and cruel cold blood. [[9.50]] Ladies and gentlemen, Even with the globalisation efforts of our time, however, it is not possible to erase from the consciousness of a people the attachment to national values, just as the memory of the tragedy in Katyń has never been eliminated in the past seventy years, because the truth, like the skull pierced by a shot through the back of the head from a mass grave, has always come to light. Warnings are the words of Polish national poet Adam Mickiewicz:, If we forget about them, we deserve to be forgotten by our God in heaven. For this reason, honor and thanks to the national heroes, be the eternal guardian of their memory of the common future of the Polish and Hungarian peoples based on freedom and independence! God bless and protect Polish-Hungarian friendship! Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-04-12-18	Thank you very much, Congressman. On behalf of the government, Secretary of State Bence Rétvári tells his thoughts.
u2016-04-12-19	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Here in the National Assembly we have had several times and had the opportunity to express the friendship of the Hungarian and Polish people, the heritage of the common historical past, even when the National Assembly decided on the day of Polish-Hungarian friendship here, even when we inherited the memory of József Antall and Henryk Slawik older in the previous cycle, and in this cycle we had a similar opportunity here in Parliament. I think that the following months will also result in a deepening of Polish-Hungarian friendship, because something similar is happening to Poland, like what happened to Hungary four or five years ago: a continuing predicament for a different European way of thinking, but as we could count on our Polish friends there many times, they can count on us, as well as the Hungarians in all areas of the European Union. Returning to the very dark side of history that the Member referred to in his speech on the slaughter in Katyń, allow me to quote one sentence of Lenin here:. It must be said openly that terror is both in principle and in practice just. What underpins and legitimizes it is necessity. So if the Communists, the Soviets, ever needed terror in history, then this need, the need to seize power, to maintain it, and the crushing of all human rights also had a worldview basis for them. It is a warning to all that, despite a millennia of culture, a millennia of civilization, such barbarism could easily be carried out in Central Europe during the Second World War, despite the cultural progress, achievement, the rule of law that could be achieved in the region of Central Europe, while showing the real face of the practical implementation of Soviet rule, communist rule, communist principles, in which all means must be used. The massacre in Katyn was perhaps the first one after the brief episode of the council republic, which, in its brutality, showed the real face of the communist Soviet system in Central Europe. This was perhaps the first tragedy denied that could not be discussed. It is a good feature of these events that the facts can then be revealed and reported to no one; those who would risk it could be the Malanki robot, the evacuation, the arrest, or the execution, as the case may be. The continuing dilemma or need that has existed since ancient times in humans is clearly the burial of the dead and the opposition to power; from the history of Creon we know this perhaps the most - there was not even a tomb for the people who died there during this period. What a tragedy when someone not only doesn't know where their loved ones are, but he doesn't even know where he might go to his grave if he was killed! Polish-Hungarian friendship, however, was also strengthened during this very tragic historical era, since between 1939 and 1946 120,000 Polish refugees arrived in Hungary, and many of them continued, for example, between 80 and 90 thousand soldiers, of whom 40,000 went to France to join the Polish legion set up by General Sikorski. We must also mention the activity of József Antall Sr., who was also named "Apo," and who saved the lives of many of our Polish friends, as their protector in private houses, rented boarding houses, hotels and places our persecuted or potentially persecuted Polish friends and countrymen. On 23 March, as I said, the Polish-Hungarian friendship day celebrates this in Poland one year and in Hungary the next year, usually the two Presidents of the Republic. We hope that the 1956 commemorative year will be another opportunity to map Hungarian-Polish relations, revisit them and deepen them, as it was already ten years ago that Polish-Polish site was the most read historical website in Poland. We hope that we can work together on Polish and Hungarian events of 56 at the conference of the University of Stefana Wysyńskiego. At the same time, we can thank the Member, as Csepel's MP, for what he did as mayor: in connection with the relations between Csepel and Szczecin, they remembered Polish-Hungarian friendship, and I trust that in the commemorative year of 56 they can continue to do so on the basis of their application. So I can only conclude by saying, like the congressman, God save Polish-Hungarian friendship. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-04-12-20	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. This brings us to the end of the speeches before the agenda. We now have a joint debate on the amendment of certain laws relating to Sunday work in the retail sector in an exceptional procedure. The government referral is T/10171. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. Dear Parliament, The debate will be the first to give the floor to Mr Csaba Dömötör, State Secretary of the Cabinet Office of the Prime Minister, the author of the bill, within a 15-minute time frame. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2016-04-12-21	Thank you for the floor. Mr. President. Dear Parliament, The objective of the government proposal now on the agenda is to withdraw the law on the prohibition of working on Sundays. As is well known, this regulation has been in force for a year, and when the law was adopted, the government promised to review the application experience and, if necessary, to review the regulation. If you recall, the government supported the introduction of regulation because we agreed with the principle that no one should be forced to work on Sunday; this is also agreed by the Retail Workers' Union. It was also a priority for the government not to reduce retail turnover and to increase employment. The government has also set itself the goal of directing traffic from large companies to smaller shops. After one year, the government requested a report from the Ministry of National Economy on the achievement of the objectives set, and Minister for National Economy Mihály Varga presented the main findings of the report at yesterday's government meeting. Allow me to say a few words about this evaluation. Despite the heated political debate, the facts are clear: these objectives have been achieved. For example, the fact that the number of employees in the retail trade increased annually by more than 3,000 people in 2015 is self-explanatory: while 183 400 people worked in this sector in 2014, KSH already reported 186 700 employees in 2015. In addition, there is still a shortage of workers in the retail sector: in March this year there were over 6,000 unfilled posts; so there are more jobs to be filled instead of getting fired, this is the retail balance of the last year. Nor is it to be avoided that the retail sector's turnover increased by more than 5 percent in 2015 dynamically, beyond economic growth. The growth of the sector has continued according to the data available so far, so there has been a traffic increase instead of a traffic drop. As regards the turnover of large international supermarket chains and small shops and the share in turnover, estimates are only available here. [[10.00]] In retail sales, the market share of shops over 2,500 sq m decreased slightly, whereas sales of shops of less than 2,500 sq m showed a demonstrable increase. This also belongs to the retail balance sheet of the last year. We remember well that a year ago, the opposition threatened me with tens of thousands of redundancies and a decline in retail sales. As can be seen from the figures mentioned above, they were unfounded and served nothing but political hysteria. Dear House, Despite the results, it is out of the question that the ban on working on Sunday has proved to be a divisive measure. Many opposed the law, and many political players wanted to capitalise on the Sunday rest day of retail workers. They will also be represented in this debate. When we evaluate the experience of the last year, I think that the government should not only assess economic objectives, because it is a People's Party government. And that means that the cabinet is acting on the authority of the people, together with the people, for the good of the people. That's what we've always wanted, and that's what we still want. [[István Tukacs: Vote for it!]] [[István Tukacs: Vote for it!]] if everyone could be at home on Sunday (István Tukacs: Vote for it!) And you could spend the week with your family, but it doesn't seem like you've been able to convince the majority of people that Sunday's rest day is gonna make their lives easier. In these circumstances, it was necessary to consider whether billions should be spent in a referendum on Sunday's rest day. [[István Tukacs: For migrants too!]] While there is currently a question for a much more important referendum, a referendum on compulsory resettlement quotas. The latter is a harmful proposal that could determine the fate of Europe for decades. At yesterday's meeting, the government decided to propose the withdrawal of the legislation on the ban on Sunday's work. I would like to draw the House's attention to the fact that the withdrawal concerns the entire law in line with the referendum issue, and this means the restoration of the state on 14 March 2015. This also means that the change concerns not only the ban on working on Sunday, but also other issues covered by the law. Dear House, The government is constantly monitoring the implementation and impact of the laws adopted, their social support. Although economic results are important, the most important thing is how Hungarian families think about the steps they take, and if they want the government to change a law, the Cabinet is willing to do so. We think that this is the honest and democratic attitude. In summary, the government proposes to Parliament that the law on the prohibition of working in the retail sector on Sunday be revoked, and to restore the status of 14 March 2015 in all matters of regulation. If this House supports the proposal, the legislation can come into force by the end of the week, and the previous order can be restored from the end of the week. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2016-04-12-22	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The position of the Legislative Committee will now be presented. I give the floor to Róbert Répássy, rapporteur of the Legislative Committee.
u2016-04-12-23	Thank you for the floor. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, At last night's meeting, the Legislative Committee supported the adoption of the bill without voting against, with two abstentions, and the single summary proposal. The author stated in the debate that the legal effect of the bill would be the same as that of the referendum, i.e. the situation on 14 March 2015 and therefore the legal situation prior to the entry into force of the law attacked by the referendum would arise if Parliament adopted the law. On the other hand, it is a condition that the Parliament adopts the bill without amendment and repeals the rules on the retail activity in force. The debate was primarily political in nature and there was a debate on the proposed amendments, as the Legislative Committee also held a detailed debate. During the political debate, the representatives of the Hungarian Socialist Party explained that, in their view, the bill aims to prevent a referendum on the issue. [[Interview from the ranks of the MSZP: That's right!]] The representatives of the Hungarian Socialist Party were informed that the adoption of the bill does not preclude another referendum, but the legal situation will then be governed by the current law, i.e. the law prohibiting Sunday work will be repealed. Another element of the political debate was the question of what the left-wing perspective, the criteria, would dictate to the parties involved. The position of the pro-government members of the Legislative Committee is that the Hungarian Socialist Party does not represent Left-wing values [[Uproar, interruptions in the ranks of the MSZP.]] when you're trying to force commercial workers to work on Sundays. [[György Balla: You don't even know what it is! You have no idea! Interview from the lines of the MSZP: About what? Intercoms from the benches of the MSZP. The president's ringing the bell.]] This was rejected by the representatives of the Socialist Party on the Legislative Committee with a similar intensity, and Vice-President Gergely Bárándy informed the committee that the mainstream of his party was of the view that this was a left-wing position. It was necessary to note this because, for example, Tibor Szanyi, a Member of the European Parliament of the MSZP, is in the opposite position, and some have referred to this in the debate. [[István Tukacs: This is the professional position of the Legislative Committee.]] So the political debate in the Legislative Committee [[Interviews from the ranks of the MSZP. The president's ringing the bell.]] - as much as you don't like it, there was also a political debate on the bill in the Legislative Committee. [[István Tukacs: Why? Interview with Tibor Szanyi from the ranks of the MSZP?]] - so the political debate was primarily on left-wing and referendum issues. The amendments were also discussed by Members in the Legislative Committee and the following position was reached on the proposed amendments. No amendment was supported by the majority of the Legislative Committee, primarily because of what has already been said here, that the bill should restore the original state of affairs, so the decision on wage supplements is only possible with a future decision. At the moment, in order to restore the status of 14 March 2015, the current law must be repealed in its entirety, including, by the way, increased wage allowances. I would like to note - decide that this was a political or legal dispute - that if the Hungarian Socialist Party's referendum issue had been successful, the result of the referendum would have frozen the wage supplement for three years, i.e. the adoption of the Socialist Party's referendum question containing a 50 percent wage supplement on Sunday. This was, by the way, disputed by the Socialist Members on the Committee that this was the result, but this was the position of both the government and the pro-government representatives in the committee. I would also like to refer to the position of the Christian Democratic People's Party, who, in particular, disagreed with the justification for the bill and maintained their position that the ban on working on Sundays was the right decision. Therefore, this was indicated by their abstention. After this debate, the Legislative Committee adopted its resolution. Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2016-04-12-24	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, It is now time for the speeches by its representatives. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the factions have 30-30 minutes, and the independent Members have 8 minutes in total. In the first round of speeches, the lead speakers will present the group's position within a 15-minute time frame per group of representatives. First, I give the floor to Mr Gergely Gulyás, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group. You have the floor, Mr. Vice President. [[Dr. Gulyás Gergely enters the speaker's stand.]]
u2016-04-12-25	Thank you for the floor. Your Honour, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, The T/10171. With the adoption of the Act amending certain laws relating to Sunday work in the retail sector, the Parliament will allow the sale to be made on Sunday free of any restrictions imposed in the past year. [[10.10]] By doing so, the National Assembly will comply with the referendum question initiated by the representatives of the Hungarian Socialist Party, which says: "Do you agree that the Parliament will destroy the 2014 CII on the prohibition of Sunday work in the retail sector. Law? I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. First of all, let us clarify the legal situation. The adoption of the law does not only make it politically ineffective, but also legally impossible to hold a referendum, because according to the earlier practice of the Constitutional Court, which was also legally codified in the new referendum law, if the Parliament meets the provisions of the referendum initiative between the final decision to validate the question of referendum and the Parliament's decision to order a referendum, the referendum cannot be held. In view of the amendments tabled on Sunday's wage allowances, I would like to make it clear that the Fidesz Group supports the increase in these allowances and initiates a consultation with the representative organisations of retail workers. [[Noise in Jobbik's benches.]] However, it is not due to the otherwise existing justification of these negotiations that we are unable to comply with the increase of the allowances. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] Amendment proposals, but because, according to the clear rules of the constitutional order, we must comply with the referendum initiative, and the initiative forces us to withdraw the law adopted last year and, therefore, to restore the state on 14 March 2015. Thus, the proposals of the LMP and Jobbik to increase the wage bonus may still be assessed as a lack of the necessary legal knowledge, or as a means of bringing political gain into the background of the clear legal situation, but in the case of the Hungarian Socialist Party, these amendments can only be regarded as a correction of their own referendum initiative. This does not change the fact that, in terms of substance, we, the larger party of government, are forced to self-correct with the withdrawal of legislation on the ban on retail work on Sunday, which was adopted last year. If we look at the parliamentary debate on this issue, and even the parliamentary and public debate on this issue, in the last year, in the light of the commercial data on Sunday's multinational shutter, we can say that time has in all respects justified the law and its authors that are now to be revoked. In the last year, no employee could be forced to work in the retail trade on Sunday; in the commercial sector employment grew, and in addition, a not insignificant part of previous Sunday's turnover shifted from foreign-owned multinational supermarket chains to Hungarian-owned small and medium-sized enterprises. At the same time, trade turnover increased significantly and increased by more than 5 per cent. Why, then, should we withdraw if we were right about all these matters? Why do we have to withdraw when a right-wing government in Hungary introduced last year a measure that appeared as a demand for the left and the trade unions everywhere in the world? In itself, it would be too simple to answer that left-wing policy in the country is difficult to implement without the support of the left, or to make a social democratic political demand successful without social democrats. This explanation is not sufficient either because the government experience of the last six years does not support it, because we have been able to make nice political decisions for the left all over the world in the field of the banking sector and public services, without the support of the Hungarian left, or even in the midst of its criticisms. What we have not been able to change, and in the last year, the situation has not improved, but has become worse, so that Hungarian voters do not live as a freedom restriction on a decision that ensured the freedom of those working in retail on a permanent basis at least one day of the week. And let's not have any illusions, if a multinational store is open on Sunday, then no one will be exempted from working on Sunday. Therefore, social solidarity and thus a civil Hungary have been defeated on this issue. [[There are constant interruptions from the benches of the MSZP.]] The withdrawal of the measure is in line with the will of the vast majority of voters, and in this respect, we must self-critically admit that we have failed to convince the majority of society of the correctness of the measure, and that in a democracy, the word of the people is ultimately the main law. In addition, in my opinion, the case has the most losers, and those celebrating themselves to my left in the greatest tone today are the biggest losers. Looking at the unpopularity of the Hungarian Socialist Party's decision on Sunday's multinational lockdown and the clarity of public opinion polls, it was not a moral problem to act as representatives of the interests of the large multinational chains of stores, recognizing the mathematical fact that since there are more buyers than sellers, the injury to the latter is less important than the sympathy that can be gained from the former. If anyone should have been an identity issue on a free Sunday for workers, then left-wing parties would have had a clear approach to this issue from the point of view of their identity. For the ever stronger pro-market conservative policy, this issue can be a subject of debate rather than a genuine social democrat. It's a shame they haven't been in Hungary for a long time. In any case, God save us from all powers, and I say this to all of us, not only to those on my left, which, on identity issues, regularly does not want to conform to his own identity awareness, but also to the often changing data of opinion polling. However, we must also see that, especially for the younger generation, this issue was not raised as a consciousness of identity, but as a question of freedom. Sunday's multinational lockdown has been seen by many as a restriction of freedom that forces them to change their good or bad, but certainly their usual way of life, with which the state intervenes in a sphere that many believe to have nothing to do with as a regulatory authority. Dear Parliament, From everything I have said, it is clear that the governing parties have not treated Sunday free as a tactical issue but as a matter of principle, which is why we have introduced it when polls have always shown the unpopularity of this issue. The extent of participation in the referendum initiated by the Socialist Party is not sufficient, but the opinion of the majority would be enveloped. However, defeat is often better than concession in matters of principle. However, a matter of principle can also be the victim of tactical considerations if it endangers not only the purpose of political gain, but another more important issue of principle and even fate. That's the situation now. Any important life-style issue and the underlying groundwork are secondary to its domestic and international weight and significance, which mass immigration means for Hungary and the entire continent of Europe. The referendum on immigration quotas initiated by the government is a question of fate that determines for decades who we and the futures in Hungary must live with; whether they can spare Hungary the development of parallel societies; whether we can protect Hungarian culture and the culture of our indigenous ethnicities belonging to the Hungarian political nation. Compared to this, the importance of shopping only in small shops or in larger shops on Sunday is irrelevant. Well, it could be bigger now. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2016-04-12-26	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Parliament, I now give the floor to Mr Zoltán Lukács, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group.
u2016-04-12-27	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and Gentlemen, Fellow Members! The government retired in this case with its tail between its ears and its tails. The government capitulated in this case, bowed to the will and power of the people. Ladies and Gentlemen, Of course, it's a lie when you're talking about actually hearing people's voices. People didn't agree with this law at the beginning. And if we hadn't gone through the referendum initiative that you and your party soldiers in the National Election Committee and the National Election Office tried to prevent in every way, this government wouldn't have been able to withdraw it. Now he has withdrawn it because, as is usually the case with despotic powers, as usually the despots, they do not dare to face the judgment of the people, so rather, if it is temporary, they run away from it. [[Intercom from the Fidesz benches.]] [[10.20]] Yet, they did everything they could to ensure that this initiative could not become anything. With legal, technical tricks and then physical violence at the end, they tried to prevent this initiative from reaching its destination. The head of the National Election Office, the chairman of the National Election Committee and the party soldiers delegated by Fidesz broke their oath, ignoring the Hungarian people, they did everything in their power not to make a referendum on this issue. But they didn't make it! It was exactly seven weeks ago that extremist thugs appeared before the National Election Office and prevented a man from exercising his rights. I'm telling you, your police department hasn't come up with anything in this case since then, and your prosecutor's office hasn't come up with anything in this case, and your government hasn't even been willing to order an investigation, obviously because these people couldn't serve any other interests than your own. It is true that the bike has been pushed a little overboard here, ladies and gentlemen, but if you think people don't know where this case comes from, you're in a huge mistake. So you didn't manage to stop this case. Now they're withdrawing this law. It is withdrawn as it was introduced: it has been introduced practically without reason, without reason and without reason and without reason. Once again, they do things the way they do, without reason, in their own way. But, ladies and gentlemen, you are still paying attention to the fact that if you have to withdraw this law, you should kick one more into the workforce in Hungary. The government and Fidesz also talked about the importance of employee interests, and this was actually because of the workers. Just, ladies and gentlemen, you are now preparing to withdraw this law and, at the same time, to withdraw the law which provides that, in the case of working on Sundays, the employee must be paid a 100 per cent salary. You will also withdraw this. [[István Szilárd Németh: If we take him to a referendum! That's what it's all about, my friend.]] And when he says he's the lead speaker of the Fidesz, [[István Szilárd Németh: How dumb you are! The president's gonna ring the bell.]] That this must be withdrawn, or that they cannot do so in order to keep the 100 percent wage supplement, because it is part of this law, I must say that they should read the laws they have adopted themselves. Because, ladies and gentlemen, regarding the closing of the Sunday store, the 2014 CII. Act No. 17 of 2015 provides for a 100 per cent wage supplement. It is governed by law. As a result, if you were to withdraw only the law on Sunday's lockdown, it would not mean that the 100 percent wage supplement would decrease to 50 percent. But they do not, but you want to withdraw the 17th of 2015 in addition to the Sunday closing law. It's also a law, which provides for a 100 percent wage supplement. Ladies and gentlemen. You're trying to fool people again! You're withdrawing this law, but you're withdrawing it in a petty, vindictive way, like an offended little child whose game was taken away. [[Interviews from the benches of the MSZP: That's right!]] So he's gonna break the other one's so he doesn't have one. You are obliged to withdraw this law, but another law is included in it, so that less money is given to workers. And in the meantime, in all sorts of cynical, unreliable ways, they're pretending to be the great protectors of the workers. [[Interviews from the benches of the MSZP: That's right! Shame on you!]] Ladies and Gentlemen, Let me add this: if you want to protect Hungarian workers so much, you have to explain why the labour code has been broken by virtually all employees' and employees' rights of interest have been removed and all of them transferred to the employer's side. The right to strike, the various freedom rights, but because of you there is no afternoon allowance, you have made the night allowance 30 percent, and I can list for hours how they kicked and kicked domestic workers. Now they're standing here with tears in their eyes, crying that there's no one on the side of the workers! And you tell me who's protecting the multinational companies here, by the way. You have created a code of work that multinational and non-multinational companies can do whatever they want with the Hungarian employee! You don't cry here, you undo the code of work that made this possible. I would also like to say that if what the lead speaker of Fidesz says is true, that you want to withdraw the law only because of the initiative of the Socialist Party, then why withdraw the other law. We didn't ask for it! We asked you to open the shops. We didn't ask you to take away 50% of the people's wages. They take it from themselves to get revenge on people, because they simply can't see that they're not thinking the way you want them to. Ladies and Gentlemen, It's also said that that's why I need it. [[István Szilárd Németh: Your mouth is moving, so you are lying! It's that simple.]] getting out of this now, because the referendum costs a lot of money to have a referendum expensive. The referendum is expensive, by the way, and I believe that it is expensive to have a referendum, but that is the type of cost that democracy usually entails of voting. From this point of view, I have to say that this referendum costs a little less than Andy Vajna, Árpád Habony and all the bastards hanging around. [[Németh Szilárd István: How much less than eight years!]] Saving their money to offshore empires [[Márius Révész: Boldvai, Simon! Dr. Répássy Robert's intervention.]] they don't pay VAT or taxes, and they think Hungarian people are stupid. It costs a little more than a referendum, by the way. Somebody get Mr. Répássy's medicine. Thank you very much. 'Cause it looks really, really bad. But by the way, the fact that you're withdrawing this law doesn't mean it's gonna stay that way. Ladies and gentlemen. If we look at the statements made in the days of the Fidesz and KDNP politicians, which, on the one hand, reveal confusion and, on the other hand, make completely contradictory statements, then we can see that this law is only temporarily withdrawn, and otherwise they intend to close the shops again on Sunday. Zsolt Semjén has already declared this today. Ladies and Gentlemen, János Lázár says first that if there is such a referendum, the socialists will win it, or the government will lose it. And then they say they're the ones who're gonna be the competition, so there's nothing wrong with that. Then the Prime Minister says that even the ban on working on Sunday must be extended to other sectors. He couldn't tell us exactly what sectors they wanted to shut down on Sunday. Maybe power plants, health care, public transport? Or shut down movies, theatres, restaurants? 'Cause I don't know what else they could extend that to. [[Németh Szilárd István: Go to the pharmacy! Noise. The president's gonna ring the bell.]] In any case, the Prime Minister said that he wanted to expand these things. And then two days later, and suddenly they say that this law will be revoked, and then one more day it will pass, and Deputy Prime Minister Zsolt Semjén says that when social support is better, they will reinstate it and close the shops again. Ladies and gentlemen, you're all lying about this. One thing is certain: now they have withdrawn in fear of the people, but the Prime Minister has also spoken, and his deputy has also said that, as soon as you have the opportunity, you will have these shops closed again, and you will do it again with the Hungarian people. Of course, we will not stand by and watch this. If you think we're off this issue because that was obviously your goal, then I must say that, of course, this is not the case. In addition, it was, of course, your aim to clean up all other referendum initiatives from your referendum initiative. I can't give you any good news on this because we will continue to be there, and we will deal with these matters. (10.30 a.m.) Ladies and gentlemen. I have to tell you that people are very clear about what happened here. What happened was that you made a bad law, and you insisted on it all along. [[Happy Stephen: I insist now!]] Those who wanted to go against him allowed themselves to do everything they could to prevent them from doing so. And then, when you saw that the will of the people might be enforced, maybe you might have to face a referendum, you will withdraw it now, but in the process of withdrawing it, you will also put in anti-worker law amendments to get revenge on those who think differently than you do. And then it turns out, within a day, that you only want to do this temporarily, and you want to bring this regulation back. Ladies and gentlemen. You can't believe it a long time ago, and many people don't believe it. [[Dr. Répássy Róbert: Many believe the MSZP!]] But in this case, you've been told again that you're trying to trick people again, you're trying to trick people, you're trying to get revenge on people again, you're dealing with people again. Allow me one more sentence, if that is what you say, that you are wise and listen to people's voices, and you have done so now because you have heard people's voices, and people say so. Ladies and gentlemen. I could write a spiral book full here in ten minutes to see what other voices you should hear from people about what other laws they should be revoking. [[Dr. Répássy Róbert: You should have written it in 2008!]] What regulations do people disagree with, how they think about your policy from trade to land, from health care to education, and I could tell you more. But you do not seem to hear people's voices in these matters, and you only heard people's voices when you were in danger of being able to vote against you in particular. So you don't have to play the big employee and advocacy here because it's uncredited, you don't have to pretend to change it in your wisdom, because it's not true, you changed it in your fear, and you have to admit that you think it's temporary, and you want to do it again against people, as KDNP Semyen said, that as soon as you feel social support behind this, you're going to shut down the shops again. Ladies and Gentlemen, We ask you to accept our amendment, not to reduce the 100 per cent wage supplement to 50 per cent, not to bring the two laws together, because the law to be revoked is not part of the 50 per cent wage reduction, it is in another law, take it out of this law, vote in favour of our amendment proposal in this case, and try to lose with a higher head [[Dr. Répássy Róbert: You should practice that!]] And stop kicking me in the face of the people who should have taken this law back. Thank you very much.
u2016-04-12-28	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to Congressman Zoltán Lukács... [[Márius Révész and Zoltán Lukács intervene. It's ringing.]] I give the floor to Congressman Imre Vejkey, the lead speaker of the Christian Democratic Group, and please [[Márius Révész intervenes. It's ringing.]] Calm down, Congressman, in the Fidesz bench. Here you go, Mr. Vejkey. [[Noise.]]
u2016-04-12-29	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I do not want to engage in party political discussions, but let me do so before specifically T/10171. I would like to turn to bill No.1 to say that the Christian Democrats do not regard Parliament as an instrument of power for the implementation of abstract political ideologies, driven and controlled by one or more organizations, but as ideals are the most important here, on the main stage of politics, because no party can be better than its own ideal. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: What idea?]] And no congressman is better than the ideals of his own party. The question is rightfully raised: what is our idea, what is the basis of our idea, what is our idea? [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: Well, no one knows!]] The answer is - listen. - XIII. It is found in Pope Leo's Encyclical Rerum Novarum, where the Holy Father is the 19th. On the one hand, criticising both the revolutionary movements based on Marxism and the capitalist economic system, but on the other hand, supporting civil set-up and encouraging the state's involvement in the economy. Thus, the Christian democracy defined its position against class combat socialism and individualist liberalism as the central value of organic development and social peace, the centre of which is created man. Ladies and Gentlemen, On account of the above, the essence of Parliamentary legislation is seen by the Hungarian Christian Democrats in the spirit of the common good, in order to promote the development of the lives of our compatriots on the basis of justice and not in the interests of the majority or a minority. And being righteous means giving everyone what they deserve. That sounds good, but what does it look like in practical legislation? Of course, the practical implementation of this is much more difficult than the theoretical definition, because usually by a legislative act we take away something from someone in the spirit of the common good, which had previously been the case, and also in the spirit of the common good, we give it to those who did not have a right or had a limited right. Ladies and Gentlemen, In the spirit of the common good, let us consider what we have done and why we have done about Sunday free! The employee has not only the natural right to his or her wages, but also the right to rest, that is, the regular weekly rest day, which means the right to be a subject on Sunday. If anyone wishes to see another day as a week's rest day, I would like to say that not only are we Christian democrats, but the labour movement itself wanted to make Sunday a day off, although for them religious content was obviously not related to Sunday. Already in 1905, the Christian social movement in Hungary demanded a public holiday of at least 36 hours on Sunday, with few exceptions to all occupations and to the celebrations of Christianity. KDNP made the same claim in its so-called 100-point program at the dawn of the regime change in 1989, because it saw that the workers still did not have enough ground for free Sunday. This was the claim that we were able to partially enforce with regard to commercial workers from mid-March 2015. We Christian Democrats believe that the 2014 CII on the ban on working in the retail sector on Sundays. The law, which Parliament now wants to repeal, has been a great step forward in terms of solidarity. In terms of solidarity, which means that in order for a significant number of commercial workers to be able to be together with their family on Sunday, the rest of society will give up shopping on Sunday. In vain, the employer gives out a compulsory weekly day off on Tuesdays, Wednesdays, Thursdays or Fridays, the person working on Sundays cannot be with his family all day, because his spouse works and his child goes to school. This, in turn, can lead to the degradation of the family community, and ultimately to the lack of time shared together and lack of shared experiences, to the disintegration of the family, even though we need to know that family is the basic cell of all societies. Ladies and Gentlemen, We Christian Democrats, on Sunday free, wanted families to return to the center of politics. If politics leaves the basic unit of European culture, the family, it will be a big problem. [[10.40]] Much energy, but it seems that we have not mobilised enough or not well enough to make it clear: support for families, freedom and recognition of Sundays are not in conflict. Their eye setting is just a cunning trick that needs to be exposed in order to stand up for families and Christian values sincerely and with a good conscience. Ladies and Gentlemen, I have to admit that in a year we have failed to expose the cunning trick in sufficient depth, and so the opponents of us have achieved that the ban on Sunday work continues to divide people in Hungary. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: Two thirds of the people hated it, Congressman.]] Many people believe that their individual freedoms are limited by our solidarity with commercial workers on Sunday work in the first step. [[The intervention of Zoltán Haughty.]] But solidarity would have come back. I regret that with regard to Hungarian society, we have not been able to show enough that there are things that cannot be measured in money. Ladies and Gentlemen, Let us see what we can learn from this for the future. By no means are we to give up our Christian Democratic ideas, but rather to make people realize that without solidarity, or sacrifice, there is no social progress; to make people realize that in our secularized world, the fictional players of the economy have deprived man of his self-esteem, humiliated him, and took away his belief in integrity. In the world thus formed, a large proportion of people have become demoralized; only the golden calf matters, they worship it again, and this has become the only value measure of human achievement, that is, they want you to believe that the amount of your money shows who you are, what you are worth. It's not like that. As a result, he became so addicted to meeting the needs of the so - called modern man that he became less and less concerned with succession, saying that the child takes time, energy, and money away from him. Because of selfishness, our so-called civilized world shrinks spiritually, leading to the fact that it is extremely rich, but it is weakening every day. Ladies and Gentlemen, Meanwhile, hundreds of thousands of migrants are heading to Germany, Denmark and Sweden, for whom Austria is no longer one of the ten richest countries in the world. Millions are preparing, including an undetermined number of military youths, many of whom are extremist Islamic warriors. [[Noise, interruptions from the ranks of the MSZP.]] It is feared that the migration invasion will not only call into question the interoperability of borders, but at the same time the most serious threat since World War II is humane, tolerance, the coexistence of European nations, believers and atheists, different religions and world-viewers. They know the famous old English saying: because of an angle the horseshoe is lost, because of the horseshoe the horse is lost, because of the horse is lost, because of the rider the battle is lost, because of the battle the country is lost - another time beat the hoof nail well! Ladies and Gentlemen, That's a great lesson. We didn't hit the hoof nail right. If we had beaten him well, people would agree today with the principle that no one should be forced to work on Sunday. If we had beaten him right, the results would speak for themselves. But the results don't speak for themselves, so I have to tell you the facts that affect this area. In the retail sector, no worker has been forced to work since March 2015. The retail sector's turnover increased by 5.6 percent in 2015, i.e. above average economic growth, which continued only in the first quarter of 2016. In retail sales, the market share of shops over 2,500 sq m decreased while it grew into smaller shops. In 2015, the number of people employed in retail trade increased by more than 3,000 people on an annual average, i.e. more people worked in the sector than they did a year ago. Ladies and Gentlemen, These are the 2014 CII on the banning of work in the retail sector in white and black. The success of the law, and we had not yet seen the positive effect that time spent together in the families generated. Ladies and Gentlemen, The fact that a referendum initiated by the Socialists on the ban on Sunday work is an open political attack on the idea of solidarity, and even if, due to the repeal of the law, there could be some kind of apparent MSZP triumphation, it is actually a defeat. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: For you.]] The defeat of all Hungarians. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-04-12-30	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to Mr János Volner, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group.
u2016-04-12-31	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, It was interesting to listen to the course of the debate so far, as the Fidesz fellow Members commented with a very bitter taste on the obvious political defeat they had suffered with regard to Sunday's closure. That's what this is about. We had to turn back from a road where we weren't supposed to go, because it didn't just come out after a year of closed hours on Sunday that the majority of society was opposed to this measure. Why do the Fidesz MEPs claim that they just found out? This was evident from the beginning that the majority of society opposed this. By the way, when the government pays billions to the Századvég for various public opinion polls and the View and similar organisations, it is clear that they also measured the social impact of Sunday's closure. It was quite clear that the majority of Hungarian society opposed this measure, but Fidesz did. There are laws that are clearly good or bad. This is a law where the population itself is divided, and every party has a voting camp divided, but the will of the majority is clearly pointing in the direction that shops are not closed on Sunday. We have, of course, received different opinions from the representatives of the divided position. Some workers came to us and told us that they wanted to spend time with their families on Sundays, said that they could have a family life at all. These people's arguments must also be appreciated. At the same time, we received the indignation of many people when the idea of Sunday's closure came up. A lot of people have said that they work from Monday to Saturday, and Sunday is the only day when the family can go shopping, so they can live their family lives. In Hungary, if you look at the various international labour statistics, you can see that one of the most working people in Hungary is the Hungarian person; not only in Europe, but in the whole world, the workload of Hungarian people is outstanding, and Sunday is the only day that many people can do their shopping and meet their needs in this way. At the same time, it is interesting to see the government attitude, the extremely arrogant government attitude that I say it would be worth taking into points and putting it on legalja.hu point by point. How does this whole Sunday lockdown start? It's obvious to the government that people don't want the shops to be closed on Sunday. [[10.50]] But Viktor Orbán does not represent the opinion of the majority, but his own fixed ideas, and he says that he does not care what society thinks, and then Viktor Orbán wants to decide in one person how people live instead of society. And I'll ask you what will be the next similar step, according to what logic. How did this whole story go on? Fidesz made all the referendum initiatives impossible in Hungary one by one, and then, when this issue was raised in the form of a political will representing the majority of the country, in several parties, he tried to disable the democracy that Fidesz had so many times protected by sending bald fraternities to the scene. By the way, it would be worth asking Sándor Pintér or Károly Kontra what is the case, dear Fidesz Members, with the state's violence monopoly, which you were so afraid of when you sent out the people of Fradi Security to make a referendum impossible, and with force, you are trying to make this initiative impossible by using bald, bloated people. They send mercenaries to restrict the functioning of democracy that you so often represent, at least in words. And once again, dear fellow Members of the Fidesz, what about the state's rape monopoly? Should it be the framework model for any similar political action that you offer to hire a couple in your wages with different bald thugs? And then we have to ask: who is the extremist in the Hungarian Parliament? Isn't it the one who sends bald thugs to stop a referendum? Isn't that extreme behavior? Yes, you can. It's also interesting to see how amazingly brazen this whole operation has been done. The bald thugs split up into two parts and tried to blame this whole thing on Jobbik. Fidesz sent Fradi Security to the scene, it was said that the Guards had already entered. Some have said that Jobbik-related individuals have appeared on the scene. The plan was very clear: they send bald, bloated people to the scene, dressed in field-colored pants, bomber jackets, and prevent a Member's referendum initiative on the one hand, and on the other hand, they try to push Jobbik onto a completely innocent party, the whole mess of the case, his election responsibility. This is where you can see that when Fidesz receives mercenaries, sends them to the scene, and in this way tries to defile another political party, indeed, my fellow Members, not only the violence monopoly of the state is violated, but also the right of citizens to lack any brazen politicalism, that is to say, the right not to be led by politicians who send these people to the scene with amazing arrogance, using bald thugs, and prevent a referendum from being effective. However, it is also worth talking about the fact that the MSZP, whose predecessor recently operated the communist Saturday in Hungary, did not want to restore the communist Saturday very long ago - there are still many people who can remember this in this Parliament - now, instead of communist Saturday, they do not want to restore Communist Saturday, but they campaign for a free Sunday. It is worth looking at what happens to the socialist representatives who are singing the socialist international, who demand these measures, when we talk about principle. Fidesz is clearly right that this is a treadmill of left-wing principles, but what I see is that the will of Hungarian society is perfectly clear and obvious, and Jobbik is XXI. As a party of the century, he does not want to engage in party political battles, but he wants to represent the interests of the people, the will of the people, and that is, of course, what we have done in this case. We considered it very important for the government to guarantee at least 100 percent of the salary for retail workers working on Sunday. The government seems reluctant to do so. With all due respect, I would like to ask all fellow Members to think that if Sunday's closed hours are restored, people have the same right to be entitled to a 100% replacement for this extra work, for the sacrifice that they are not at home with their families on Sunday. I ask the government to consider and support the right-wing motion in this regard, not to reduce to 50 percent the percentage of the extra wage. Last year, an important measure was the increase from 50 per cent to 100 per cent of the extra wage that retail workers had to pay in the case of Sunday's employment. So I ask the government not to take a step back in this area, because people were against Sunday's lockdown, but not to pay the workers in particular for Sunday's work. We also consider it very important not to be forced to work on an employed Sunday who does not want to work on Sunday because he wants to spend this time with his family. In this case, the employer will pre-premise workers by more than 100 per cent in order to encourage voluntary Sunday work. And we also consider it very important that there should be special protection for people who raise underage children, and that Sunday work should not be mandatory for them. I believe that employers will be able to manage this amount for people who are willing to work on Sunday, even by introducing higher wage allowances. In all of this, Jobbik basically supports this proposal, because we are against the lockdown on Sunday, and we want the original condition to return. I believe that all Members must bow to the will of the majority of the country, which is clearly against Sunday's closure. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-04-12-32	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to Mrs Erzsébet Schmuck, the lead speaker of the LMP Group.
u2016-04-12-33	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, It's clear that the withdrawal of Sunday's store lock is a loss on Fidesz's part. It was not withdrawn because people wanted it, but because they were afraid of the referendum, they were afraid of the judgment of the people. Panic withdrawal of the lockdown is a confession of failure on the part of the government. A few days ago, János Lázár insisted that there should be a referendum and that the people should decide, and that Fidesz would not withdraw the law on Sunday's lockdown. Last Friday, even the Prime Minister said that the law was successful. But now it's erased, claiming that he couldn't win the support of the people. If that's the case, let's hope this is just the beginning. There have been a number of measures taken by the government that the majority oppose and are harmful to the country, from centralising education to single-key taxes and tearing down the City Park, to stadium constructions and Paks II. As regards the content of the shop shutter on Sunday: LMP agrees with the Prime Minister's earlier statement that closing a shop on Sunday can make sense in Hungary when it is possible to make a living in six days' work. Unfortunately, the government is building a country where you can't make a living on eight days' work. In his reasoning, the government also refers to the interests of workers. The fact is that this government has no right to speak on behalf of Hungarian workers, because the government has only harmed Hungarian workers because its economic policy is based on a cheap labour force that frees workers from poverty compared to its quality. To this end, workers' rights are systematically weakened, mostly by the new labour code of 2012. The winners of the change were employers, mainly large companies. The firing has been facilitated, the protection of those who are about to retire has almost ceased, the union rights, which are not too strong anyway, have been further weakened, the strike has been virtually impossible. A change in the order of leave also affects workers. The fact that the government is not interested in employees on Sunday's lockdown also proves that, when it was introduced, the Sunday allowance was abolished for a large number of employees, although the 100 percent was introduced for another round. [[11.00]] And now the rightful 100 percent bonus will be reduced by half. This is unacceptable. Sunday's lockdown was therefore, in the least, not for the workers, not for their interests. This is also demonstrated by the fact that the trade unions were not behind their proposal at the time. This was also falsely offended by the government, even though the situation was clear. With regard to the measures taken by the law concerning workers, LMP had several demands, which were swept down by the government. We demanded that the general wage catch-up take place in the national economy and thus in trade. Only the low earners have been hit most by the government's wage policy since 2010. As a minimum, we asked for compensation for the loss of the Sunday allowance, which was not fulfilled either. We asked that, for the sake of small shops, just in order to compete with hypermarkets, employees could work, not just the owners, it didn't matter to the government either. Thus, the employees fell from the pay gap, and the families of the merchants suffered a disadvantage despite KDNP's hypocrites. We have suggested that measures that are in the interest of giant companies, such as CBA, should be taken out. They didn't do that either. The CBA chain's stores have been falsely declared family businesses. On this basis, once again, we stress that there is no basis for the government to refer to the interests of workers. Dear Parliament, We can only hope that the government will understand from the current failure that the impact assessment is not the one where we introduce a regulation without any preparation, and then, after a year, we will look at the effects it has had. The expected effects should be assessed before the introduction of the law and then decided on the introduction of the legislation. The government is acting like an offended child now. Everyone is to blame for failure, from socialists to trade unions to voters who did not understand the government's noble intentions. They just forgot to raise their own responsibilities, even though we would draw attention to the fact that the proposal was submitted by pro-government representatives, the majority of the government voted in favour of it, so the failure is theirs. We would remind the government once again that the MSZP initiated a referendum on this issue, i.e. the final judgment on Sunday's shutter would have been given by the Hungarian voters. However, the government did not stand for its own decision, but rather fled. However, if the government is so attentive to the opinion of the majority of voters, it is also proposed to withdraw land privatisation, a single-key tax or the Paks expansion, as the majority of voters do not agree with these, according to public research data. If the government's opinion is so important, it is time to spend instead of stadiums on education and health, and perhaps we could try to spend a few hundred billion forints less budget forints on the budget. These are also agreed by the majority of Hungarian voters. However, the government did not withdraw this proposal because it heard the voter's voice, because it was more likely that it would not participate in the referendum on land privatisation. This is an important matter, because you and your family are stealing the common property, so you can't leave anything to chance. But don't be so calm. There will still be a referendum on land privatisation, which will prevent the theft of the most important common wealth. Thank you for your attention. [[A rare applause in the ranks of the opposition.]]
u2016-04-12-34	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, The first independent Member to apply may now speak if he so requests. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. Dear Parliament, It is now possible to make two-minute speeches, for one representative per faction, and for the first independent Member to make a statement, at the expense of the remaining timeframes. I give the floor to Congressman János Pócs for two minutes.
u2016-04-12-35	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The opening hours on Sunday, in my opinion, have shown that the previous governments, as long as they steered with the view that a village, a song, our government, and the last year, have shown customers, employees, shop owners that there are two ways ahead of us. Customers, employees, shop owners will be free to decide which way to choose in the future. Ladies and gentlemen, Based on a year's experience, we decide today, because the interests of people and the opinions of people are the most important. Did the socialists represent the interests of the people and the opinion of the people when the visit fee was introduced when the prescription fee was introduced? Did the socialists show you what it was like to withdraw something? But the stakes were not where to buy shoes, sugar, or bread. Today, we are able to withdraw the closing of Sunday's store. Ladies and gentlemen, In fact, the socialists were able to withdraw one thing: the 13th month's salary and the 13th month's pension. That's how they represented the interests of the people, and that's how they heard the voices of the people. Thank you, Mr. President. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-04-12-36	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Congresswoman Ildikó Bangóné Borbély for two minutes.
u2016-04-12-37	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear fellow Members, I have listened to this debate here, and I do not know why they cannot accept that from the beginning people hated the initiative of Sunday's closure, the introduction of it itself. My fellow Member Luke told me that you are here to play, cry, and pretend to be for the people. All polls, and I would draw attention to the Századvég group of companies, which has received more than HUF 4 billion in recent years, although data are now coming out that it has done ridiculous questions and ridiculous studies; but the Századvég also knew very well from the surveys that the Hungarian people would not like this. And even though they want to rearrange the Hungarian families, so to speak, the Hungarian people, this failed. Ladies and gentlemen of the Government, It hurts you the most that they couldn't rearrange people. Please note that these people have indicated from the very beginning that this is not going to work. They don't like it, and if they want it, they won't be able to accept it. The other is to clarify something: do you go around the settlements, how Hungarian small entrepreneurs, commercial companies, Hungarian convenience stores work employees? You're supposed to be with the families on Sunday at four o'clock? ! [[György Balla: Long live the multis! I'm a socialist, let's live in the multinationals!]] Besides, sometimes it would be good to have an open eye in the country and to pay attention to Hungarian citizens and not to make laws that violate Hungarian people. You don't want to retrain the Hungarian people because you can't, fellow Members! And we don't have to act like we're crying, because we're working for the Hungarian people. They haven't done anything for the Hungarian people in six years. [[A rare applause in the ranks of the MSZP.]]
u2016-04-12-38	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the independent congressman for two minutes, Szabolcs Szabó.
u2016-04-12-39	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. I, too, thought that in two minutes I would call to the attention of my pro-government colleagues to read the end-of-the-century materials, and vs.hu is now beginning to publish them continuously. Antal Rogán claimed that people asked that there should be no Sunday closure. [[Németh Szilárd István: Stay on your own!]] Szilárd Németh didn't win the elections in Csepel, I know it hurts a lot, but he lets me finish. So, to get back to the point, the Századvég also said that, on the one hand, people don't want stadium construction programs, they don't want tramps, they don't want fidesz tabloid media, they wanted Robert Alföldi to be the director of the National Theatre, and they don't think they can make a living out of 47,000. Feel free to go on and work according to the end-of-the-century materials. But of course we know what this is all about. In any case, I would like to add that for my part, I find it facial toaster that the extra 50 percent wage on Sunday will be taken away from these people on full grounds of his hair. Clearly, clearly, this is what they want to escape from this situation, and they're going to try to get people to be angry with the opposition. But you're gonna take this, so you're gonna be punished for this in the next election. Thank you very much.
u2016-04-12-40	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Any further speeches may be made within the remaining timeframes and may be monitored on the meeting room table. [[11.10]] Before I give the floor to Mr Nándor Gúr, who has applied in advance in writing, I would like to inform Mr Csaba Dömötör that he will have a ten-minute time frame at the end of the debate, but I am giving the floor to the Fidesz time frame, because he has already applied. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2016-04-12-41	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would like to respond to a few points; above all, the issue of wage allowances, because the referendum issue proposed by the left was aimed at the complete abolition of the law. And this includes the rules on Sunday's wage allowances. So with the referendum question, the left also proposed the abolition and reduction of surrogates, which was supported by the parties that joined. That's what the MSZ wanted, that's what DK wanted, that's what Together wanted, and that's what Jobbik wanted, by the way. [[Interviews from the ranks of the MSZP.]] It is self-evident that the situation before the entry into force of the original legislation must be restored in the form that would have resulted from the referendum. I would like to remind you that, in the event of a successful referendum on the left, for three years - three years! - couldn't even touch the pay-as-you-go case. The left would not only have restored the former state, but would have cemented it for three years. Therefore, I think it is important to clarify that you tabled amendments yesterday that would have been completely excluded from your previous proposal. The government is, of course, willing to discuss the issue of wage replacements, but not with the parties that have proposed to abolish them, but with interest representatives. As regards the other points, such as Jobbike: the congressman mentioned that you were against the lockdown on Sunday. He also said that we shouldn't have come here, perhaps he said that Sunday is the only day that families can rest. I'm a little confused because your party has a program, not so long ago, from 2014, where the next one is written on page 40. [[He's showing it to me.]] These are promises:, this will increase the time for employees to spend on their private life and ensure a sunday rest day. I don't know how much time frame they have left, but maybe it's worth clarifying. [[Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks.]] With regard to the proposals made by the MSZP, Mr Lukács's proposals, we cannot simply go past the fact that he was the Member who said on 3 December 2014 that the employment of 20,000 workers would be lost if the government adopted the law. Nevertheless, the number of employees increased by 3,000 in 2015. [[Bangóné Borbély Ildikó: 10,000 jobs have been lost!]] You may also have referred to the Labour Code; Hungarians did not make much use of the Labour Code when unemployment increased, unemployment doubled during your period. A man who doesn't have a job doesn't do much with his work code. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: Now all we have is community service!]] By the way, if you refer to the electoral will, then why didn't you ask for the citizens' opinion when you wanted to introduce a visitation fee, when hospital daily allowances were introduced, or when you took out huge loans, which led to an increase in public debt of 83 percent? [[Bangóné Borbély Ildikó: Now 85 percent!]] , which Hungary has just been able to repay? Or why didn't people ask for opinions when they took a month's wages or a month's pension? They refer to the opinion of the people, but when they had the opportunity, they went against the will to vote, not by chance that the electorate had passed judgments on several occasions. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2016-04-12-42	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I give the floor to Congressman Nándor Gúr, MSZP.
u2016-04-12-43	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, My fellow members of the Government, you are reluctant to face the will of the people. You can see that from yesterday's speech today. They've been lying for the past year and a half. Here too, Mr Secretary of State, there are some events on which immediate rebuttals can be made. I'll do it, of course, so you don't have any sense of absence. The Hungarian Socialist Party has been debating this issue continuously for the past year and a half! - He always said there were at least two poles in this story. One is the circle of people who want to buy and the other is the circle of working people. To take away the opportunity from the people who want to buy, to do what you have done, is not appropriate, and from the other side to the people who work and want to work, the benefits that help their livelihoods must be provided. Well, the Hungarian Socialist Party has put this in the focus for a year and a half and stressed this. You remember the words of Commissioner Orbán, Minister of State, you remember when you didn't literally, but in content you said that until on the working days of the week, on the five or six, you can obtain the amount of financial gain and money that can be the basis for a decent living, he is not against Sunday's opening hours, because then and there people will have access to money, resources, the basis for decent living. Then he gives himself to the KDNP, along with the entire Fides, and then they try to bring all the tools to life in order to face the will of the people. One more thing about the cases you've just mentioned is that when you're talking about unemployment and employment trends, trends, rates, you should always say that you've been kicked out of the unemployment care systems that you could have. You have one third of the support periods that have been good for you to be able to start your life over a transitional period if you have lost your job. You also record in employment statistics the hundreds of thousands of people who work abroad over a period of not more than one year and make it appear as if they were working in Hungary. Even the student worker who was not incorporated six years ago through the KSH system in the employment circle is also considered employed. I'm not going any deeper, I just want to make it clear that I expect a more realistic approach, Mr Secretary, from you on these issues as well. What is more important and related to the subject is that if citizens do not function as subjects from your point of view, I quote, you want to punish them. No matter what means, they seek its way and try to pass these solutions on to other political competitors, their opponents. Look, Sunday's opening hours are not an obligation; no, that's not a commitment, that's an option. Make sure that this question is in your head personally, as well as in your mind for the government representatives. No, it's not an obligation, it's an opportunity. It's about interfering with people's privacy. [[Defiance in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] It is a question of how this matter has been approached. [[Dr. Répássy Róbert: Intimate sphere!]] Yes, which makes it impossible for people who raise children in their everyday life, in the days from Monday to Friday, say they cannot resolve the issues that can only happen with the child from buying shoes to buying coats. [[Dr. Répássy Róbert: Buying a coat is an intimate sphere!]] Yes, that is the intimate sphere of man that he decides, which he decides, which he lives, and not the power, you tell him what to do. [[Dr. Répássy Róbert: Watch commercials at the RTL Club!]] The problem with you is that all the customary rights will be broken without thinking, if that is what your political identity wants, even by force. They're not thinking about what's good for people, they're thinking about how they can keep these people under control, as far as possible, and make them take care of your needs. The attitude of power that you have shown on this issue, whether with violence, pride, or paternal attitude, we will tell you how and how things are going to turn out, is unacceptable to society. It is not random that confirmations such as those developed in the previous period. Now, when we are at the point of moving backwards on this issue, then, of course, on the part of the Christian Democrats or on the part of the government, the Deputy Prime Minister, Semyen, states that we will abolish it now, but we will re-introduce it, so he will immediately press the stamp and put down how it will be. [[11.20]] They are not thinking about fulfilling the will of the people, they are not, but are trying to increase their own determination in this regard. Look, the question of opening hours on Sunday, as I said, is, on the one hand, an opportunity, and, on the other hand, as I said, in the last year and a half, the Hungarian Socialist Party has constantly advocated the addition of a minimum of 100 percent wage. Therefore, all sorts of other things that mean the opposite or the non-confirmation of this on your part are so far from the truth that I do not wish to talk about it. No correction, no. It's not a correction, it's an expectation. It is a requirement that a law be passed that is not only about opening shops on Sunday, but also about ensuring a minimum of 100 percent of additional wages. So no correction, no - expectation! You know, you're supposed to take this law home today, you're supposed to take it home, and you're supposed to bring another one, one that guarantees it. It is not Gergely Gulyás who should believe that otherwise he agrees that there should be a 100 percent wage supplement on Sunday, but that there should be a law that creates the legal guarantees of this. This isn't good for today. [[Dr. Répássy Róbert: Then you don't have to vote!]] It's not a good day for that. This should be modified in a way that is in place. [[Intercoms in the benches of Fidesz.]] Take some water or medicine or anything else, my fellow Member, Répássy, because I see that you cannot handle yourself from 9:00 a.m., so that may help you in the coming period. [[Dr. Répássy Robert intervenes. The president's ringing the bell.]] Look, all I'm saying to you is, as a former Secretary of State, who has been a secretary of state for a type of case, that he could have had an impact on the process, that the shame you've done on this case, that, let's say, you've been supporting a bald uplift from the background in order to prevent a referendum, you should have thought about what you're doing and how you're protecting your own party from going down this path. Anyway, the point is, Sunday isn't sacred, not because you can't work or use a service, no. What does Sunday mean with regard to livestock production? And many other areas? What does Sunday mean for public services? For you, this Sunday's opening or closing hours is a huge failure that, as a result of your year-and-a-half exercise, you have failed to shape the people's will in the direction you wanted, and now you need to move away from your previous positions. I understand this failure, but you don't want to live this failure while you're trying to punish people. No. Your job is that, on the one hand, if there is a measurable, tangible people's will, it will be served in a good way and, on the other hand, that workers who are subject to the service sector of trade will be placed in a position to receive adequate remuneration so that they can obtain the resources adapted to their daily decent livelihood. You know, the law on shameful work, which was mentioned here today, which was in force in 2012, which increased the vulnerability of workers - remembering it, eliminating the afternoon allowance, reducing the night allowance to 30 percent, leaving virtually no positive diversion to public companies in line with the Labour Code, and thousands of things to say - practically making people and their representatives impossible. It is possible to create a situation where people work more for less money. You've been able to do this miracle for the past five to six years. Don't talk too much about the interests of workers. For six years, you would have had the opportunity to act for him, but you didn't. You have become discredited in this regard. Do you know how much you make today, say, a shopkeeper? Do you know that? Here, in Budapest and in larger cities, you may be able to earn 120-130 thousand forints, but in small villages you get the resources in minimum wage amounts or in a fraction of them - because they are employed in four hours' employment. Now, these are the people that you feel sorry for that 100 percent wage supplement? That is why we have 2.2 million people living in Hungary today under the minimum living age, and you want to deny the minimum quality of living because you do not want to face this issue. It is therefore the case today that 1.4 million people in Hungary are earning a minimum wage or less, according to the National Tax and Customs Office, and there are far-reaching numbers of people working in retail in these two categories. Your job is to help these people, through the law, clearly declare the question of 100 percent, minimum 100 percent on Sunday. In terms of income conditions, up to 10 percent will get 36 percent of material assets, and the lower 10 percent will get 2 percent, and you know that this 2 percent includes a lot of retail employees who do not want to be guaranteed, just talk about it, and do not want to guarantee the question of a 100 percent wage supplement. One word, like a hundred, they lied about this year and a half. They lied. Think about the minimum wage people who stole the money from for five years. For money of less value came into the hands of these men than five years before. You, who have deceived the world in this sense, have lied through your billboards with the rise in the minimum wage; you, who have stolen these people by lying in their eyes, while giving them less money, do not try to do anything but to guarantee, through and in parallel with the withdrawal of the law, the consideration and granting of the minimum percentage of wages! That's all you can do for the people. That's what you can do, not just do, but do dog duty for people. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2016-04-12-44	Thank you, Congressman, notary. Two-minute comments, first from Congressman János Volner, Jobbik.
u2016-04-12-45	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Secretary of State, you are right that Jobbik has thought about keeping it closed on Sunday because there are a lot of employees who have asked us to do so. However, the important difference between you and us is that we are willing and ready to see our mistake at any time. We do not start - sorry for the expression, I do not wish to offend the dignity of the Parliament, but - to fool a country for a year with whether they want it or not, because the big boss, Viktor Orbán, has come up with the idea that we will introduce the lockdown on Sunday. That's not gonna happen for us. When we saw that the majority of people had the opposite will, we said to look back, that there should not be a shop on Sunday because society does not want it. And XXI. As a party of the century, we consider politics to be seen as a mistake even if it means a step backwards from our electoral program. We're willing to do that anytime. And, Mr Secretary of State, it does not qualify us either, but you and the socialists, that we, if someone makes a constructive proposal within the Parliament, are willing to support it even if that Member is either fidesz or socialist. This cannot happen to you, because you have been following the destructive logic of the Parliament since the change of regime, and you see as a guide that everything that comes from the opposition must be voted down, whether it would be good for the country or bad. That is why, my dear Secretary of State, the brokerage scandal cost HUF 360 billion, because the proposals I tabled in November 2010 were neither supported by you nor by the socialists, because a better Member submitted them. So I urge you to try, too, by the way, by the way. To become a hundredth-century party and finally to look out for the country's interests. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2016-04-12-46	Thank you, Congressman. The next two-minute Répássy Róbert Fidesz representative.
u2016-04-12-47	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, While Congressman Nándor Gúr was beating the government and the bill for 15 minutes, he said a very interesting thing. He said that this bill should be revoked. Nándor Gúr therefore says that the bill with the same result as the Socialists' referendum initiative should be withdrawn. You have to ask yourself who's lying in this case. Nándor Gúr constantly accuses others of lying, while, in his words, he does not support the bill for which a referendum was initiated, with which an equivalent referendum was initiated. [[11.30]] So, House, in a few hours' time, or perhaps an hour's time, the moment of truth will come, whether the Socialist Party will vote in Parliament for a bill that will otherwise lead to the same situation as the referendum they have initiated. I do not want to continue the personal activity that Nándor Gúr started here, but if he has already called the government side a liar or a few of us, my fellow Members, Nándor Gúr, Member of the Hungarian Socialist Party, was the last first secretary of Borsod-Abaúj-Zemplén County in the Communist Youth Association at the end of the 1980s. [[There's a grumble and a scoop of Fidesz and Jobbik.]] According to the biography of this on the National Assembly's website, he claims that I was a member of the youth movement. Well, then, everyone can decide where the lie is, fellow Members. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-04-12-48	Thank you. I will give the floor to Mr Szabó Szabolcs, an independent Member for two minutes.
u2016-04-12-49	Thank you very much. It's really hard to say to that, although Mr. Répássy didn't address me. [[Defiance.]] But that's when the debate goes down to this level. [[Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] Then it's hard. I was surprised when, by the way, the migrant issue was referred to in the explanatory statement. How did the two work out? - pretty hard. But I really wanted to respond to Mr. Secretary of State. I don't know if you've read the specific question of the referendum, which, for example, was supported by my party, Together. Do you agree that Parliament should destroy the 2014 LII on the prohibition of working in the retail sector on Sunday? Law? I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. [[Bangóné Borbély Ildikó: That's right! You should have read it. Dr. Vas Imre: Roman numerals should be known!]] You might want to read it, it's up in the net register, maybe you can handle a computer. If you only enter in the search engine that you have income, wage replacements, there are no such words in it. For every Hungarian citizen who has a little access to the law knows that incomes and surrogates are regulated by the Labour Code, the 140. You'll have to look around. [[Interviews from Fidesz: This is the amendment of the law! Happy Stephen: You didn't read the law!]] What are we talking about? They're lying! [[Dr. Répássy Róbert: This is an amendment to the law!]] This referendum initiative has nothing to do with income. [[Márius Révész: This is the amendment of the law!]] Thank you very much.
u2016-04-12-50	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Béla Turi-Kovács [[Noise. It's ringing.]] Congressman Fidesz. Can I have your attention, please?
u2016-04-12-51	Mr. President. Dear House, I thought it was necessary to speak because I believe that I should justify all the votes that I gave at the time when the law was adopted, and now when I am going to pass when the law is withdrawn. The debate so far has largely taken place as usual: economic arguments along the lines of political gain and some moral arguments on behalf of the KDNP, which I share greatly. At the time, when I voted in favour of the regulation of shop opening hours, in Hungarian, the regulation of closings, I was clearly on the moral basis that we have now heard from KDNP, namely: this is primarily and primarily in the family interest. He considers family aspects that are not religious - apologies, KDNP - aspects, not religious values, but specifically general human values, which I believe are appropriate and necessary. This is the first part that I voted for in the past. I have to say the second part, I said it, I said it at a faction meeting and in other places, I had reservations because it was clear that a significant part of society is not sufficiently sensitive to moral values and moral reasons, and I have now put it very delicately. He is not sufficiently susceptible, not only to religious moral issues, but also to moral issues in general. As a consequence, it was possible to perceive and see that this decision was dangerous, but I thought it was worth trying, trying, because it followed a good direction, a good purpose. Is it right to withdraw this law now? Is it about what the socialists here have long spoken triumphantly, that one side has won and the other has been defeated, that there is now a retreat, which is reality and truth? The situation is, as I dare say in the name of all small farmers, it is worth going back to Ferenc Deák. Ferenc Deák explained clearly and clearly back to the laws of 1848 at the time when the provisorium ceased to exist, but always and always consider what the public interest and public opinion can accept. In the given situation and in the context of the given options, the government had to assess this and, when it correctly assessed this, I believe that it is worth supporting, even if my moral reservations remain unchanged in relation to opening hours. I believe that the right position can only be to achieve this broad support within society first and then to make a new decision. It is not an accusation that the socialists have said, but, I hope, a vision for the future, namely, that sooner or later society - I hope sooner - can think at a level and in a way that can put small, small or even large economic interests behind moral values. This time hasn't come, but sometimes when it comes, you have to make a move, and then I believe that the government will make a move. One more thought I cannot ignore: the matter of replacement has come to the fore today. I think this is a very important question. It gives me hope and encouragement that the government says that it intends to negotiate. I'd like to hear a little more. What I would like to hear from the government is that it is very strongly in favour of the fact that there is no disadvantage for workers in terms of the bonus. You have to be able to achieve that quite simply. There's enough power in the government, there's enough determination in the negotiations, so that's available. That is what I believe can really support today. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2016-04-12-52	Thank you very much, Congressman. The next speaker is President Novak, Congressman Jobbik.
u2016-04-12-53	Ladies and gentlemen of the Government, I regret that the wrong law will be carved again with an axe, and in the midst of family-friendly speeches, the child will be poured out with bath water, and the father and mother will at least be able to come home for the children's bath, since today even 9-10 will have to work in different shops as sellers, for example, for those who, due to Sunday closed hours, due to extended opening hours on Monday nights, Tuesday nights and every week's evenings, will have to stay away from their family, even from laying their small children. I believe that, while you have made this law on family-friendly grounds, you have ignored it, and that regulation has not been sufficiently circumstantial, and in this sense we cannot say that it has met the needs of families, for example. It is absurd, for example, and it could also be said that it was anti-family action that on Sundays baby stores were closed, even though those who have small children know that especially when they are young, they have to go to a store more often than change clothing, like older people. So with a little empathy, who, say, find it difficult to understand why, for example, on Sundays, it is necessary to buy new tools or clothes to raise children, for example, that it is not right to close them on Sunday days. Especially if you think that Saturdays are often timed for various children's parties, family and other programs, then you can say that yes, there are a lot of families on Sundays, for example, you could have chosen baby shops. Maybe they'll understand if I've had a picture of a baby in my head over the last few months. Luckily, it didn't have to go this far, because you see it now, referring to the voice of the people, in fact, it's because it's mostly you who have backed down, but not for reasons of principle, and not because the people's voices have been heard, because they could have heard it in the last few months. I am very sorry that you referred to family-friendly aspects, for example, when you did not consult the National Association of Large Families or the Population Round Table prior to the adoption of the law, and this is usually typical of your policy, for example, that you have missed all kinds of coordination in the case of family home creation benefits or NOK. It was dropped off unprepared before Christmas, just so that at the family tables this would be the topic and not the various corruption cases of the government. But there was no negotiation. Perhaps if there had been a reconciliation, perhaps if we had managed to create this legislation a little more cizzed, it would not have included such mistakes and such self-contrasts to close, for example, baby stores on the basis of family-friendly measures, or to achieve that on everyday late nights they should be away from the family and work even for parents with small children. [[11.40]] Jobbik has already stated in its programme that it is true - I am glad that the government once again quoted and perhaps reconsiders Jobbik's program - the Sunday rest programme. We have included it in our programme because we want to implement this basis, but it doesn't matter how. It's no coincidence that Jobbik didn't vote for the bill you tabled. The reason why we have not voted in favour of the Sunday closure that you have accepted and which is still in force today is precisely because it does not create the Sunday rest day the way we want it to be because we want people not to be obliged against their will. But if you want to do this, for example, because you are not family, for example, because you want to make more money, and if you provide them with a decent, 100 percent wage supplement, and you can't force them to work against their will, well, this is the kind of Sunday rest day that we would like, the Jobbik's election and sooner or later, Jobbik's government program includes. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-04-12-54	Thank you very much. The next speaker is Congressman Márius Révész, Fidesz.
u2016-04-12-55	Dear Parliament, I think it has been instructive for all of us to watch this debate. It turned out from the debate that the MSZP was proud to have succeeded in preventing the ban on Sunday work. The fact is, ladies and gentlemen, in countries more fortunate than us, the left usually struggles to make people work eight hours or not have to work on Sundays. But no, with us, all the MSZP supporters constantly see this left-wing demand, which is not XX, but XIX. It goes back a century, and they managed to stop it. Ladies and gentlemen, It is not a bad experience to see how, and how proudly, the left-wing Hungary, the socialist representatives of Hungary are trampling on the European left-wing values. And the fact is that I can also say that European or European left-wing values are being stepped on enthusiastically, because let's just look around Europe. Dear Socialist Members, Can you shop in Austria on Sunday, by the way? I have to tell you, I don't. In Germany, perhaps? No. Can you shop in France on Sunday? No. Can you buy in Holland on Sunday? Not with the exception of priority tourist zones. Norway, perhaps? No. Switzerland? You can't shop in Switzerland. In Belgium, perhaps? They can't even shop there. In Italy you can only buy in small shops or there are 12 Sundays, but you cannot buy in Italy as a general rule. Can they shop in Spain on Sunday? [[Martin Gyöngyösi: Where do you live?]] Ladies and gentlemen, no. But the Hungarian left can be very proud of the fact that the left-wing demand, which, by the way, was won in many places in Europe by the left, together with the trade unions, has been achieved, has been prevented in Hungary. I think I'm gonna have to give you one more example. A few months ago, in England, which is a relatively liberal economy-based country, the thought of the Tory government is that we should somehow ease the opening hours of shops on Sunday, because in England, the rule is that larger shopping malls can be open in a time frame, but six hours on Sundays. And the government raised this, presented the bill, and then had to withdraw within a few hours - there was a huge public uproar. By the way, all the left-wing MEPs have been upset, but let it be, but most of the Tory Members have also been deeply outraged, so the Cameron government has ceased its plan within a few hours. In these luckier countries, not as much a left as we have. It is questionable whether these representatives can be considered left-wing in Hungary at all. Ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to respond a little to the suggestion of János Volner, the betterman. There was a referendum in Hungary - I mean December 5, 2004 - when, if we had seen what public opinion was, we would never have brought back the topic of foreign Hungarian citizenship in Hungary. After all, if we had looked at it and only looked at the polls with the eyes of the public, the situation would have come up, unfortunately, that it is not worth going into this politically. [[That's not true...!]] But the fact is that in that referendum, the party of the MSZP or Ferenc Gyurcsány won a victory in Pirrus, because it temporarily solved its problems, but the fact is that in the long run, this referendum meant a great deal, that the MSZP is still unable to recover from it, and in practice young people are far from it, and still affect its popularity or unpopularity to the left. I think that it is possible to do that we stand up for matters that we think are useful to Hungarian society with intelligent arguments. By the way, I think that the regulation, reduction of the opening hours on Sunday or the ban on working on Sunday would have typically been one of these things. There was a great political risk, and it has to be said that we, the Fidesz Members, have not done the tasks that should have been done, we have not stepped into the debate, we have not stood firm enough for our opinion. But the fact is that it is not just our fault, the fact is that organisations that otherwise stand up for these issues in other European countries have also been most silent on this issue. I am thinking, for example, of trade unions, of churches, and I am thinking of many other actors who could have said that there are many advantages to this idea, by the way. I highly recommend the sound of Ági Szalóki very much, my very kind singer, wrote in a very nice post what the meaning of this Sunday regulation is, families can spend time together. And the fact is, I can confirm what you described in this post, namely, that the Lidl, Tesco employees, Penny employees I've spoken to in the last few years, basically the fact is that they were happy about this regulation, they were glad that they didn't have to work on Sunday. Let us look at the figures that my fellow Members brought up in the debate a good year or a year and a half ago. In the same way as in catering units, when cigarettes were banned from shops, such horrific, extremely gloomy predictions were formulated. They also told me that the pubs will go bankrupt, that there will be no guests, that the traffic will fall. It was just the opposite. Ladies and gentlemen, It's the same in this case. Retail sales increased by 5.5 percent in 2015. This growth is unprecedented in the last ten years. But the number of retail workers has also increased by 3,200 compared to a decrease of 20,000. The fact is, not only did the negative predictions that were formulated prove, but the exact opposite. The legal situation has also triggered a debate. Our position is clear and clear. The referendum issue was aimed at restoring the state of play on 14 March 2015 - since the new law came into force after that - and we will restore it with this amendment. Yesterday, I also said at the Legislative Committee that the Fidesz fraction, at the government meeting, was also raised that the issue of allowances should be resolved, but not only the issue of allowances, but also in other areas, it is likely that action should be taken. To this end, we propose negotiations with the relevant trade unions. I trust that in a very short period of time a law will come back or be brought before Parliament to settle the anomalies that we all want to settle. However, this must not be arranged within the framework of this law, but a new law must be submitted to Parliament, and in this new law, once again, I say that not only wage supplements, but other issues must also be regulated. Let me draw the attention of the President of Novak to the fact that this law, which we are now withdrawing, does not stop the argument that due to Sunday, people had to stay late at night or late at work, because this law not only regulated the opening hours on Sunday, but also prohibited the opening hours of the store chains. [[11.50]] So the claim that people were forced to work at night or late at night is not exactly true, because, once again, in addition to the opening hours on Sunday, the ban on closed nights was also laid down by this law. So let's just say that Tescos can't be open all the time, that's the law that stopped it, and if we restore or abolish this law now, then exactly the situation that was in March 2015 will come back. So, ladies and gentlemen, I think, unfortunately, that we must withdraw on this issue, which includes our responsibility, but at the same time I doubt that this is a good long-term step for Hungarian society, and unfortunately we have not succeeded in taking a big step towards a European way of life and a European life. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-04-12-56	Thank you very much, Congressman. I would like to inform the Honourable Parliament that the Group of the Christian Democratic People's Party has announced, in accordance with the house rules, that it will give ten minutes of the Fidesz Group's timeframe. [[Dr. Csaba Gyüre: Why? The Foreman of Novak: They take a different view!]] Next up is Sallai R. Benedek, Possibly different from Politics.
u2016-04-12-57	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, I don't know where to start. I'll start with Márius Révész, because he was the last to speak, and he's one of the few people we discussed here a year ago, because most of them weren't here, and we were here trying to exchange ideas on this subject. Let me tell you right now, let me respond to two things. I understand that as a metropolitan man you didn't experience this, I'm sure as a small-town man, Tesco in Turkeve solved it like many other similar shops by pushing it from 20 to 22 hours on weekdays until Saturday. This is just an example, but there are many, many examples in the countryside, where the convenience stores do not have to send people, so they have extended it. I believe that my fellow Member, Mr President Novak, was referring to this, and there are a lot of concrete examples. Let me also respond to the European way of life, as there is no obstacle to this happening - this requires European payments in all sectors. Your government should create the conditions for this, and at the moment they can provide public wages for the majority of society. So, as long as there are no European wages, do not expect Hungarian citizens to think in a European way of life! And before anyone misunderstands me, because I am going to say a lot of bad things to you, I would like to say one thing: basically, I thought the initiative was an initiative to consider and consider, and I would very much like to live in a Hungary where there will be the right to close the shops on Sunday; I would very much like to live in a Hungary where they can close up even on Saturday afternoons and as many as possible rest. This is the one point in which I disagreed with the head speaker of the MSZP on this one thing, because he said that Deputy Prime Minister Zsolt Semjén announced that when he had his social support, he would be re-evaluated. I think that if there is social support, the MSZP should not be able to go against it either, but the aim is to have social support and to introduce it. Accordingly, I say that once there is social support, I will be happy if this is achieved, as I will be pleased if basically the price preference thinking of Hungarian buyers is replaced by a quality thinking, and it will not be important to have cheaper access to food, but local shops will be full of local products, bio-stores will be full of customers, not the cheap, low-quality food supply of multinational companies will be important. So basically, I think that the direction to think about it wasn't necessarily harmful. What I thought was harmful a year ago and now, and that's why you're getting a lot of criticism, is that you've done all this without consideration, as a misrepresentation. That is why I am responding immediately to my fellow Member, Mr Béla Turi-Kovács, the Minister's opinion, because I understand that he feels that he should explain himself, because your government is making a clown out of you: within a year he is asking you to vote contrary, which is obviously embarrassing. And I also agree with Béla Turi-Kovács that a wise government will hear the voice of society, but you have not done so until there was a referendum opportunity, it has not been important, you have not heard it. And I say that an even wiser government listens to the word of society before the action, and not afterwards, a year later, after testing Hungarian society as an experimental mouse, that they love it, they do not love it, it will be good, it will not be good. This is what is most unacceptable in this system is that this is how it should be dealt with, and not with someone in KDNP waking up so that, oh, but a good idea, close the shops! It's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay. What if the end of the century had been asked for all this money to look at this with thorough research, what is its social support? Then it would have been wise to make a decision on this subject. Obviously, it is important that we tell you what it is as an argument - after I have said that I can basically agree with the principle as an eco-partisan, that we should take back the most important sacrament of consumption and that people should buy less. You can agree with the principle, but it cannot be done that Hungarian society cannot fully identify with it; it cannot identify, because it is important to get cheap goods; it cannot identify, because you have not created jobs for six years now that all families are together this week. The only option for a multitude of commuters, a multitude of people working in the countryside, and even a multitude of people working abroad, is to help them shop on weekends. Doing big shopping with a family car in that established business network is very difficult to do differently, and that's what's worth talking about. Obviously, if you look at the arguments here, it's very easy to destroy them. Forgive me, my fellow Member Vejkey, but I am most inspired by the KDNP speech, because you insist, unlike Fidesz, that this was a good measure and you will not support it. For my part, I respect that, because, although this fidelity has arisen, it is clear to say that it is you who stand by your views. However, I suggest with great respect: to prove to me that Hungarian society did not want this land privatization, I have to stand out at counters day by day and collect signatures - so do you! If you feel that this is so good for society, and you are convinced that society would support it, and you can convince them to do so in a campaign, you should initiate a referendum for it and measure it if you agree. We do this every day, various opposition parties in various cases listen to people's everyday misery at the bar to collect signatures for what we believe in. If this matter is important to you, do so, initiate a referendum and see what the social opinion is and what the action is. And forgive me, my fellow Member, but I find these arguments so horribly smug or self-righteous. He literally said such things that families could be together so that no one could be forced to work - these are the arguments. Please, this has affected a tiny percentage of the Hungarian economy, the Hungarian jobs! How can you say such things? ! All the other employees can work on Sundays? If they had been right - but they were wrong - and all Hungarian families would have gone to the arboretum or a museum or a beach on weekends, then the service providers who worked there would have made it even more necessary to meet this demand. But it didn't happen! Unlike Fidesz, you were talking about families, so for my part, as I said, I am respectful, but the opportunity for families has not become more in the last year for the time we have spent together, and therefore the overall economic situation is responsible and the current state of the country. And whatever we say, after the families couldn't be together anymore, we wouldn't have helped that by maintaining the measure. The most important thing is that if workers are released from trade, there is a need for more workers in all other services sectors, be it from the point of view of hospitality, to be in there. So you have the money in a window, forgive me for saying it in a card language, because you will win every employee whose Sunday has been released, but you will lose a lot of other employees who may have to stay in because of this growing demand. This was why, among other things, the measure was completely inadequate to implement in this form, because it was not capable of changing substantially the situation that you would like to change. And let me draw your attention to another thing that I thought was very deceitful. You spoke of the pulpit as a golden calf and the presence of the worship of the golden calf, while two sentences later you said how important it was that economic indicators increased and how important it was that money could measure the effectiveness of the system. Obviously, if it were important for families to be together, then we should not have used economic standards for you, but we should have argued here only by telling you how many families have spent several hours together because of this measure. But since the legislation does not have a positive impact on this, it is obvious that this cannot be said to be effective. [[Dr. János Latorcai, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]] In the same way, let me make one more argument. He said in a very serious voice that migrants are on their way to Germany right now, because Austria is no longer good for them. Please, if we close the shops on Sunday, will they stop? Or if we close it on Saturday, they'll go back? What does that have to do with anything? The debate on Sunday's closing has nothing to do with the fact that migrants are currently walking! [[12.00]] And here you argued that there would be some connection to this measure or any causal link, even though it would be one of the basic principles of argument and debate, so that you would not do so. Obviously, this is why it is difficult for me to deal with the fact that I can still accept KDNP's position, because the arguments that have been made do not actually stop in any form. I was talking about the fact that, for my part, I thought it was worth thinking about this situation. I certainly wouldn't have made this country a test country, like you did, but it is worth talking about the arguments that are regularly, from time to time. On my part, I do not want to attack the head of the Secretary of State in any way; it is certainly false that Minister Rogán cannot come in; this morning I was listening to Kossuth on radio; then he was in the middle of public television; everywhere he gets the stupid arguments for which there are a thousand objections; but when he should come in, he sends you in as a boxing bag. I sympathize with this post, so I would rather not criticize it, and I would like to take account of what Antal Rogán said this morning in public radio. Because those arguments are wrong. You say that the number of employees has increased. That's true, but if you look at the same KSH data, you'll also see: 2014. CHAPTER XII On 31 January 2015 there were 42 640 retail shops. CHAPTER XII On the 30th, 42 320. 320 shops have closed in Hungary, and less than 10 percent of this business is over 400 square meters. Because when you argue about how the number of employees has changed, you're right, which is exactly what I accuse you of, you've destroyed small businesses who owned convenience stores, shops below 400 square meters, and you've gone to more employees. It's an employee servant world. They do not strengthen the self-active entrepreneurial attitude that they often talk about, not small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, but the employee approach, to go to work for multi-nationals and take a job at multinationals, because this is better, because, let's face it, we closed the deal. What makes you think you didn't mention that stats in your intro? Just like you didn't mention anything else. He said that there was a negative impact on businesses over 2400 sq m, but he did not mention that shops between 400 sq m and 2400 sq m were the winners of this situation, as employment increased there. If you look at it, it has become the commercial size of the CBA, close to the government, which has grown, and shops below 400 square meters have become the losers of this situation. Most of it's about 50 square meters of business that's gone missing. And that's the result of the last year. And the question is, are you going to be able to handle this with something? Here in the last year 320 shops have closed, let's agree that 20-30 of them we don't regret being closed together, because our views are such that we don't regret it. But all the rest that's small business, why don't you feel sorry for that? Why is it that it doesn't appear in any form in this statistics? This is important to talk about these arguments, because when the Fidesz lead speaker, Mr Gulyás Gergő, said his own arguments, he said that it was not possible to convince Hungarian society of its correctness. Please, if there's any wrong action, let alone fail to convince you, you shouldn't be convinced, because it's a propaganda issue. Didn't Jenő Hidden write that it's propaganda that tells us in advance what we're going to be happy about. He should have had his conditions first, and he shouldn't have been convinced. I indicated that I did not feel very fair by Antal Rogán that he was not here because he made his affairs soft - I heard twice today that it was the Hungarian women who were to blame, because they were not the best convinced. That is what Minister Antal Rogán says, that we have failed to convince Hungarian society, especially women. I heard that at the press conference yesterday. I heard it twice today. I don't like that women are blamed for this measure, and they couldn't convince them. I obviously understand that when someone's ideology is that women can only give birth and make Sunday lunches are good, and they don't have any other opinions. [[Moore in the pro-government benches. Interjection from the ranks of Fidesz: Good God!]] But, please, why do I have to highlight this... [[Happy István: What do you think of women?! The president's ringing the bell.]] That's Fidesz's opinion. [[Intercoms from Fidesz, among other things: We did not say that!]] It's okay. Antal Rogán... [[Happy István: I resent it! Intruder from Jobbik's ranks: Guard! The president's ringing again.]]
u2016-04-12-58	My fellow members of the Government, for the time being, Mr President, we have the floor. You can push a button, 'cause they're two minutes away.
u2016-04-12-59	Thank you, Mr. President. And with great respect, I wish peace and love in the Christian heart of pro-government representatives to listen to others in peace, because - believe me - I am not your enemy, but rather the incompetence and arrogance, to fight it, not against me. On the basis of these arguments, when it appears that they are talking about social needs and expressing their capitulation arguments, those arguments cannot really stop in any way. 'Cause when you say your calculations show that retail sales have increased, I believe that, but is there any scientific evidence that there wouldn't have been much more intense if the shops hadn't closed on Sunday? No. Obviously, we don't know what would have happened, maybe it doesn't have any effect, yet they're making arguments that can't be helped because they're talking about families. So the important indicator was not how retail sales were growing. So these are the arguments with which it is very, very difficult to identify, and, as I said, despite my sympathy, I cannot accept these arguments. Technically, our colleague Gergely Gulyás, Mr Vice-President, said to the MSZP that it is not the principles that matter, but the polls, which you now prove. Your principles don't matter to you. KDNP does, KDNP doesn't support it. But Fidesz? They'll vote against it in a year. They're not loyal to their principles, they're loyal to polls. Now you've looked at what the polls say, although we haven't seen these polls, I'm sure they're somewhere in the four billion-dollar package, but basically we don't know what you're referring to. The only thing that doesn't make sense is that if you can back out of this, based on these polls, then why can't you just back out of anything else? I have a theory that you won't like. My theory is that you can't steal from the store's opening hours, it doesn't matter to you whether it's open or closed. You can steal it at City Park in design, strategy, construction, wood cutting. In the matter of land-privatization... should I list it? There is an example of Fidesz MP, there is an example of his wife, there is an example of his nephew, there is an example of his child, there is an example of his neighbour, there is an example of everyone. So it's practically not worth going back there and listening to society's opinion, even though it doesn't have any support. Obviously, in the case of the resort in Balatonfenyves, it doesn't make sense to back off, no matter what the locals say, and whatever mud there will be on the beach in Balatonmaria and Ferenc. So you only heard the voice of society in what your own pockets weren't involved in, and in this respect it is irrelevant to you that you open or close and what happens on this. Obviously, if you want to hear the voice of society, it is fundamentally questionable that when you argue that a referendum costs a lot, Mr Gergő Gulyás, Mr Vice-President, then the question arises: why, so there will be no referendums, do you think that it will not work out in all other cases? In the first week, MSZP and I were over 100,000, after Easter, we started collecting signatures in the field. There's gonna be a referendum. You didn't save anything. But even if we hadn't initiated it, you'd still want a referendum on a case where the result could be covered, you know the outcome. Isn't this a waste of money? After a social consultation has been carried out from a billion, they do not want to use the results of it, but they also make a referendum so that they are always right. Obviously, this is when I cannot accept the opinion of my fellow Member Gulyás, Mr Vice-President, that it costs a lot, so we need to think about it. It's not that you care about the money, you care about the money that you can bring home, and everything else is little, because it's not that important. At the end of my arguments, it is worth talking about one more thing, namely that if you want to keep the family's perspective in mind in all these measures, then what will happen to the tasks from which you are obviously taking a turn. My fellow Members have already said that, hearing the voice of society, you should also hear it, now that the announcement of the new budget has been announced today, that it will be tabled in April to vote on it in this session, will you hear the voice that you should hear this week, Friday, about education, that you cannot destroy an education policy? Will they hear why more resources are needed in health care? Do they hear how rural roads are untraceable, in many counties, and how do the three four-digit roads close the countryside away from public services and need resources? Do you hear the opinion of society when it is necessary to fight corruption, when there is obviously hardly a day when a new corruption scandal does not appear? If they are able to reverse their opinions and think about what they have represented so far, then I believe that you want to represent democratic values in whatever form you want, but if you are willing to back down only in what you are doomed to lose, and only when you already have a referendum, and until a week ago you were not interested in public opinion, only suddenly, after the Curia has approved it, it is difficult for me to believe that. [[12.10]] Nevertheless, I can assure my fellow pro-government Members that we will fundamentally support their motion, and we will accept what the government has tabled. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2016-04-12-60	Thank you very much, Congressman. As I have already said, two-minute contributions are coming; first from the Jobbik Group, Mr President Novak. Here you go.
u2016-04-12-61	Dear Parliament, First of all, I would suggest that the CBA, tied to Fidesz-KDNP with a thousand threads, practice self-criticism, set a good example and keep them closed on Sundays. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches. Sallai R. Benedict: That's right!]] On the other hand, Márius Révész questioned the fact that due to Sunday's closed hours, commercial units really had to extend their daily opening hours overnight in order to avoid dismissals. And he even bragged that there was a law against overnight opening hours. Now I've looked at some malls, clothing stores, and they're open even on everyday days until 9:00 p.m., even 10:00 p.m. So, yes, unfortunately, you should admit that parents like me don't come home to bathe and bed children when they work at this kind of work. A father like me can't take part in the evening care of children. Okay, well, at least she'll be home to sleep with the wife because of what she's doing. [[Defiance from the Jobbik benches.]] You said, thank you very much, but it doesn't change the fact that we can't call this measure absolutely family-friendly. And if you really were interested in not having to be away from your family because of work, you would be more concerned with the problem of emigration from Hungary, because never so many people have left Hungary for a long time than last year, so it is constantly growing. Last year, a city full of Hungarians picked up their tent and decided to try someplace else, so to speak, 'cause they can't do well at home. So they should be more concerned if they really want work to keep them from being away from the family. Moreover, these figures are rather underestimated, since emigration is much higher. This only covers those who have formally indicated this intention to the authorities. So the problem is even bigger than [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] That's what the official numbers say. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2016-04-12-62	Thank you very much. Mr Márius Révész is coming from the Fidesz Group. Here you go.
u2016-04-12-63	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, In the morning, I was listening on the radio to the head of a trade union, and I am only telling Sallai R. Benedek to look at those data in a bit more detail, since he argued that every year in the last five years about 200-300 such retail shops have ceased in Hungary. So Sunday's closing hours have nothing to do with this, as in 2015 exactly as many shops as in 2014, are the same size as in 2013 and so on. It was a nasty slip, Congressman, that when Antal Rogán said that according to polls, women are more opposed to Sunday closed hours than men, he said that Antal Rogán attacked women. Congressman, I've known you many times about your fairer comments. This, I think, has certainly gone beyond the limits of good taste. He also said that according to your calculations, retail sales have increased. Congressman, not according to your calculations, but according to KSH data, retail sales have increased by 5.5 percent. And it grew even though, by the way, everyone said it was going to fall, and by the way, they said that 15 to 20,000 people were going to lose their jobs. I could say that land is sold at a bid above the market price, but I do not want to go into this, but I would rather say to Novak Elod that yesterday at the committee meeting - by the way, he is complaining that the shops may be open until 10 - it was one of your fellow Members who said that we should not ban night work between 22:00 and 6:00, but that we should push this period to 23:00 and bring it forward to 5:00 in the morning. So I would suggest that if you represent that 22 hours is too much, you should discuss within the party, by the way, what is Jobbik's proposal, because I'm suggesting that yesterday is exactly one [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] a counter-proposal was made at the committee meeting. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2016-04-12-64	Thank you very much. Mr Nándor Gúr is coming from the MSZP Group.
u2016-04-12-65	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Don't doubt, I assure you, the Hungarian Socialist Party and I support the possibility of opening on Sunday. Again, I don't have to keep it open on Sunday, I have to give it a chance. The other thing you should ensure is that the people working there get a decent wage, so you must guarantee at least the 100 percent wage supplement. Here, within the walls of Parliament, several have promised to do so today, so I expect you to do so within the framework of a law received within the next closing deadline. And make sure that these people have immunity, who have to work on Sunday because you're honest... [[The president's gonna turn off the speaker's mic. Applause from the benches of MSZP. Interview from the benches of the MSZP: More money for the worker!]]
u2016-04-12-66	Congressman, unfortunately, your time limit has expired. Thank you very much. From the Fidesz Group, Mr János Pócs is next. Here you go.
u2016-04-12-67	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I think there is one thing I am sure that we cannot go without saying: when Mr Róbert Benedek Sallai constantly and on several occasions accused Minister Rogán of blaming women for this proposal. Honourable Congressman, As you used to be party secretaries, you think that if you say something long enough, if you say it often, and if you do it loudly, then you certainly do it. Congressman! Minister Rogán, with his presentation, confirms that he respects the opinion of Hungarian women. That's what the proposal is about. Thank you, Mr. President. [[Applause from the benches of the governing parties. Mr. Novak intervenes.]]
u2016-04-12-68	Thank you very much. Mr Sallai R. Benedek is coming from the LMP Group. Here you go.
u2016-04-12-69	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Very briefly: My colleague Márius Révész, yes, I was thinking of KSH. I used KSH data, too, and you're absolutely right, and I know that retail sales have decreased before, but you can't prove that that's not the reason for the current decline. Like I can't prove that retail sales wouldn't have increased any more. So I'm just trying to illustrate that these arguments you're saying are worth at least as much as nothing, because you can't prove the opposite. The market price: you said only one sentence about the market price. Sándor Fazekas' nephew Mátyás Bekecs bought 50 hectares of land per hectare for 186 thousand forints. Then convince everyone else that this is a market price in a country where, by the way, land is no longer available per hectare under a million! [[Constant interruptions from the Fidesz benches.]] I'll take your word for it. I also thank my fellow Member Pócs for his speech. What's up with ETUS? Is the procedure underway? Do you have the companies that have been notified to address you and the hundreds of millions that have been notified to the address? It's a good idea to deal with that, because everyone's got to go around their own house. And then I respond to the ladies at the same time. There's nothing wrong with that, but if Antal Rogán would respect it so much, why would he distinguish it? Why do you have to emphasize in press briefings, public radios and public television that women didn't like it? Please, it's like saying that we have a very good principle, we really agree with it, these Christian values, only women didn't like it, so we were forced to back off. Why do you have to pin it on them? I didn't say that. I've heard it three times in person. There's something you can do about it, but I don't think you can accept it. [[Constant interruptions from the Fidesz benches.]] And I'd like to tell you one more thing, since you're bringing it up. My colleague Répássy was not in there, but I found him in my notes, in a very strange speech he began by saying that this government presentation is in all things the same as what was initiated by the referendum. Then, three minutes later, he told me how much worse the referendum was, because it would destroy the bonus, and that would therefore be much worse than this government presentation. [[Márius Révész: Not for three years...]] Three years, but why do you have to tell me twice that it's the same thing? Then it's not the same, so don't argue with that. [[Happy Stephen intervenes.]] And there was one more thing I wanted to say. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] It's really not my place, and I don't want to... the two minutes are over, and I'll say that next time. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2016-04-12-70	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, We will continue the debate. From the Fidesz Group, Mr István Happy is next. Here you go.
u2016-04-12-71	Mr. President. Dear Parliament, More than a year ago, I told you about the same place, that for the first time in 24 years we can give something to Hungarian-owned small and medium-sized traders with this law. Compared to this, I've been sitting here for almost two hours, and I don't hear a word about them. I especially do not hear the opposition side, although Jobbik is supposed to be sitting here, who is constantly speaking about Hungarian small businesses; here is the MSZP, which always talks about Hungarian small businesses. In this law, interestingly, they are on the other side, on the side of the multis. Why? Because if it's not the Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprises, it's important [[Noise from Jobbik's benches. Dóra Dúró: Who put in the law?]] which are now [[The president's ringing the bell.]] They can open up on Sunday and work, so why aren't they on their side? So stand by them. [[Interview from Jobbik's benches: Don't vote for it!]] The fact is that you have betrayed Hungarian small businesses. [[Dóra Dúró: Who?]] In addition, trade workers were betrayed [[Dóra Dúró: Who filed the law?]] Since the Independent Trade Workers' Union clearly stated that it was good for them, the trade workers, could plan to be at home on Sundays. [[12.20]] I think that we are revoking a law - although I do not agree with this withdrawal and I continue to stand by the free Sunday of retailers and commercial workers - which was good. His only mistake was that he couldn't win the favour of Hungarian politics. Some have made a political debate out of this, and thought that this could provide political gain. If political parties had unitedly sided with what was good for Hungarian retailers, small businesses and commercial workers, they would not have organised a counter-campaign, but would have tried to persuade people that this would be good for them, and then there would not have been such a squabble, nor would we have been in a situation where more than 70 percent of people would have rejected this law in a year. But we are politicians, and in politics, it doesn't matter what some people have promised once, no matter what the value of the left is, it's about what can be used for political gain, and that's what you think. One doesn't care about left-wing values, it doesn't matter why his left-wing ancestors fought, the other doesn't care what he promised in his programme, nor what he said here in the debate, because I was sitting here at the time and I listened to what arguments were made in the debate. But it doesn't matter what the polls say. It's a shame, ladies and gentlemen. I think that the government must admit that after a year people have not adopted this measure, and that they have made a wise decision when they said that they will then accept the opinion of the people. This does not mean that I still have to agree with this, nor does it mean that I should face retail workers or face small Hungarian businesses. I would like to ask my fellow Members that when it comes to voting on the replacement wage for trade workers, they should stand by them and not with the multinationals, because it would be much more important to ensure a rest day for the Hungarian people, not to support the multinationals. Don't make the argument that the employee should decide whether he wants to work on Sunday, because they can't show a worker who is free to do so, because if the boss of multinational companies and businesses usually say that they have to come to work on Sunday, they have to go in; if they don't go in, they risk their job. And it is good to be informed that the mall owners have already informed the owners of the shops in the malls that they would like to return to the opening hours on Sunday, because in their contract it is mandatory to return to the opening hours on Sunday. From now on, I don't think even shop owners can decide whether they want to keep me open or not to keep me open in a mall like this. Not only will the salesman decide whether he wants to go to work on Sunday or not. Unfortunately, trade workers cannot decide this, they will be forced to enter, and this is thanks to you, who have not sided with Hungarian people and not Hungarian small businesses. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. Dr. Wind Bernadett puts flyers on the congressman's desk.]]
u2016-04-12-72	Before we continue, I respectfully ask Congresswoman Bernadett Wind not to do so, because this is a forbidden illustration. You are not allowed to distribute material in this House without permission from a committee. [[A lot of applause, a lot of noise.]] A proper speech will come from the Jobbik Group, Mr Gábor Vona Group leader. Everyone, please pay attention to the leader of the faction.
u2016-04-12-73	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, In the last 24 hours, there have been two basic interpretations of what has happened on the part of the governing parties. According to one interpretation, the governing party saw the social will, saw its own flaws, and, pointing to a kind of political generosity, withdrew its earlier vision and presented this bill. According to the other interpretation, Fidesz was terrified of a referendum that was expected to have a negative impact on him, and he quickly did what he had done in order to save the political interest. Which is the truth, I do not wish to speculate, so everyone can decide on the basis of their temperament, vision, or information base. One Commissioner, the Parliament's responsibility here is that, if this social atmosphere and this political situation have been established, it should provide proper regulation for the current situation. In the current situation, a referendum would indeed be uneven and costly. There would be no need to hold a referendum here in Parliament if we could bring this issue short with a legislative act. That's what's happening now. Of course, from abolishing this bad law, our duties are not over, because on the one hand it is the issue of wage replacements, and on the other hand the further regulation of this area is still waiting for Parliament. I would ask the Minister of State Dömötör, who is no longer present, who said that he would only want to consult the ruling party with the trade unions, not to do so, since the opposition parties, in this case Jobbik, have an opinion on this issue, and we would be happy to say so when we have the opportunity. But what I would like to say is that there is an aspect of today's debate that, at first sight, may not be closely related to this subject today, but it is closely linked, because it is a referendum. And that is the issue of quota, the issue of a referendum on quota. How does this relate here? In September 2015, in the Hungarian Parliament, I was the first to propose to hold a referendum in Hungary on the rejection of quota, which is to send a message to the Hungarian society and the European Union that Hungary does not want EU quotas. You usually listen to our proposals with half-yearly delays, as was the case with the fence, as was the case with the referendum; a few weeks ago, Prime Minister Viktor Orbán also said that a referendum on the quota should be held. The events of the last week are also alarming, since it is clear that the mandatory quota issue in the European Union remains on the agenda, is still there and is almost stealthy, preparing to be introduced at the right time and force Member States to introduce the mandatory quota. In this situation, as the political player, the Member of Parliament, who originally suggested holding a referendum to reject the compulsory quota, I now say in this capacity that, taking account of the situation, time has passed over the referendum against the quota. The time has passed over this referendum, and we must send an even stronger impulse to the European Union and Brussels than a referendum on a quota. Why is this necessary in my opinion? The referendum is slow. Perhaps the referendum could take place sometime in the autumn, but you can see very clearly that the European Union and Brussels do not want to wait, but want to introduce the quota as soon as possible, and perhaps by the time we can hold the referendum, it would be too late. On the other hand, the referendum is not only slow, but, as Minister Antal Rogán said, it is expensive. If we have the social will to reject the quota, and we have it, then why would we spend billions on it; to use your argument, Minister. But the outcome of a referendum is uncertain, because we do not know whether it will be valid and effective. Imagine the terrible moment in which a referendum might be invalid or ineffective. This could be a catastrophic situation for us in relation to the mandatory quota. While, once again, the social will on this issue is quite clear, the amazing majority of Hungarian society rejects the introduction of a compulsory quota. So what do we do? What if I am right that time has passed over the referendum? What do you need? To be honest, I thought a lot about this question, and yesterday, Antal Rogán's political courage gave me inspiration to find a solution. Mr. Minister's brave stand yesterday gave me the opportunity to find out what was needed. The solution was here before us, Minister. It was here before all of us, but we didn't see it. And that's when I realized that if the matter of a referendum on compulsory quotas is slow, uncertain and expensive, then perhaps we here in Parliament have a responsibility, just like in relation to Sunday's lockdown. Here in Parliament, we must give the European Union and Brussels an even stronger impetus to our view of keeping a mandatory quota. So we need a legislative act, a stronger impulse. And the solution came to light, Minister, when I listened to your courageous stand: you have a referendum initiative that says whether you want the European Union to require the compulsory resettlement of non-Hungarian citizens into Hungary without the consent of the Parliament. [[12.30]] All we have to do, Minister, is remove the question mark from the end of your referendum question, put an end to the sentence and put it in the Fundamental Law. This is what we will present to the Parliament today. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]] the Fundamental Law should be amended by the following sentence: the European Union cannot require the compulsory resettlement of non-Hungarian citizens into Hungary without the consent of the Parliament. Here's the solution, fellow Members. Minister, thank you for creating this opportunity for me yesterday. [[Antal Rogán smiles.]] I see you're happy. Don't hold back your joy. But, fellow Members, I do not see the joy! I do not see the joy of my fellow Members. Hello, hello, hello. [[Defiance from the Jobbik benches. Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] Don't hold back. You're welcome. Here's the solution. There's no need to run a referendum campaign. Because what I am talking about is the amendment of the Fundamental Law, on the one hand, it is quick - you can be very quick if necessary - and on the other hand it costs cheap, zero forints. And certainly, because it will be in the Fundamental Law, we do not have to fear the uncertainty of the referendum. So feel free to take the pleasure out of it. This isn't a poker game in Andy Vajna's casino. You're welcome. Smile, there's a solution. We will put forward this amendment to the basic law, and you will have to vote on this issue, and then you will decide what your referendum on quotas is really about. Is it about you trying to turn down the quota? 'Cause then they'll have to vote for it. You think so, don't you? You cannot vote not to raise your own referendum question to fundamental law, can you, fellow Members? Or if they do, what do we find out? It turns out, my fellow Members from Fidesz, KDNP, that you are using the issue of the referendum on quotas only for political campaign purposes. [[Intercom from Jobbik's benches: That's right!]] That's what's gonna come out, but I can't call it treason. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2016-04-12-74	Now we have two-minute comments. [[For signal:]] On a two-minute contribution from the Jobbik Group, Member György Szilágyi has applied.
u2016-04-12-75	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. I always listen with great interest to István Happy's speeches, as he usually highlights certain issues from a different perspective [[It's a lot of noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] One-on-one argument. Happy István said earlier, and this was an interesting suggestion that anyone who voted in favour of this law will take the side of the multinationals against small and medium-sized enterprises. This is interesting from my point of view, because I would like to ask István Happy who submitted this law. Who's the reason we're negotiating this bill now? [[Lajos Korózs: The Fidesz! Only the Fidesz!]] That means they're on the side of the multinationals. If the Fidesz fraction is likely to vote in favour of this law, they will be on the side of the multinationals, and he said that Viktor Orbán is probably also on the side of the multinationals. By the way, I would really like to congratulate you, because finally someone from the Fidesz fraction has openly agreed to face the Prime Minister and dared to give his opinion. The second is that he has called us to account at the moment that he will hope that we will stand up so much for the workers on the issue of wage replacements. I would like to tell you that we are standing up, because yesterday we tabled our amendments, which were voted down by the Fidesz MEPs on the Legislative Committee, and which would have led to that very result. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] to make the allowance 100 percent on Sunday's work. So I'm asking you to be informed, and I'm asking you to support us when we submit these proposals. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2016-04-12-76	Thank you very much, Congressman. A two-minute comment will be made by Congressman István Happy. Here you go.
u2016-04-12-77	Dear Parliament, Dear Mr Szilágyi, The fact is that I was talking about betraying Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprises, commercial workers, after you did not support the law. This is why the government has now had to change its position, because a public opinion poll has clearly shown that the Hungarian people have not accepted this in the last year. But if you had sided with the opposition and not campaigned against it all the time, then, in my opinion, the closing hours on Sunday would be much more acceptable today, and the Hungarian small businesses, the Hungarian retailers, would still be in a much better position. Of course, there will be a lot of workers to be dismissed now, because they hired employees to be there on Sunday, because the owners worked in the shops, and their employees should be there on weekdays. Now it's likely that after the multis are open, on Sunday, people will go to the multis and they will be closed, and as a result, workers will be dismissed. I feel sorry for them, and I will continue to stand by them and trade workers. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2016-04-12-78	Thank you very much. From the Jobbik Group, Mr President Novák is coming to a proper speech.
u2016-04-12-79	Dear Parliament, [[It's constant noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] MSZP politicians protested against the method of Fidesz taking away their referendum tool. Indeed, the reason why Antal Rogán, Minister of Propaganda, is not honest is that they only hear the people's voice, because they could have heard it before. Indeed, I would like to make the referendum impossible. However, the MSZP should not forget the very similar case in 2009 when Fidesz and the MSZP together provided the necessary two thirds for the constitutional amendment when a referendum was prevented in a similar and even more harsh situation. A referendum where 600 thousand signatures were collected in order to provide Members of Parliament with reimbursement of their eligible expenses, supported by a certificate, against the very amazing legislation at that time. I mean, it wasn't like that before. This referendum has been prevented by a legislative or even constitutional amendment, despite 600,000 signatures for civil initiatives. Indeed, they have abused this system of reimbursement, led by János Lázár, who, as a starting politician, was already a record record record in his first term, without an invoice. Between 2002 and 2006 he received HUF 18 million for travel and accommodation expenses. Overall, only 41.4 million forints of cash came in their first cycle, while speaking only seven times during the first four years. I have also calculated: this cost the voters 6 million HUF per speech, and obviously much more, as the contributions were also charged to the Office of the Parliament. So János Lázár received 6 million forints per speech, but it could also be said that he received more than 2 million forints per minute at the hourly rate - I didn't even dare to calculate. It is no wonder that this has knocked out the security of a wide range of society, no wonder that 600,000 signatures have gathered in order to eliminate this method. And it is no wonder that, in the same way, Fidesz and the MSZP jointly amended the laws, even the constitution, so that the referendum cannot be held. The same method was used by the MSZP. Ceterum censeo: It's not about closing shops, it's about closing down political criminals. [[Delight and applause from the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2016-04-12-80	I will ask my fellow Members if anyone else wishes to speak in the debate. [[No one's reporting.]] I do not see an application; the consolidated debate is closed. I will ask Minister Antal Rogán if he wishes to speak and respond to what has been said. [[On the signal of Antal Rogán:]] Yes, he does. I give you the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2016-04-12-81	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I think that we have heard very false arguments here in this Chamber in two respects today. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: You weren't even here!]] I just want to respond briefly to what has been said. [[It's constant noise. The president's ringing again.]] On the one hand, I would like to draw attention to the fact that it has now come to light that opposition factions have put an extremely irresponsible proposal on the table as a referendum. They themselves realized that, in fact, as a referendum issue, they also suggested the abolition of the Sunday wage bonus. [[Rushing from the benches of the MSZP. You're lying! You're lying!]] Yeah, that's right. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] It was suggested, ladies and gentlemen, that the law should be withdrawn one at a time, which the government has now put on the table as a proposal. I would like to say with respect that if this had been in the form of a referendum, we would not be able to bring back the Sunday wage allowance in Hungary for three years. [[József Tobias: This is stupid!]] That was your irresponsible suggestion. [[Crying from the benches of the MSZP: Don't lie! - Gábor István Bellozó: It's a lousy lie! Sit down.]] Compared to this, honourable Members, it is possible to open up a substantive one at any time in the coming weeks, and I think it is a real consultation with trade unions, workers' representatives and employers. [[József Tobias: Should have done it before!]] And we can agree on a Sunday wage supplement system, which, I think, could be filed before the National Assembly. So much for that, ladies and gentlemen. But I think the real false part of today's debate was what Gábor Vona Group Leader has been saying in the last ten minutes. Mr Group Leader, I can tell you that, since I can remember and listen to politics at all, it has been customary in this country that any piece of sovereignty has been decided only and exclusively by the people, and only in the form of a referendum. [[There's always a lot of noise. Crying from the opposition benches: Time, time! Your time is up!]] This is what happened when we voted to join the European Union or to join NATO Honourable Head of the Group, and I think that this should happen even if anyone wants to give up a piece of sovereignty in this respect. [[Gábor Vona: Vote for the amendment of the basic law!]] So, Mr Group Leader, what I would really like to ask you is the question of which client has given you this great idea to prevent a referendum in the former cases. Can Brussels give orders to the Jobbik faction? Because that is the real question, honourable Members. Thank you very much for your kind attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]] [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]] I would also like to ask the fellow Members to support and vote on as many of the proposals tabled by the Government as possible, regardless of the debate. Thank you very much for your kind attention. (Applause from the benches of the governing parties. ) [[12.40]]
u2016-04-12-82	Thank you very much, Minister. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that the final vote will take place between today's decisions. We are now continuing our work with the decisions on the agenda. I'll ask everyone to take their seats, make sure your card is properly placed in the voting machine. Dear Parliament, Next up is T/10171 on the amendment of certain laws relating to Sunday work in the retail sector. Final vote of bill No 1. I remind you that, according to our decision yesterday, the bill will be dealt with in an exceptional procedure by the Parliament. Since no amendments have been tabled to the proposal, we are now deciding on the text of the bill submitted. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/10171. Bill No. 1. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the bill by 163 votes in favour, 2 against and 11 abstentions. It is now coming to the conclusion of the T/9631 Treaty between Hungary and the Republic of Slovenia on the change of state borders as a result of the regulation of the water management of the Lendva Creek. Final vote of bill No 1. The rapporteur is Mr T/9631/2. No 2 submitted an adjustment to correct spelling errors, which are available on the network. Since no amendment has been proposed to summarise the proposal, we are now deciding on an adapted text of the proposed legislation. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/9631. Act No. 1 along with the adjustment. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the adjusted bill with 169 votes in favour, no votes against, with 5 abstentions. The T/9787 on the announcement of the Convention between the Government of Hungary and the Government of the People's Republic of China on the development, implementation and financing of the reconstruction phase of the Budapest-Belgrád railway line in Hungary follows a line. Final vote of bill No 1. The rapporteur was Mr T/9787/2. It submitted an adjustment to correct the error reported in the paper, which is available on the network. Since no amendment has been proposed to summarise the proposal, we are now deciding on an adapted text of the proposed legislation. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether T/9787 accepts it. Act No. 1 along with the adjustment. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the adjusted bill by 123 votes in favour, 6 against and 45 abstentions. The Hungarian Development Bank's 2011 XX. T/9783. Final vote of bill No 1. Since no amendments have been tabled to the proposal, we are now deciding on the text of the bill submitted. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether T/9783 accepts it. Bill No. 1. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the bill by 140 votes in favour, 27 against and 10 abstentions. T/9715 on the amendment of Act X of 2006 on cooperatives follows. Final vote of bill No 1. Since no amendments have been tabled to the proposal, we are now deciding on the text of the bill submitted. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/9715. Bill No. 1. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the bill by 171 votes in favour, 3 against and 1 abstention. We now have T/9635. on the amendment of certain social and child protection laws and of the legislation concerning the care of persons with disabilities. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/9635/13 and T/9635/14. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I would like to inform you that the Rules of the House 48th. Pursuant to paragraphs (4) of Section 4, Jobbik's group proposed the continuation of amendments 6, 7 and 8 and the MSZP Group proposed amendments No 2, 3 and 4. That's what we're gonna decide first. Amendment 6 is proposed by Mr Sebestyén. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not hold the amendment by 54 votes to 114, with six abstentions. Amendment 7 is also proposed by Mr Sebestyén. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not hold the amendment with 55 votes in favour, 113 against and 6 abstentions. Amendment No 8 is also proposed by Sebestyén Szító. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not hold the amendment by 57 votes in favour, 112 against and 6 abstentions. [[Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] May I have your attention, please? Amendment 2 is proposed by Lajos Korózs and Ildikó Bangóné Borbély. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not hold the amendment with 60 votes in favour, 112 against and 1 abstention. Amendment 3 is proposed by Lajos Korózs and Ildikó Bangóné Borbély. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not hold the amendment by 60 votes in favour, 115 against and 1 abstention. Amendment 4 is proposed by Lajos Korózs and Ildikó Bangóné Borbély. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not hold the amendment by 55 votes in favour, 119 against and 1 abstention. As the Parliament did not hold up an amendment, we are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/9635/13. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 120 votes in favour, 30 against and 25 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/9635/17. A single proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the single proposal by 120 votes to 30, with 25 abstentions. Dear Parliament, We now decide on the inclusion of a series of proposals. I would like to remind you that yesterday, the Parliament has already held a hearing on these matters. I ask you whether you will be included in a series of questions by our fellow Member, Bernadett Szél, LMP, on the infringement procedure and on the infringement registration system II of 2012. T/8595. a proposal for a regulation tabled by the Court of Justice of the European Union. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not include the bill with 38 votes in favour, 110 votes against and 25 abstentions. [[12.50]] I ask you whether you will be included in a series of articles entitled T/8131, the amendment of certain laws required by the MEP József Tóbias and his fellow Members in order to ensure freedom of expression. a proposal for a regulation tabled by the Court of Justice of the European Union. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not include the bill with 60 votes in favour, 117 votes against and no abstentions. I ask you whether you will be included in a series of questions by our colleague József Tóbiás MSZP on the initiative of the referendum, the European Citizens' Initiative and the 2013 CCXXXVIII on the referendum procedure. T/9476. a proposal for a regulation tabled by the Court of Justice of the European Union. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not include the bill with 60 votes in favour, 115 votes against and 1 abstention. Dear Parliament, We've reached the end of the decisions. I'm ordering a two-minute technical break. [[It's a short break.]] I ask my fellow Members in the Chamber to take their seats so that we can continue our work. There will be a general discussion of the bill on the status of public project evaluation and the amendment of certain related laws until closure. The government referral is T/10092. Number 2 is available on the IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr Nándor Csepreghy, Secretary of State of the Prime Minister's Office, the rapporteur of the item on the agenda, in a 30-minute time frame, who will speak about the platform. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2016-04-12-83	Mr President, Thank you very much for the floor. Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, Dear House, No problem can be solved by putting it on ice - the government has always tried to follow this Churchilli principle, and this is particularly important when we talk about issues such as the use of EU funds, because time is not working for us at all on this issue. Hungary can use significant resources in the framework of the Széchenyi 2020 programme, based on the EU budget and on the Hungarian budget. Therefore, we cannot allow Hungary to fall from resources because of inadequate project evaluation. But we are going further than that, and we cannot allow about HUF 12 billion to be spent in the wrong places, not by the right beneficiaries and not in the right way. That is why we have submitted the bill on the status of state project evaluation and on the amendment of certain related laws. We believe it is necessary that the social and economic policy goals of the country be achieved through the supported investments, and that no one should think that, ahead of the right, using loopholes, taking into account its own wealth, exploits the system's difficulties, and that no one should think that it is perceived to serve selfish interests or, perhaps even worse, to convey public funds to those who are not worthy of it, based on real contact nets. The Government of Hungary has already taken significant steps to achieve these objectives, with regard to the abolition of the National Development Agency, the interconnection of development policy and policy powers, and the suspension of external evaluation systems. This will allow applicants to make clear and transparent decisions. Transparency is the key - this has already been recognised in the previous cycle, and the current bill is also at the service of this. However, transparency is not sufficient. We cannot rest on the fact that development resources are running in the wrong direction in front of everyone. Without accountability, even the most transparent processes do not make much sense. We therefore propose to this House the creation of a specialized list in which all the evaluators can be made known, and their decisions can also be called into account, not only on them, but also on the Ministry of the Prime Minister's Office, which initiated the bill. On behalf of the Prime Minister's Office, we take political responsibility for spending development policy forints and euros on projects that best serve the public interest and that grow as soon as possible and with the greatest efficiency. There have been serious criticisms from the Commission towards Member States using cohesion funds regarding the transparency of the selection of supported proposals, and we have not been alone with this criticism. Both opposition and government representatives have expressed their concerns on a frequent basis as to whether the institutions of the development policy system really share the resources at their disposal in the best way. After 2010, the government did not sting with criticism, we found conditions in the institutional system of development policy - and do not forget to mention its environment - which we could not imagine in our nightmares. As I mentioned briefly, these conditions have been systematically eliminated, but neither professional nor political responsibility has been clarified. We did not have the opportunity, but we are now offering a change, with the adoption of which both responsible groups can be clearly defined, honourable Members and gentlemen. We are now proposing a reorganised evaluation framework that guarantees that the evaluation is purely based on policy considerations and ensures independence from the interests of any external market participant, increased objectivity and transparency. [[13.00]] And we are doing this by assuming the political responsibility of the Prime Minister's Office for decisions taken in the new system. We do this in the knowledge that there are interests not only on the opposition side that are against transparency and accountability. Corruption, regardless of the political base, will find ways to make sacrifices in every country and every political course. In the last week, Hungarian people could have been filled with pride: the Panamanian writings were marginally affected only by our country. The fact that corrupt politicians, economic operators, athletes and apparently less well-known people have been caught in other capitals in Europe does not mean that everything is far from okay here. All it means is that the raised finger used too often against us is at least as justified for others. The government has recognised the need to combat corruption, and the current legislative proposal serves this purpose: it shows that Hungary is committed to operating a transparent, responsible development policy institutional system and intends to meet the expectations of renewing the selection system set out by the European Commission during the audits of the previous period. The evaluation of the project requires non-influenced processes, excluding market interests, and requires evaluators who, as I have already said, are accountable. This will continue the fight to clean up the so-called application writing profession, as we will rule out once and for all the same candidates who wrote it. The new legislation only allows employees in the public sector to enter the professional register, but it also makes it financially attractive for them. Dear House, The additional work must be paid and taken into account. If you accept this bill, you agree. If they vote no, they're preparing for corruption. I would like to point out that the amendment does not affect the evaluation process, its system and its main rules. We are proposing only a change in the selection of those who perform the evaluation, and I cannot repeat that this is how the system becomes completely transparent and accountable. As I have already pointed out, I have been admitted to the professional register by state, local government employees, those who are employed in public companies, and can receive separate remuneration, which we provide them from domestic sources. The new evaluation system will be operated by an independent organisational unit at the Prime Minister's Office. The Prime Minister's Office shall also be responsible for selecting the evaluators by tender. Dear House, In recent years, the institutional system of development policy has changed on a number of occasions. I do not say that this amendment is the most important, but I am sure that this small, technical change is a milestone in the fight against corruption in development policy. Who in their immediate environment has not heard that skeptical figures have offered their assistance in obtaining grants based on their excellent contacts and insider information? No law can prevent such immoral offers from being made in the future, so that these criminal energies cease to exist. What the government promises with this amendment is nothing more or nothing less than that such immoral attempts are screened and those responsible can be called to account. Dear House, If you feel that this minor technical change, but important in its importance, is in the interests of Hungary, support the bill by voting in favour. Mr President, thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-04-12-84	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. I give the floor first from the Fidesz Group to Mr Alpár Gyopáros. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-04-12-85	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear fellow Members, The Prime Minister's Office submitted the bill on the state project evaluation status to Parliament in accordance with the mandate of the Government. The proposal fits well into the range of measures that the government has taken in recent years to ensure that the procedures for the use of EU funds are extended over and over again with guaranteed elements that strengthen the objectives set out in the law: transparency, increased expertise and objectivity. Such a measure has previously been the reorganisation of the tasks of the National Development Agency, which has shaped the procedure in the light of sectoral development policy objectives, with a stronger involvement of its sectors in policy interests and less account being taken of external interests, with a more specific end to external evaluation procedures. After all this, we now have another proposal, the elements of which are a guarantee of the primacy and exclusivity of the policy objectives. Let's see what these warranty elements are. The first and most striking change is that instead of the previously outsourced and thus less transparent evaluation procedure, the most transparent evaluation team can carry out this task. The basis of the assessment persons is the public sector, since the evaluators can only be government officials, civil servants or natural persons with a labour law relationship in an exclusive state-owned company. It is a strong guarantee that two evaluators should be assigned to each project and the evaluation will be valid only if there is no significant difference between the evaluations. If the difference between the two assessments exceeds 30 per cent as proposed, a further evaluation procedure should be carried out. This proposal, in my view, will increase objectivity in the evaluation system. The law also clarifies the status of the rating relationship, which is particularly important because, as I mentioned, it is a public task under an existing legal relationship, but it is a secondary legal relationship. From a labour law point of view, it is a special relationship due to its specific characteristics, while looking at some guarantee elements. First of all, the State Project Appraiser has a primary relationship, the fate of which is divided by the special legal relationship of its evaluators, i.e. if the primary legal relationship is terminated, the evaluation relationship will also be terminated. Secondly, the assessment relationship is established in the context of a tender. The law would rightly only lay down the framework of the tendering procedure, setting the detailed rules on the basis of a regulation. Only the public project evaluator who complies with the call for proposals may be selected. Thirdly, it is an important element of the regulation to say that it does not create a conflict of interest between the primary legal relationship and the assessment relationship, but the performance of the evaluation's secondary function, i.e. the evaluation's role, should not jeopardise the fulfilment of its tasks under its fundamental rights, which is the responsibility of the project assessment. However, there is a conflict of interest in all the circumstances which have been set out in the Government Decree No 272/2014 on the use of grants. The provisions of the Act on certain declaration of assets obligations shall apply mutatis mutandis to public project evaluators. For the sixth time, the public project assessment can only be a natural person with no criminal record. After the selection of the State Project Appraisal, a public list of experts, the name and subject matter of the evaluator may be considered as public data in the public interest. The specific contract concluded with him shall specify the subject area for which the evaluator is an expert. I am convinced that it is right to have a specific rule that requires close cooperation between the Ministry responsible for the use of EU funds and the relevant sectoral managing authority, according to which the selection of the evaluator and its assignment to the project to be evaluated are carried out by the former, while the evaluating professional preparation and quality control of its work are carried out by the latter. The bill also sets out the basic conditions for the remuneration of the valuer and, finally, the cases of termination of the status of valuer. Dear Parliament, In view of the legal guarantees presented, I am convinced that the law fulfils its objective of declaring that the assessment of the content of aid applications relating to the programming period of the European Union is a public task. The employment of public project evaluators in this area is conducive to this basic objective. All the regulatory elements which set out the framework for carrying out this task provide a sufficient guarantee that the use of grants in the project evaluation phase will meet the needs of transparency, objectivity, professionalism and expediency. On this basis, I would like to say that the Fidesz faction supports the adoption of the bill, and I will also ask my fellow Members to do so. Thank you very much.
u2016-04-12-86	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker of the MSZP Group is Mr István Józsa. I give you the floor. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-04-12-87	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I was pleased to hear from the Secretary of State at the outset that he self-criticalally acknowledged that there were serious criticisms on the part of the European Union in relation to the use of cohesion funds towards certain Member States regarding the transparency of the selection of supported proposals. I also understand that the Secretary of State has tried to repack this for the period before 2010, but we must see that it has not served the transparency of the use of cohesion resources, or at least it was a very critical change by the Union, when the National Development Agency was abolished in the post-2010 steps of the government, the development policy and policy powers have been combined, the external evaluation systems have been suspended. [[13.10]] These steps have shown that several suspension payments have not resulted in results. The Union therefore considers it necessary to take further measures, which the Commission expects to follow up on the establishment of a clear and transparent decision-making system for applicants and clear decisions. From 1 January 2014, the evaluation of projects submitted by small and medium-sized enterprises and civil and ecclesiastical organisations will be carried out by the authorities integrated in the Ministry of Monitoring the operational programme concerned. So you have already taken steps in a similar direction to this self-assessed list of professional names, i.e. this is already done by managing authorities integrated in ministries, partly relying on internal resources, partly outsourcing this activity to external experts. In view of the current change in their submission, by establishing the status of public project evaluation, the external independent expert world is also excluded by your bill from project evaluation activities in the case of projects that may require specific knowledge, as the legislative proposal clearly states that the assessment of the content of aid applications is a public task which can only be performed by those with a public project evaluation relationship. This is, in our view, a mistake in principle, because it is difficult to guarantee that in any case, in every field, there will be a suitable specialist in the circle that you have defined. You say that only those who are either government officials or civil servants or civil servants, can be members of the professional register, of this secondary evaluation relationship. Moreover, there is an opening of a professional circle here, if you really think about it, that employees of a majority-state company can apply at all to carry out project evaluation tasks. At the same time, it cannot be said that the situation does not arise when there is a need for expertise outside the circle described here. So, in the circle described here, there may not be a man of sufficient expertise, an expert. So when you're putting this list of professional names together, you're gonna have to be very careful and competent not to fall into the enchantment of just the good cadre, just the good project valuer who's in your employ, who's carrying out your orders, don't give me, God, he's also carrying out instructions that aren't exactly professionally motivated, so that I don't say any harsher. This problem is therefore not completely closed, so we can accept that basically they want to rely on individuals with such primary rights, but to exclude completely that independent experts can be involved, perhaps not Hungarian citizens - because there is also a certain fact that Hungarian citizens may not have the expertise to deal with a question - we do not consider this acceptable. The real question therefore arises as to how government officials, civil servants, civil servants and employees of public companies can carry out their project evaluation tasks under their fundamental rights, as the performance of the evaluation function is not affected by the fundamental rights of the work. So there is a duality from a labour law point of view that while you say that you do not need to ask permission from your boss in the context of his duties in the field of fundamental rights in order to apply and carry out an evaluation exercise, how can you now even bring this together in terms of the use of working time or bring it together in terms of the order of instructions. What guarantee do you have that if this is just a secondary relationship, and there is a timely task to be carried out with regard to project evaluation, that you may not receive in your primary job tasks such as in your ministry, which is not a ministry, but a Prime Minister's Office, such an implied job instruction that 8 hours a day is at least 10, but rather 12? So how would it be possible for someone to do an excellent project evaluation work in the framework of their second job? The fact that, in essence, this project evaluation activity can only be carried out in a second job is, in our view, a downgrading of this work. We can safely say that this requires a full man, a man who not only does the work but also takes the time to prepare it, so he keeps his knowledge at a level that ensures that he can carry out the applications in new and new areas of excellence. In view of what you have said, that this is also a task of harmonisation of EU legislation, we accept this, and we also believe that the objective to be supported is that, by establishing an institution for the assessment of public projects, you have aimed at the timely and effective use of EU funds for development programmes up to 2020, but whether this rather specific system can serve this, not only by us, representatives, but also by professionals. The fact that the bill so categorically and clearly states that the assessment of the content of aid applications is a public task which can only be carried out by those in the public project assessment relationship, this determines the number of persons employed in the public sector who can apply for it at all, and this, as I have said, may not cover the required knowledge in a professional way. The fact that a legal relationship can only be established on the basis of a tendering procedure is an appropriate element. I'm sure it's only through a tender that it's even possible to get on such a list. In this way, any person may, as appropriate, be entitled to be included in the list of experts after examination. The fact that a framework contract is then created and the legal relationship is terminated after the end of the programming period and the end of the fundamental rights of the evaluator is now a bit of a gap. [[13.20]] Because if a person has a framework contract, he has won a tender as an evaluation of a tender, but his fundamental rights will cease for any reason, why should he cease if he is otherwise performing his evaluation activities at a good level? So I would imagine here that the law would provide an opportunity to continue, if it were not a newly acquired evaluation relationship, but an acquired legal relationship, in the event that the basic employment relationship was terminated, this would be possible. Therefore, there should not be any grounds for refusal if, otherwise, the fundamental rights ratio is to be removed from the assessment activities carried out at a high level. The Ministry of Central Coordination, led by the Minister for the Use of EU Resources, the Prime Minister's Office, and the Ministry of National Taxation and Customs Office, 2010 CXXII. Law 33/C. By supplementing Article 4 of the Act, it provides for the possibility that a government official holding a management position may establish or continue a public project evaluation relationship without prior authorisation from the employer's practitioner. Here's a question. It says here in the text, "without prior permission." So that's what we're saying, without prior authorisation, someone can submit an application. But does it also mean that when you've won the registration and entered into a framework contract, you don't have to report to your primary contract manager that you've created such a secondary contract? That's a little troubling. So even if it were not, because it could start different waves, but if someone successfully won a tender, I think that a notification obligation or perhaps a quasi-solicited letter from the Ministry to ask this person to operate in the works of the professional register would be appropriate. So we understand that there is a need for such a law, which answers the criticisms expressed by the European Commission, and hopefully also avoids the things that, if I remember correctly, were agreed last week in a 100 billion-dollar failure - if it should be so simple - with the EU Commissioner, but if you explain to the Secretary of State that this is not a failure, but what it is, it may be an apple meadow. So I don't want to say that this is definitely a failure; we'll find out exactly what it is. So we agree with the intention, which is exactly described here, so, in this form, the MSZP fraction, unfortunately, cannot support it because of the open professional issues. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2016-04-12-88	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker of KDNP is Mátyás Firtl. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2016-04-12-89	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, Hungary's development and country's growth are our main goals. It is therefore important that Parliament pays particular attention to the use of EU funds in order to achieve the social and economic policy objectives set out for the 2014-2020 programming period. The most effective use of EU funds is not only an opportunity, but also a task, which must serve economic development, i.e. practically improving the everyday life of Hungarian people, and growth. The efficiency and efficiency of the use are responsibilities and joint responsibilities. It is of the utmost importance for Hungary to support investments in the EU budget cycle 2014-2020 that will certainly help to boost economic growth and job creation in the long term. Therefore, in order to assess each project objectively, transparently and independently of the interests of market participants, the government constitutes T/10092. Act No 1 in the form of a proposal before this House, which aims to guarantee the use of EU funds for investment in job creation and economic growth. Hungary can use a significant development resource in the framework of the Széchenyi 2020 programme, based on the EU budget and on the Hungarian budget. It is of the utmost importance for the government to achieve the country's social and economic policy objectives through the investments thus supported. While the Commission's expectations - and criticisms - are being formulated for Member States using cohesion funds in relation to the selection and transparency of funded proposals, the Government of Hungary has already taken significant steps towards achieving these objectives. The draft law contains necessary elements that, by applying the law, allow clear transparent decisions to be taken for applicants. The government proposes a reorganised evaluation framework in the draft law that guarantees that the evaluation is based solely on policy considerations and ensures independence from the interests of any external market participant, increased objectivity and transparency. At the same time, the development of a new evaluation system based on legislation can apply all the principles based on the success of job-creating, economic recovery developments. The draft law before us is a guarantee in several respects. On the one hand, it provides the government with a guarantee of how and in what areas development resources will be used in the sense that they should be able to do so only on the basis of the most rigorous professional aspects and on the basis of a clear and secure basis. On the other hand, applicants are also guaranteed by legislative change in the sense that the law provides for a fair and objective decision for those who need resources, which in any case can only be made on the basis of a uniform set of criteria. Thus, the guarantee that the best-designed, best-quality proposals to promote the achievement of the objectives of economic development will be supported in the most complex way. It is therefore important that only the substantive content of applications can be a criticism criterion based on strict professionalism, so it is an important decision of the government, which means the need to create a professional list of candidates for evaluation. Thirdly, in relation to the previous aspects, the new system can also guarantee the European Commission the use of resources and their transparency. Therefore, the assessment of the content of aid applications relating to the programming period of the European Union is a public task and it is reasonable and even necessary for the public project evaluators to promote the common good for development. Dear Parliament, The use of EU and Hungarian budgetary resources for development purposes cannot be regarded as an issue independent of the current economic economy, and it is therefore important to look at the new concept and draft legislation to be negotiated in the context of their impact. In 2016, it can be stated that today Hungary can use a significant development resource in the framework of the Széchenyi 2020 programme based on the EU budget and on the Hungarian budget that our budgetary policy is successful, clearly predictable and responsible government management; the current draft law can further strengthen and strengthen all these features. When discussing this issue, we cannot separate ourselves from the fact that expectations are justified by GDP growth. [[13.30]] The European Union is at the forefront of Hungary's economic growth, which is above the EU average. Just one example is that the level of government debt is 75,3 percent compared to GDP, and this trend continues this year, and indeed a decrease in GDP is expected. As for the period 2007-2013, they have developed in the past: Hungary used 108 percent of EU funds in the period 2007-2013, committed to HUF 9600 billion and is expected to stop at HUF 9200 billion in the payment approved by the European Commission. In the period 2007-2013, 70 560 projects were supported by the EU, with a value of HUF 9536 billion. Only last year, the total payment of HUF 2800 billion in the area of EU funds was completed, which exceeded the draft by HUF 286 billion. Increasing the flow of EU funds is the objective of the coming period. Based on the experience of the previous cycle, it is our responsibility to make it more efficient, if you will. In the new cycle, drawdown has not yet started, as projects are at a stage where performance-based invoices are not yet available. We are now at 23 billion HUF payment, which we prefinance from the domestic budget, but this is no problem, as some people are visualizing it, as the Hungarian budget has been stable for years, given the financial room for manoeuvre. Dear House, In 2007, flawed decisions were made, and the performance of the current government should be appreciated, because what could be achieved was achieved by subsidies, but we believe that it is worth talking about, because these cases need to confront the opposition, because it is trying to build a corruption narrative, who in the previous cycle accepted the most unfavorable conditions, while trying to put corruption on the government. The share of resources used incorrectly is below 2%. It is essential that we clarify this. These are the numbers that should be used to argue with the opposition, who have always been rooting against Hungary in the EU as well. Nevertheless, at the end of the cycle, we have ultimately made the unfavorable commitments of previous governments effective, while we have been reported in several places. Thanks to the government's overreach, he's done everything he can. The substance of the use of EU funds for 2007-2013 should be learnt and it is therefore important for the Parliament to take on the agenda the discussion of the lessons. We can say that we have brought home every euro due to our country from Brussels. The Government of Hungary has therefore fulfilled its commitment to all the EU funds that can be exploited in connection with its development promise and has paid more money than we thought. With regard to the development system of the previous cycle, we believe that it was not good. During the period up to 2020, we can deliver much more money to businesses, in addition to cutting red tape. Ladies and gentlemen, Hungary must devote its resources between 2014-2020 to strengthening economic competitiveness. The EU budget after 2020 is uncertain, there is not expected to be any funding for direct economic development, and this could have a negative impact on infrastructure development and agricultural support, so we want to achieve a good position in negotiations starting after 2020 with the V4 for example. EU applications for 2014-2020 will be launched by the end of June 2017. By the end of 2018, a significant part of the cycle's source would be paid. In Hungary, there is not only a lack of credit but also a lack of capital in the small and medium-sized enterprises sector, so there is a need to launch a national capital programme among the substantive changes. Therefore, it is important to take the necessary appropriate steps and measures in order to ensure the efficiency of the call for funds, in which we have before us the bill No 10092 on the state project evaluation status and the amendment of certain related laws. This proposes a reorganised evaluation framework that guarantees that the evaluation is purely based on policy considerations and ensures independence from the interests of any external market participant, increased objectivity and transparency. The EU's development period up to 2020 can also be seen as five years at our disposal, in which EU funds are still available, while it is not yet known what will follow. For the period after 2020, there will be a different timing for EU funds, and we have a great responsibility. The net contributor Member States of the Union are putting pressure on Brussels so that the countries that joined in 2004 will no longer be eligible for development resources after 2020. It is therefore necessary to raise awareness of everyone who feels responsible for the country's development, so that the remaining period until 2020 is the last opportunity to finance investments that keep economic growth on a sustainable track. Just as the current draft law is an effective and working tool to ensure the maximum efficiency and transparency and relevance of the call for funds, it can also be a sure way to put the Hungarian economy in a position by 2020 that economic growth should be decisive and sustainable, not as a function of external resources and its inflow, but as a function of economic internal performance. It is our shared responsibility to make the most effective use of resources in the 2014-2020 cycle, raising awareness and using all the lessons learned from the previous 2014 cycle. This is supported by the new tender evaluation system, which was initiated by the government in order to guarantee the use of EU funds for job creation and for investments promoting economic growth. The restructuring of the evaluation system for proposals complies with the principle that only a public official evaluates and that the evaluation of the proposal cannot be outsourced. The re-selection of applicants will also result in the compilation of a publicly available pool of evaluators based on objective criteria defined by the managing authorities and co-ministeries. The aim is to ensure that the evaluation is much more transparent, accountable and responsible. The ultimate goal is to achieve the country's social and economic policy goals through the investments thus supported. All of these serve the common good, because, as we know, a strong, well-functioning, dynamically developing economy is based on the guarantee of preserving and continuing our achievements so far. On this basis, the Group of the Christian Democratic People's Party considers the support of the bill to be a necessary and responsible decision for the future of the country. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-04-12-90	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker of the Jobbik Group is Mr János Volner. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-04-12-91	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would like to interpret this law in a broader context, and I would like to appreciate it, by forwarding to Mr Secretary of State, that Jobbik will not support this law, because we believe and in our professional position there is much more left out of this law than there is in the fight against corruption. There are positive elements of this bill, but in its entirety there is so little in the fight against corruption that we will not support it. Very often the criticism of the European Union has been expressed that the Hungarian application system, the Hungarian support system, is not working properly. My colleague Mátyás Firtl himself referred to the fact that only 2 percent of these transactions were classified as irregular, but at the same time it can be said that, according to the findings of various corruption research organisations in Hungary - which were done by consulting the company's managers - more than HUF 400 billion is being damaged by corruption. We have to absorb more than 400 billion forints of damage because some - primarily near government entrepreneurs, collaborating with powerful politicians and their economic lunar yards - put away these billions of public money. It is important to see, however, that we, unlike left-wing parties, have never run to the European Union Anti-Fraud Office in these experienced abuses, nor have we run around, unlike, say, liberal politicians, complaining to the US Embassy, asking for advice or getting an instruction to be pardoned. [[13.40]] We have maintained our independence, and we have always sought to deal with these suspected cases within the borders of Hungary. I would remind you here - perhaps you can confirm, as we have sent you a letter on similar issues - that, while we were talking about subsidies paid to offshore companies today and yesterday's meeting, the government, of course, denies ever giving such subsidies to offshore companies, but I would point out that when we looked at these subsidies, we found 74 subsidies paid to offshore companies with my colleague György Szilágyi. We sent this to Minister János Lázár in the previous parliamentary term, and it turned out that your government paid HUF 21 billion in public money to offshore companies in a given period. It was found here that there were typical offshore locations - companies established in Seychelles, the Cayman Islands and other similar classic offshore locations - and the Orbán government paid significant amounts of aid to them. When we tried to find out if there were truly transparent organisations in the national economy, the government claimed that they did, but when we requested information about this, the government refused to provide the information, and we do not know who the actual owners of the companies were. These are the questions, Mr State Secretary, in which I feel that the government should make much greater progress, this bill has not brought any change in this area. But I'll keep going. In the same way, when the parliamentary battles are about what is happening in Hungary in relation to settlement bonds, we can also see that the Hungarian state is entering into a contract with offshore companies, and this is repeated quite regularly as a daily practice. Then these offshore companies make a hundred billion HUF profit in tax havens by selling the possibility of settling in Hungary to various third-country citizens in the official course of the Orbán government, which calls itself national. It should be pointed out that this is not only about the creation of aimless constructions, but also about the conflict between the Orbán government and its own principles in these matters. It is important to see that, for example, when I personally turned to Prime Minister Viktor Orbán in September 2013 about the fact that we had experienced a very interesting suspected abuse case - three family businesses, it seems, were talking about coordinated activities - I asked Prime Minister how 54 different municipalities, primarily Fidesz, could have had one of the family businesses cancel the application, the other carried out the public procurement, and the third-family company won this public procurement and implemented this tender. This was not repeated once or twice; this was a highly abusive situation, as we saw 54 times in different municipalities that one of the companies belonging to the same ownership would figure out what to do, the other would write the public procurement and the third would win it. These are the cases, Mr State Secretary, in which I say that there should be very serious progress, but we can see that this bill once again does not give rise to any progress in this area. The fact that these certain subsidies were only open for a very short period of time has increased the suspicion. Thus, it seems strongly that someone prepared for this with the right background, and then, when the applications were written out and the tenders were open for a short period of time, they quickly won them, and practically in a row, in dozens of cases, the same interest groups obtained all such public procurement. In these matters, Mr. Secretary of State, we certainly should have taken a step forward. I would also consider it very important for the government to make progress on restricted public procurement. Here, too, we can see that more than once three Fidesz-near companies submit bids for different public procurements at the same time, one of the three companies wins the winnings, the next time, let's say, the other company wins them, and then, more than once, they contribute to the implementation of public procurement as resource providers. It is obvious here that these orders seem to be properly distributed to businesses, and the European Union does not even dispute their regularity, but it is also apparent that, although they are considered to be regular, it is, in fact, that someone has sorted out these otherwise most often well-connected businesses, and in a row, there are billions of public money that can be won in Hungary today by the operation of such a construction. If you open up online newspapers or printed newspapers, you can meet every day with cases where some businessmen close to the government win billions virtually without competition, or compete with companies with whom they have previously worked in a very good business relationship in the implementation of various public procurements. Here we have reasonable suspicion that cartels are taking place, that these companies coordinate their activities with each other, but neither the Hungarian Competition Authority nor the government's specific bodies can make any meaningful progress in these matters. It is also necessary to see that when these restricted public procurements take place, when you look at the scale, you can see that a significant part of the investment in infrastructure is set up in such a structure, and the same businesses win these orders in a row. It is also important to see how much progress can be made with the tools of project management compared to the current state. There is a significant number of over-pricings, which Mr. Secretary of State is certainly aware of, where appropriate, that an undertaking may receive an order, refer to different technical conditions, other unforeseen conditions, and then over-priced its own activities, and then be accepted by the decision-maker, and the project will eventually be implemented with a significantly higher amount than the original commitment price. Nor does the current draft make progress in these matters. It is also important to see that very often different businesses with some members can win projects with up to tens of billions of HUF. How does all this work? There is a large construction company, this large company creates a mini office with six or seven people, where, of course, there is neither a tool nor a sufficient number of people to win a tens of billions order, and then they win the order, and this order is delivered practically to the following chain of subcontractors, and the actual implementation is carried out there, while the real profits of the order are realised above all. This proposal, too, does not make any progress. With these and similar reasons, we say that Jobbik, unfortunately, cannot support this bill with these shortcomings. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-04-12-92	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker of the LMP Group is Mrs Erzsébet Schmuck, notary of the Parliament. Here you go.
u2016-04-12-93	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, The bill before us aims to expand the capacity of the development policy institution system, which, in our view, is also very necessary, as we know that EU support is one of the main drivers of economic growth. But what is contained in this bill is, in our view, very little. More than two years have passed from the 2014-2020 EU development period, but as the Prime Minister's Office was forced to confess the other day, Hungary could not draw any euro from the resources available to us until 15 March in this programming cycle. [[13.50]] You can't be surprised. The government liquidated the former system, eliminated the apparently non-faultless NFU, instead broadly restored the pre-2006 situation when the funds were split up at individual ministries. That's how they replicated the flaws of the system at the time. The consequence of this is that the new domestic payment institution system has been slow and the accreditation process in Brussels has been delayed. This has not led to more and more efficient development capacities. In fact, there is a growing suspicion that due to the shortcomings in the IT system following the payment of the grant, our country will not be able to fully draw the funds from the new grant cycle. Certainly not for intelligent purposes, which would require at least monitoring the basic indicators. On the other hand, the development of the successor to the EMIR system in the previous cycle will take until at least June, and the European Commission will only then be able to accredit the new IT system according to our information. The government's plans are very ambitious; according to the LMP, they are too ambitious. At the beginning of the year, Minister Lazarus stated that by the end of June next year all applications for the cycle would be announced and that the full framework would have to be used by the beginning of 2019. However, the LMP has already made its position clear in the past that we do not agree with the accelerated, unconventional waste of money and, moreover, that the overall evaluation of the previous programming period and the screening of experience have not been carried out. I would like to note here that by discussing this bill, perhaps we should have waited for Parliament's debate day, which Prime Minister Viktor Orbán proposed, because on such a day of debate, you can obviously learn more about the experience of the period 2007-2014 and what else needs to be corrected. According to the LMP, in recent years the government has used EU funds mostly for poor purposes and with low efficiency. We see that EU funds are actually distorting the structure of the Hungarian economy, not the important developments are being made, but those where billions can easily be allocated to government-wide applicants. Not those companies that are capable of achieving them and which are viable on a market basis, but those with good links, have gained significant resources. This will not mean that once we run out of EU development resources, we will remain here innumerable artificially nourished companies, in fact unviable. This bill is not a good approach to the main issue. It acts as if the use of market and external project evaluators was the main problem, and if internal public project evaluators are employed, then everything will be better. As the explanatory memorandum states, the new system ensures that the evaluation is purely based on policy considerations and ensures independence from the interests of any external market participant, increased objectivity and transparency. We see that if something is not going to guarantee independence and policy aspects, then it is the public project evaluators who are even existentially dependent on the government. Corruption in Hungary is now state-controlled and centralised. Thus, the most vulnerable to corruption pressure will be project evaluators on state dependence. It's obvious. The Corruption Research Centre, in its recent report on public procurement between 2009 and 2015, notes that the proportion of overpriced public procurement has steadily increased, but a big leap has come after the amendment of the 2011 Public Procurement Act. In fact, at the initiative of Minister Mihály Varga in December last year, the government changed the rules of conflict of interest in the Public Procurement Act so that the family members of the leading politicians could easily start running in tenders. And we can also remember the January scandal when, according to the European Anti-Fraud Office, Hungarian inspectors slammed EU funds on the regularity of public procurement. The most heavily overpriced projects were ministries, such as the Öveges programme managed by the EMMI. If we were to put it mildly, we would say that we do not consider it healthy to think that, when evaluating public projects, those who are recruited from public administration will have a dominant position. According to the LMP, it is indeed necessary for representatives of the external business or the civil sector to have a role, thereby reducing the risk of corruption. But it's not worth putting it mildly. The main aim of the transformation is obviously to allow EU funds to flow smoother than ever before, without obstacles or technical difficulties to designated persons and interests. Therefore, the results of the previous cycle are not interesting, so we have no idea of the effectiveness of each program, and therefore there is no expectation or professional foundation other than quick spending. It doesn't matter that the residential energy sources, which have been cut off from one moment to the next, have already been fixed in the operational programme adopted by the EU Commission. Therefore, it is not interesting to have any long-term goals when it comes to the momentary benefit. Thank you for your attention.
u2016-04-12-94	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, This brings us to the end of the keynote speeches. Now it's time for the proper speeches. As no one has made a written statement, the speeches that are now on the button will follow. First, I give the floor to Mr Nándor Gúr of the MSZP Group. Congressman, the notary of Parliament. Here you go.
u2016-04-12-95	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary. In his introductory thoughts, I found that he had also practiced some self-criticism in recent years, adapted to the experiences of the past six years. I think these are appropriate, simply because it is clear that either the abolition of the National Development Agency or the suspension of external evaluation systems have not resulted in the expected results that you have hoped for from these changes. It is said in this proposal, which concerns the establishment of a public project evaluation relationship, that it is intended to call for assessments based on policy considerations, to be carried out in such a way as to ensure independence; therefore, it should be done with the necessary objectivity. Then I would like to ask with great respect what they have done for six years, especially in the last three or four years, if they have not taken things in this direction. Obviously we can see, we know what they were doing, my fellow Members have already spoken before me about this, so I would not venture deeper into this direction, but what they have clearly done is that precisely with a orientation and directions where they have virtually tangible or less tangible relationships systems, there have been beneficial decisions, there have been types of placements that raise concerns at least at the level of the question. [[President Tamás Sneider, Vice-President of the National Assembly.]] When a tender assessment system, a series of professional names, is put together, it is said that these government officials, civil servants, civil servants, but not only they, but also the employees of public companies, can be involved in this secondary relationship; it manages the secondary relationship in respect of which the holder of quasi-employed rights is coordinated by the Minister responsible for European Union funds or their use. I think that at least one or two questions can be raised in this constellation which makes the quality of this questionable. Look, you know that the public sector is a rather direct order trail system. The government official, the civil servant, does not very much violate the instructions and instructions he receives, while I consider that external expert circles outside this circle, which have sufficient knowledge of a particular subject, are more difficult to persuade to engage in any activity of orientation that does not coincide with their professional beliefs. [[14.00]] I don't want to hurt people working in the public sector, not government officials, but rather their vulnerability, which, according to my judgment, you, who are so to be superior, can give instructions and guidance, live by my conviction, or even abuse it. This is not a good track. I think that it is not good for the government to build closed systems, when it sees only a circle which can be controlled or held by itself as suitable for, say, preparing the allocation of funds, in decisions concerning the use of tender resources, to apply them in such a secondary relationship. In the case of external, independent or spoken experts, it is clearly possible to require that a sufficient conflict of interest status be maintained, and then there is no problem or problem that makes their role virtually questionable in this respect. Look, if it weren't for what I say, so if it weren't right to say a lot of doubts, my fellow Members and I, it wouldn't have happened and it couldn't have happened that, let's say, given the events of the past period, it became apparent that, basically, the overpriced projects were in the same circle, ministry and other circles where direct influence could have taken place in this sense. (László Földi in the notary seat) Replaced by Attila Móring József.) I would like to make it clear that I believe that it is unfortunate to put the system together so that they can control it, give guidance, give instructions to the people in the calls for proposals who can make decisions in this sense as to their legal status. Because a person who gives birth to decisions that are practically coupled with the use of tender resources will also consider, in such a situation, the development of his own personal destiny; and because of his vulnerability in this sense, he may even make decisions contrary to or not entirely congruent with his personal judgment. I would like to make it clear that it might be more worthwhile to think that, if the national development agency system has not worked, if the operation of external evaluation systems has not worked, than that which you have been operating over the last few years, it would be worth thinking at least about extending this closed circle and creating this possibility. For each of us must and may have the aim of yes, there is a risk of corruption, as Mr Secretary of State has said, that the possibility of corruption should be as narrow as possible, and indeed, as has already been said here in the House walls, corruption should not be in a close context in terms of centralization. This change can only be made if they do not wish to take these decisions and make them within the framework of the secondary legal relationship with a multitude of people in the circle of instructions. If they do, then I think it could lead to this type of achievement, which I think is undesirable, that corruption will not decrease, but rather deny, it will swell, which I think is undesirable. With what the lead speaker of Fidesz has said, we agree with some of it, namely that the process of creating jobs and strengthening the economy needs to be intensified as much as possible. We think that, of course, it is not necessary to do this in itself at the level of words, because if we look back at the credit programme or anything else, the story can come from the period of Matolcsy, when the many promises made by micro- and small enterprises at the level of words have been made, and we confront ourselves with the possibilities they have had and how many of us in recent years, then unfortunately we see that this picture is not very positive. What I am trying to say is that it is necessary not only to strengthen job creation at the level of words, but not only to strengthen the economy and strengthen the functioning of the economy, but also for concrete, tangible actions. Because what we see today is that they already work at the level of words, but not at the level of concrete actions. If I want to sum up our thoughts, I would like to draw attention once again, once again and for the last time to the fact that what appears as an opportunity for government officials, civil servants, civil servants and employees in the public sector within the framework of a secondary legal relationship, the decision to prepare for the use of EU funds, is not, to say, from the devil. But you can't just run such a career in things, because if those outside experts with special knowledge who can withstand conflicts of interest are excluded from running the system, they don't gain profits, but, in my opinion, loss. The knowledge that exists, obviously outside the framework of public companies and the public sector, is worth paying attention and taking advantage of. I would therefore like to ask the Secretary of State, I understand the logic of the things that they are doing, only because this story is not going to go into a distorted course, and we will not have to face the fact that there will be a multitude of even more distorted situations, so let not only think in this envelope, but also the positions and decision-making situations of independent and knowledgeable experts. And my last sentence is about, once again, that it is in no government's interest to face the fact that, after the allocation of resources, Hungary is virtually losing resources through a multitude of irregularities procedures, through a multitude of penalties. If you seriously believe that the aim of this economy is to strengthen, if you really think that the goal is to create real, tangible jobs in this country, as promised six years ago, 1 million new jobs in the economy, if you are serious about this and do not want to shape the world statistically, not to incorporate the statistical figures of people working abroad into domestic statistics, not to strengthen people within the framework of student employment in statistics, not to extend and expand public employment in an excessive way, to put statistics in the position that employment figures are what you would like them to be, but to see new jobs in the economy created in reality in Hungary in relation to the entrepreneurial sphere of entrepreneurship, then I think that this law alone is not capable of strengthening this process. To do so, the additions that I and other fellow Members have said, I believe, should necessarily be combined. I would like to ask you to think about these, Mr Secretary of State, and also to think about it as members of the government, simply because I believe that this is in the interests of this country. This is how a stronger economy can be run, so that in reality more jobs can be created, one that, if any, has been blessed with wages and salaries that can form the basis for a decent living in Hungary. Thank you very much for your attention. Mr. President, thank you. [[14.10]]
u2016-04-12-96	Ladies and gentlemen, Welcome. I'm asking if anyone else has any opposition. [[No one's reporting.]] I do not see this, so the general debate is closed. I give the floor to Secretary of State Nándor Csepreghy, the author.
u2016-04-12-97	Mr President, Thank you very much for the floor and Members for the high balls, of which I cannot strike everything, so much has come up here, but I would certainly do so with a few. Congressman! Do you know what a revolving door means? That is the term used for you in Brussels; for you and for your colleagues who signed an agreement with the European Commission in 2006 and 2007 which lasted until the end of 2015. Then, when the agreement on Hungarian businesses, Hungarian municipalities, Hungarian hospitals and Hungarian universities was signed that imposed much more obligations on bureaucracy than the European Commission expects of Hungary, the same experts confirmed from the state, went out to the market and charged the European Union's costs by HUF 1500 billion. The Government of Hungary and every individual taxpayer in Hungary paid HUF 8600 billion out of the HUF 8600 billion budget, which Hungary could use between 2007 and 2015, HUF 1500 billion to your advisory group. The speech that we heard from you and Mr Józsa here today was all about protecting their own markets. It wasn't about you fighting for transparency, it wasn't about you fighting for corruption, it was about the fact that the MSZP is fighting as its last opportunity to catch the mare. You know, Congressman, all the suspensions and all the debates that are today between the Hungarian Government and the European Commission during the financial closure period can largely be traced back to the bad agreement that you sanctioned with the European Commission in 2006 and 2007. When the current government took over its mandate in the spring of 2010, we assessed how we stand in terms of EU funds: compared to the HUF 8600 billion framework, approximately HUF 800 billion was paid to businesses in three years, while 75 percent of the funds were already committed to various applications. This meant that the government had no real opportunity to operate a development policy in Hungary that would really help businesses to recover from the crisis, which would really help businesses to stop job losses after the crisis and reverse it. In 2010, we had to compromise. The 2010 compromise was about whether we agreed to bring EU funds home to the last cent in Hungary by sitting on a horse in which no one outside the MSZP believed, neither the Hungarian businesses, nor the various representatives of civil society organisations, nor the economy, and we said that until the end of 2015, until the financial cycle is closed, we guarantee that we will bring all euro cents back to Hungary. Not only was this not believed in 2010 and 2011-12, even at the beginning of 2015 MSZP representatives said that Hungary will lose hundreds of billions of forints from the budget due to the fact that there is a system of development policy institutions in Hungary that is inadequate to draw the entire fund. On the other hand, Hungary closed the call for funds at 108 percent compared to the framework, the Poles at 101 percent, the Czechs, the Slovaks between 90 and 95 percent, and Romania and Bulgaria at 75 and 80-some percent respectively. So I think that the work that you have failed to do, this government has tried to draw a draw at some level, and this is why we are talking about bringing 8600 billion forints back to Hungary. You know, Mr. Congressman, the question that your fellow Member Józsa raised is also an interesting story, because the debate we know as an asphalt mixer dispute in Hungary can be traced back to a decision made in 2007 and the decision that you also made and that, according to EU standards, where roads are being built and asphalt used, the location of road construction must be within the appropriate distance from asphalt mixing plants. This was a measure that we believe was not wrong, because it was in fact a way to guarantee compliance with EU standards. However, this has led to a system whereby for seven years the European Commission has adopted this system, and for seven years the European Commission has issued a Kosher seal to ensure that this system is working well, and then in the year of financial closure, when the European Commission is facing some serious financial and expenditure difficulties, it said that this is wrong. And we have argued with them because we believe that the responsibility for the use of resources is indeed a shared responsibility for all governments in the Member States and for the European Commission. I think that the fact that we were able to conclude this debate without harming Hungary financially is an important achievement. And, you know, Congressman, I can't even put it where you're talking about the fact that the nearly one million people who work for the state don't have the expertise they need to evaluate applications. On this basis, they issue a certificate of poverty for university employees, a certificate of poverty for municipal employees, a certificate of poverty for employees of public companies. [[Dr. István Józsa: We did not say that!]] We think these people have that kind of expertise. [[Nándor Gúr: That's what you're saying, not us!]] Just so I don't just start knocking down the balls raised by the MSZP, let me move on to what Jobbik suggested. The Member raised many questions, but he did not mention one particular thing: the bill on which we are standing today. He talked about offshore cases, he talked about conflicts of interest, he talked about the public procurement law. You know, Congressman, the problems you raise have not been prohibited in any legislation until 2012. Hungary is the first of the 28 Member States of the European Union to decide to prohibit the merger of companies with an opaque ownership structure at the basic level. If you really say that you have a problem with the merger between the tender assessment, the launch of public procurement or the contractor, then you should support the adoption of this law, which makes it very clear who, how and under what control they can participate in the deployment of EU or state resources. We are talking about a system where the State has the opportunity to exercise specific national security control and supervision in the entire process of evaluation of the tender and, as the evaluation has been completed, it has the opportunity to share this with the wider public. The debate on overpriced - I know and see clearly - is essentially a political product built by Jobbik, but I would like to warn you that hundreds of thousands of businesses in Hungary or even the 28,000 businesses involved in the use of EU funds in Hungary are being branded. Because, you know, in Hungary, not only because of lending and capital problems, there were debates that led to over-pricing, but also from the impossible situation in which the Government of Hungary took over economic policy in 2010. We are not talking about a specific Hungarian problem, we are talking about an Eastern-Central European problem, where it is a painful problem for businesses to create the self-force needed to achieve a development, and in this, you know, it is not a responsibility of a truly patriotic government to tangle these people and hide sticks among the spokes, but, taking into account the possibilities, try to use the rules as flexibly as possible to serve the Hungarian economic interest either in Brussels or in other interests. I would also like to address Mrs Schmuck for a few thoughts, as I have so far come to know the Member from her speeches as she understands what she is talking about. [[Dr. István Józsa applauds.]] This speech today has shaken this belief in this regard, but I trust that this trust will be restored later. Allow me to highlight your factual errors. One such factual error is the fact that you are asking the current government why we used EU funds for such purposes between 2007 and 2013. I would suggest to the Member here that she turn right and to Members who are not in the Chamber today, but who took up a government position in 2007, in 2008, ask why they signed a development policy programme with Brussels, which had no purpose other than to create the opportunity to use this money for their own benefit through various advice. And when you talk about the debate between the European Commission and us, you should look into what these debates are really about, because the IT system you have been talking about, and what you have raised your accreditation problem, is not one of the subjects that the European Commission is examining at all, how it works, does not accredit the institutional system. [[Erzsébet Schmuck intervenes.]] I believe you're only reading the papers, but if you speak as an expert in Parliament, it would be really good not to repeat the mistakes made in newspapers in professional colors. So allow me to offer you here on behalf of the government that you would like to speak on any development policy issue, and I would be happy to help you with your research. With regard to the other question, which raises political conflicts of interest, you should now decide, when we are talking about cutting red tape and talking about how the career model of public employees is developing, when we are talking about what professional opportunity or financial opportunity they are given or are not given, whether they represent their true position when they speak out against cutting red tape or when the government gives extra money to people working in the public sector through public assessment. [[14.20]] Overall, we are talking about a bill that lies before Parliament, which must clearly serve the objectives - and I believe it can serve - which are at the forefront of all opposition parties: the fight against corruption, the fight for transparency. If this proposal is not supported by opposition representatives, they not only send a message to voters that they are building only a political product, but they are also opposed to what they themselves have said, because you are not interested in anything else in this case, but that the impossible situations that have characterised the use of EU funds in Hungary since 2007 really determine the country's future in the long term. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]] [[Nándor Gúr takes his place as notary.]]
u2016-04-12-98	Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Next up is the 2007 LXXV on the Hungarian Chamber of Auditors, audit activities and audit public oversight. General debate on the amendment of law and of certain laws on financial matters until closure. The government referral is T/10091. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I declare that the presentation will be discussed as an EU item on the agenda by the Parliament. First, I give the floor to Mr András Tállai, State Secretary of the Ministry of National Economy, the rapporteur of the item on the agenda.
u2016-04-12-99	Mr President, Dear Parliament, During 2014, the European Union adopted a package of legislation on auditing aimed at amending the audit system and the audit rules in line with the new EU financial regulation and strengthening public confidence in the audit profession. That audit reform includes a new Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council amending the 2006 Directive on the audit of annual and consolidated accounts and a Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council on specific requirements for the audit of public-interest entities. Member States shall ensure the transposition and implementation of these two EU legislation by 17 June 2016. The new rules will only apply for the subsequent business year. For most companies, the new scheme will concern audits for the financial year starting from 1 January 2017. Dear House, An important element of the amendment to the Directive on the audit of annual accounts and consolidated accounts is the transformation of the public oversight system of auditors and audit firms. On the basis of the amendment, persons exercising the audit profession shall no longer participate in the operation of the audit public oversight in any form, and in each Member State shall have a greater role in the role of an independent public oversight authority consisting of professionals not in the audit profession. In Hungary, according to the rules currently in force, this independent public oversight authority was exercised by the Minister of National Economy, sharing its tasks with the professional self-government organization of auditors, the Hungarian Chamber of Auditors. The amendment will continue to maintain the system of division of labour between the two organisations, but will give the public oversight authority more rights and final responsibility in accordance with the new European legislation, such as the register, further training, quality control of auditors, audit firms, and special rules on auditing, so-called auditing standards. In addition to strengthening public oversight authorities in the Member States, the Directive also aims at better cooperation between authorities. The supervision and control of the audit of undertakings active in several Member States of Europe cannot be fully achieved without the cooperation of the authorities of the Member States. The bill allows Hungary to become a member of public oversight cooperation at European level. One of the institutional forms of this will be the establishment of an EU organisation, called the Committee of European Audit Supervisory Bodies, in which the heads of the public oversight authorities of the Member States can regularly discuss key issues concerning audit, systemic deficiencies identified during audits and measures taken to address them. Hungary has already taken a significant part in the development of international auditing regulations, and the bill allows the results of further negotiations at European level to be taken into account and applied by the Hungarian system. Dear Parliament, Another important element of the amendment concerns the independence of auditors and audit firms. The key issue of the audit is that there is no conflict of interest between the auditor and the contractor in charge of the audit which would jeopardise the independent professional opinion of the auditor in relation to the contractor's financial statements. Most of the amended independence rules have already been met by Hungary, but the bill contains further tightening and clarifying the rules on independence. Under the Directive, Member States are obliged to ensure that certain undertakings are bound by the establishment of an audit committee or the designation of an audit committee body. Of course, the audit committee is only required for public-interest farmers where the conduct of the audit imposes a more complex obligation on the undertaking concerned and its auditor. In Hungary, listed companies, credit institutions, insurance companies, reinsurance undertakings, investment firms and managers issuing stock exchange funds are considered to be public-interest holders. The amendments to the audit committee are passed through sectoral laws governing these undertakings. The bill also extends the provisions of the Civil Code on the statutory audit committee for public limited companies to other public-interest undertakings. The proposal also clarifies the tasks of audit committees in order to be more effective in facilitating and monitoring the audit. Dear Parliament, Another element of the audit reform, the Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council, concerns only a narrower range of auditors and audit firms. The scope of the Regulation covers auditors and audit firms carrying out audits of public-interest contractors. Given that these auditors are given greater attention in terms of investor interests, the European Union has decided in this respect to a more uniform regulation of regulations that do not require transposition by the Member States. The provisions of the Regulation are directly applicable in all Member States, but on certain regulatory issues the Regulation allows Member States to derogate from it. This bill contains the latter rules. Dear House, In accordance with the provisions of the Regulation, an auditor or audit firm shall carry out audit activities for a maximum of 10 years in an undertaking of public interest. However, Member States may derogate from this maximum. Taking into account the existing national legislation, the bill would introduce a mandatory rotation of five years more stringent than the general provision of the Union. The shorter maximum audit period is intended to facilitate greater audit independence and eliminate the risk of habit. In addition to auditing the annual accounts provided by auditors and audit firms, the other important regulatory areas of the Regulation concern the scope of additional services provided to the contractor. [[14.30]] In order to avoid conflicts of interest, the Regulation limits the scope of services that auditors and audit firms may provide to public-interest contractors outside audit activities. The restriction shall be achieved by establishing, by means of a prohibition list, the services which the auditors cannot provide to the same contractor when carrying out the audit. However, in addition to the limitations of the regulation, the bill allows auditors to provide certain non-significant tax and evaluation services to the contractor in addition to the audit. The key audit group covered by the Regulation shall assign the supervision of auditors and audit firms carrying out audits of public-interest undertakings to an authority which is completely independent of the audit profession. The Ministry of National Economy, acting as the auditor's public oversight authority, has already overseen the key audit area and the Minister would continue to carry out these tasks in accordance with the new provisions. Dear Parliament, The transposition of audit changes and the application of the new rules in the Hungarian legal order will result in the strengthening of audit public oversight, which will contribute to continuing audit tasks by professionals who carry out the review of business reports with appropriate preparedness and expertise, thereby helping to maintain the cleanliness of financial life. With all due respect, I would like to ask you to discuss the bill and to adopt it in the future. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2016-04-12-100	Dear Parliament, Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. I give the floor to Sándor Czomba, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2016-04-12-101	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, The proposal before us aims to strengthen confidence in the reliability and reality of financial statements published by investors and businesses, in accordance with the European Union, and to harmonise the approval and registration of audit firms, and to strengthen the independence and impartiality of these firms. This was also served by Directive 2013/34/EU, as amended by Directive 14/56/EU. This proposal implements the provisions of the latter amendment into the Hungarian legal order. The original Directive defines the size-by-size classification of farmers by reference to the balance sheet date, based on three criteria: balance sheet total, net turnover and average number of employees in the financial year. The previous Directive links the audit obligation to those three categories. In the financial statements of medium-sized and large enterprises and public-interest farmers, the Directive requires the auditor to verify them, i.e. the audit obligation appears. However, as regards the obligation to audit the financial statements of small enterprises, the Directive only provides for the possibility, which means that Member States may impose an obligation to audit the financial statements of small enterprises. With regard to micro-enterprises, the Directive does not allow for the imposition of statutory audits, nor has the amendment changed, which is important information because domestic enterprises are largely in the small enterprise category. In Hungary listed companies, credit institutions, insurance companies and investment firms are considered public-interest farmers. Turning to the new directive, in addition to the ones listed at the beginning of my speech, the EU's aim in this case was to strengthen professional ethics, to strengthen convergence with regard to audit standards, to protect investors and to strengthen public oversight. Compared to the previous EU regulation, changes in focus can be seen, such as continuous training programmes, which are now not only an option for Member States but also an obligation. The previous regulation has also been extended in substance, for example as regards professional ethics and scepticism, the new regulation states that Member States should ensure that the auditor lives with professional skepticism throughout the audit period, recognising the possibility of material errors in certain cases. This may relate in particular to fair value, impairment, provisions, continuation of the business, future cash flow calculations and estimates. The part concerning independence and impartiality has also been extended and states that Member States shall ensure that the audit firm makes every effort within the limits of rationality so that independence is not affected by existing or possible conflicts of interest, business or any other indirect relationship during the audit. The Member State shall assess and document the risks and precautions that threaten independence. With regard to the internal organisation of audit firms, the Directive lays down that no one should interfere with the conduct of the investigation and that an effective IT and administrative internal control system should be provided. The work should be organised in accordance with the new rules, so that at least one audit partner should be appointed, who should be actively involved in carrying out the audit. An audit file shall be established and closed within 60 days. It is an important question of what it covers, what is covered by the scope of the statutory audit. It can be concluded that there is a gap between what a wide range of users expect from the auditor and what the auditor can actually provide. As regards the scope of the audit, the Directive states that it should not extend to ensure the future viability, efficiency and effectiveness of the audited entity. The rules for the audit report have only been slightly extended. Such a change is that the report must contain a statement of the material uncertainty relating to events or conditions which may raise doubts as to the continuation of the undertaking. The quality system shall be independent of the audited auditor and shall be subject to public oversight. Quality control should be carried out every six years on the basis of risk analysis and quality inspectors should also receive specific training. The biggest change in scope compared to the previous regulation is the regulation on inspections and sanctions. One of the most important changes is the need for Member States to require that the measures imposed against audit firms, sanctions be made public and that the sanction should include the possibility of withdrawing the approval. The form of sanctions may be a request, publication on the public authority's website, temporary ban of up to three years from auditing and holding office and, of course, a fine. These criminal measures shall be determined on the basis of all circumstances. As regards the principles of public oversight, the new Directive contains new provisions on the principles of public oversight. For example, this is the provision that the competent authority should be managed by non-exercising professionals who are familiar with the areas covered by the statutory audit. The persons involved in the management of the Authority shall be selected by means of an independent and transparent marking procedure. Under the new Directive, Member States may delegate any task of the competent authority to other authorities or bodies designated or empowered by law. The financing of the public oversight system should be secure and free from any undesirable influence of audit firms. With regard to the designation of audit firms, the regulation states that any contractual conditions restricting the appointment of an audit firm to a certain type or group of audit firms are prohibited. Member States have two years to transpose the provisions of the Directive into national law. This deadline expires on 17 June 2016. Dear House, The amended Directive has led to significant changes in the standards for chamber audit auditors, audit firms and the public oversight system, which perform audit activities on the basis of legal obligations. By applying the Regulation, the changes concern chamber member auditors and audit firms carrying out statutory audit activities in the public interest holding company. On the basis of the bill, the Hungarian Chamber of Auditors will continue to perform some of its tasks by sharing them with the public authority. Dear House, Another important element of the proposal, and this has not yet been mentioned here, is the tax and contribution exemption of the employment allowance. I would like to draw the attention of this House, just as we have already indicated, one of the most important tasks for the Hungarian Government is that as many people work in Hungary, especially in the primary labour market. [[14.40]] This also requires encouraging people who are currently in public employment to be able to work in the competitive sphere as soon as possible. Obviously, you know, you see, you perceive that today, not only in Western Hungary, but also in Eastern Hungary, businesses complain that they are not or are having difficulty finding skilled workers. That's what we're trying to do. Location support has recently entered into force. The point of this is that if a public employee enters the primary labour market, the net amount of the employment replacement allowance for as long as he was otherwise involved in the public employment market will amount to HUF 15-16 thousand in the order of magnitude. Obviously, this is also an incentive, but it would be even more stimulating if this amount were not tax-free or tax-free. This means HUF 22 800, but I think that for a minimum wage earner who earns around 70,000 net, this bonus of HUF 22 800 could be a significant grant. I am not saying that this will change the world, but the value of the message is very important, and I think that thousands of people will live and will take advantage of it in the next period. In view of all this, I would like to ask this House to support the bill before us. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2016-04-12-102	I now give the floor to István Józsa, the lead speaker of the MSZP group.
u2016-04-12-103	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State of Tallas, Very precise, very precise performance, reading the presentation. It could really be a major bill before us if it covered the things that the Hungarian Chamber of Auditors has been waiting for for almost a year - if I want to use this fine term - from the government. The relationship between the Hungarian Chamber of Auditors and the government is far from impeccable. The Chamber has protested several times over the last year's legislative changes. They turned to the Parliamentary Commissioner for Fundamental Rights when the Parliament amended the Law on Criminal Procedure in such a way that, in the event of a crime involving a financial organization which has a financial disadvantage of more than HUF 50 million, which was investigated by the auditor - so that he was not a direct participant - he was the only one who examined the company in sin - the auditor's assets could also be closed without limitation. This raises certain constitutional concerns. An auditor may not have one, but several companies examined, and it may not have been possible for him to have known about those acts, at least requiring criminal proof that he was aware of them, which were unlikely to have been found out from the accounting data examined. Thus, the fact that all automation can be included in the accountant's assets without limitation is likely to be regarded as an excessive and threatening amendment by the Auditor's Chamber. The second is that in 2015, the Fidesz government doubled the public oversight contribution to be paid by the Chamber. The double increase in the amount due to the Ministry of National Economy was also increased because the Chamber continues to carry out the vast majority of the tasks for its members. This was also because the central budget contributed HUF 10 million to the task. This, let's say, has been driven by an EU obligation. The relevant rules of the European Union provide for the sharing of costs, at least in the minimum value. So if we accept what the Secretary of State and Congressman Czomba have said as a positive thing, these things I have mentioned will still remain unheard of in the bill before us. The amended Directive of the European Union provides for a significant change in the standards for chamber audit auditors, audit firms and the public oversight system, and a significant change in the amendment of the Directive, which has mostly been successful in the presentation. In particular, the requirements for the requirement of independence, professional skepticism, the internal organisation of auditors and audit firms change, quite rightly. The division of tasks between the Chamber and the Public Supervisory Authority is also modified. The public oversight authority, which is the Minister of National Economy in Hungary under the Government's Statute, ultimately bears all the responsibilities relating to the direction system of the audit. However, a significant part of the operational or professional competence remains with the Chamber, which it exercises with the approval of the Authority and better with its control. On the basis of this proposal, the public oversight authority is entitled to demonstrate the professional and practical knowledge necessary for carrying out the audit activity. However, audit activities may continue to be carried out only as chamber members. The register of chamber member auditors and audit firms is one of the official procedures of the Chamber. It doesn't matter what level of preparedness or IT, or IT support. The difference of merit is shown in the present proposal in the case of so-called public-interest entities. Such public-interest entities shall include listed companies, i.e. issuers, credit institutions, insurance undertakings, reinsurance undertakings and investment firms. A new chapter containing special rules for this category of farmers is also added to the proposal. This is particularly justified in view of the financial and brokerage scandals of the last year in Hungary, in which - I hope not to be sued - the State Court of Auditors may also have a role. We see that by transferring the State Supervisory Authority of Financial Institutions to the National Bank of Hungary with a law, the State guarantee is clearly damaged. The operation of the Magyar Nemzeti Bank is governed by a separate central bank law which guarantees independence. Thus, the supervision of financial institutions may be replaced professionally, but it is no longer considered to be a public supervision such as to control financial institutions as a directly subordinate authority of the government. This was shown, let's say, in the Quaestor scandal, where it simply disappeared over 200 billion forints without the supervision noticing. Although this is no longer state supervision, this is already the supervision in the bosom of the Hungarian National Bank. [[14.50]] Although we know, according to the decision of the Curia, that the public money held by the National Bank preserves the nature of the public money, whatever foundation it is placed in, so the supervision of the Hungarian National Bank can be interpreted as being indirectly a state supervision, but the guarantee of who is responsible for the damage to the supervisory powers is not quite clear. So we see that if the audit part is to be tightened up in accordance with EU legislation, then the rules of national banking supervision in accordance with the Financial Institutions' State Supervisory Board should be tightened in a similar way, and not to see that we have already pushed this out that the buddies affected by the Quaestor scandal are no longer under the responsibility of State supervision, the damage caused is not the damage done by the State under control, but the damage done to the National Bank. Therefore, the strictness of the rules with regard to the priority category is entirely appropriate and, at the same time, partly reduced according to the proposal, the audit requirements, which are no longer understandable. It has been included as a practical criterion of the principle of independence that the same auditor or audit firm may carry out audits of the same entity for a maximum of 5 years, even with the extension of its contract. After that, at least 4 years will have to pass, and in 4 years you can receive a further request from the same company for audit. This is a rather formal rule, a lot depends on the enforcement order, so that, for example, ownership independence is guaranteed, because it is theoretically possible that the same owner has several audit firms, and then these contracts of engagement are permutated between them. Therefore, it is certain that the enforcement order will have a role to play in ensuring that this otherwise appropriate separation principle can actually work in practice. However, the proposal states that no amendment adopted at the end of last year, which the Fidesz government has tabled in its proposal to amend certain laws to promote the development of the financial intermediary system in the light of brokerage scandals, will enter into force. According to this, if an auditor carries out an audit of a public-interest company, he may not accept any other mandate. This restriction will not enter into force from 1 January 2017, which is likely to be due to practical reasons. I'm sure multi-legged jobs will increase the independence of an audit firm. Thus, if an audit firm could conclude a contract according to this tightening of terms only to examine one firm, it would make its market position quite vulnerable, so it may not be able to serve the original purpose, which refers to carrying out a fair and independent audit activity in everything. It is difficult to fit into the proposal, although the MSZP also supports the amendment of tax laws in substance, which means that the amendment of the Annex to the Personal Income Tax Act will also take place in the context of the submission. This means that the relevant government decree provides the public with a so-called job contribution of HUF 22 800 per month if they find work in the competition sector, i.e. they create an indefinite or at least 12 months of employment. This allowance is also due to the time that has already been hired for community service, but before this period, the person will find a job on the labour market. Thus, with the tax-free payment of the total amount, you will receive an incentive or, if you like, a premium to be placed as soon as possible. This is appropriate because it does not make a person interested in developing the full public service work available as a public worker, because he will receive this additional support if he goes to work. So, looking back, he had a similar line of thought when we reduced the duration of the child by giving the whole thing to the mother when she went back to work. That's what you guys understood then, that we're reducing the amount of weed. It wasn't about that. It was also intended to receive the entire amount of money if you went to work earlier. This is what you, my fellow Member, have just described very well at the time, that this has a job incentive effect, and you have taken little account of it. So this part of the bill is eligible. The professional hiatus that both auditors and other professionals have drawn attention to are not reflected in the present proposal. I would ask you to apply these in the form of the amendments tabled by the rapporteur, so take into account that we may be able to support them. At present, in view of the tax exemption, a supportive stay can be envisaged. Thank you very much. [[Anita Herring claps.]]
u2016-04-12-104	I now give the floor to Gábor Staudt, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group.
u2016-04-12-105	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, The proposal before us is quite dry, so obviously not as exciting as many topics before the House, but its content is very important. In addition to talking about the transposition of EU directives and the application of EU regulations, there was a debate here, especially last year, on how the audit system could be regulated and whether it could have been responsible for the events that took place, whether in the Buda-Cash and Quaestor cases the auditors had a responsibility. I think that in some ways and some places, we've fallen on the other side of the horse. Even then, already last year, and at the time of the Quaestor and Buda-Cash cases, or even when it was not yet known, legislation would theoretically have enabled effective control. This was not only the responsibility of auditors but also of other public bodies. Serious damage of hundreds of billions of forints had to happen so that it could be said in full that the system should be re-regulated, and it was also highlighted that not only the activities of the auditors, but also the depth of it, or even the examination of an IT system, could raise questions as to whether the relevant data would actually reach the auditors. Another case is if the auditor was accomplice, guilty of this abuse, so he knew that the data didn't correspond to reality, yet he issued such a report. In this case, regulations are obviously part of criminal law, in this case, the inclusion of the accountant's assets may also arise, although in other cases, when awareness has not come to light, this can be considered excessive. But we hope that in the future a system can be created where control and control will be more extensive, but I think it's just an exaggeration to pin everything that's happened. It should also be said that the EU directive, which we are about to transpose, has brought significant changes in itself. Of course, the directive has a feature that the Hungarian Parliament has a framework, and obviously, when it prepares, the Hungarian government has a framework from to what it regulates precisely in Hungarian laws. [[15.00]] In many cases, it is also necessary to strive, and that would be the aim of doing so in accordance with Hungarian legislation, by incorporating the concept system already used by Hungarian legislation - I will point out that in some cases this has not always been successful. I must also say that by introducing certain categories - and I am thinking here to justify audit activity, which is also necessary for the start and pursuit of audit activities, and is also regulated in this Act - there are a lot of points, which makes perfect sense, that there is no criminal record, and that those who have a criminal record should not carry out this activity. There are different categories here, of course, of how many years from the date of the discharge, or how long it will take to be excluded from the Chamber. However, there is a point in this case, point (g), which includes a rather flexible category, which is nothing more than a reference to lifestyle and behaviour. Therefore, those who, because of their way of life or conduct, lack public confidence in the pursuit of the audit profession could not be given that. Without explaining this, it is very difficult to decide who is not worthy or who will decide who is really fit for audit activity because of his way of life or behavior. I do not know whether this will be explained in various government regulations or ministerial decrees or whether it is already planned, but this, in this form, is not very good that it is incorporated into the law, to be more precise: it seems to be a very rubber law. As I said, auditors could be held accountable in many categories before. I also said that if the auditor was involved in the fraud, it would have been possible to prosecute criminal law, and there is also a sanction in the case of negligence that, if there is, quote, only negligence, it could have been a quality control and disciplinary matter, anyway. I have to say that, because this could have resulted in exclusion, this alone was a strong sanction; of course, the tightening up may be justified in some cases, so in the case of priority cases or priority firms, but I must also say that in some cases, if a person is acting with due care, there may be such cases as, say, concealing the appropriate documents from him, so that the auditor receives inadequate material, in which case his responsibility cannot be established. It can also be said in the fine amounts that I trust that the partial payment will be completed, so when or on what basis these fines can be weighted, given that the range of fines ranging from HUF 100 thousand to HUF 100 million or, in the case of an audit firm, from HUF 100 thousand to HUF 500 million covers quite a large area. So if this is a discretionary right to establish this, it is, in fact, very difficult to decide in this form, without evaluation criteria, how these will be imposed; obviously, even a small or individual auditor could have a large number of forints, and a large multi-company can pay even a multiple of this. So I hope that these will be filled in and that the system will be fairer. I would also like to draw attention to the contradictions or codifications that I have mentioned: for example, the proposal still does not provide and sufficiently delineate the tasks of the Hungarian Chamber of Auditors and the public oversight authority. The proposal is shared in the management of certain cases; in many cases it is not possible to say that bureaucracy would be reduced. By the way, according to my information, the opinion of the Chamber of Auditors was somewhat incorporated in the proposal before us, so it is not possible to say that if I were to be honest that the Chamber's opinion had not been taken into account at all, this would not be true, but perhaps the discussions could have been continued. After all, as I said, for example, the public oversight authority is entitled to verify professional and practical knowledge, but the register of companies is already one of the chamber authorities' procedures. Therefore, there may also be problems with parallels or information flows, where appropriate. As I mentioned, the use of terms has not been crystallized in many cases. New concepts will be introduced, which will be taken over from the EU directive and translated, but in many cases they differ from what has been in the Hungarian rules. It would have been better to consolidate this better, for example, in the new Ptk., the legislation is about the named auditor, and the proposal introduces the concept of the main auditor partner in the context of the EU Directive - here it may arise whether there will be a sub-account auditor or other categories. This suggests, moreover, that the term "partner" actually takes over the structure and concept of large audit firms, taking their samples as a basis of the law, but in many cases it is not necessarily possible to incorporate them into the drafting of Hungarian legislation by means of a translation or a mirror translation. That's gonna be a problem for some of us. Of course, I know that this can be corrected later in a salad law, but I think that continuing professional preparation and consultation could have prevented them from staying in it. The 65/B. The professional scepticizimus concept, which has been mentioned before me, is introduced. According to the profession, this would have been better placed among audit standards, and international and Hungarian standards do this anyway, but in some respects it does not divide, it does not multiply, but it is not necessarily the place to be incorporated into the law. What is positive, however, is the declaration that, in the case of chamber quality control, the chamber member auditor should be subject to a proportionate examination corresponding to the extent and complexity of the chamber member's activities. This is important, since a more comprehensive audit is obviously justified for larger firms, multi- and large audit firms; for a smaller single-member auditor, obviously, an audit proportionate to his work will also achieve his objective. In the proposal, which includes an amendment to the Accounting Act, a contradiction appears to be apparent from the provisions of Articles 156 and 157. Between the two sections of the section. Article 156 § 2 states - I would not quote the whole, but the essential point - that the scope of the audit cannot extend to the future viability of the contractor; that is, I think, a clear wording. But it's 157. The audit report shall state to the auditor any material uncertainties which give rise to significant doubts as to the entrepreneur's ability to conduct the business. So this seems to contradict the previous stage, as it could also relate to its future viability. In any case, this is not yet understood in professional companies as to exactly what this will mean; in one case, an estimate should be used to indicate where the company is going or to make a statement about this, in the other case the investigation should not extend to this. [[15.10]] Then I also have to say, as regards the amendment of the Personal Income Tax Act - and I am thinking of the employment benefits of the public workers here too - that should not necessarily have been regulated in this law, that could have been placed elsewhere, so it all sounds a little salad law, and it takes away the seriousness of the fact that we are actually talking here about auditors and audit about the transposition of an EU directive. This benefit - an incentive effect - seems logical to be exempt. However, it must be said that this goes on as long as someone else would have been employed, and it will be the case if they still have a public employment relationship and find work on the market. Perhaps this incentive can be important because in many cases we see community service creating a trap, since it is possible to get used to it, there are a lot of people - and I have heard that from the countryside - that often they do not go to the market for greater income. This is also due to the fact that, in many cases, public work is synonymous with the fact that it is not always necessary to work actively, in many places there is nothing to do. Of course, Jobbik supported public work in order for those who have not worked in their lives to acquire some kind of work organisation, but the long-term goal would certainly be to get these people out of this life situation and find work in the market sector. We look forward to the results in this respect, and to the opinion of the Secretary of State on the bill. We want this proposal and the reform of the whole system to actually lead to a better control of large companies by the state, and not just those companies that are targeted at themselves, but all of them, without any bias or any government relations. We hope that we will experience this in the future. Thank you, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-04-12-106	Ladies and gentlemen, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. I now give the floor to László Domokos, President of the State Audit Office.
u2016-04-12-107	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, The strategic objective of the State Audit Office is to promote transparency, order and contribute to the functioning of the well-managed state by means of sound professional and value-creating audits. The Court's proposals, based on the experience gathered during its audits, promote the regular, effective, efficient and economical use of public funds and public assets, and the most important task arising from its legal status and mission is to support Parliament's legislative activities with its experience. In recent years, I have asked for a voice in Parliament on a number of occasions in order to incorporate the experience of the Court of Auditors' audits into a legislation under preparation. Such was the debate of the law on municipal, disaster management, competition law, public finances or even higher education. These are all areas that directly affect the lives of all Hungarian citizens. There is still an amendment to a law that fits this line. For the functioning of a market economy and a well-managed state, it is necessary for farmers to disclose reliable and true information on their financial, financial and income situation in the manner laid down by law. In order to ensure transparent management, an independent audit is of paramount importance, as the auditor's acceptance opinion guarantees that the accounts provide an objective picture of the economic and financial situation, real and reliable information to the board, management, creditors, potential investors and owners. The reliability of the information disclosed will be enhanced by the audit carried out by independent auditors. First of all, I would like to point out that the audit work is extremely necessary and, as President of the State Audit Office, I support any amendments aimed at strengthening audit activities. Dear House, The protection of public funds in Hungary is ensured by a coordinated control system consisting of interconnected elements, the first line of control of which is the internal control system and internal control of individual institutions and municipalities. The second line is the sector's government/supervisory control and this line of protection includes independent audit control. The third line of defence is the independent external audit. I stress that the Court's audit is not a substitute for the internal audit of the organisation concerned, for the sectoral government audit and for the work of the auditors, at the most, to complete and verify them. Audit standards provide auditors with a requirement to identify and assess the risk of material error and to communicate with those entrusted with management in the event of an identified deficiency. The auditor shall also be responsible for obtaining sufficient assurance that the financial statements do not contain material erroneous statements, whether resulting from fraud or error. However, the Court's audits carried out in recent years have revealed shortcomings and irregularities in the activities of auditors in a number of cases. Our controls focused attention on problems that restricted the transparency of public finance management and threatened the responsible management and preservation of public property. For example, some 20 percent of Hungary's territory is covered by forests and slightly more than half are state-owned, managed by 22 state forestry companies. The preservation, preservation and enhancement of national property is of paramount importance in the public interest, and it is the responsibility of public forestry in about a tenth of the territory of our country. In view of this, it was shocking that, in the course of the audit of the asset management activities of the state-owned forestry companies at the end of 2015, in addition to a number of serious irregularities, it was found that 20 out of 22 forestry companies, in the whole period between 2009 and 2014, one year, the balance sheet did not reflect the real state. In the light of our findings, it was also surprising that the auditors who audited the company's accounts did not object to the irregularities detected during the period under review and that the accounts were endorsed. Out of the 22 forestry companies, 21 of the Hungarian Chamber of Auditors have been signalled to investigate the omissions. When controlling the majority-owned enterprises of the municipalities - waste management and district heating companies - we have so far made 18 signals to the Hungarian Chamber of Auditors, but we have also found a deficiency in the audit of local governments and higher education institutions in the activities of the auditors. In many cases, the annual audit did not reveal the shortcomings identified by the Court of Auditors, and the audit verification clause showed that the annual accounts provide a reliable and fair picture of the financial, financial and income situation. In the absence of the auditor's indication of the above shortcomings, ownership rights, transparency and asset protection were not guaranteed. Speaking of the social consequences of this phenomenon, I would like to draw attention to the fact that the poor functioning of local authorities and their companies could also jeopardise the quality of public services in the public sector or, for example, the long-term sustainability of the reduction of overhead costs. Higher education institutions, which teach growing generations, should be exemplary and exemplary organisations. It is in the interest of society to ensure that these institutions and companies operate in a regular manner, fully comply with the rules on their management, and make proper use of the public funds entrusted to them. It is essential that this is supported by audit audits as a second audit line. Based on our audit experience, it would also be important to include fraud and abuse in the audit, and the audit statement would also address the risk of corruption. [[15.20]] The strategic area of the State Audit Office is the audit of auditors, in which institutions and organisations which themselves carry out audit and supervisory tasks are subject to scrutiny. As a result, our work is exponentially useful, as the institutions carrying out audits themselves will also be more effective by ensuring the Court's audits. At the same time, we strive to continuously reduce so-called white spots and to control previously uncontrolled areas. That's how the public bodies came to our attention. In 2015 we carried out the inspection of the Hungarian Medical Chamber, and in the fourth quarter of 2015 we started the compliance check of the Hungarian Chamber of Auditors. The objective of our ongoing monitoring is, among other things, to determine whether the relevant legal requirements have been complied with in the management of the public body, whether the control, monitoring and registration systems to ensure proper functioning have worked properly. This report will be published in the coming months. Honourable Members, Our audit experience presented shows the significant role of independent audit activities in the functioning of the well-managed state, which comply with both legal requirements and audit standards. This is why it is particularly important to regulate audit activities properly. Act on the State Court of Auditors 6. The President of the State Audit Office shall take part in the preparation of the legislation relating to his duties and shall be sent to the State Audit Office for an opinion in the course of the administrative consultation, including by providing an appropriate time limit. Unfortunately, however, in the recent and present amendment of the Act on auditors, this provision was ignored by the author. On 1 September 2015, the provision that the State Court of Auditors has the right to agree on the selection of auditors instead of the previous right of opinion concerning the organisations of the general government sub-schemes entered into force. However, as a result of the lack of coordination, the criteria for granting agreement were not included in the law on the basis of which we would be able to exercise our right of agreement on the budgetary fitness of auditors with sufficient grounds, according to the importance and weight of the rating. In the present circumstances, the State Audit Office has limited information regarding the assessment of the budgetary fitness of auditors in order to grant the right of agreement. On the basis of which criteria we have to decide whether or not to agree on their budget rating, the law does not contain any specific provisions. While both the transfer of authorisation, certification and quality control from the Hungarian Auditor's Chamber to the public oversight authority and the granting of the State Audit Office's right of agreement may serve to strengthen audit activities, it would be important to further clarify the relevant legal requirements regarding the criteria and procedural rules of agreement. However, I must indicate here that, if this does not happen, the SAO will establish its own criteria for the enforcement of the law, but I think that Parliament should decide for itself whether it really wants to do so. The Court of Auditors is ready for this, but I felt that at this point in the debate I should definitely signal this. Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, Mr President, I trust that in the context of the bill on the amendment of the audit law, we could also support the legislative activity of the Parliament with the proposals based on our audit experience and the criteria recommended for consideration, and help to ensure the proper, efficient, efficient and economic use of public funds and public wealth. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-04-12-108	I now give the floor to Congressman Nándor Gúr in a normal time frame.
u2016-04-12-109	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Secretary. I think that there is a new chance of strengthening the relationship between the government and the Chamber, as there have not been a long time since the Chamber of Auditors' renewals, and in this respect perhaps it is not the bad practice that my colleague Józsa spoke about that the chamber's actors should turn to the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights for the government's decision on the financial disadvantage of more than HUF 50 million, i.e. that the matter should be combined with the confiscation of audit assets, even if he is not directly involved in the story. Or in cases that have also been touched, if I remember correctly, Fidesz practically doubled the public oversight fee payable by the Chamber, while not showing a great deal of involvement, in summa it entered this story with the order of ten million forints. I think that what I am talking about as an introduction is that there is a new situation, it is certainly worth taking advantage of, because, as many people have said about it, it is obvious that strengthening public confidence in the audit profession is essential and important. And it is not a problem if it radiates through the relationship system of the government and the Chamber of Auditors to those involved, the economic organizations, that there are not distortions here, but cooperation; of course, everyone takes their place as a result of their role. Mr State Secretary mentioned that the reform of the public oversight system, the operation of the public oversight authority and the reform of the system are taking place, which, inter alia, includes the issue of quality controls from the register through further training. There is nothing wrong with that, I will discuss one thing on the subject of quality control, which I think is worth considering, but before I do that, I would like to deal with what I believe will affect investment promotions and much more. This is the question of the period of employment of the auditors' mandate. I know that this would be enough for my better fellow Member, but there are still a few things that should be said. One thing is that the issue of five-year orders, as I mentioned, may not, from an investment promotion point of view, have the effect that is appropriate. The majority of the Member States of the European Union have virtually not yet taken their final position on the EU audit reform and its final regulation, but based on the established plans, it is clear that the majority chooses the 10-year rotation. If Hungary deviates from this - there is a way and opportunity to make a difference - it can, as I said, in a sense adversely affect us when making investment decisions. I would like to point out that, taking into account the number of European countries, thirty, I have found out that, taking into account the preliminary plans, there are eight out of the thirty who do not think for ten years, but in other annual intervals, and there are only five who clearly set a maturity of less than ten years. By the way, Hungary is the only one with a five-year term, the others are more than that, seven to eight to nine years, even in the eight that do not choose ten years out of the thirty. Taking a multinational company as a basis also reduces the transparency of the operation of a multinational group of companies by requiring thinking in five years of rotation. [[15.30]] Simply because we consider that a Hungarian company with an EU parent company, which is of public interest, as has been said here, may have a problem with five-year rotation in Hungary. Because it cannot be ensured that a particular auditor carries out an audit together with a multitude of auditors from the company's network, where appropriate, in a group during the entire mandate period. So the situation will be that the chaotic crowd of shifts will result in relationships between auditors in that audit network becoming elusive after a while. For example, no matter what nationality, let's say, a French insurance company, if it chose the company as an auditor in 2009, let's call it one of the companies in question, then according to the French rules, 10 years is the maturity that governs it, so it will have to change the auditor next time in 2019. However, its subsidiaries in all EU countries are subject to the rules in force in that country. So in most countries, as I have said, the 30 will also have to be changed in 2019. But his Hungarian subsidiary has to change from 2017 onwards, because at the time of the entry into force of the regulation in June 2016, it practically caused the situation that the change would take place in Hungary by 17:00. This means that, in 17th year, this company will not be audited by the parent company, but by another auditor, not that one, but another. So, the problem is that the French parent company, right, will choose a new auditor in 2019 and this can stay for 10 years, so it will have to be replaced in 2029, while the Hungarian subsidiary will have this change from 2017, as I mentioned earlier, the other company, not the company, and from 22 to 26, will be able to remain in the picture again. In Hungarian, not over-enhancing this story, but I think it is clear from this that it also significantly impairs the efficiency and quality of audit work if it is not carried out by the network of an audit firm in the entire group of companies. Other auditors may reduce the transparency of the operation of banks, insurance companies and stock exchange groups in each EU country. Therefore, it would be worth considering the alignment in European countries with the definition of rotational time intervals for the majority; 22 out of 30, 22 out of those who exactly mark the 10 years, are considered to be the majority. However, from the perspective of the entities concerned, it is also the case that this five-year rotation significantly reduces and limits the choice. Especially with the fact that there's a four-year election ban, a re-election ban in the system. In addition to the five years rotation, this four-year re-election ban provided for in this Regulation does not give rise to the possibility, so to speak, of continuity and traceability of the system. The option may be reduced to one or two players, where appropriate, taking into account these parameters, from among those eligible by the parent company. And that, I think, is in no one's best interest, whether the choice of an economic organisation is narrowed down to this extent, but a wider choice must be given. In my view, the basic accounting changes that occur from 2017, or from 2017 or 2017 are also a certain risk to audit changes. It is simply because a significant number of public-interest farmers will be obliged to switch auditors in the year of their transition to individual reporting - the IFRS system. I don't think this is the right time, the right time. Even with regard to the calm functioning of capital markets, perhaps the 10-year rotation period provides more opportunities. Approximately the number of companies exposed to the public interest affected by this matter was calculated in relation to the requirement for five-year company rotation. It's pretty close to 40. If this does not appear in conjunction with a five-year company rotation, but with a 10-year-old, then this will be reduced to a quarter of the number 40, to a number 10. This is not irrelevant, because we are not talking about companies, we are talking about public-interest companies. The other thing that I would like to deal with briefly is the scope of the quality control issues and their context. How was it and how is it planned today? I think it's okay for someone who doesn't carry out their duties in the context of audit work the way they have to do in accordance with the law, then they have to face certain kinds of sanctions. Of course, it's clear, it's natural. If necessary, Mr. Secretary of State has also mentioned, I believe that the relevant stakeholders must undergo compulsory training, that, if necessary, they will be sanctioned, warned, fined, or suspended. I read a three-year ban in the bill, although I didn't read what happened after the three years passed. So what's really left is an open question about whether it's gonna go back or what this picture looks like. But here I would like to deal with one item in this context, in the context of quality control, and that is the issue of fines. In Hungary there are around 4-5 large audit firms that, according to my knowledge, take 40-50 percent of the total turnover. There are 15-20 large companies that take about 70% of the turnover from the audit activity, and there are 2,500 auditors who share a fraction of the turnover, 25-30 percent. I'm telling you, about 2,500. When we look at the system of quality control, and I look at the fine here, we see that if a simple chamber member makes audit errors, then, I said, among the multitude of sanctions, he can be fined, from 100 thousand forints to 100 million forints. That 2,500 is a simple auditor. Not the audit firms, which employ a multitude of auditors, are not, but the 2,500 simple auditors whose revenues individually do not seem to exceed the size of a few million forints. A hundred thousand forints to 100 million forints fines. Well, if you want to destroy it, if you want to lye it, if you want to shut it down within the audit network within the framework of the individual, within the framework of the enterprise...
u2016-04-12-110	Excuse me, Congressman. He was talking for three minutes before the clock stopped. We're 15 minutes over.
u2016-04-12-111	Yeah, yeah, I was looking at this watch. Thank you very much for the warning.
u2016-04-12-112	Do the last sentence, and then you can ask for another word. [[15.40]]
u2016-04-12-113	Thank you very much, but I don't want to talk for another 15 minutes, so I'm going to use that one minute briefly. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Foreman Novak: Say one sentence, not a minute.]] The president will take care of it. Thank you. I would like to draw your attention to Mr Secretary of State and ask with great respect and ask that you do not want to destroy these auditors. I understand that audit firms may be subject to fines ranging from HUF 100,000 to HUF 500 million, but less so, that the fine for these 2500 auditors is from HUF 100 thousand to HUF 100 million. I'd like to rethink this ceiling. Mr. President, thank you very much.
u2016-04-12-114	I now give the floor to Member István Józsa.
u2016-04-12-115	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I am very sorry that László Domokos, President of the State Audit Office, is no longer in the room, but if you look outside, you may be close. It's his comment that forces me to make a two-minute comment. He said an interesting line of thought that, if the Parliament does not set its rules of procedure or operating rules in the presentation of the government, the State Audit Office is ready to draw this up. That's an interesting thing. This shows me that it would be good for you to deal with this, if the government can't, then the Committee on Budgets. The other is that I would like to encourage Mr László Domokos as President of the Court of Auditors to carry out a comprehensive Court of Auditors inquiry into the management of the Hungarian National Bank and to present it to Parliament. I remember before György Matolcsy went there, even I was accused of saying something like that here in Parliament. Despite immunity, the President of the immunity committee has filed a complaint against me that I have said that some of the investigation results are capable of undermining the authority of the National Bank. Well, I was reported in court, delivered to the wrong address, and convicted in my absence. After that, of course, I corrected the comment and said that some of it was not suitable to undermine the credit of the National Bank. So now I believe that the Court of Auditors is responsible for examining the management of the National Bank after the Curia has stated that any money at the National Bank is public money, even what it has put out, the foundations. So I'm asking here by the record - I hope you'll read it and not answer with a report - to carry out an investigation. Thank you.
u2016-04-12-116	I wonder if any of my fellow Members would like to comment. [[There's no candidate.]] I do not see a candidate, so the general debate is closed. I give the floor to Mr András Tállai, State Secretary, to respond to what has been said.
u2016-04-12-117	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, First of all, we thank the governing parties, of course, for their support in the bill. They were actually talking about the substance and content of the bill, its importance. They understood what this bill was about. I see that the Hungarian Socialist Party is not so, as the majority of István Józsa's speech seemed to be a representative of the Chamber of Auditors, and he classified the grievances of the Chamber of Tears. This is not, of course, part of the content of the bill, as this bill puts an EU regulation and a directive into the Hungarian legal order, and it is really asking the most professional questions, all in a manner agreed with the Chamber of Auditors. About the bill very little has been said about you by the head speaker of the MSZP, probably because he has nothing to say about it. That means, in my opinion, that they agree. As for political expression, let me respond to that. You are mistaken when, in connection with the Quaestor scandal, the missing HUF 200 billion will be blamed for the new banking supervision system - which is already part of the Hungarian National Bank - because, on the one hand, that activity has been carried out for many years and decades, and at the time of your administration, regular and rigorous control has been abolished. This was not done under your government, but it was precisely the supervision system integrated into the Hungarian National Bank that revealed this huge crime, exposed it to the public, and the culprits could be held accountable for it. It is absurd to use the debate on the bill to ask or instruct the President of the State Audit Office to carry out certain checks. However, I would like to thank Nándor Gúr for his speech, who has dealt with two professional issues. One of these is the issue of certain audit rotations. I understand that the MSZP likes to spend more time in a company so that an auditor can stay in a company for ten years. This is what I have just said, that in the financial supervision exercise, they had the practice of not having to control it, but they can understand that after such financial broker scandals in Hungary, as the European Union allows for less than ten years of regulation, so we propose five years of maximum service time in the bill, which I think I do not need to stress specifically the reason for. Thank you very much for the Jobbik speech. Gábor Staudt mostly dealt with professional issues. We'll thank him for that. He had too many suggestions, no changes, but rather comments. In this regard, I can say that, for example, with regard to the certification of audit activities, the Member has listed the conditions which the legislation currently in force contains in accordance with international practice, only so far has the Chamber verified this and will be transferred to the public oversight authority under the law. The method of imposing fines and its directives have been clearly defined by the European Union. This is not the initiative of the Ministry of National Economy. Professional skepticism is no longer included in the bill. The Member may have read an earlier proposal, and that is why he made this observation here. Indeed, the Ministry believes that standards should be relied on in this matter. Thank you again for your comments and your speeches, of course the position of the LMP faction - I take it that silence is consent. [[Defiance.]] Thank you very much. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-04-12-118	Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Next up is the 1995 LVII on water management. General discussion of the bill amending the law until closure. Government referral T/9802. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr. Tibor Pogácsás, Secretary of State of the Ministry of the Interior, author of the item on the agenda.
u2016-04-12-119	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear House, The Water Management Act contains amendments that take into account the EU principle of cost recovery for water services for agricultural purposes, while also taking into account the burden-bearing capacity of farmers. It provides for the possibility of legalising the activities of so far operators of water law research or other water extraction facilities and of obtaining official permits to survive and operate the facility without paying the water management penalty, and, on the basis of the experience gained in the application of the law, the law amends the rules for the professional control of water utility companies to ensure transparent operation. Under the so-called Water Framework Directive adopted by the European Community, Member States' regulations should, as a general rule, be subject to the obligation to pay contributions and fees in respect of water demand and water supply. [[15.50]] This rule is based on the environmental objective to encourage water users to use water resources in an efficient and efficient way. In line with the above objective of the Water Framework Directive, the bill abolishes the general exemption for water consumption for irrigation, fish management and rice production and therefore, in principle, water supply contributions should be paid after water demand. At the same time, the bill also makes use of the discretion provided by the Water Framework Directive, where it provides for exemptions from payment obligations in some cases in the light of local social features, geographical and climatic conditions and difficulties in the financing of farmers. Thus, on the one hand, there is no need to pay for water supplies up to a certain annual volume of water, and farmers and users also benefit from a contribution exemption for water use in periods of persistent water scarcity and for additional waters used at the end of winter. In order to reduce the black economy and to manage sustainable water, a regulation is needed which penalises water rules and persons who know but do not comply with professional requirements in the case of unlicensed water collection facilities, while providing for a temporary grace period to allow the establishments which have previously been completed, otherwise sustainable but which do not have the necessary permit, without payment of a fine, to obtain their official authorisation. In view of all this, the amendment proposes that, in the event of a breach of water management regulations, the owner of the property should be primarily sanctioned, so that we can provide adequate deterrent powers to illegal activities and support legitimate businesses. Unlicensed, often unprofessional, run wells can cause groundwater contamination, reduce our water resources without being known by the water management bodies responsible for water resources management, and damage the central budget, since no water supply contribution is paid for these quantities of water. The aim of the proposal was to eliminate the illegal situation by providing for the possibility to notify and authorise illegal abstractions by the end of 2018, except for the payment of water management fines. In addition to the above, the bill clearly defines the activities that can be carried out by the water utility companies, amends the rules on their professional control and the procedures for the clearance of the accounts in the event of their termination. As a public task, the water utility company can only create and develop a water facility for public water supply, sewage treatment, cleaning, inland water management and precipitation water management. The company shall not carry out any activity other than the above tasks and any related recovery work. The clear wording is intended to prevent the company from using the interest contribution collected from the owners of the property or recovered as a public debt for the implementation of the water utility facility to finance activities other than its public mission. In order to ensure that professional requirements are met, the peer review of water management bodies will also include the examination of technical design documentation and the follow-up of the implementation process, as well as the examination of complaints and announcements of public interest against the water utility company in the framework of the technical audit. The bill also obliges the water utility company to account for the public's paid-up interest contributions. If, in the course of the investment, the company receives self-support and self-strength from the interest contribution, the interest contribution shall be reduced by the amount obtained. If the municipality financed the investment and did not obtain an interest contribution from the population, the amount obtained shall, of course, be granted to the municipality. Dear Parliament, The bill described above promotes more efficient agricultural water supply, protects farmers from unjustified additional expenditure on water demand, while at the same time contributing to the reduction of the black economy in the field of water management and the creation of legitimate operating conditions. At the same time, the operation of water utility companies becomes more transparent, while the water utility can operate better in accordance with water professional requirements. Mr President, Dear House, I ask that the Parliament support the bill submitted. Thank you, Mr. President. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2016-04-12-120	Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. I give the floor to Sándor Farkas, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2016-04-12-121	Thank you very much. Mr President, Mr. Secretary. Fellow Members! The annual LVII on water management. In practice, the draft law amending the law can be split into two parts, one part concerning agriculture and the amendment of the legislation on water utility societies. However, before starting to evaluate the law, allow me to give you some information and explain what was said on 8 April 2015 at the meeting of the Agriculture Committee on the assessment of the watering needs of the National Directorate-General for Water. At the meeting, it was formulated that in 2014 the National Water Directorate-General, in cooperation with the agricultural chamber, carried out a survey on the Hungarian farmers' long-term need for irrigation and the points of a more accurate survey. So I would like to mention these in a few paragraphs. In 2014, around 130,000 hectares were licensed for agricultural irrigation activities. We irrigate about one and a half percent of the domestic agricultural area, which is well below the watering rates in other EU countries. In a number of ways, the EU cannot really say that it is in its interest to read from the existing legislation that we increase the size of properly irrigated areas, which, of course, also refers to various environmental and agri-market competitions. In 1991 there were still 360,000 hectares of water permit, i.e. water permit, in 2014, it is only 223 thousand hectares, and of which we use only 130 thousand hectares, used because of investment, payback or procedural difficulties, or the new boarding itself, the new ownership structure is also involved. Farmers would like to irrigate more than 330 thousand hectares, if possible, against this 130 thousand hectares. About 30% of all irrigation water needs among farmers were met in 2014. However, it is mentioned from 2014 that it was a very favorable year with rainy weather. 45 percent of farmers continue or plan to irrigate their agricultural areas. Farmers who do not or do not plan to irrigate, for financial reasons in particular, only 3 percent of farmers would not irrigate if they could do so without obstacles. Irrigation improvements, investments, according to farmers, could be best achieved with financial support and other bureaucratic support. I believe that these figures show that at some point Hungarian agriculture once had watering systems in the Hungarian countryside. I can say the old Small Circles system and the Nagykunság canal system, which applies mainly to the Great Plain, or perhaps to the peaceful watering systems in Csongrád county, which have made a very useful contribution to the activities of farmers who have carried on intensive agricultural production, intensive crop production and continue to this day. It can now be said that in these areas where these equipment or plants functioned or function, very intensive cultivation processes are taking place. I could say that 100 percent of Hungarian canned vegetable plants can only be produced in these areas, and this is also important because there are unpredictable weather conditions in Hungary right now. When it is April 12th, and the irrigation season starts on the 16th, hopefully meteorology will not be wrong, and the rainy weather will arrive, but in countless places, I could say today that there are drought-stricken or drought-stricken areas. [[16.00]] As spring in the field of agriculture is about two weeks earlier than the usual calendar meteorology, there is a need for irrigation at the moment, but, let's be honest, very few water providers have been able to prepare and provide the water needed for these. But let us go back directly to the law, which, as we have heard from the rapporteur, serves to achieve the objectives of the Water Framework Directives. The European Directive, which has been in force since 2000, requires that all surface and groundwater be put in good shape in the Member States of the European Union by 2015 and that good conditions be maintained. In order to achieve this main objective, the Directive provides for the improvement and protection of the status of aquatic ecosystems and terrestrial and aqueous habitats directly dependent on aquatic ecosystems, the promotion of sustainable use of water resources, the gradual reduction and elimination of introduction of particularly hazardous substances into water, the reduction and elimination of groundwater pollution, the mitigation of the effects of various floods, inland waters and droughts. Under the proposal, this measure is intended to achieve the objectives of the Water Framework Directive, which virtually eliminates water supply exemptions for irrigation, fisheries and rice production. Only water users less than 50,000 cubic metres per year receive a discount. As a practicing agricultural professional, I say that this means a 30-hectare area, so this is far from in line with the ideas and wordings that I did in my introductory thoughts, where I believe that a significant part of the outbreak of Hungarian agriculture can be the development and improvement of irrigation cultures, although this draft law has some effect on this. It is true that there will be a later sentence, and I believe that we will be able to compensate farmers somewhat in a government regulation for the drought. This measure will certainly reduce water use and avoid, for example, the over-use of groundwater. The question, however, is whether such an overuse threatens at all in our country, where irrigation is achieved in a total of, again, one-and-a-half percent of all agricultural areas. We are still at the beginning of the debates, and I hope that we will still have successful work to do on this issue, because I feel the difficulty that a practical water user will encounter in these first three paragraphs of this law myself. In any case, it is encouraging that the proposal pays particular attention to the possibility for farmers to be exempted from paying contributions in drought areas, and that the quantities of water withheld by farmers from the periods of precipitation and flooding in river water can also be used at a reduced rate for irrigation. This wording is included in the law, only in general the practice does not say so. The practice is that where there is inland water, there is usually no reservoir where there is danger of internal water, there is no irrigation there, but there is a moment, such as now, on 12 April, when there is still inland water in a certain area, and there is drought in the already cultivated field 20 metres from there, where it should be watered. Now, this is the hardest thing to do, and I know it from practice, and I wish you wouldn't be involved in this, because it's very difficult to solve these issues. Apart from this, I believe that these tasks can be achieved and that proposals that can and are expected to be drawn up during the forthcoming discussions and during the debate and during the meeting of the Committee on Agriculture can still be incorporated into this law. The amendment of the provisions on water management fines or the professional controls and rules of water utility companies will hopefully contribute to the best practical implementation of the objectives of the Water Management Act. The proposal for legalisation of water abstraction facilities, but not licensed, is to be welcomed. In practice, however, we have been asking the respected government to do so for many years. I see that a step forward on this issue is being drawn up again in this law, and this regulation is sure to help not only the safe water supply of farmers, but also the safety of service providers. The second half of the law, which concerns the issue of water utility societies, as an individual Member of Parliament, I have met this issue in countless settlements, and I believe that we, who walk the countryside and keep contact with the people, local governments and water utility societies living there, can clearly say that the demand that comes from contributors, contributors, and the population, and after proper accounting, there are many places left to hold certain funds that I believe are entitled to, I have always encouraged, and I am pleased that this will be reflected in the law. I am sure that a clear account, we say, is the basis for a long-term friendship, which ensures proper municipal and residential cooperation for other investments that may be carried out in the same way. That is why I call on my fellow Members to support both parts of the law, which, of course, was referred to in a law. I trust that in the long term this will be a series of measures that will provide security for both agriculture and agriculture, as well as for water utility providers and the general public. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-04-12-122	I give the floor to Anita Heringes, the lead speaker of the MSZP group.
u2016-04-12-123	Thank you very much. We now have an amendment to the Water Management Act. I think that we can agree on many things by listening to my Fidesz fellow Member, because I have heard from his words that, of course, these amendments are now eligible, but this is very little that we have here. After all, Hungary is the country in which we commit the luxury of Hungary every year for decades now that, although it is a water rich country, we often find that the lack of our water resources or the abundance of our water is causing huge damage in Hungary. Fighting with inland water and fighting with drought can simultaneously be present throughout Hungary. I think that this is a luxury that no country can afford in the long term, so we will have the task of creating a strategy and an action plan that is realistic, sustainable and acceptable to those in the sector. I therefore think that we have a great deal of work ahead of us, and this amendment is still very little to give us a law that will actually be useful in the future. Precisely because I think that Hungary must have a water policy that is coherent and fully transparent to everyone. We will need to coordinate our water, agricultural and regional development plans in Hungary, because there is only a complex way to think about it, to see this whole sector, and to deal with it in a complex way, because we must not develop separate regional development plans, to manage agriculture separately and to manage water management separately. Either we know this as a whole system, or there will be serious errors in this system. The aim of this proposal, which is now ahead of us, is to develop an effective water and price policy in line with the EU Water Framework Directive and to meet the related conditions. That is why I said that, of course, we will support this proposal. However, we must stress that, of course, the clear and transparent settlement of water utilities is not a question, it is a very important thing. But I have said many times that, in today's system, water utility companies are suffering at the moment and are suffering from the fact that they cannot sustain the system itself. [[16.10]] They can't ensure that people get clean drinking water, because they don't have any money for maintenance right now. I think that all my fellow Members here in this Chamber agree that everyone has a right - and the European Union also says so - to access clean water, this right is basically due to everyone. That is why I believe that we must also establish a system in the water supply that is a sustainable system. Yes, it must be checked, it must be transparent, and we must make sure that all money is used systematically, rightly and legally properly. When the proportion of fixed costs in the water utility sector is extremely high, it is conservatively estimated that the fixed cost of such a company is 80-85 per cent, then I think - if we just think that if someone has an undertaking in which fixed costs account for 85 per cent, which makes this system even work - that business is a difficult business to run. I therefore think that we should be able to create a system that is acceptable to the population, to the municipalities, to the government and to the water utility companies, in which there is also money left for maintenance, machine repair and the purchase of new machinery. I think that a stable water supply can be maintained in Hungary today in both small settlements and large settlements, if there is no need to fear a pipe break in this system, where, by the way, anyone will be sent from the customer service on the other side of the country who does not even know where to go at the moment, because they had to reduce the number of people working there so much that, in most cases, the customer service provider actually picks up the phone, for example, in the other side of the country, and can't even tell where the error occurred. It is very slow to correct these problems and errors, and I think that, since the most important thing for all residents is that they really get clean drinking water every day, every time, and if there is a problem in the water supply, these problems will be solved as soon as possible, so we really need to create a system that is sustainable and operational. That is why I ask that we consider, together, how both water management and water utility services could be sustainable, improved, considered together, precisely for our children and, above all, - and I can say it, too, by the way - then thinking about our future grandchildren, so that a water management strategy can come into being and an action plan, which, by the way, will not allow Hungary to afford this luxury, which is today. Thank you very much.
u2016-04-12-124	I now give the floor to László Földi, the lead speaker of the KDNP Group.
u2016-04-12-125	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Humanity is XX. By the end of the century, he came to realize that most of his resources were not just commercial products, but a public treasure that he would receive from his ancestors, and which he would be obliged to leave to his descendants, possibly in the same quantity and quality as the previous generations handed over to him for preservation, care, enhancement. CHAPTER XXI By the beginning of the century, it became clear that water is one of the most valuable of all our public treasures and heritage, the foundation of our existence, the key to our future. According to the predictions of the gloomy ones, the great wars of the coming ages will be started for the water, for the lifeblood that seems to be inexhaustible to us, yet its devastating absence is shockingly often warning of its value and irreplaceability. Hungary cannot kid itself that it is safe through its rich water resources. Indeed, we have a treasure for which many peoples around the world would give everything to drink, bathe and water. In fact, when we think of the need, we are not primarily thinking of water, but of other natural treasures, but at the same time - and this is well known by Fidesz-KDNP and its government - the heritage must not only be preserved and used, but also taken care of. This is what the bill before us, an EU directive that reflects the responsible use and tangible expression of the value of the water resources left to us. Ladies and gentlemen, In the early 80's, the term "sustainability" or "sustainable development" was published in the international literature. Lester R. Brown's work on the development of a sustainable society, which was published in 1981, triggered his general awareness. The author connected the population growth with the use of natural resources and sought to resolve this in a way that minimises the quantitative and qualitative deterioration of the natural environment. According to a declaration from the world's scientific academies in Tokyo in 2000, sustainability is at the same time as meeting the present needs of humanity, preserving the environment and natural resources for future generations. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. 2000/60 was born on 23 October 2000. Directive No 1 of the European Parliament and of the Council, the Water Framework Directive, which also accounts for the cost of prices not only for the financial costs of water services, but also for the environmental impact of water use, as well as for the so-called stock costs linked to the overuse of water resources, water scarcity, as well as for the costs of alternative water use that has been missed. The pricing of water resources for sustainable development has been developed and EU support for investments in the water sector between 2014 and 2020 requires compliance with the thematic condition for the development of an effective water pricing policy in the field of water policy in the Member States. Therefore, water consumption for irrigation, management and rice production should be eliminated, with exceptions. In return, in the new EU cycle, where the strategic objective is to increase irrigation capacity, it is expected that some HUF 54 billion can be spent on irrigation development. Further on in the field of sustainability and bearing in mind sustainable water management, it is necessary to facilitate the granting of a fine-free authorisation for the legitimate survival of water abstract water facilities currently operated without water law authorisation, and the amendment therefore proposes a specific period of time, i.e. a grace period. It is also important to note that this provision also helps to reduce the black economy. Another important change is the alignment of the 2011 CXCIV on Hungary's stability with regard to the provisions on fines. the provisions of law concerning the payment of fines. Dear House, The bill we are discussing is a legislative proof of the appreciation of a heritage treasure, the inclusion in the writing of the common, transversal responsibility and duty that we sometimes have to limit our own needs to ensure the durability of our natural resources, the quantity, quality and value of water. I trust that this proposal, which bases the future of our children together, will be supported by my fellow Members. The KDNP fraction supports the adoption of the bill. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-04-12-126	I now give the floor to Lajos Kepli, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group.
u2016-04-12-127	Thank you very much, Mr. President. We have heard from the speeches so far, and could come over to everyone who is monitoring this debate, that this is an extremely important topic, Hungary's water supply and water use for irrigation and other purposes. As my socialist colleague has said before me, the problem is in fact rooted in the fact that in Hungary there is not even water yield, and sometimes we face too much water and sometimes too little water, and that is something that water management needs to balance, including in order to achieve the irrigation of agricultural land. [[16.20]] Hungary's water management has been focused on the drainage of floods, the repair and maintenance of flood protections since the change of regime in general, and obviously quite rightly. However, with the other extreme, water supply during droughts, we are still lagging behind, we do not have enough reservoirs, we do not have irrigation systems built in sufficient quantity and quality, and that is why even less than half of the technically possible irrigable areas can be watered at the moment, in the order of about 100,000 hectares, this number could be increased by much. This was once an area over 400,000 hectares in Hungary, and I mean Hungary after Trianon, and therefore Hungary in the current territory. At the time, however, the network of irrigation canals was properly built in Hungary, there was a irrigation office designed to remedy these problems, to manage our irrigation channel network, and Hungary's water supply looked different than it did today. This problem is important because if you look at the map of Hungary's water system, you can see that 95 percent of our surface waters - what we all know - come to us from abroad, from beyond our current borders, as they lie at the bottom of a pool at the bottom of our country, the Carpathian Basin. But this is just one problem, and the other problem is that right now, according to the water balance, more water is leaving the country than it is coming in, so the area of Hungary is dries out, which can be seen mainly by the people living in the middle of the Danube-Tisza, on sandbacks, in the form of desiccation of wells and so-called desertification, in the form of drying up soils, for several reasons. Obviously, one of the effects of climate change is the more extreme precipitation distribution, as most of the year's precipitation is due to fall, and we cannot distribute it and stock it properly for the whole year, but most of the time we try to get it out of the country as quickly as possible with the help of various defences. Out of the total quantity of 118 cubic kilometres passing through, we use only one or two cubic kilometres of our surface waters, and we use them in a very small proportion, whether for irrigation or for other purposes. Right now, it looks like we're trying to get rid of this water as quickly as possible. This results in a very serious problem within years to decades, not only in the sandback, but also in many places in terms of irrigation. Therefore, any bill that comes before Parliament with the aim of changing this situation can be supported and supported, even if it is not too strong in its instruments, because we can really make it possible for agricultural areas to be watered in Hungary in a larger proportion and also for the maintenance of irrigation and irrigation systems to be a public task, but, of course, they must be built out of something, at some cost. Many of these irrigation channels, which were intended for field irrigation, have already been buried, have been ploughed before, have disappeared, have not been maintained. So they must be redesigned, the maintenance must be resolved - obviously this has its own cost - and, of course, water must be added, which is not a negligible condition for irrigation. We are talking primarily about surface water, because it is always more appropriate to solve irrigation from surface water, because it flows through our country in large quantities, as I have just said, we do not use groundwater bases that are much more vulnerable and can otherwise be used for irrigation purposes. Therefore, if these conditions have been implemented, we can indeed talk about the fact that, in accordance with the European Union's Water Framework Directive, water abstractions are properly controlled and otherwise subject to a charge; as the law shows, 50 thousand cubic metres of water use for irrigation purposes per agricultural unit free of charge. The question is whether this can be verified or whether it operates on a self-certification basis, or whether there is an appropriate authority or any other procedure to check the amount of water taken out, since if it only works on a self-certification basis, it is obvious that no one will fall into that category of contributions on the basis of their own declaration. This is, of course, partly good in terms of helping farmers to use water to irrigate as much as possible and to irrigate their areas as much as possible, but, on the other hand, to preserve the quality of our waters, the aim is to avoid wasteful use of this water. Most of the current irrigation methods are rather wasteful, this sprinkler irrigation, most of which evaporates into the air, and only a few percent of the plant is useful. So instead, we should switch to drip and other irrigation methods, where this is possible, because, of course, for cereals and others, this is not necessarily suitable, but rather suitable for vegetable and fruit production. But there are new innovative technologies constantly, the point is not to water water with wasteful procedures, but to use this precious treasure as efficiently as possible. But the point is, we are watering our areas as much as possible and thus increasing agricultural efficiency. The other issue raised by the law is the legalisation and licensing of illegal water supply sites at the moment. This is primarily about backyard wells and the fact that until 2018, it would be possible to ask for a maintenance permit for these facilities, which is also a positive thing, because it is not permissible not to know in what form and in what quantities of groundwater bodies are being removed from Hungary today. It is very important to find out, to find out, and to do so, you have to set up a catasphere, a well-castler with every water outlet in the country. Obviously, this is basically what people are afraid of, because they think that if his well is registered, sooner or later he will have to pay a water extraction fee for the water used there - basically this fear in society - and that is why many people are trying to illegally, semi-legally drill or excavate their own water well in groundwater or layer water and use it for domestic, irrigation or agricultural purposes. In many places where water can otherwise be used for better quality and deeper water, this water is used not only for garden or irrigation purposes, but also for household purposes, which, of course, avoids the water utility fee. It's not like a well drill is that cheap, by the way. It is therefore positive that it will give an extension until 2018, so that the announcement of these wells can be made and so to speak, legalise these water collection works without penalty. The question is how this system will continue in the future, because if they are already included in a national database, what water outlets there are, then there is also some way to control, for example, how these water abstractions are done, whether the water base is damaged because of the inadequately drilled well, whether there will be any human or public authority to check this, because if the well goes under a waterproofing layer, there is a chance that if this is not appropriate, the groundwater resources will be contaminated through this. Also, it would not hurt to check and pay more attention to the fact that, unfortunately, even today, the waste water from the family houses is being introduced into these unusable digging wells, saving the cost of snorkeling. There is a social aspect of this, which is, let's say, in such a way that someone can't possibly pay the cost of snorkeling, but the damage caused by it is in the state of groundwater, or even the neighbors, who use this water from their own well in good faith for irrigation or other purposes, and this water is already, say, contaminated because they let sewage into it a doorway away, can have very serious consequences. Therefore, it is a very important element of regulation, without a new burden on the population. The second is that if the government is so careful and sensitive that the state of our groundwater does not change or deteriorate or even improve, it should also be taken into account, even if not the subject of this bill, that the potential sources of pollution that are present in the country in relation to installations or hazardous facilities handling the various abandoned hazardous waste should be re-invested by the government from the budget or from other sources, because they do threaten the bodies of water, our water bases, as a time bomb. [[16.30]] Once a drinking water base is contaminated, it cannot be cleaned up or only at very, very, very, very, very, very expensive costs, most of all not at all. Unfortunately, this has been and has been done in Hungary. Here it has been operational in the last decades, around the regime change, especially in the 1990s, until the legislative environment was so established, the removal of hazardous waste of industrial size into various abandoned pits, other narrators and other suitable facilities. They're still there today. And the new investments - we also need to talk about this. It should not be allowed to do so, and there are a few examples of this today, too, that investments are made either by entrepreneurs of government interest or by investments that have become qualified investments, which are highlighted by the government for some reason, in places where there is otherwise a drinking water base protection area. For example, the area of the Csepel container terminal currently under construction or design, which is designed for the hydrogeological protection area of Budapest's water base, but we could talk about a number of other facilities where these standards are not taken into account. We may and must be sensitive to the state and water quality of Hungary's water bases, we need to achieve the best quality possible, but in water management we do have to make sure that these water resources are kept qualitatively for future generations, and that we can store and use as much quantity as possible for later purposes. There are already areas, and my fellow Member, Zoltán Magyar, will talk about this, a special example, where today is also a problem that, on the basis of a previous wrong decision, there is no adequate water supply in the region. The area of Szigetköz is marked, and there are other areas that need to be addressed. You can't bypass the problem of the Danube, by the way. Here, negotiations with the Slovak party must be speeded up and made more efficient so that we can get the right amount of water, and that the long-term solution is also born, and I am talking not only about the inter-island section, but also about the entire section of the Danube in Hungary and the entire Hungarian water supply. There was once a flourishing, water-based agricultural culture in Hungary, and I think about hundreds of years ago, thanks to the so-called degree management. It is true that at that time a large part of the country was a water-covered area, which has since been drained into farming. It is no longer possible or necessary to restore the condition, but it is worth considering that what worked at the time is the solution, the good thoughts can be taken over, and Hungary can be turned into a flowering paradise if these effects are eliminated and the right amount of water is available in the right quality, at the right time and place. This would be the overall task of Hungarian water management, and in the political side of this, in its design, or in the policy part, we have always been partners with the government and will continue to be partners and we will make our proposals. We will support this current bill. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-04-12-128	I now give the floor to Erzsébet Schmuck, the lead speaker of the LMP Group.
u2016-04-12-129	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Protection and wise use of water resources is one of the most important environmental strategic and environmental security challenges in Hungary. It would therefore be necessary for the Parliament to address it at last in proportion to its weight. In particular, because strategic documents such as the Kvassay Jenő plan were created at government level, the government has adopted Hungary's new river basin management plan and the flood risk has also been charted. It would therefore be urgent to review them comprehensively by decision-makers, assess them, align them with each other and other policies and take the necessary measures in a transparent manner. It doesn't matter what future projects we spend EU funds on. Unfortunately, the government doesn't bring cases of this level to the Parliament. Instead, we get draft amendments that deal with only one partial issue and are mostly very questionable about their motivation and content. Let us consider, for example, the current amendment, which seeks to serve a number of objectives. One of the main objectives of the amendment is to fulfil the thematic ex ante condition for the development of an effective water price policy, among the provisions of the Water Framework Directive. To this end, water use for irrigation, management and rice production will generally cease to be exempt from water supply contributions, but exceptions are also provided for in the amendment. In this respect, it should be noted that, under the principle of sustainability, it is appropriate to make the user pay the real price of the use of resources in order to protect the public wealth most effectively. In this way, we will encourage it to be used in a more efficient way, while reducing the burden on living work, together with increasing added value, would be necessary in order to put economic operators in a more favourable position. This is the best way to create jobs and improve quality of life in the long term. That's not really what this proposal is about. However, it is clear that the aim is to ensure that the recovered water supply resulting from the quantity of water covered by the water rights permit, the retention and storage of excess water at the end of winter, if the water management body demonstrates that the excess surface water is available at the water extraction point, no water supply contribution is to be paid to the water user. It is in Hungary's primary interest to ensure that water retention is provided as much as possible to address extreme floods, inland waterways and droughts in order to eliminate the adverse effects of climate change during water-bush periods. This will help to bridge the ecological demand for water for low-water periods. If water users were to share in the implementation of this effort, it would indeed be worthy of support. It is now more limited to the fact that water consumption for irrigation, fish management and rice production is not subject to water supply payments by the water user. This measure would be very targeted if it were accompanied by a set of requirements and support schemes to encourage efficient, environmentally friendly use of water. Thus, both the farmer and the State would benefit. The increase in the lower limit of the contribution to 50,000 cubic metres is unjustified instead of the previous 10 thousand, given the expected drought and low-water periods. This is also most beneficial to the new landlords. After that, we would also like to know how the agricultural water prices set out in the Government Decree will change in the future. It also makes it more difficult to consider this proposal that the extent and manner of the differentiated water supply contribution between the agricultural sectors will be included in a ministerial regulation, which has been revised and issued on the basis of the authorisation of this Act, not by the Water Management Act. Why could it not at least be attached to the relevant part of the amendment? It is also thoughtful that the following paragraph would be added to the Act:. The expected start and end of the period of persistent water scarcity will be published in the official notice by the Minister for Water Management, taking into account hydrometeorological forecasts. It has occurred to us that the role of weatherman may also be included in the Minister's statute. Would it not be appropriate to exempt farmers from water resources contributions on a territorial basis after the actual hydrometeorological situation has occurred? In addition to food safety, this measure would also serve as a means of saving. [[16.40]] The draft rightly focuses on the use of water for irrigation in agriculture, on the one hand, by considering the provision of agricultural water as a public task and, on the other, by naming and prioritising the fulfilment of irrigation needs in order to meet water needs. In this regard, our concern is as follows. Although significant research results have been achieved in previous decades in order to develop the structure of domestic agricultural production adapted to the characteristics of the production in the region, the current agricultural support and market system, as well as domestic land policy, overwrites this. It is regrettable that we are not using a significant amount of EU resources into our country to build agriculture capable of producing highly adaptable, high added value products in the long term, but only a few dozen oligarchs to get rich quickly. [[Sándor Farkas: Well, that's not true!]] Yes, it is! Under these circumstances, agriculture is not in a position to formulate thought-out, comprehensive ideas for the national economy as a whole, to which a regional and rational water policy could be set. Instead, it is also expected, on the basis of the previous amendment to the Water Management Act, that some beneficiaries will be provided with public resources and assistance. We pay and they reap. The proposed amendment to the Act is unacceptable, according to which a person who, before the entry into force of this amendment to the Water Management Act, has been exempt from the payment of a water-management fine without a water-law permit if he applies for its water-right maintenance permit procedure by 31 December 2018 and the conditions for granting the authorisation are satisfied. But what are the terms? The bill doesn't say anything about that. May I remind you that, during the revision of the national river basin management plan, illegal abstractions were one of the greatest risk factors for the quantitative protection of groundwater. This is particularly true on the Danube-Tisza side. This proposal is now aimed at sanctioning the unblessed situation that has arisen instead of solving the problem for decades. It would be necessary to finally have real water balances in place to determine the amount of water that can be sustainably produced in each water catchment area, so that water that can be absorbed from surface water is used first for irrigation purposes, and only in the final case will we consume our groundwater stocks equal to the price of gold. Instead, the draft encourages illegal users, in fact water thieves, to do so by 18 December 2018 if they have not yet stolen or not stolen enough, and then the chosen users will be exempted and allowed to continue using water. Allow me to at least draw your attention to the provisions of the law in force that, I quote:. Underground water should only be used in the light of the provisions of this Act to the extent that water abstraction and water supply balance is maintained without damage to quality and that the requirements for achieving the objectives of the specific legislation relating to the good condition of the waters are met. Well, these conditions are already not met in many areas. What could be in the light of this plan after that? It is also a very specific idea that the breach of water management standards is primarily linked to enterprises specialised in the construction of a water facility and the carrying out of water work, i.e. contractors, since they are primarily aware of the existing water management rules and their professional responsibility to carry out activities subject to authorisation in compliance with the requirements contained therein. This is an exemption from the payers which is unacceptable under the rule of law. There is only one step away from taking the blame from Fidesz's phantom companies with companies that are founded and rapidly disappearing, while the client hiding in the background can get away with everything. Dear House, Because of the amendment of the Water Management Act, we did not expect such a proposal. Thank you very much.
u2016-04-12-130	Ladies and gentlemen, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. I now give the floor to Congressman Zoltán Magyar.
u2016-04-12-131	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Fellow Members! The lead speaker of all five factions gave excellent details of the proposal before us, so I would not be lost in them. I think if we put together the full picture of these five, we'd have a picture of a bill that could be accepted, but it can be improved. Otherwise, the Jobbik Group will do so with amendments by the appropriate deadline. I would rather mention a local special problem, because on 4 December 2012 there was a debate day here in the Parliament, which would have tried to decide the fate of the intersecting water supply. This day of debate was due to the fact that there were enough inter-islanders, thanks to the county newspaper, who took up this fight and expressed an opinion that the Parliament had to deal with this problem. However, despite the fact that we have held this debate day, in this way, unfortunately, it has joined the usual debates of the past decades, with no real results, and thus the Szigetköz continues to struggle with water supply problems. I would like to draw attention, especially to the fact that the agreement with the Slovaks is extremely important on this issue, but this would not solve the problem. We are now talking about the fact that, according to some expert estimates, if our northern neighbor were to release 100 percent of the water, it would not solve the problem completely, it would sink to the Danube Med during this time and thus the water level in its entire environment. This is why the question of the need to come up with technical solutions cannot be avoided, not only in terms of Szigetköz, but, as I said, I would like to talk about it now. The government got rid of the dark green position represented in the debate by Mr Elijah, then Secretary of State, that all technical solutions were from the devil and that this should not be dealt with in Hungary. He was in a person who had this position, perhaps some LMP help, but practically from the pro-government representatives to the MSZP, including Jobbik, everyone else urged and considered technical solutions to be conceivable. Now I see as if the government might have taken a different position from this point of view, but in practice this did not happen. Two projects in the area of 6 billion forints - of course with EU money - are taking place during the Island. They keep suggesting that they will solve at least part of the problem. I would also like to stress that these two projects cannot increase water levels by one centimeter. These contain very important solutions for both bird and fish living and touristic aspects, and the residents of the area are also pleased with them, as they will develop suitable promenades, and will show the eye a more beautiful view, and there are already a number of beaches. But they don't solve the basic problem themselves, even though they're hiding it. So I would also like to use the framework of this debate to ask the pro-government representatives - it was possible to raise this problem earlier in 2012 within this framework - what progress has been made in the case raised at the time. Because we have heard a great deal of promises from the islanders and from far away people, because let us not forget that the settlements of Rábaköz that lie closer to the Danube also have similar problems. So there are promises in the attic, but we would also like to see their practical implementation. Just because we are in the middle of the seven-year European Union cycle, to which large investments have been promised to address this issue. We can't even see the plans, let alone close to realization. In addition to the ecological problems that this causes, let us not forget that agriculture there was very closely linked to vegetable cultivation even during the Island, which, we know, without unimaginable irrigation, now has serious problems, and it simply does not work in practice. I also have to say that tourism was and could be a major source of income, a significant part of which is also related to the quantity and quality of water there. [[16.50]] And that's not an answer at all, what your own secretary of state said earlier, when he came down to the VOLT festival to worry about the cicadas, and the local newspaper asked him when the government would finally give a meaningful answer at the request of the islanders, and when there would be a sufficient amount of water during the Island. At that time, Mr. Secretary of State, in his usual fidesz arrogant way, he only told the county newspaper that there was no water on Hortobágy, but there is still a tourist. That's the government's response to the intersects. This, of course, caused a great deal of dust, and the citizens had their views on it, quite rightly. But putting aside the past and giving the opportunity to change: on behalf of the islanders, I ask the Hungarian Government to finally pay attention to their problems and to the speeches supported by serious professional arguments, including pro-government speeches, at last take this issue seriously and solve it, which causes many settlements daily problems. We want to be able to deal with this in the near future. If not within the framework of this law, but a similar proposal focusing on the technical solutions of water management would be very happy to support and discuss the Jobbik among the walls of the House. Thank you for the opportunity. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-04-12-132	I now give the floor to Congressman Lajos Kepli in a two-minute time frame.
u2016-04-12-133	Thank you very much. I would just like to briefly confirm what my fellow Member Zoltán Magyar said, because it is indeed a very important problem that if we want to irrigate and build irrigation channels, how there will be water in irrigation channels, how there will be more water in the Danube, for example, during a drought period. And from time to time, there is also the question of the barrier in Parliament, which, even 25-26 years after the change of regime, many people still treat as a kind of sitok from the history of Bős-Nagymaros, which always prevents a real, meaningful dialogue, and the governments of the time are rigidly shutting down from the professional dialogue and professional discussion of the issue, which means that the Danube Medre is getting deeper and deeper and deeper, because it does not carry a load from above us, as the Danube is stepped up above us. It is sinking deeper into the river, resulting in the inter-island problem I have already mentioned, the drying up of the inter-island wells, and not the Szigetköz, sorry, the desertification of the sandback, but the inter-island problem is actually due to this, as my fellow Member, Zoltán Magyar said. We must also address this problem, even if the circles that lead their political legitimacy to prevent investment in Bős-Nagymaros continue to be close to the governments of the time and try to do whatever it takes to prevent a meaningful solution. However, this problem needs to be discussed. That's when Jobbik is painted like a devil on the wall, so to speak, that we definitely want to concrete the Danube and go in, and so forth. No, we want a meaningful dialogue on how to resolve this situation in the long term. That's one of the questions. On the other hand, since I have a few seconds left, I would also like to say that many multinational food and other businesses operating with large water demand place their headquarters in Central and Eastern Europe in Hungary. The reason for this is not that the water supply contribution is more favourable than in the neighbouring countries, so they can use this natural resource in an incredibly large quantity, because they often supply Europe with their products, for which water from Hungarian wells is used. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-04-12-134	I'm asking if anyone else would like to comment on the debate. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see a candidate. I give the floor to Secretary of State Tibor Pogácsás, the author.
u2016-04-12-135	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, As expected, drinking water, water, the exploitation of water and obviously our future will move our fellow Members' fantasies, and they will comment on drinking water, water, irrigation water, and anything at all about water. However, the law itself is much more modest, it wishes to comment on water management in three items and three steps. This law is neither suitable nor intended to solve the problems of the sandback or the problems of the Danube within the framework of this law. The purpose of the law, on the other hand, is clearly to bring about harmonisation of EU law after the adoption of the bill. Our goal is to get a clearer picture, to create a clearer situation with regard to water abstraction. I think it is very important that all the water collection works, small wells, etc. that have been built or have been created in the past decades are registered, because no one can say exactly how many domestic waterworks and water collection works there are today, which, in a bad weather period, may function as a source of water pollution, since house wells that have been badly or incorrectly built during an internal water period may lead water exactly backwards and thus pollute underground water resources. Of course, it would not be acceptable for us to impose a fine on all of this and, after an uncomplicated production or creation, to place responsibility on the current owners. It is therefore necessary to have a period of grace of approximately two years to legalise these wells or places of water supply. On the part of the LMP, the conclusion that small garden owners with such wells would be some sort of oligarchs, I think, is a strong exaggeration. There is a significant difference between water utility companies and water utility companies. Congresswoman Heringes, in this law, we are not drawing up legislation on companies operating water utilities, but on water utility companies. The water utility companies are the private self-organizing companies that have basically built and built these facilities today, organizing the necessary public support, both financial and moral support. Anyone who is familiar with this obviously knows that water utility companies have played a very, very important role in accepting, at the start of sewer investments, that a public contribution is necessary, that a channel fee is to be paid, that all the burdens of this must be borne. This is, therefore, quite different from the companies operating the aquatic utilities, and this law does not intend to lay down rules on companies at the moment. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, I can basically sum up and interpret the speeches that have been made to support the main directions of regulation except for LMP, and it is acceptable for the other parties except LMP to legalise, register water extraction points, to provide a grace period; the regulations of water utility companies need to be made clear, as there have been debates over the past period when a local government or the successor of the water utility company, as a local government, then got into a dispute with its own population. This was also due to the inaccuracies of unregulatedness. This regulation now settles all of this. The fact that there are two opposing opinions on the exemption or the extent of the obligation to pay contributions is natural, as farmers in agriculture, obviously, want to be able to irrigate at the lowest possible cost, and there are obviously economic reasons for this. However, 30 hectares free from the levy during irrigation are still difficult to consider as oligarchs and large farms, so this is basically in favour of smaller farmers. Of course, it is understandable that agriculture wants a greater exemption. I think that, considering all the arguments and all the reasons, appropriate regulation can be put in place. Amendments that improve the law are, of course, accepted and I ask that this House support the law. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[17.00]]
u2016-04-12-136	Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. A general discussion of the bill on legislative amendments to remove certain administrative obligations in the framework of the reduction of administrative bureaucracy is now taking place until closure. The government referral is T/10096. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr Zoltán Kovács, Secretary of State of the Prime Minister's Office, the rapporteur of the item on the agenda.
u2016-04-12-137	Mr President, Dear fellow Members, There is not the first legislative package on bureaucracy cut in front of this House. We started in 2014 with the establishment of the State Reform Committee, and the aim of this was, among other things, to develop a competitive state by reviewing the functioning of the State and making the necessary changes. In a significant area of bureaucracy reduction, the administrative burden for citizens and businesses should be simplified or eliminated, so that in 2015 the government prepared and Parliament adopted the law on legislative amendments relating to administrative bureaucracy reduction. [[Dr. István Hiller, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]] This Act included 108 amendments at the end of the Act, the legal institution for a two-month decision with a so-called objective time limit was introduced from 1 January 16, in order to prevent the delay in the administration of the public administration, the possibility of extending the administrative deadline, the suspension of the procedure and the possibility of setting longer time limits than the general one. From the beginning of the year, simple cases should be assessed in the context of the so-called so-called so-called so-called so-called procedure, in principle within 8 days. Where, according to the specific rules, the administrative deadline was longer than 21 days, the administrative deadline was reduced in 70 laws for some 120 procedures in order to reduce and standardise the deadline. This meant a 25% reduction in the deadline. The smoother conduct of redress procedures has resulted in the cessation of, in principle, the possibility of ordering the first instance authority to a new procedure. We all know that the citizens were most annoyed by the fact that the second degree had repealed it, the procedure was resumed, in the meantime there was a change of legislation, and the time went on and on. If there is not enough evidence available, the second instance must do so, so the procedure will be significantly shortened and the formal legal force will stand up to the second instance decision. From the beginning of the year, 25 previously authorised activities may be continued on the basis of a notification to the Authority and therefore no authorisation procedure is required. For example, as a result of the reduction of bureaucracy, the client does not need to submit a moral certificate in official matters to justify a non-criminal record, but the authority may request the necessary data from the register. Based on the practice of law enforcement of the metropolitan and county government offices and district and district offices, we are constantly monitoring the effects of the bureaucracy reduction. In the quarter following the entry into force of the amendments, in the last 3 months, we can conclude that the number of cases closed within 8 days has doubled, so that the number of cases closed within 8 days has doubled, while the number of suspended proceedings has decreased by more than two thirds, so the deadline has narrowed in this case. I have to say, on the basis of these figures, it is an indisputable fact that the procedure has become simpler and faster. Of course, we cannot be satisfied, because, in addition to the results, we see the need to continue cutting red tape. At the beginning of 2016, at the next stage of the implementation of the Red tape Reduction Programme, the full legal acquis in force was reviewed. Thus, the Prime Minister's Office has reviewed the laws currently in force, which means a law of 1952 and a decree of law. It is interesting to say that 289 legislative decrees adopted by the Presidential Council of the People's Republic are in force, which are mainly the publication of international conventions. As a first step in the review of the existing legislation, we have therefore reviewed the legislation of 1952, categorized it and classified it on the basis of different aspects. It is basically aimed at simplifying administrative procedures, so we have excluded international conventions, legislation on publication and, obviously, legislation that is not relevant. Following the categorization of the 1952 laws and Decree-Laws, a detailed analysis of 310 laws was carried out on the basis of which it was established that 289 laws contained a special procedural rule concerning administrative procedures, the justification of which should be reviewed in the context of the continuation of the reduction of bureaucracy. This does not mean that they must all be changed, but that they must be reviewed. In this context, we have also prepared a legislative amendment, which, as I said, is yet another important step towards the government's goals of improving the efficiency and competitiveness of public administration. The bill was made in the light of the conclusions drawn on the basis of a detailed revision of the legislation and the experience of the law enforcement authorities. So it is important that we have also tried to bring the experience we have so far into the system. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, Based on the nature of the simplification, the amendments can be classified into three main categories. One of them is simplification and removal of administrative burdens, repeals the laws which form part of the legal system but are no longer capable of producing substantive effects, and contains the Ket. , the Public Service Officers Act and certain special sectoral legislation affecting a wide range of customers. In order to achieve these objectives, the bill covers 113 laws, of which 73 are repealed. The conceptual objective of the bill in relation to notification obligations is to ensure that the client has a less than current obligation to turn to the authority. Under the current rules, a client's data, such as its address or the company's head office, are contained in several registers or lists, then the change of the data must be reported individually to each authority, each register. This is, you might say, an extremely unjustified administrative burden in addition to today's communication and data processing technologies, which must be changed. The problem is that data links are not available between systems, so they are developed in such an island-like way, so we say that it can be drastically facilitated by reporting the change of data to only one body, and this transmits the information within the state to the bodies that keep the other records. On the basis of the amendments contained in the bill, other notification obligations have been removed and simplified. The aim is to ensure that the overall reduction in the number of interactions between the customer and the customer results in a reduction of administrative burdens, both on the side of the State and on the side of the client. [[17.10]] By means of the legislative deregulation that is to be implemented by the bill, we want to contribute to reducing the proliferation of legislation, and that is why 73 laws are proposed to be repealed. Dear fellow Members, The Ket. With its amendment which entered into force on 1 January 2004, the introduction of a pending decision and the reduction of the suspension of the procedure, and this bill, according to the experience of the application of the law by the authorities, we are trying to adapt the legislation to the practical needs. On the basis of the feedback from the law enforcement authorities, it is not always ensured that the administrative authority and the body requested by the national legal aid will fulfil its obligation without failure or delay in the event of a pending decision. The Ket. If the objective deadline is exceeded, we want all the determining authorities to be liable for payment. So whoever misses should pay, so in Hungarian, we would press for faster procedures in the framework of a legal aid procedure. In the context of certain amendments to specific sectoral rules, I would like to highlight the modification of the Real Estate Registration Act in relation to pending maintenance. What we want to achieve and avoid is that submissions with a lack of grounds for rejection can occupy the ranking, so in Hungarian, do not occupy the ranking. The amendment serves to standardise the application of the law of the public authority, as well as to benefit customers, as it ensures that the client becomes aware of the errors in the submission as soon as possible. In order to make expropriation procedures more effective, we want the amendment to allow, of course if the conditions exist, the expropriation authority itself to carry out acts that have so far required the assistance of an external body. This has often resulted in an expert sitting on the case for up to six to eight months, and the expropriation process has not progressed. As a guarantee of the legitimate operation of the municipalities, the bill provides, by supplementing the Act on Public Service Officers, a legal basis for the Government Office to be able to appeal to a court if, in the course of the public service audit, it detects that the mayor's salary has been wrongly and, where appropriate, higher established by the body of representatives. In the second phase of the administrative bureaucracy reduction, state reform, building on the relevant professional concept, took into account the experience of law enforcement over the past period, following a critical review of the existing legislation, developed a proposal for amendments to the law relating to the abolition of administrative obligations. Dear fellow Members, We do not consider red tape reduction tasks to be closed, we continue to review legislation affecting the procedures of the authorities and the administrative burden on customers. We will also continue the public consultation launched in 2015. They all remember that nearly 400,000 people expressed opinions in order to eliminate or reduce administrative service charges or charges, leaving some 10 billion in citizens' pockets in 2016. This is what we want to continue with the procedures where this matter can be dealt with. In the last year, the basis for customer opinion is now visible under the law or other legislation, and payment facilitations are included in the legal documents. To give you an example, the ID card, the address card got free. With the ID card, not only with the introduction of the eID, but also perhaps thanks to this it has doubled, some of which have tripled the demand for it at the steering window. Similarly, post-inherited real estate registrations have become free of charge, and a number of changes have been made to entrepreneurs: tax certificates can be published free of charge or even annual financial statements can be published free of charge. We are looking forward to proposals on the procedure of law, both in the government system and from our clients, but also, of course, from our fellow Members. Special attention will be paid to reducing the administrative burden for entrepreneurs in cooperation with several wallets, these will be constantly assessed and further bureaucracy reduction directions will be developed through work with entrepreneurs. We believe that this is a bill that pleases and pleases fellow Members on any side of the horseshoe. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-04-12-138	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Welcome. We will continue our work, followed by the speech of the lead speaker. First, Mr Robert Simon, lead speaker for the Fidesz Group, may speak. Here you go.
u2016-04-12-139	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, The novel Franz Kafka Castle, known to you, is certainly an excellent satire for the operation of the office apparatus. In the work quoted, Josef K. makes every effort to gain access to the castle by using the regular routes and connections required, until it is discovered that the castle does not exist. In practice, as Deputy Mayor of Győr in 2006-2014, I also tried to do everything at my level to ensure that citizens didn't even have feelings about the office's operation with the Kafka bureaucracy world. I am convinced that transparency and efficiency are needed in place of unpredictable and opaque mazes in the 21st century. Describe the Hungarian administration of the 20th century. In order to meet the stated objectives, the Government launched the State Reform II on 1 January 2015. a programme, which includes the reduction of so-called public utility charges, i.e. the reduction of public service charges and the dismantling of bureaucracy as far as possible. T/6410 containing changes to the programme at legal level The Parliament discussed the proposal submitted at the end of 2015 and adopted it in November. In addition to the reduction of tariffs, the motion for amendments to the law on administrative bureaucracy provided for the shortening of administrative time limits and provided for only reporting obligations for the future instead of a number of authorised activities. As then, as a pro-government representative who agrees with the objectives of the law, I feel it is my duty to comment on the bill, because the document before us is closely linked to the reform of the state II. If you like, it is an integral part of cutting red tape. A consistent follow-up of the bill adopted in 2015 on the basis of the experience gained by the administration since 2010. T/10096. The bill on amendments to the law relating to the removal of certain administrative obligations in the framework of the reduction of administrative bureaucracy, as its title shows, aims to remove certain administrative burdens and repeals the laws which form part of the legal system but which contain provisions which are no longer suitable for triggering substantive effects, i.e. the necessary deregulation. In addition to our previous objectives, the aim is to reduce reporting obligations so that the client has to turn to the authority less often than at present; as the general explanation is, the aim is to reduce the number of customer-client meetings, also known as interactions. [[17.20]] Where a client's data is contained in several registers or lists necessary for the exercise of its activities, the current rules require that the change in the data be reported individually for each register and that certain lists and other registers contain data for which another register is considered to be public-credited, but that change in such data must also be reported to another register and to the managing body in accordance with the rules in force. According to the amending provisions, this untenable and least customer-friendly multiple notification obligation is changed so that the notifier only has to report the change of data to a single body, and this body will transmit the information to the other bodies that keep the records involved in the data change. Thus, the proposal breaks off with the Kafka world by requiring the Office to take a proactive stance, and, by analogy with the one-stop shop previously introduced, unnecessary interoffice running is no longer possible. In addition to the general wording, a specific practical case is mentioned: for example, in the case of lost official certificates, where the loss is reported by the citizen to the police, the law enforcement body shall notify the tax authority at the request of the customer. Similarly to the previous example: in real estate registration cases, a change in a single entity is sufficient to report to the client, as in the case of business registers or family bankruptcy. In the same way, the citizen, i.e. the body managing the public register, may request the transmission of his or her reported data to the management bodies, whether it be a list of intermediaries, register of cultural objects declared protected, register of legal aid, voluntary activity in the public interest, register of retailers, register of mountain judges or register of land use. Ladies and Gentlemen, Ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to draw attention to the reduction of administrative burdens linked to public employment. After the entry into force of the Act, the public employee does not have to notify the state tax authority and the county employment bodies of the termination of the public employment relationship; similarly to the previous ones, the changes in data in the case of public employment will be sufficient to report in one place. For the record, the bill before us is the two. It shall also make a slight correction by establishing a rule under which each body concerned, in the event of a delay in the procedure, shall bear the consequences in respect of the levy, fee or cost incurred in its own activities. Finally, I would like to point out that it is also closely linked to the reduction of bureaucracy by simplifying and accelerating the conduct of expropriation procedures. In order to make expropriation procedures more effective, the amendment allows the expropriation authority itself to carry out acts that have so far been required by an external body, as the Ket. under its general rules, the secondment of an expert is necessary only if the authority does not have sufficient expertise. Consequently, in the case of sufficient expertise with the authority, there is no need to deploy an expert in the future, and the amendment states that in the expropriation procedure, the trustee is appointed by the expropriation authority, so that it is not necessary to request another authority, which would only result in a significant loss of time. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Overall, the government is not building invisible castles and air castles in the spirit of cutting red tape, but is also making meaningful, meaningful and visible changes in public administration in everyday life, thereby contributing to the 21st century. The creation of a customer-friendly public administration of the century, which, as Secretary of State Zoltán Kovács has just mentioned, is one of the keys to our regional competitiveness. I therefore call on all Members to support this proposal, regardless of party standing. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-04-12-140	Thank you very much, Congressman. Congressman Nándor Gúr, head speaker of the MSZP. Here you go.
u2016-04-12-141	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, With the aim of reducing the administrative obligations of customers, I think no one is arguing. I think it's totally fine. As Secretary of State Zoltán Kovács has said, in fact, in relation to the relationship between the client and the authority, the density of the interfaces or connections - rather than the correct wording - should be reduced, the number of meetings should be minimized, and if the authorities fail to do so, they should be able to do so in a material and meaningful way, so there is no difference of opinion. I see that, in addition to the involvement of more than 110, perhaps 113 laws, 73 are being repealed, together with all of these or all of this, and I must say that in many cases we feel, however, that these objectives, i.e. the aims of reducing, reducing, not in all respects, and not in all cases. I'll give you an example of where, how, how, as they don't end, they change at most, these kinds of obligations and burdens are transformed. Let's just say if someone loses their tax or property card, so far it's been reported to the IRS, it's now possible to do that in addition to the IRS at the police station. I do not think that this has reduced the number of meeting surfaces, and in this sense the necessity of administrative obligations in care is not reduced. But not only is this our problem about the matter, but Mr. Secretary of State has started recalling events that have been brought to life in the last six months, he said that they are not the first steps, we must continue all that concerns either economic organizations or citizens. He mentioned the scope of the cases, or he mentioned the scope of the decisions that were pending in this sense. With regard to the 8-day deadline for cases to be settled within 8 days, he also said, if I remember correctly, that the cases dealt with within 8 days had doubled. In the case of pending decisions, in respect of which this two-month term exists, until the decision is taken by the authority, the client can exercise its right in this period as well. The problem here is that in very, very many cases the authorities are unable to keep the two-month term, the deadlines, and in fact, what can be achieved is that the various levies, i.e. the various fees, will be repaid. I think this is not the most significant example of cutting red tape in this way, so there is still work to be done here. As far as public administration is concerned with cutting red tape, I do not think that cutting red tape means kicking out tens of thousands of people or putting it on the table. The reduction of bureaucracy is precisely what we are talking about between the walls of this House, so that overlaps, duplications and duplications are eliminated, and those who perform work within the framework of public administration can engage in a type of activity that is beneficial to economic organisations and citizens. Therefore, it should not be an absolute reduction in the number of employees, but rather that people who have so far, let's say, in the last six years, have had to perform work that may be considered useless - not on their own account, but on account of the system's malfunctions - are practically used by the system in a sense and direction that is about how the recipients of services should benefit from this story. [[17 .30]] According to the Secretary of State, savings were made in the order of HUF 10 billion. I think we all know that they say that, on average, in Europe, the amount of money spent on bureaucracy amounts to about 3 percent of our financial gains, GDP. In Hungary, this is 9-10 percent, 3-fold. And once again, this does not come primarily from the labour costs of people working in so-called bureaucracy, but from the unnecessary nature of the tasks that duplicate and triple, multiply and overlap each other. Once again, there is work to be done in this regard. Minimising legal overregulation, which also appears among the target areas, I think that is correct, and I think, as I recall, that it did during the period of the Socialist Party's governance, but now I see that Fidesz is also carrying out a kind of personalised legislation in a sense, and, well, let me say, not to be too harsh, but also a multitude of measures to put lawlessness on the stage of legality. In English, he also tries to huddle the possibility of fishing in confusion, and it's obviously not that simple. This destroys the existence of so-called coherent systems. So, as a result, they have thousands of things to do that would be accompanied by a reduction in bureaucracy. I would also like to live with the suspicion lawsuit - quoted in quotes - that there is also some sanda purpose in the background that controls the functioning of these processes. I'll give you an example of that, so you don't say I'm talking in the air. Remember, or you don't have to remember, but simply think about what the situation is with regard to the disposal of cultural goods declared protected. In the event of a change of ownership in commercial or auction, the name of the owner, his address or the location where the valuables are held should not be reported by the trader. This can be seen as a bureaucracy reduction element, and on the other hand as a rook for the construction of the toolbox of cocooning. In the case of Fidesz or those close to Fidesz, I do not have to open the issue of hunger for art. So, in this sense, I think that it is worth taking care of any measures that allow anyone to be led astray, which is about the possibility of providing opportunities in the spirit of reducing bureaucracy, which can also provide a basis for abuse to a certain extent. It wouldn't be good for these processes to grow. Two more things have been said, Mr Secretary of State, about expropriation, about the involvement of experts, and about who is to appoint the caretaker. I am not sure if I can judge when it is necessary to involve necessary experts, but I think it is dangerous in a sense if, in relation to such expropriation cases, the determining authority is virtually free to order or decide whether or not to involve an expert. With the right to be wrong, corrections may be more difficult to settle later. The other part is that it is not the guardianship authority, but practically the expropriating authority, who is entitled to the secondment of the guardians. It might be worth considering strengthening the role of guardianship in this regard. Article 37 I read the clause concerning the metal trade concerning the obligation of the notified body to inform the other notified body without delay. I get it, I think I get it, I guess. If it's about not having to - whether it's a metal trade or other matter - comply with multiple reporting obligations on a case here, but a particular body has an obligation to signal for everyone else who needs to know about the case, then it's okay. If that's not what this story is about, then I think it's kind of a weird thing to say. The other item, which I would also like to offer to you and to my fellow Members, when I said that there was still something to be done, I would like to finish my speech with a concrete, perhaps tangible, plastic example. I was approached with a specific case, not just now, a month and a half ago, I don't know exactly, which was about a gentleman and a lady selling her property years ago, living in a marriage, and then getting a call for a car tax on her name to the new address where she lives with her husband, and he doesn't get it there, but he gets a notice to her old address. They moved simultaneously, at the same time, and the story was obviously municipal, and they moved at the same time. In fact, the question arises when, in respect of e-, e-registration systems and many others, when a married couple is moving together to a new place, they get information about taxes split in two, then how well is the information system or the registration system or other things we are talking about? Obviously, there is something to be done, so I said there is something to be done. And the picantria of the story isn't really that, because it could be a random story, it could be a mistake-based story, the picantria of the story is that it was reported to the local government in an e-mail, in an electronic format, about which they received a feedback on how to communicate by e-mail, so how do you think! Post office! Post office, letter, and then the story will be all right. Now, if we are in Hungary today that, following such failed steps, electronic signals are not appropriate to correct the error, then I think I can say once again with a calm spirit that there is still something to be done. And so I am linked to Mr. Secretary's first sentence. Yes, things have started, obviously not with the efficiency, efficiency, as you would like to do, we must continue, I will confirm that, but I ask that you pay attention to your efficiency. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[17.40]]
u2016-04-12-142	Thank you very much. Congressman Imre Vejkey, lead speaker of the KDNP. Here you go.
u2016-04-12-143	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, We, Christian Democrats, are committed to simplifying the administration of people's official affairs by cutting red tape for decades, i.e. making Hungarians able to do less time and more effectively in front of authorities and offices. Ladies and Gentlemen, At the end of 2015, on a proposal from the Government, Parliament adopted a package of laws on administrative reductions. The measure resulted in a total reduction of HUF 10 billion in procedural charges from 1 January 2016. In order to enforce certain constitutional rights, fulfil obligations and social justice, a number of administrative procedures, moral certificates and company extracts were also free of charge. T/10096 on the amendment of the law relating to the abolition of certain administrative obligations in the framework of the reduction of administrative bureaucracy. As a follow-up to the above, the bill aims to reduce further administrative burdens and, in many respects, to remove them in their entirety. One important element of this is the reduction of reporting obligations, i.e. the obligation of the client to turn to the authority less often than at present, thereby reducing the number of contacts and interactions between the customer and authority. The bill replaces the multiple notification obligation by requiring the notifier to report the change of data to only one body, and this body will transmit the information to the other registration bodies affected by the change of data. Allow me to draw up a simple example on which Mr Secretary of State has already spoken. If our address changes, we will have to announce this at several other locations at the moment. However, with this amendment of the law, we will have the opportunity to declare only to the authority issuing the address card that the authority also informs the other bodies affected by the change of data, and we will no longer have to act in different offices. Ladies and Gentlemen, T/10096. Bill No.1 makes life easier for Hungarian citizens, so please support the bill. The KDNP parliamentary faction supports it. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-04-12-144	Thank you very much. Congressman Gábor Staudt, lead speaker of the Jobbik. Here.
u2016-04-12-145	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, I'm trying to get to the point, just like the Imre Vejkey before me. Indeed, the proposal before us continues with the reduction of bureaucracy that has been initiated and announced by the government, and what is written here is also eligible, there is no problem with that, and I would like to draw attention to a few things that may require correction or clarification, or perhaps raise some questions in practice. However, I must also say that if we are talking about cutting red tape, we would like the government to start cutting itself, because if we look at it, the number of ministers may have fallen, but the number of State Secretarys and Deputy State Secretarys has increased greatly. As I understand it, the number of Deputy State Secretarys may already exceed the number of Members of Parliament, which is horritable. So it is all right that we have reduced Parliament to half, but we should have reduced the government's number of supreme decision-makers and executives, and it would be good if this rationalisation could, by the way, shift the entire public sector, and the situation would be more balanced, that many times at the level of the administrators... - although János Lázár has repeatedly promised that there would be wage increases, this is what we expect, we trust, especially those who work for very low wages. So as long as employees are earning little at the bottom of the system, we find something else at the top of the system, and the parallel may be even stronger than the state companies. I do not want to reopen that debate on this agenda, but it has to be said that when the benefits of the heads of public companies were raised to five million forints, these pay bands were torn apart, and this does not always result in efficiency gains. I know that there are public companies that are going in the right direction, trying to meet the challenges of the new age, and in their case a small wage arrangement might even be justified in terms of managers, but we have seen and see that these increases have often been made evenly, taking less account of performance, above a plant size. I thought it was important to say this in the first place because, in many cases, these procedures, which lie before us - and Mr Secretary of State explained in detail in his introduction - are focused on these procedures, but in fact, in many cases, this may not always be called a reduction in bureaucracy, the introduction of procedures that really make the lives of citizens somewhat easier, or, in many cases, of requests for data from the register, so that one public body can request data from the other, is a demand that I do not really understand why it had to be waited for so long. This could have been done a long time ago, as in the case of real estate registration, we are very pleased that it is finally included in the proposal. In legal circles, it was completely incomprehensible why it couldn't be, why the real estate register couldn't actually do it by having access to the citizens' home address records, simply automatically re-entering and updating these data. We had to wait so long for this to happen. This was supposed to happen a long time ago. This is important not only to make a citizen's announcement or not to report it - in many cases he has to report it, but he has not. So I think a lot of the citizens didn't, in fact, have no consequences if someone didn't notify the real estate register of the change of address. By the way, in many cases it did not occur to the citizens that they should do so, but the main problem was not to inform or not to do so, but the real estate register itself lost its public credibility in a certain way, because if someone, say, wanted to send them a letter calling them, say, to use their pre-emptive right in the event of a sale, they could not do so, because they might have sent it to an older address, where their partner did not take over it, from then they had to use other legal practices, or, if they tried to do so several times and this was difficult, confirming the property register, they registered their property claim. But this was also harmful to those who did not receive the letter, for perhaps they wanted to exercise their pre-emptive right. So the problem alone is that there was no interconnection between the different authorities and offices between the registers, which has resulted in a multi-level problem, but I think that is only a rationalization and not a real reduction in bureaucracy that we would expect from the government. Of course, the proposal, as I said, is eligible, but it is a corrective step and not part of a genuine reform that has an impact on its substance. I also have to say, and here are some examples from the proposal of what we consider positive or thought-provoking. Also, what I said in the real estate register can be classified in a similar and even milder context than the amendment in paragraph 7. In paragraph 3, the library user is no longer obliged to report any change in his personal data. Of course, this is also very good and beautiful, but it was also a lex imperfecta regulation, so no one was forced into the door by the police if, let's say, as a user of the library, he forgot to report his data, and I really do not see where bureaucracy would be reduced outside of an facilitation. [[17.50]] I was talking about the real estate register, and I wouldn't repeat that, but the 11th one. The amendment to the Law on the Protection of Cultural Heritage contains a passage, which I consider to be thoughtful, because other rules on the transfer of cultural objects declared protected will be introduced instead of the current one, when both parties, sellers and buyers have a notification obligation; this would be amended by requiring only the owner to notify. Now this raises, Mr Secretary of State - and I do not want to be right - that in this case, if we are talking about cultural goods declared protected, I do not consider it unnecessary for the authorities to have to receive the notification from two places, because what if that one debtor does not report it? So when we talk about cultural goods, there may be an additional guarantee that at least one of the two has announced that they both had an obligation to do so. I would consider this as an exception, Mr Secretary of State, given that in this case it is in the interest of cultural goods declared protected. If we already have an announcement, and it's obviously not a coincidence, we're trying to keep it, but in this case it might be better for both parties to report. Then what I would like to highlight from the proposal is an amendment to the law on expropriation. Here I understand the purpose of what you would like, but the wording or this codification solution you are using does not seem 100% non-discriminatory to me. It is all right that I want to make the procedure more efficient and speedier - and it has been said to me that the expropriation authority will be able to carry out various estimates without the need for the assistance of an external body or expert - but the wording is a little more complicated than that, since you are implementing the new rules in such a way as to put it:, if the expropriation authority does not have the necessary expertise, it will appoint an expert - it will say so. What's wrong with that? On the one hand, how does the expropriator know that the expropriation authority does not have sufficient expertise? The second question is that this wording shows that the applicant for expropriation must ask for an expert to be appointed, and if he so requests, but does not have the appropriate expertise, then this must be done. But what if he doesn't ask for the expropriation, but the authority doesn't have the expertise? Can the authority also appoint you if appropriate? [[Dr. Zoltán Kovács intervenes.]] Then, however, I do not think the wording is good, Mr Secretary, because if this is done on request, and this is the wording that, at the request of the applicant for expropriation, it is not possible for them to appoint me on an ex officio basis. I understand that this is certainly not the aim, so the agency must be able to assess whether it has the necessary expertise, but the wording may need to be clarified. It also arises whether a person can override it or override it in the subsequent review course, because it is obviously a complicated question, in many cases it may be a complicated question, whether this expertise is available. I don't know either, and it's a question of whether this will mean that experts will be employed by the expropriation authorities, let's say, the county government offices, and in this case, let's say they hire someone in full-time employment and have to take care of them. What if this hired man can't do his job, so we don't have the capacity? And it's not the expertise, because the law is all about expertise. So we have the expert, because he's sitting there, he's just overwhelmed by the poor expert, and that's why he can't take care of him. Now, in such cases, the application of the law may be problematic. And it seems to me from the proposal that, in addition to raising the deadline for the procedure from 45 to 60 days, this will also be 60 days, Mr. Secretary of State, at least by going over the material, this is how it seemed to me if an expert was assigned, because the pass that concerns the whole procedure will be modified. Of course, if I was wrong, I would welcome the correction, but if we raise it from 45 to 60 days, and not only in the event that the office itself is carrying out the expert's opinion, but it is entrusted to an external expert, it may in some cases be brief, especially in the light of what I have said; let us say, if the expertise is in place, but it cannot carry out this task, because it is overworked or more cases have been brought before the expert, i.e. the expert employed by the government office. So with these additions, which, I trust, will be clarified, we consider the proposal to be fundamentally eligible, and we also welcome a similar and even more profound reduction of bureaucracy and bureaucratic proposals. I say here in parentheses that we are always very pleased to see electronic administration, and, by the way, it was a very strong accusation from the socialists that they lacked electronic administration when it did not even start in the time of the socialists, so that, in fact, the electronic administration took place in such an illiterate manner, or did nothing by the socialist governments that it was actually uncredited on their part, but in any case we would like to see a continuous transition to e-administration, and that, in as many areas as possible, documents and other requests could actually be sent and received. So, together with this, thank you for your attention, and we look forward to your further proposals, Mr Secretary of State. Thank you. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-04-12-146	Thank you. Congresswoman Erzsébet Schmuck, lead speaker for the LMP, please.
u2016-04-12-147	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, With the aim of cutting red tape in this country, we believe that almost everyone can identify, because many of us experience that administration often does not go well. We need to announce the same change to several offices, and even then it may turn out that we have not fulfilled some administrative obligation. It is also everyday experience that we need to obtain separate certificates from existing registers to verify our data recorded there to another authority. Having examined the proposal that we are discussing, we see that it actually narrows the scope of the individual notification obligations to a large extent, and allows us to request, by notifying the change, that it be forwarded to the other authorities that process the data concerned. While we consider the proposal to be largely eligible, it is important to raise the main concerns and objections raised in the debate on the proposal in the context of the whole reduction package. When discussing the proposal adopted for the shortening of certain procedural deadlines, we indicated that the lower levels of public administration could result in significant increases in burden and specific tasks if the proposal is implemented without adapting the number of actual workers to the tasks. Several offices have seen that they have not received any documents since 1 January, because they cannot guarantee their processing on time, and in many places contacts with administrators have been extremely limited, because administrators do not have time to actually process cases. The government, on the other hand, is constantly talking about a reduction in numbers in public administration, which, unfortunately, is more likely to affect the managers and administrators of the lower levels than the waterhead on the higher levels of bureaucracy, the political appointees, the overgrown ministerial structures. [[18.00]] It is in vain that Parliament adopts forward-looking proposals and rules if there is uncertainty on the level where people meet public administration, due to overload, constant rush and changes in rules. In addition to the fact that the ordinary citizen or entrepreneur does not actually receive a better service, the public servant also needs to do more and more work without any positive changes in his income conditions. Let us not forget that there has been no wage development in public administration for a long time. Similarly, the choice of institutions to be removed at random under the heading of bureaucracy reduction is problematic. And here I would also like to draw attention to the fact that spending on state leaders has increased significantly under the Orbán governments. It is worth taking a look at where this government started on this issue, the promises it made, and where it has come from with regard to the proliferation of bureaucracy and the reduction of political culture. Just before 2010, Fidesz repeatedly pointed out that the state apparatus, the ministries are full of unnecessary posts for the clientship, but that the state apparatus is actually not necessary for its operation. The reduction in the number of ministries seems to have gone in the direction originally promised by Fidesz, a slimmer and cheaper state. However, the reality quickly confronted me that there is no serious intention in the right-wing government to achieve effective expenditure cuts and better management. Think of the exuberant State Secretary's Faculty, parallel departments, departments or parachuted Fidesz politicians at the head of county offices, the government commissioners. It is worth noting here that, according to a summary made at the end of 2014, state leaders have never cost the budget as much as they do now. The total number of state leaders is 165, with the Commissioners and Commissioners at 213. The total monthly salary of state managers exceeds HUF 190 million gross, it costs us nearly HUF 2.3 billion in one year. Prime Minister Viktor Orbán and his 10 ministers are 55 State Secretary and 99 Deputy State Secretary. They are also supported by 31 ministerial Commissioners, 5 government commissioners, 2 prime ministers and 11 prime ministers. State Secretarys are nearly three times as many as before the 2010 government change, the number of their alternates is double that number. The average gross HUF 927,000, which is nearly four times the average Hungarian earnings, is HUF 234 600 gross per month. The LMP supports the reduction of bureaucracy in public administration, the need not for people to fight with their offices, but we also consider it important to say that it is not enough to carve rules, and that there must be a well-paid and sufficient number of public servants. Thank you for your attention.
u2016-04-12-148	Thank you very much. We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. There's no independent congressman in the room. No one's applied for a two-minute speech. In fact, no one has applied for any other speeches. It's not encouraging, it's a fact. So I have to ask if anyone wants to take the opportunity to speak. [[There's no signal.]] I'm gonna say no. The general debate is therefore closed. I'll ask the Secretary of State if he wants to reflect. [[On Dr. Zoltán Kovács' signal:]] Mr. Secretary of State Kovács has the floor. Here.
u2016-04-12-149	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear fellow Members, First of all, thank you very much for your comments, and thank you very much for your support for the presentation, and I would like to reflect on some of the things that have been said. My colleague from Gur, who is no longer in the room after telling me... [[Intercoms from the opposition benches: He's up there! Anita Beringes: Recorder!]] - I'm sorry, you've been hiding on the bench, my fellow Member, and I've been looking for you in your seat. I'm sorry. He said that the authorities could not meet the 8-day deadline. In this context, the rule is that, if all the data are available, decisions may be taken within 8 days. The number of decisions taken within 8 days has doubled, given that a better preparation will allow the decision to be made within 8 days. This came from the citizen's side as a positive. Several speakers spoke on one side about how to reduce the number of people working in the public administration and how to keep it on the other. I would like to say that the number of people working in the public administration must always be adapted to this task: if the tasks are reduced, obviously the number of people involved must also be reduced; for example, in the case of the background institutions currently on the agenda, where, in the case of central government administrations or budgetary bodies, the government is able to take over these organisations in an 80 per cent wage scale for ministries or, as the case may be, for government agencies. So the wages are falling, not the numbers. But obviously, in this connection, the aim of the government is to eliminate duplication, to reduce coexistence, while, by the way, we hear that all of these are, let's call them back institutions... - not degrade central budgetary bodies in terms of the name, only everyone uses that name. I think that there is no way to do that, on the one hand, there is a lot of bureaucracy, a lot of office, and, on the other hand, when we touch the system, then, oh, my God, there is a big problem, and these organisations must not be harmed. Now I do not want to mention the art treasures of whose art was in 1990 in relation to the various art treasures when the regime changed, and what was found in the place of the arts by the new executives of the Antall administration, the Antall government. Not to mention the fact that a former MSZP Secretary of State was regularly called out where the vase was. Dear fellow Members, The expropriation has also been found by several Members. We have taken a spear in this case to make it easier, so we have removed the obligation to deploy a mandatory expert from the system in simple cases. Obviously, where there is a need for serious expertise or expertise from a complicated case, you should be an expert. Adding to the fact that the amount of expropriation compensation is ultimately always decided by the court if it is disputed, so, where appropriate, the maximum amount of formal legal power is in the administrative remedy system. I'm not really interested in dealing with local taxes and local affairs right now, I could say that the tax authority was sure, and sent it to the old address, so that they could find the taxpayer somewhere. Maybe that's what drove them. It is not right, however, that if the records are not accurate, I agree with Gábor Staudt, that the public register is eroded, so it is important that, in order to ensure the accuracy of the records, all authorities... - but civil discipline must also be this way, because the fair stands on two people, not only on the authorities, but also on the citizens themselves. Our fellow Member, Erzsébet Schmuck: it is true that we have prepared the first and second red tape reduction package from a customer's point of view. We were trying to reduce the client base in the first place. This is a temporary burden on officials everywhere until the system is in place. Obviously, there is another part of this, namely the fact that long bureaucratic procedures are currently being introduced for a number of offices. [[18.10]] If I speak very strongly now, they form a lot of permits, a lot of legislation to prove their existence in order to maintain a desk or an office, where appropriate. However, I say this out of the blue, but after the new rules of procedure came into force, the wallets themselves began to think about how to simplify their own procedures, so as to have fewer burdens to handle, how to make the procedure simpler. This has started a good process, and I think it is in all our interests. As far as wage increases are concerned, the government is determined to make a significant increase in wages in this regard from 1 July to the most low waged people and to the most end workers who meet citizens, in district and district offices, since by then there will be a significant increase in wages, which will be the organization itself, the number of people, the task and the powers. This way you can create a compact system and assign a significant wage increase to it. The bill on this will also be tabled, and Minister Lazarus also asks the parties for a five-party consultation to discuss the scale and content of this. The point is, he starts at the district, continues at the government office, and at the end of the system, he goes to the central administration. What I would like to say is that the bureaucracy reduction package introduced the need for public bodies to e-mail each other. With regard to the receipt or dispatch of various postal items, which may pose a risk of loss, we believe that this is done electronically from the electronic administration in the case of legal aid, which can be caught up, done and much faster, and even cheaper. On the other hand, the operational programme for public administration and development, approved by the European Union and the Government, called KÖFOP, will be launched. By completing this, significant billions of European Union funds will be included, making it possible to complete the electronic administration, link the specialised systems to each other, thereby enabling a more efficient and faster public administration. Dear fellow Members, So what our fellow Member, Erzsébet Schmuck, has also proposed is that, first in the lower regions - I now call the level of public administration lower - the wage increase will take place at the lower and middle levels, in the districts, and the really long-awaited issue of wage management reaches the central administration. Ladies and gentlemen, Thanks once again to their supporting proposals and comments, I believe that this is a new package, which now contains nearly 200 laws with the first etap and the current one, which serves the citizens, and partly with the Hungarian administration, that bureaucracy is reduced, procedures are reduced, the number of notifications is reduced, procedures are simplified and we will implement it within a shorter deadline, and the introduction of this is already taking place. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-04-12-150	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that the amendment proposals can be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Dear Parliament, Next, the 2011 XCIII on the National Economic and Social Council. General discussion of the bill amending the law until closure. The government referral is T/10094. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Human Resources, author of the item on the agenda. Here you go.
u2016-04-12-151	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, The National Economic and Social Council has been set up as a consultative, proposing and advisory body to discuss comprehensive issues, national strategies for the development of the economy and society, and to promote the development and feasibility of economic development and related social models. NGTT operates independently of Parliament and government. The most comprehensive and versatile consultative forum for social dialogue between employers' and employees' organisations, economic chambers, civil society organisations, Hungarian representatives of science and art, as well as between established churches. This proposal was submitted by XCIII of 2011 on the National Economic and Social Council. It amends the law, which is necessary to amend it by ensuring coherence between certain provisions of the law and maintaining the Council's operation even more effectively. I would like to present the most important proposals for amendments, six by number, as follows. The first is that the amendment of the NGTT Act in 2015 temporarily extended the mandate of the members of the Board established in 2011. The main purpose of this bill was to establish general rules in the event of the expiry of the Council's mandate or in the event that the member's mandate was terminated before the end of the term of office. The amendment also specifies the starting date of the Council's mandate. It will also be up to the Council to examine the legal condition of becoming a member. Second point: Members are required to report to the secretariat of the Council without delay if the legal conditions for their membership do not exist. Third, the Presidency of the Council shall be composed of representatives of the sites. The pages giving the President-in-Office shall follow each other every three months, in accordance with the NGTT Act. During the practical application, it was a problem for the members that the President-in-Office could not perform effectively the tasks of the NGTT Act within a short time defined for the Presidency-in-Office. For this reason, the amendment proposes to set the duration of the Presidency in six months. Fourth, the main aspects of the NGTT law are openness, simplification, transparency and broad consultation, including social units that have not previously participated in institutionalised consultations. The amendment is also necessary in order to enable the Council to demonstrate and channel the interests of all the economic operators and social groups concerned in accordance with the principles. With this aim in mind, the amendment will extend with representatives of Hungarian art life. Fifth point: In order to ensure the proper implementation of the Council's decisions, the Presidency will also be set up on the basis of the amendment, with the current President-in-Office, the President-in-Office immediately preceding him in the current Presidency, and the next future President-in-Office. Sixth and final point: the amendment also aims to give the Council the opportunity to determine the number of annual plenary sessions for itself and therefore, in contrast to at least four plenary sessions as defined in the current NGTT Act, the NGTT Act requires only two plenary sessions to be held after the amendment, thereby further increasing the autonomy and independence of the Council. In line with this, the practical experience has led to the establishment of the secretariat's tasks, on the one hand, of the obligation to organise meetings and register members, and, on the other hand, of working groups assisting the Council. In view of the passage of time, the provisions of the NGTT law on civil society organisations or representatives of the church side have been adapted to the existing legislation. Dear House, Please continue to support T/10094 on the basis of what has been said. Legislative proposal No. 1. Thank you very much.
u2016-04-12-152	Thank you very much. Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. First, I give the floor to Mr Attila Szabolcs, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group. Here.
u2016-04-12-153	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, The T/10094 ahead. Draft Act No XCIII of 2011 on the National Economic and Social Council. amends the law to ensure that the Council's work is more effective and reflects the interests of wider social groups. The Council was set up with the aim, as the law states, to discuss comprehensive issues concerning the development of the economy and society, national strategies and to promote harmonious and balanced economic development and the development and implementation of related social models, the consultative, proposer and advisory body independent of Parliament and the government, civil society organisations active in the fields of employers' and employees' organisations, chambers of interest, economic chambers, national policy, the most comprehensive and diverse consultative forum for social dialogue between national and cross-border representatives of science and churches under separate laws. [[18.20]] The Council is seeking to achieve the widest national consensus, so its members have a number of forums and alliances of interest, but I would now disregard the list of all organisations. Member organisations form different sides, such as economic, representative, civil, scientific and religious sides. It is important to point out that the members of the Council are members of the Council on behalf of the body which delegated them, their term of office is four years, and that they are not remunerated for their work. In their operations, they take into account the conciliation practice established in the European Union, as the social policy agreement annexed to the Maastricht Treaty also states that the objective of the Member States is to promote dialogue between social partners. At the same time, the definition of a specific system of dialogue in the Member States is a national competence and therefore there is no EU legal obligation to regulate operation. Dear House, The aim of the current bill is to regulate further operation in the event of the expiry of the Council's mandate. The changes made by the adoption of the bill were listed by the Secretary of State, so I will not repeat them. I believe that the changes that have been made will contribute to an even more effective integration of the interests of the various social groups, and I therefore ask you to support the adoption of the bill. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-04-12-154	Thank you very much. Congressman Nándor Gúr, head speaker of the MSZP.
u2016-04-12-155	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Secretary of State, let us remember the establishment of the National Economic and Social Council for a moment. It's been almost five years, 2011. CHAPTER VII snow is the period at which the National Stakeholder Council was terminated. Everyone knows that the National Stakeholder Council has certain competences and memoranda of understanding competences, and that instead the National Economic and Social Council, which has practically the potential to propose, has been set up. Trade unions, even the trade union for the footman - many have used this word to the League; there was something in it - so even trade unions and the Autonomous Unions and the League have separated themselves from this process. Some have said that all that they are doing is a foolish step, and that the serious establishment and depositary of social peace that has been in operation for almost 20 years is being eliminated by the former National Stakeholder Council, risking much. This story was also considered outrageous within the League, especially because it supported and voted for the reinforcement of the National Stakeholder Council from the Fidesz opposition twice. No, but I don't want to deal with the past, I just wanted to recall the story, simply to make it visible and clear what you were trying to do. Their intentions are clear, traceable, clear, they are now experienced. There's no need to make a deal with anyone. All you need to do is negotiate, you just have to make a statement; you don't have to agree. It seems the agreement is not a story that can and can be placed in your mind. Now, when we talk about the issues of the National Economic and Social Council in April 2016 regarding enlargement, representatives of artistic life are brought into the story. Mr Secretary of State has mentioned that they are making more precise regulatory systems that have not been in place in recent years. This can be attributed to how and how the delegation rights of the respective organisations are exercised. Although we might well ask how it's worked so far, it's been a very confusing story so far. They are calling for a Presidency in the future, in respect of which the former President, the present President and the future President will form a Presidency, although they cannot really answer what the purpose is. The Presidents-in-Office have ruled the field for three months, now they can rule for six months, simply because of the formal situation, the change in the fact that they had a meeting at least four times, or every three months, in the previous year, because they had to have one, two meetings will be defined today through the draft law. It is not random that the mandate of the President-in-Office covers a six-month term. Meanwhile, the Secretary of State says that this is about increasing autonomy, simply because they will be able to decide for themselves when, what, how, how they will do it, while the term European Employers' Association will be removed from the draft law. Let's see how the National Economic and Social Council stands today. There are employers' organisations of interest, employees' organisations and chambers of commerce. In addition, civil society organisations, basically civil society organisations active in national politics, representatives of scientific and artistic life, both domestic and foreign, i.e. with representatives from across the border, and churches, which have already been taken in. Some people say that, unfortunately, the National Economic and Social Council has come to the role of actually being put into prison. Unfortunately, there is nothing else to say, the reality is not far from it, because, as I said, they have no decision-making competence, not even in their own affairs. You can make suggestions. As far as mandates are concerned, this is a story of four years' duration, and even renewals can be considered and detected. The deep analysis of the negotiation of this bill between the walls of Parliament, the reflection with the social partners, I do not want to ask the Secretary of State any more. But what we all know is that the wider a given circle is, when they appear unfocusedly, along with one another, or together, between the ties of an organization, it is obvious that these organizations operate with decreasing efficiency. [[18.30]] As I have just said, many people are present in this National Economic and Social Council, from civil society organisations to scientific, artistic and religious organisations. For this reason, their scope of manoeuvre is obviously also limited in terms of focus on issues, due to the fact that many people think of many different kinds of the world and, by prioritising many others, do not necessarily deal with the types of issues that can be classified as part of an economic and social council. For years, the council went forward with a multitude of unorganized questions. I told you, the issue of delegation of members was also unclear. If that is the case, Mr State Secretary, how can it be imagined that the Council can carry out credible activities for a moderate, far-reaching majority of society, which is expected to have been done? It's been five years, but if we say today that it's a National Stakeholder Council, then those who have been monitoring the mechanism of reconciliation still know what's behind it. Whether it was on the stage of national reconciliation, at regional level or at local level, what was it that came back. Even to the point that the labour councils and many others were operating alongside the labour central network on professional policy platforms. Today you or today you have practically everything, everything, gone. The system of real reconciliation, the settlement of interests based on tripartite principles, has been terminated. It's been abolished, and I'm telling you once again, they've taken away all the privileges and opportunities that have been associated with decision-making competence. And now even this National Economic and Social Council is being prestiged to a certain extent when, within the framework of the draft law, as I mentioned, twice a year a meeting is required with reference to autonomy and its extension. So, the National Economic and Social Council is a consultation, proposer, perhaps you could say, function as an advisory body instead of operating a system that would have the right to agree, in addition to a system of informational or transversal opinions. The right of agreement and the right to propose are not the same, Mr Secretary of State. I'm sure you know that. You're fully aware of that. You do not want, you do not want, that those actors who have a direct interest in economic life should have employers, be employees' organisations of interest, but whether there are public bodies or chambers, so that these organisations have decision-making competence. However, it would not be a problem if it were, since it is these organisations that have a multitude of direct experiences that can do a lot of things to maintain peace of work, and I hope they do, and they are not naturally trying to upset the peace of work. But if it is so that they are intended to strengthen work peace, whether they are employers' organisations or employees' organisations or the public bodies or chambers, then why not give them decision-making powers? Then why should bodies be operated that are or are considered to be based on, or are classified as, l, art pour l, art, art, art, art, art, art, art, art, art, art, art, art, art, art, art, art, art, art, art, art, art, art, art, art, art, art, art, art, art, art, art, art, art, art, art, art, art, art, art, art, Which, if you make a proposal at the right time, are the current government, in this case, either you are accepting it or you are not. Why don't you think about operating a system in which the current sphere, if the economic sphere, can, if the social interface, its immediate survivors, experients and representatives have a direct right of say? They see that if they do not do so, they face processes that come to the surface in connection with Teachers and other programs. That those who know, those who know, those who want to change it and in the right direction, for the sake of the growing generation, are forced to put themselves in the position that, because they have no direct say in the story, because there are no local, no municipal level, no regional civil servants councils, or there were no such ones, so they have to go their own way. True, they are much more struggling to achieve their goal, but they also have to fight politics in this sense. Why is it not simpler if the policy is to work with social partners who are the best at living stories in their respective segments, the best at experiencing stories, with them, whether they are, once again, employers' or employees' representatives, together to make the best possible decisions? Why should, for many years, let us say, within the framework of the National Economic and Social Council, the circle of those involved in the Council be deceived, on the one hand, and misled, on the other hand, by having a significant competence, when it is quite clear that they do not, they do not have competence? They can only reach the point where they can make proposals, which you generally reject or ignore in the light of experience. But not only the National Economic and Social Council, but also others. Well, that philosophy, that attitude, should be changed. Mr. President, thank you very much. [[A rare applause in the ranks of the MSZP.]]
u2016-04-12-156	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. No independent Member is in the room, no one has spoken for two minutes, either in writing or as a plain word applicant. I have to ask if anyone else wants to speak. [[There's no candidate.]] I'm gonna say no. As no one has made any further comments, the general debate is closed. I'll ask the Secretary of State if he wants to react. It says yes. Here you go. It is for the Secretary of State of Rétvár.
u2016-04-12-157	Thank you very much for the floor, and I would like to thank everyone who has spoken in the debate very briefly. I think everyone has seen that there is no political content in this which could make a difference between opposition and pro-government representatives in support of the proposal. This clearly strengthens the operation of the NGTT, as it is a very important place for dialogue, the broadest consultation between government and other social organisations. That is why I ask everyone, because it is good for the social organisations there, it is good for the full functioning of the dialogue between the government and trade unions, employers, churches, civilians and scientific life, to support the proposal, because it will only make the operation of the NGTT more effective. Thank you very much.
u2016-04-12-158	Thank you. Thank you. Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Dear Parliament, There will be a general debate on the bill to amend certain health laws until closure. The government referral is T/10099. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. We're waiting for the Secretary of State for Health, who said he was coming. Until the referral arrives, I'll order a technical break. [[It's a short break. Dr. Zoltán Gustáv Ónodi-Szűcs arrives in the Chamber.]] [[18.40]] We respectfully welcome the Secretary of State. Thank you very much for protecting our health, I mean, our nervous system, for not having to wait any longer, has arrived. Since I have already passed the law, I give the floor to Secretary of State Zoltán Ónodi-Szűcs, the author of the item on the agenda. Here you go.
u2016-04-12-159	Mr President, Dear House, I'm sorry about what happened. My apologies, it was 8:30 last time I got my appointment, and that's why I slipped. Once again, I apologize to the House for not having any intention of offending anyone, I regret what has happened. It's the only way I can do it again...
u2016-04-12-160	All right, Mr. Secretary, we understand. I want you to present the bill.
u2016-04-12-161	Mr President, Dear House, What I am here for today is, in fact, the usual salad law, which has been submitted to Parliament twice every year for many years, thus proving that the kind of professional work that is going on in the State Secretariat is also being dealt with in Parliament. This is due to the fact that the State Secretariat regularly consults interest organisations, whether professional or employee or patient-rights organisations. Today, too, I am going to present you with a number of legislation which, as a result, is before Parliament. However, before I begin, I would like to remember, once again, what I would like to do as Secretary of State for the next two and a half years, just so that I may also consider the battlefield with the opposition. We would like to address social border areas in any case, because we believe that the ageing of the population in Hungary will certainly lead us to the need to take care of our ageing peers. We would definitely like to deal with the minimum regulation, which is currently a minimum inventory regulation, and we would like it to turn into a minimum regulation based on competence and taking into account practice in order to serve patient safety. Now that the TIOP programmes have been completed and the majority of rural hospitals have been greatly renewed, I think that we need to deal with hospitals in the central region. We would first like to examine the needs of the population in the central region for the next 5 to 10 years, and now we do not want to build concrete, but to assess what the population will need and then plan the necessary improvements in the central regions. We would also like to make sure that the institutions currently competing with each other do not do so. Do not compete with each other, but try to meet the interests of the population and the needs of the population. I would like to go to one more point, which wasn't exactly, but topicality, and this is the issue of wages, I don't want to run away from it. For the past six months, I've had the pleasure of meeting the adversaries almost every other week. We are now in the process of closing the working time issues, and now the pay issue is on the agenda. Last week, the health government adopted the list of demands that the advocacy has formulated for us, and it is actually examining its budgetary impact. I hope that, in the heat of the budget debate, we will have the opportunity to counter the advocacy. Dear Parliament, I would like to move on to today's other topics. Thank you again for your patience. Today, because of the migrant situation, we need to amend the Health Act so that the tactical medicine system can be established if necessary. We would like the health care system to be able to respond adequately to any exceptional situation. In doing so, the Eütv. This includes a number of empowering provisions, such as the legislative background to the use of medicinal products during rescue, the rules on national and international health assistance for public and non-state organisations and the regulation on activities to identify mass accidents. [[18.50]] As I have already indicated, there have been negotiations with the advocacy several times over the past period, and as a result, there are several provisions that the adversaries have asked of us. Let me give you some examples. In the previous three working days, the freedom which the worker could use for further training was limited. We will raise this number to 5, and we will also create the opportunity for the employee, if he has not taken it earlier, to withdraw this freedom the previous year, to combine it with the next year. It is also possible to reduce the previous one-month period to 15 days; I stress that this was not requested by the State Secretary. It was also necessary to make the Kjt. Due to this year's change, the pay table in Eütv. should be supplemented with another two degrees, thus creating coherence with Kjt. The request of the Residents Association is the proposal in which we provide the possibility for residents to spend the entire year in a remote training facility in the first two years, compared to the limited 200 days so far. In the last fall, we had the opportunity to clash with each other about the law on the protection of non-smokers. What happened then was that all the devices that imitated smoking would have been subject to the same rules as those applicable to traditional tobacco products, whether it was marketing or placing on the market, or advertising or consumption. We left a loophole, and now we want to close this. There was a tool that might have been able to make an exception to these, and I can now tell you that if this legislation were to apply, then all smoking equipment could be placed on the ban list. I do not want to burden you with the many laws that have come before you in connection with the laws governing medicines and other pharmaceutical markets, but I would like to mention one. If the legislation enters into force, it will be possible to open the three nearest pharmacy branches at events of more than 10 000 persons. This was also necessary to serve the needs of the population. By amending the law on the development of health care systems, it is clarified in which cases it is necessary or possible to release the capacities of healthcare institutions. The amendment to the Act on identification methods replacing the personal identification mark and the use of identification codes was necessary because, in the absence of legal authorisation, the personal data and address registration body cannot at present provide us with information on the date of death. Last but not least, I would like to talk about our amendment to social legislation. We ask Parliament to authorise the government to develop a new form of social care in Hungary that can serve the people. Dear Parliament, It is clear from what has been said that there is now a package of laws with many amendments before Parliament, and we still have serious work to do. I would like us to have a meaningful dialogue, in which we will consider all constructive initiatives. Please support the T/10099. Our package of laws and support the work that we do for health, above all for the health of Hungarian people. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-04-12-162	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, There will be speeches by the lead speaker. First up, Mrs Bene Ildikó, lead speaker for the Fidesz Group. Here you go.
u2016-04-12-163	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, Dear House, Mr Secretary of State has opened up his exposé to a broad front, and I would like to focus on the law now, in fact, and I think that we will soon have the opportunity to discuss this broad front here in Parliament. This law, as Mr Secretary of State said, is a salad law, so obviously it proposes amendments by opening up a lot of laws. I consider it important to amend the law on compulsory health insurance, which would make no difference in the calculation of child care entitlement between single parents and parents living together, i.e. the mother and father would be entitled to the same amount of day's sickness benefit as single parents. The amendment also leads to a significant reduction in administrative deadlines and red tape, as in the case of the application for child care benefits, there is no need for domestic legal assistance to determine how many days the other parent has already used child care benefits. In the bill, the conditions for the use of health services and cash benefits, the rules for submission and, in the case of cash benefits, the deadlines for administration are also clearly defined. These deadlines are very important, particularly important and important, for example, in the case of grants for fairness to medicines. It also proposes to change the amendment of the Health Act, as it creates the legal instrument by which it will be possible to declare a health emergency. However, we have seen in recent years, unfortunately, life proves that there is a need to be prepared to deal with situations where there is a need for increased, rapid and effective action by public authorities, but the introduction of a special legal order is not yet justified or possible. The amendment of this regulation is intended to ensure safe care for patients, the immediate performance of their duties, and, under the new provision, the Government Office will be able to take administrative and administrative measures to ensure the provision of health care to the general public in special situations by declaring a health emergency. The amendment of the Health Act contains a number of empowering provisions, such as the clarification and simplification of the authorisations for the establishment of an implementing regulation on scholarships and grants for specialist training, and the establishment of a legal background for the use of pre-hospital medicinal products. The legislation creates the opportunity - said the Secretary of State - to establish rules for the provision of tactical medicine with the agreement of the EMMI and the Ministry of Interior. Tactical medicine is a special area, specially trained health professionals in operations units must be able to deal with serious life-threatening injuries immediately or prevent permanent damage to health in extreme circumstances. Tactical medicine differs in many ways from emergency care, either from other elements of military medicine or disaster medicine, so it is necessary to lay down specific rules. In the field of education, training and further training, it is also necessary to establish minimum professional conditions in a ministerial regulation. The law on medicinal products for human use is also proposed by the salad law before us. We know very well that the spread of designer drugs poses a high social risk. The amendment of the law in this salad law also proposes to include four new psychoactive substances in the list of psychotropic substances under the pharmaceutical law, and the extension of this list also allows for strict action to be taken against both producers and distributors. Today, a quarter of the deaths caused by cardiovascular diseases in Hungary - but not only in Hungary, we can say that everywhere - can be seen as a consequence of smoking. In Hungary, both smoking habits and frequency data are worse than in other EU countries, so it is important to amend the law on the protection of non-smokers and certain rules on the consumption and marketing of tobacco products, and obviously the aim is to apply this regulation to EU directives. The purpose of the amendment, as Mr Secretary of State noted in his expozee, is to ensure that electronic means of smoking are properly regulated on the market and, on the other hand, to clarify the concept of smoking, which is extended to new tobacco products in circulation. It also sets out clarifications on the basis of practical experience to amend the 2003 Law on the Implementation of the Health Act. It is very important that the lower limit of working days devoted to further training is changed from 3 to 5 days, and that the possibility of use becomes more flexible, more realistic and adapts to practice. In the context of legislative changes, the salary and salary tables of health professionals and doctors will also be corrected. [[19.00]] It is also a change to life that in the future the draft would allow a temporary branch drugstore to be established at the locations of closed-area events with a attendance of more than 20,000 people for at least 3 days. This is very important, as it has been unsolved for years in the case of closed, high-visit events, festivals, the provision of medicines. As a general rule, the establishment of a temporary branch drugstore at the venue of the festival, following the order of distance, can be authorised by one of the nearest three public pharmacy companies, if they comply with the legal provisions. The bill also contains clarifications on the need, and to what extent, to release and transfer the capacities of healthcare providers in specific cases, to relieve the burden of areas affected by exceptional situations, to clarify the rules on the suspension of the marketing of medicinal products, the withdrawal, recall and prohibition of use of medicinal products, if the medicinal product concerned does not comply with the requirements of the marketing authorisation, if its quality cannot be demonstrated if it is suspected of a quality defect. Dear House, The so-called salad bill before us therefore provides clarification in a number of areas by opening a number of laws, relying on practical experience. Generally speaking, salad laws usually contain technical and legislative harmonisation amendments, but when we look at them, we see that they are essential, they serve the safe functioning of the care and health care system and the benefit of patients. Of course, I would ask my fellow Members to support this package of health legislation in addition to their opinions and proposals. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-04-12-164	Thank you very much. Congresswoman Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, head speaker of the MSZP is coming. Here.
u2016-04-12-165	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, Dear fellow Members, The proposal is a classic salad law which amends a number of health legislations. We are very pleased - to start as a politician here in this House - that Mr. Secretary of State has arrived, because it means that he has not signed his resignation, which the press have waved these days, that if the OEP is closed, then Mr. Secretary of State will leave his post. We hope that the OEP will remain, and Mr. Secretary of State has not written his resignation after such a short period of time. The conditions for the use of healthcare services, the rules for the submission of cash benefits and requests for fairness, and the deadlines for administration of cash benefits are also specified. It should be pointed out that an amendment has already been published in the press, according to which the period of child care allowance will be the same for parents living in couples as it was for singles. This eliminates the preference of single parents. The justification is that it will be more fair to regulate the use. According to the explanatory memorandum, some amendments will facilitate simpler and clearer application of the law for both insured and employers and the protection of the Health Insurance Fund. The government's professional incompetence shows that it changes the provisions on health care every few months. It is not clear why any changes are made to the administrative rules for applying for cash benefits when it was decided in the days when the National Health Insurance Fund, OEP, was abolished. We find it cynical that, according to the justification, certain amendments are made to protect the Health Insurance Fund, when, in a few months' time, the OEP handling it will be abolished, and in the future, health care and pensions will also be paid by the State Treasury's stalling system. It should be mentioned here that we see that there are disturbances in the operation of the Treasury, and the more tasks that the government will shift to the Treasury, so to speak, the more difficult it will be for it to carry out its task. We see how public sector payments are slipping and fear that this amendment will put health care itself in a worse position. There are elements of the proposal that directly affect tens of thousands of people, indirectly millions of people, and yet they are able to do so in one paragraph. The introduction of chronic classes into elderly homes raises a number of professional issues which are not covered by this bill. The transformation that is not precisely known to the public can be done by giving the government the power to decide outside the walls of Parliament. It should be noted that there are also forward-looking points in the bill, such as the law on the retroactive application of the wage table amendment or the temporary opening of a pharmacy at large festivals, but they are far from sufficient to make a meaningful improvement for healthcare workers or to ensure the functioning of healthcare. In order to make healthcare work, it is necessary to put back into the system the hundreds of billions of HUF that the government has taken out of health care in recent years. Now a few points of the law package, the salad law. The amendment of the Health Act creates a legal instrument to enable a health emergency to be declared. If I were cynical, Mr. Secretary, I should have done that already. There's an emergency in health care. Unfortunately, for months or years, it has been said that, rather than making progress or involving funds - much more money should be put into health care - we can tell you about the medical emigration in Hungary; Mr. State Secretary, one of the pediatricians told me these days that we know here in Parliament that the average age of pediatricians in Hungary is 60 years. Slowly in the countryside, we can say that we need to use lasso to catch pediatricians, but also general practitioners. Some pediatricians take 3-4 districts, and they simply can't carry out their duties physically. What I'd like to talk about a little longer is this. It is necessary to amend the relevant part of the Health Act in order to harmonise the provisions on the import or export of tissues from abroad, the direct transfer of tissues and cells to the recipient and the rules on imports of tissues from third countries into the Union. I have spoken several times about the fertility problem itself within the walls of Parliament, and I have asked several written questions last time, Mr Secretary of State. I would like to know when there will be progress on this issue. Today in Hungary, if men have a problem with infertility, and it cannot be solved only by having to use sperm donation, in Hungary this kind of intervention was so to say killed by the government in 2015. If we are talking about hundreds of thousands of barren couples in Hungary, we are talking about about 200,000 couples, who we know are officially, but we can do a lot more about this number, according to existing data, one in five couples is struggling with fertility problems today, and essentially the government is not taking action to solve this problem. Last year we received a very serious promise that there would be an expansion of resources on infertility, it did not happen. At the beginning of last year, in January, the former Secretary of State made a statement that HUF 2 billion was raised to HUF 4 billion. Although the profession says that the framework itself should be abolished, today in Hungary about 6,000 children are born in connection with flask intervention, but in today's care system there could be up to ten thousand children. The difference between these two numbers is the birth of four thousand children, and the ceiling should only be abolished. But even adding this 2 billion HUF plus could be a great help in solving the problem of infertility. The fact that he can only perform intervention and sperm donation in Hungary today, if the institution also carries out storage, has made it almost impossible for him to solve the problem of male barrenness in Hungary. [[19.10]] I think, Mr Secretary of State, that if you keep talking about increasing the birth rate of this government, if we are talking about family-friendly governance, then much more attention should be paid to barren couples, or more attention should be paid to the Secretary of State to support infertility. When we talk about infertility, we have to add that we are always talking about the birth of desired children. Everyone is aware that when a doctor or an institution has been contacted in such a case, the birth of a desired child should be supported by the government above all else. I say that this number is very high, because according to the data shown, it is not possible to distinguish between that half of men are barren, blamed, so to speak, if one can say so on this subject, half women can be blamed for not being able to get pregnant. And today there has been a serious withdrawal in Hungary since 2015. In this, I would ask the Secretary of State to help me stop sweeping it under the rug. According to the bad languages, it's all because one of the very high fidesz leaders prevents them from interfering with the problem of infertility. I would very much ask the Secretary of State not to determine whether a person likes the existence of the Kaali Institute in Hungary or does not like it - and I have said it now - but it is determined that these children should be born in Hungary, here in Hungary, and not whether they like it in an institution. And I think that no one is arguing in Hungary, so I hope that many of us in Hungary or within the profession do not dispute the enormous work done by the Kaal Institute in the field of infertility. In essence, I said in my speech that there are also positive measures in the proposal. My fellow Member, Anita Heringes, will talk more specifically about cigarettes and we will present proposals for amendments by the Hungarian Socialist Party. I'd like to get back to the topic of single parents here. This amendment says that so far parents who raised their children alone have received a positive assessment. It may be said that it will not make any difference now, and, thanks to God, we have moved at least not in a negative direction, that we will then punish children raised in the family, but every statement shows that the greatest risk of poverty in Hungary today is the single parents and their children. We understand the positive move, and in this we are putting forward an amendment, and I would ask the Secretary of State to consider supporting it. For several reasons, the Hungarian Socialist Party will not be able to support the salad law itself. I can only wish Mr. Secretary of State to continue his fight for health, for the sake of patients, because it is very necessary. I would like to ask you once again what I asked you at the beginning if you would consider your resignation, Mr Secretary, if the OEP were to cease in Hungary. I look forward to your reply, Mr. Secretary. Thank you.
u2016-04-12-166	Mr László Szászfalvi, lead speaker of KDNP. Here you go.
u2016-04-12-167	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Dear fellow Members, The speakers before me have already presented in detail the T/10099 on the amendment of certain health laws. The essential elements of the bill No 1. I would now like to draw attention to some of the most important elements on behalf of the KDNP faction in my speech. The amendment of individual health legislation concerns a number of issues in the area. These serve different purposes. The rules on the use of health services, cash benefits and the submission of claims for equity will be clarified in the bill and the administrative deadline for cash benefits will be clarified. According to the bill, entitlement to child care benefits becomes more fair, as it provides the opportunity, as we have heard, for parents living together to qualify for the same day as a single parent. In addition, the amendment will also result in a significant reduction of administrative deadlines and a reduction of bureaucracy, facilitating simpler and clearer application of the law. Ladies and gentlemen, The proposal before us creates a legal instrument that will enable us to declare a health emergency. At this time, the public authorities are naturally more responsible and, therefore, exceptional health measures may be necessary even before the introduction of a special legal order. On the basis of the new standards, the Government Office may take administrative measures to ensure that the public's health care is provided, following the publication of the health emergency. In order to respond effectively to the health crisis, coordination, the inclusion of contributors and the ex ante evaluation of the contribution should also play an important role. The modified driving schedule ensures that all measures are taken in a timely manner, helping patients and injured to be treated quickly and professionally. On the basis of the bill, it is clarified in which cases it is necessary or possible to release specific capacities of health institutions. In the event of a medical emergency, the transfer of capacities will enable the additional healthcare capacity needed to cope with the emergency situation to be increased and staff redirected. Ladies and gentlemen, In the field of health, the amending proposal also performs a legislative harmonisation function, as the proposed Commission Directive 2015/566/EU is transposed in relation to the import and export of tissues and cells from abroad and the direct transfer of tissues and cells to the recipient. The bill provides for strict action against producers and distributors by adding new psychoactive substances to the list of dangerous psychotropic substances. Ladies and gentlemen, In the spirit of health protection, further changes are included in the proposal in the area of smoking, for example. In addition to regulating the placing on the market of electronic smoking devices and banning their promotion, it extends the concept of smoking to the use of new tobacco products in circulation, thus protecting the health interests of non-smokers. In addition, the proposal also aims to contribute to the health protection of young people by creating the possibility of a new type of pharmacy at high-visit events, with the rules for the authorisation and operation of the branch drugstore temporarily installed on the site. Dear House, The amendment we are discussing here and now, in our opinion, will improve the effectiveness and functioning of our health care system, and I therefore give our support on behalf of the Christian Democratic Group. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2016-04-12-168	Thank you very much. Congressman László György Lukács, lead speaker of Jobbik. Here.
u2016-04-12-169	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, In the spring salad law, the medical salad law, the debate usually goes through the fact that we are having a small reading evening from the justification of the bill. I would like to get a little carried away from this, and if Mr. Secretary of State started by reciting his professional credo, which can be summarised in five points, I would like to mention it, and I would like to refer to it in a few places. We know that the health salad law always contains minor adjustments, if you like, to fine-tuning of the needs that have arisen over the past period, as well as those that are expected to arise in the future or are otherwise to be settled for the future. But there are also some media-enabled proposals that, although with limited interest, were already available to everyone. For example, the pharmacy supply or dispensary of national festivals, in which it is really worth thinking so much further about the types of medicines they can trigger or what types of medicines they will lose. [[19.20]] OTC medications, don't give me, God. Here we have talked among ourselves that hopefully those who want to have fun there will not use it to replace the Rivotriles that are spreading as an infection, perhaps in the East. So obviously this will take place according to a specific professional order, we have no reason to believe that otherwise pharmacists would want to use this abuse or otherwise use the market gap. There are, therefore, media-sensitive parts of this proposal, or, for example, the adjustment of the pay table due to the rise in retirement age, which we can safely say is of interest. Or, for example, such a mini-package for health emergencies was suitable for increasing terrorism and immigration and migration threats. Maybe it's not a question of what's in it, it's a question of what's supposed to be in such a medical salad law. Here, perhaps, it is worth seeing the five points that the Secretary of State said before the end of the winter, if you will, several times in February, which are the points on which the Secretary of State and the Secretary of State would like to make progress. This was the case, and the development of basic care was also mentioned here earlier. Now, in this salad law, we do not see the development of basic care, for example, in a direction that could also mean an amendment of a law. For example, I would like to give a very simple example of this, repeating this word: the government has provided the possibility of granting a local industrialisation tax exemption to general practitioners and home-care pediatricians, but it turns out that the rest of the basic care providers still do not have such opportunities. Indeed, there are employees in the basic care system, whether they are health professionals or even dentists - while we are talking about strengthening basic care - who could claim this option, adding, of course, that their local government is choosing it, and the local government's capacity is choosing whether to use this mandate. For example, this could have been the case in that section if we were talking about strengthening the basic supply or improving it, we would have liked to have seen such a part of the salad. Mr Secretary of State said that there must be a complete rethink and clarification of the minimum conditions, which is also very right, because today, perhaps, if I interpret the problem correctly, the whole point is that there are minimum conditions that hospitals are not able to comply with, but that the body created to enforce these conditions does not control their compliance, because they have probably come to the conclusion by common accord that it is impossible to comply with them. Obviously, it would have been an excellent place in the Medical Salad Law if we were to rewrite these minimum conditions. Although it is also clear that this definition would not only require institutional involvement but also, for example, bureaucracy, it would also have been a prerequisite for a consultation. But we could have said calmly that the minimum conditions would have been worth considering and, for example, putting them in this legislative package, because we can't just give this sphere five or six months to kick the door at Mr. Secretary of State and demand that the minimum conditions be changed anyway. Non-compliance with minimum conditions not only creates serious problems for the safety of patients, but also for the safety of workers and institutions, and may have serious consequences. Obviously, there is a need to reconsider how many doctors, under what professional conditions, are able to meet the minimum conditions. You've been waiting a long time, you could've come, I think you could've fit in this salad. But as such, as a third element, the chancellor's system is dreamed by the Secretary of State. I can't really see any of this in this health bill package, even though time is running out if someone wants to put this middle management level into the system. Although there were several indications here that standing in a bureaucracy reduction package, where I think there was hardly anyone who was not concerned that John Lazarus wanted to behead them and possibly bring them under the EMMI or under other institutions, it is safe to say that it is not safe to say that the chancellor system is still worth thinking about. The other one, which appeared here, but only contains traces of the well articulated, visible separation of the border areas of the health salad law, social care and health care, which, if I remember correctly, could result in the transfer of 17-18 thousand beds. In this, we see only a mandate for a government decree. I understand that the government regulation provides flexibility, time and greater scope, but I think that a legislative regulation would be more welcome not only by the legislators who will vote on it, but also by the public. So this could also have been brought in calmly in a larger range. I know and understand that in these matters it may not be the State Secretary for Health and the EMMI disponal over things, but that more interest, whether in the interests of the Ministry of National Economy or the Prime Minister's Office, should be mixed up in these matters, but it should nevertheless be here at least what number of beds or what can be counted. There's a lot of uncertainty about where he's running off to. This year, I guess I don't want to be lost in the numbers now, but there are thousands of beds in the Secretary of State, which is feasible. These institutional leaders, who are involved, should know what to expect. One of the things that we would have been able to touch on was that Commissioner Cserháti might have leaked something about what he had done to rethink the supply in Budapest and the super-hospital in Budapest, because this is the fifth point of the Minister of State, which concerns the complex provision in Budapest and the super-hospital in Budapest, although I note that I think that there should be at least three of these, and if Minister Peter Cserháti comes to the correct conclusion from the analysis of the facts, then he should probably come to the same conclusion. We could also move forward with more slimmer steps, especially with the fact that it is indeed very topical that, in the last period's EU development cycle, it has gone into concrete, learning from HUF 330 billion developments in Budapest what other activities other than concrete could be done, so that the supply could be organised. There are many parts of Budapest missing from this. So, if there was something to be given permissions in the bill, although we do not like the mandate of government or ministerial decrees, it would have been very good for the topics of Budapest, if it had already been included now, to make progress in Budapest's care system, if you would like, in its complete rethink, whether it be psychiatric care, which is now turning into a war zone again in Budapest, or whether it is the super hospital in Buda. Turning to the salad law itself, perhaps one of the most interesting parts is the issue of health emergencies or crisis situations. It has been said for a long time, whether in the media or at a professional level, that Hungary may or may not have had the readiness and capacity to provide adequate rescue and proper care for the injured in the event of a terrorist attack or a major disaster experienced in Western Europe. Maybe this is the way it's moving. In this connection, I would like to comment on one criticism, for which we will also have an amendment. Article 20 of the Act In its section, the section that essentially complements one of the paragraphs of the Health Act with a new point C, which takes into account the possibility of declaring a disaster situation defined by disaster management and of a health emergency that can be used in the event of its taxative implementation. Here in paragraph 4, the government seems to be opening the scissors very wide. In the paragraphs before it, it is very nice to list the amendments that may happen temporarily in the event of a disaster, including the limits of the basic supply area, the supply area or the order of patient care, and then degrade the value of this whole in paragraph 4, where the legislation only states that a health emergency can be declared even when there is no disaster. Thus, the previous supply restructuring, which is otherwise targeted and proportionate, is completely destroyed here and says that it can be solved even when there is no disaster, but that health tasks cannot be ensured in any other way. [[19.30]] In paragraph 2, the government seems to have opened the scissors very wide. In the paragraphs before it, it is very nice to list the amendments that may happen temporarily in the event of a disaster, including the limits of the basic supply area, the supply area or the order of patient care, and then degrade the value of this whole in paragraph 4, where the legislation only states that a health emergency can be declared even when there is no disaster. Thus, the previous supply restructuring, which is otherwise targeted and proportionate, is completely destroyed here and says that it can be solved even when there is no disaster, but that health tasks cannot be ensured in any other way. (19.30) I think that this classic rubber rule, which, if I want it, I understand it, if I want it, I mean it, and even if it can only be applied for ten days, it can be seen that it does not contain sufficient consistency, it does not contain sufficient transparency, it will simply depend on a ministerial approval decision. I believe that either the complete rethink or the abandonment of this may be necessary in order to be sufficiently clear and to draw the necessary conclusions from it, because this seems to be a very rubber rule. The other problem point - and it is worth learning about the starting point here - is the conditions affecting health workers and the majority of the workers, not necessarily wages, but rather working conditions and working hours. Here, the starting point is - as a better representative, we have seen many of us who have participated in the real national consultation, and I have also consulted the Hungarian Health Professionals' Chamber or the Independent Health Union, all organisations have said - that health professionals, and what I will say, this provision may affect them most, in working conditions that are extremely eviscerating, very serious burn-out, very severe burn-out at our place, and greatly, effeminate their working conditions and, by the way, their lives and living conditions. Now, as a criticism, it is worth noting the 36. The amendment contained in the Act on the pursuit of health activities itself, which I think cannot be agreed with, and I am curious about who proposed it then, because the Secretary of State said that a proposal had been made and that it was not invented by the Ministry or by the State Secretary. So the rule in question is to reduce the time to announce the schedule of working time from 30 days to 15 days. I believe that this reduction in the time to communicate the schedule of working time causes unplanning and further strengthens the vulnerability in which the workers are mainly involved, and does not even further help the situation, which often involves 12 hours of working time plus or minus 30 minutes, or more often twice an extra 30 minutes of transfer-taking, so it does not help to spend their working time well, does not, above all, help to reduce working time, and, by the way, I really think it will make your planning worse. But if we touch this part, we can safely say that we could add an increase in paid wages, although it was also mentioned that there might be something in the budget. Let's praise the day with a receipt. For example, the law does not reduce working time, which I mentioned, so there are very serious challenges in this too, but we could also address, for example, the problem of working time, why healthcare workers have a working time limit or, if they have it, how this helps them or, in reverse cases, how they are affected by access to wages. I think that if we are talking about wages, it is also worth noting that, in fact, the amendment of the pay table was only necessary because we are going to have, or will have, a serious increase in the retirement age, and the pay table needs to be adapted to this. This, by the way, shows the Faramuci relations in Hungary. But we can talk calmly, and perhaps my fellow Member, Mr Rig, will also talk about the regulation of e-cigarettes. Here we hoped that, when it came in, there would be a back-dancing from the Secretary of State, but it seems that these positions were not approaching, but we are not giving up, and believe me, it is not a lobby that tells us not to give up. We continue to feel that this regulation is not fair at all. Welcome to the renewed expansion of designer drugs. Again, I can only say that we need to find a system that makes it even more effective to put it on the prohibited list. [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] I will continue my speech in other comments. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-04-12-170	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. Now we're going to have Members who ask for a normal word. Congresswoman Anita Heringes, MSZP, please.
u2016-04-12-171	Thank you very much. As my opposition colleague said, we also had a serious debate on the e-cigarette concerning the amendment of the health law the other day. I told you then that even though I am not a smoker, I am not involved in this, but I have listened to so many stories from those who have successfully quit smoking with this device, and now they are really there that their e-cigarette cartridges do not contain nicotine. They asked me to see if we could change the government's position on this issue a little later this evening, because they, too, had noticed this loophole or this mistake that the government had not yet noticed: the non-Nicotine cartridges were not covered by this legal part, but now that they are amending it, they hope that this part will not work at least. Just so we're clear, we're talking about people sucking air or water from an e-cigarette that's already quitting smoking, and they're gonna have to go in with people who're gonna smoke cigarettes next to them. I think it's gonna be a little bit of a nonsense, because it's the one who tried to quit, tried to put it down, and by the way, there's only the movement line, which he couldn't get rid of, he couldn't get away from, he couldn't turn to anything else, he'd go in there and smoke around him, because he'd have to stand in designated smoking places with all the other people. Unfortunately, I think it's something that's gonna get these people back on track. I think if they're on their way to quit, maybe it's not the luckiest. And the other thing is, they're gonna have to go into the traffs and buy these tools, the cartridges, and everything else that's gonna encourage them to have everything they've been fighting against, everything they've tried to put down, which has affected and defined their lives, and they're gonna have to buy the device they've given up on in the same place they've tried to quit. I think it's completely nonsense, so we should think about talking to them a little bit more on the part of the government, because we're really putting them in a ridiculous life situation that I think is for people who are trying to get rid of this passion, it's unfair. We have therefore also tabled an amending proposal with my fellow Members, and with these restrictions on distribution and consumption throughout the e-cigarette, as we have emphasised, we have not yet agreed, so we cannot agree with the tightening up of devices that do not contain nicotine. Although I think that the Secretary of State is really the most important thing for him, the question remains: otherwise, this amendment was not basically about the service of the tramps. As representatives of Tolna County, we have suspicions and bad feelings about how the consortium of tramps was distributed, who could win a trafic in Hungary today. Let's put this bad feeling aside, because I think that the amendment of the health law is a matter that is very, very important. Just the chronic beds, I think, is a question that all people have encountered in their lives, the problem of housing elderly and sick people. As we hear in Western European countries, and as they stress, every country is as spiritually as it treats its elders. At the moment, we see that these chronic beds are being removed from the health care system, and, as the Secretary of State said, they are being transferred to the social care system, so there will be no specialist care in this place, but nurse care. And let's just agree that, in addition to medical and nursing emigration, I don't know how they're going to be able to provide at all here for people who are going to care for these elderly people. I think these people deserve to be given such care that they can even stand up from their very bad situation. I've met a number of people who got into this chronic inner class, as they say in the common language, in bed and then received medical and nursing care that had the power to support doctors and nurses, to get out of there and then live their lives at home for years, to provide themselves, but to be able to receive medical care that, as they say to us, turns them up again, to be able to take care of themselves and to live their lives with their grandchildren and children as they can. [[19.40]] Therefore, I really suggest that we consider this, or at least open up a forum where we can get reassuring answers, because I think it doesn't matter what the situation of our elders is, it doesn't matter what the situation of those people who raised us or raised our parents is. As we looked at the numbers, OEP has paid 63 billion forints in this area so far. If we calculate the number of beds, it is more than 10,000 forints per bed per day. We very much hope that you will not try to pass this amount on to family members who are still active workers, because we also see in the Fundamental Law that the elderly must be cared for by family members, this is a basic statutory obligation, which is not a question, of course, a person will do everything he can, because he has received a lot from these people, but beyond the power it is not certain that people will be able to pay more money to get their parents and grandparents into this care. And these big questions are that this is going to strategize society from a financial point of view, and it is going to be decided who, however we look at it, is going to lie at home and stay without care, or is going to be able to get into a supply system from which people are now able to come out, because I say that both specialists and nurses are going to do work today in this area, which is often superhuman, and I think they deserve all of our praises, because they really do have their hats off in front of them. We therefore hope very much that it will not happen that a paying system will be created, a paying system - because of course we know that all the contributions need to be made now - which people will not be able to do, an average Hungarian person will not be able to pay. After coming from the Paks, Tamás constituency, so for me the problem of supplying people in the Tamás area and the former hospital in the cellar - unfortunately, now many people call it that - will always be an important issue. When I asked in my written question that physical therapy could remain, which affected the elderly quite seriously - in the end, you promised that this physical therapy treatment could remain, but unfortunately it could not remain - I got the answer with Bence Rétvári's signature that it was okay, and then these people could go to Tamási instead of the hospital at the cellar, arrive in a short time and receive the care there. I have looked at the surrounding settlements, there is a settlement from which only by transfer, 60-80 minutes will be possible, which, however you look at it, is very, very difficult for people who need physical therapy, very, very much time, and also a transfer. So we just hope, on behalf of the residents of the cellars - and the inhabitants of the surrounding settlements - that at least physical therapy will come back once the active beds have been taken there. And there was also a chronic internal ward, and there the nurses and the still active doctors working there were very, very struggling to keep this part of the hospital; for them, it is a very big wound, to be honest, that it has ceased, and they are still struggling to do something to this day, so that at least the care of the people in the area can remain stable, and a hospital that has grown to their hearts, and where there are many children, it can be restarted. They're obviously not going to give up that hope. Every time I can, I try to ask questions in their interests, and we really hope that at least physical therapy can come back, it doesn't matter in terms of elderly care. That is why I ask Mr Secretary of State to try to reassure us that there is an opportunity for a supply system that will not cost people an amount that they cannot pay, and in old age these people will receive care from which there is a way out, who has power, who has standing, and that the family does not have to feel that those who will enter this care system have no chance of coming out. Thank you very much.
u2016-04-12-172	Thank you very much. Congressman Lajos Rig, a representative of Jobbik.
u2016-04-12-173	Thank you for the floor. Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, My fellow Member Luke put me in a very difficult position because he raised all the issues that could trigger a strong debate, and if not a debate, at least a thought-provoking conversation. They put the e-cigarette on me again. I have to tell you, we also disagree with him. We have never claimed that this is a healthy product that these individuals smoke. We don't say it's harmful either, but what we're saying is that taking it into a store that Congresswoman said was where tobacco products are sold is a very grotesque thing. I'm guessing what's going on, probably a branch of the tobacco lobby that's gonna get more revenue, because if I sell it, I'm gonna make it rich. In my opinion, it would still be a more viable way if we were to film the specialised shops where they sell these, and create the same protection for non-smokers, and children couldn't see it, and we could put an 18-gauge circle on it, and then, at the very least, I would look at the same thing as the tobacco shops from abroad. I have a few suggestions, and I'd like an answer to that. These are of a professional nature, as there are a lot of amendments to legislation that are tried to be regulated by a ministerial decree, which we do not see in; for example, extending the use of pre-hospital medicines. There are a lot of regulations within OMSZ, even for RSI, to try to change them, and this was initiated by the Director General of OMSZ, and in what direction he tried to give the opportunity to reject the application of the RSI in the context of emergency on-site care, or an optional form. If you could give me a fair answer, Mr. Secretary. My fellow Member mentioned here the announcement of a health emergency. This was already a functioning sector in 2010, a well-established legislation, if - and I have experienced it with regard to Tapolca - there is a situation that threatens either primary care or specialised care or inpatient care, then the head of the SAO, the chief medical officer of the country, could declare the medical emergency on his own and then use the capacity of another hospital. For example, when Medisyst Kft. He returned his operating licence, but no other organisation had yet had an operating licence, and for two or three days there was a medical emergency at Tapolca Hospital. There are a lot of things about declaring a crisis, as it is possible that even in a given hospital, in an infirmary, where there is acute care, does not meet the minimum requirement, or that three or four doctors who are considered competent stand up, leave the hospital, this is also a crisis, so that workers can be moved from one institution to another and thus resolve it. In my opinion, this will solve a temporary problem, but unfortunately not the final one. The Pharmacy Chamber, as I understand it, has put a proposal on your table regarding pharmacies, that at national level there are several districts or counties in which there is only one retail pharmacy that can be found 24 hours a day. However, if I only look at my own constituency, the same is the case there, in Veszprém County, Veszprém, there is a 24-hour on-call pharmacy, all the others have only an extended opening hours. And as I understand it, a corner number has been given that 25,000 kilometers and 25,000 inhabitants, if you could shed some light on that, Mr. Secretary, I would very much appreciate it. So this is what we wanted to see in this salad law is that at least such corner numbers have already been fulfilled, and they are subject to a deadline, for example, that they will enter into force from summer of this year, June of this year, and that there will be a new agreement or state aid for pharmacies that operate on-call systems, because they may not have been able to finance them on their own income, which is why the on-call supply system has been abolished. The civil servant pay table is also complemented by two additional tables needed to increase the 65-year retirement age. Unfortunately, this is a sad number, 65 years, when you consider that a 63-year-old driver or a 63-year-old nurse at the National Rescue Service can hardly get patients off the fourth floor. Rather, we should think about bringing these people down to 60 years of service, reaching a decent pension, a decent age where they can still take their grandchildren to the playground, and not to think that they're going to see that they're going to grade 15, 16 and 17. [[19.50]] With regard to women, it is possible to retire after 40 years of employment, but health care is a sector where they cannot retire, they go to another health institution, but it is probably not the Kjt. they will be rewarded, but they will receive higher, higher wages on the basis of an individual contract of assignment. This might also be a direction for us not to take a table 16 or 17, but rather to encourage them to try to stay on track with an assignment contract - yes, there is also a career model thing in this. If we can't keep the young people here, we'll reward the elderly who are left here with a salary that doesn't say we're going to retire, but that we'll continue to work until the young people who stand in our place see the strategy that the health government offers them. As regards the VOLT festival and the major festivals with a crowd of 10 or 20,000 people, my fellow Member Luke said that they could place branch drugstores for three to four days. My point is, there's a lot of good intentions, because there's gonna be a lot of headaches, and Algopyrin and aspirin are running out. However, I do hope that there will be a limit that these mood fixers, not designer drugs, but those that are used in prison in style, should not be available with prescription orders for Rivotrile, Xanax and similar medicines, because it is nonsense that someone goes to these festivals to replace their prescribed Rivotrile and obtains a much cheaper design drug that is very popular among young people. I trust that they will use the branch drug companies for it, with a genuine purpose of healing, and they will actually be available with headaches and other similar things. I would like the Secretary of State to answer these points. There has been a change in the social and health system and a new health and social system, as is stated. The 17,000 beds were also said, which the hospital directors don't know anything about yet. She said in her speech that she hoped that she would not be paid. I fear that it will be, because it will be transferred to another sphere, and as you have to pay a certain amount of 3-4 thousand forints after the nursing beds, I suspect that after these beds you will also have to, since you will be removed from the health care system and transferred to the social sphere. Then the system of the nursing home is transformed, which is likely to be a paying system. If the Secretary of State could shed some light on this, I would be grateful, too, and the hospital directors would learn more. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-04-12-174	Thank you very much. For a two-minute speech, Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát applied, Jobbik. Here.
u2016-04-12-175	Mr President, Dear House, Since there is no serious debate, so there is a rather one-sided range of fires that we can experience here, even if it is a matter of good intentions many times, I would like to take out the very important data that the number of years spent in health in Hungary for men is 58. So what my fellow Member, Mr Rig, raised would be very justified. But there is a moment here that comes back year after year and is closer to me professionally. Controlled reproductive processes have already been discussed, quite rightly, thanks for that. In relation to these, however, the Jobbik faction stands for each year in each fiscal season, but I believe that several other opposition groups have tabled and tabled amendments that would allow very serious, measurable results to be achieved at demographic level, with an annual average, only 10-20 percent of your government reserves grouped here. In particular, this would be necessary in the light of the fact that, although the government has often campaigned to slow down the rate of population loss, the real figures, unfortunately - so we are not against - are that in 2014 there were 35 thousand fewer people and by 2015 we were about 40,000 fewer than before. So, unfortunately, the rate of eclipse, although it is clear that this can be explained with seasonal effects, with others, but it has accelerated. The question arises. Although last year, this system was pretty much lyeed, so there should be a systemic change in the directional reproduction. But the question is still acute: is there finally a substantial shift at budgetary level, which, according to very, very careful estimates, is such a solution to many tens of thousands of problems, but rather over 100 thousand parties, that they also seem to have some kind of measurable and exit route at the end of the tunnel. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-04-12-176	Thank you very much. As no requests for comments from any other faction have been received, a representative of Jobbik, Mr László Lukács, will now be given the opportunity to comment again for two minutes. Here you go.
u2016-04-12-177	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, I am only trying to provoke an actual debate now, so that the Secretary of State can take advantage of the opportunity not only to say in the closing words what we are curious about. Otherwise, I could send more of the Secretary of State to the National Assembly, because already in the relatively short introduction, he was concerned with a number of issues which, with Bencé Rétvári, could not be cleared or greened in months. Unfortunately, his response style is not sufficiently informative or is not used to going in this direction. I would therefore like to urge the Secretary of State to give an answer, if he can, at least in these debate-level provocations, so that we may be able to continue the debate with a regular push of the button. I really think it is important, although it does not belong specifically to the current bill, to know what the State Secretary-General's opinion is regarding the abolition of the OEP or the reduction of bureaucracy, or to know what my fellow Member Rig has said about whether it is expected that it will be available on the basis of the government regulation, which we now authorise, in the social care system, to use chronic health beds. Or, for example, what do we know about the supply system in Budapest? Did Péter Cserháti put his proposal for the supply system on the table by 31 March? These are all topics that we would like to discuss now, because unfortunately, if we do this to Bence of Rétvári, we get a summary of one or two minute Habony works, depending on a rejoinder, and then we get a misconception or a complete misconception. So it would be good to have some kind of dignified professional debate in this. And perhaps now we can hope that this is the opportunity to seize the debate by the horns, rhymeically speaking. So I will certainly provoke Mr Secretary of State to join in calmly and, instead of closing, to answer these points. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-04-12-178	Thank you very much. Would anyone else like to take advantage of the opportunity to speak? [[There's no candidate.]] As no one has made any further comments, the general debate is closed. I give the floor to the Secretary of State to respond to what has been said. Here you go.
u2016-04-12-179	Mr President, Dear House, Thank you so much for the opportunity. I would only like to respond in closing because you know very well that on the 26th, we have a debate day, when I can be dealt with with all kinds of questions all day. [[Intercoms.]] As far as I know, it's the 26th. If that's any new information, then I apologize, but that's how I know. I'm asking everyone to be prepared for your questions by then, and I'm going to try to respond to them. Therefore, today, in order not to have anything to ask again, I would only respond to those which were legislative proposals. Thank you for your concern about the OEP. We will definitely try to keep the OEP functionality in the hands of the State Secretary for Health and not to transfer it to another organisation. That is the opinion of the State Secretary for Health, but I stress that this will be a government decision. Let's start with the chronic classes, because I have to deal with this in this legislation, I promised. I don't know if you remember, I was standing at the door of Kenézy Hospital on April 1, 2007, and the hospital's bed number was cut off in a law, which meant that a single regulation had to change the lives of hundreds of hospitals. I'm telling you, it didn't work out right then. It is necessary to have such an authorisation clause in order to examine each institution individually in two and a half years to see how this kind of care can be taken out of the system. They need to know that Hungary is the only country in Europe, and in the OECD, this is an even broader concept, where the number of days spent in the hospital has not decreased in the last 13 years, but has increased. This is because the concept of chronic care exists only in Hungary. This is not to be financed from the E-Fund; this is not to be financed from health, it is a social form. [[20.00]] Obviously, it is not that there will be no doctor or nurse. It will certainly be there, but the burden of it must not be borne by the E-Fund, but must be financed from the social fund. We got another one or two... Let me put this to you, because this is a completely wrong thing, the issue of the budget. The healing-preventive cash register, and please look at the OEP website, it's grown every year for the past six years. It didn't decrease, it grew. When they say that there's been a withdrawal, it doesn't, to put it mildly, cover reality. So another argument should be made for debate day, because unfortunately it does not cover reality. Pediatric average age. It's not an issue, but I typed it in. The fact is that this is not a Hungarian peculiarity. If you look at the websites in Germany, the same is true, there is an increase in the average age of all European medical populations. Let me tell you, there were steps here. By creating the possibility that funds could be used both for the purchase of practice and for establishment, the Hungarian government has not increased in the last five months, the number of vacant spaces is stagnating. That means something happened. It is true that it is not enough, but we would like to double the resources we can spend on this in 2017. Spermazonation. Again, I feel that, how should I put it, you know very well that there was a problem with importing foreign sperm. We had to make some sort of regulation. I think that was absolutely necessary. What is in the interest of an actual lobby that may have to be read here in Parliament, let me overlook. Fact and truth, we would like to raise the number of people involved in IVF, i.e. in vitro fertilisation, but we imagine this in a package, as there will be a hbcs-revision in inpatient care, and we would like to redistribute resources within this framework. This is going to happen again this year, just like I promised. Minimum order. It's in his name, it's not a law, it's a form of regulation, it's what the OTH is currently working on, and now there are requests for the various professional communities to comment on them. We want the legal resources in the minimum regulation to be supported by the profession. We do not want to use power tools, we want this to be a regulation based on a broad base. Super hospital. I'd like to assure you that we're not thinking in a hospital. What I told you wasn't a horse-zung, we were totally serious. We would like to take a look at the fact that after the Tiop funds have been closed, and with this the countryside has been renewed, what we need to do to ensure that the population of the central region can enjoy the same luxury that the hospitals that have renewed in the countryside provide in many places. It's worth going down, last time I was in Kaposvár, I think you know what I mean when you go down there and look at it. That's the 36th. §, there was a specific question: 30 days versus 15 days. The fact is that 30 days were requested by the advocacy because they could not enforce it from either the employee side or the employer side. Therefore, a compromise has been reached, which we will have the opportunity to do, as we are maintenance workers in hospitals, to take account of both the employers' side and the workers' side. They've seen health care, it doesn't make any sense to write each other up in a nerd notebook and then drag each other off the page. I think this is a regulation that will be accountable to the parties. And our hit topic, the electric cigarette. Once again, honourable Members. Our professional position is that electric cigarettes are not a means of helping quitters, but a means of helping them get used to them. There's no study anywhere to prove that he helped me quit. In fact, the moisture contained in it contains carcinogenic substances; moreover, since there are a lot of manufacturers and a lot of products in the distribution process, there are sometimes 50-fold differences in the active substance. Remember what happened with the cigarette. Thirty years had passed before the health profession was able to ensure that tobacco products could finally be restricted in order to protect their health. In the meantime, how many people had to die? I don't think we should wait another 30 years to prove the same. Paramedics. I would like to assure you that we would definitely like to come up with a special programme for the paramedics. We think that we need to give back the record of the rescue, and in this connection we will review all the circumstances that affect them, whether it is a wage or a job situation. I'm going to come before the government on this with a special program. I think that one of the most important elements of emergency medical care is to resolve the situation of the paramedics. In conclusion, I would like to ask you to support the law, whether you have expressed your views today, because it contains all the elements that the parties who have negotiated with us, who smell like life, have asked for. The majority of the legislative package was not initiated by the State Secretariat, but by the parties negotiating with the State Secretariat. I feel that if you vote no, you vote against them. So thank you very much for your attention. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-04-12-180	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that the amendment proposals can be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. We have reached the end of the discussion of our agendas today, Honourable Parliament. We now have post-scheduled speeches. The first of these will be the representative of Jobbik, Mr Dániel Z. Carpathian:, For how long? It's an address. Here you go.
u2016-04-12-181	Mr President, Dear House, Yesterday, I had to put a video of my interpellation in many directions on various social networks, because if we do not do so, even less people will be aware that the situation of those who have suffered foreign exchange credit within Parliament's walls is a recurring issue. Yesterday, a multi-day monstre demonstration began by several credit-damaging organizations, their representatives, their leaders, their members. It is also the centre of their protest in the West Square, and I would obviously like to continue the movement until there is a substantial change in their situation and a shift. Therefore, yesterday Jobbik hosted their delegation in the Hungarian Parliament in order to share their demands with the widest possible public opinion. We have to tell you, there's nothing from the devil in these demands. After all, this is concentrated around about two aspects. One of the things is to stop evictions, extend the eviction moratorium. Until this problem is resolved as promised. After all, the current government has promised not to leave anyone on the side of the road. Unfortunately, a lot of people have been kicked into the trench from the side of the road in the last year or two, so this must be changed. The other direction, which protestors demand, is very close to Jobbik's professional concept, and it is about making so-called loans available at the rate of admission. After all, if someone took on this so-called loan at HUF 165-170, it is incorrect and unfair to him that it was forinted at an almost market rate of HUF 256. Within the framework of this settlement, literally hundreds of billions of HUF were unduly credited to the accounts of the financial institutions concerned. All of this, however, is the money of the foreign exchange lenders. The money of foreign exchange lenders is also the surplus accumulated at the Hungarian National Bank, which comes from the foreign exchange conversion. All of this could indeed be facilitated by a compensation fund, in order to achieve a sort of recalculation and justice, and should therefore be based on the exchange rate at the time of recruitment. Yesterday, we received a satisfactory State Secretary's reply, which could further increase the fear in the circles of credit-damaged people. For example, the National Asset Manager was proposed as one of the methods of resolution, which originally included budget resources and opportunities for the acquisition of 35 thousand properties, but 32 thousand of these 35 thousand were uploaded, so that many contracts were concluded. Jobbik already looks at the National Asset Manager with distance, as the essence of this is to take away the property of the affected citizens and then rent back their own house and apartment. This is very far from historical justice! But if you're suggesting a solution to this administration, and you're gonna give yourself a certificate, at least tell me the truth. [[20.10]] It was said here yesterday that there are 35,000 such options, but the reality is that there is a quota left for the conclusion of three thousand contracts, while the institution of the private failure, which was meant to be such a soothing pill, shows that only a few hundred people willingly wished to submit to these conditions. After all, there are extreme situations that arise through the private institution of bankruptcy, which can result in the free-spending income of a member of the family, so in extreme cases, I'll say it again, but it can also fall under the salary of a public worker. At the same time, we see that this solution for 3,000 people, the other, which affects a few hundred people, was over 140,000, over 150,000, and then the number of our countrymen who have been unable to or could not fully repay their debt for 90 days, and in this way the proportion of non-delegators actually grew to the level that had been experienced before the so-called settlement. However, we can also see that 15,000 real estates have been auctioned and auctioned in the next period, from this hat those who are subsequently evicted from their homes, and for these 15,000 real estates, in many thousands of cases, the bidding, the very humiliating procedure that ended with the loss of property by Hungarian people and families. So let's stop this 15,000 real estate from being evacuated. Stop Hungarian families from being removed from their homes. To do so, however, action must be taken, the moratorium on eviction must be extended and recalculated at the rate of admission, and I would stress once again these so-called loans. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-04-12-182	Thank you very much. Péter Csizi, representative of Fidesz, applied for a post-meeting speech with the title of the demolition of the high house in Pécs. Here you go.
u2016-04-12-183	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Since the Government of Hungary is a major contributor to the demolition of the building mentioned by you, and in order to reach the moment of demolition, we needed your support because of a bill, so I felt it was important to speak after today's agenda, and to give a little information about this building, which, by the way, can be regarded as a symbol of Hungary itself. After all, it symbolizes the architecture, politics and even social composition of the last 40 years. The construction of the building itself can also be regarded as symbolic, as it meant that Pécs joined the otherwise pointless competition of the major socialist cities, that he was able to build a monstrum that was otherwise absolutely inappropriate for the environment, which showed well and well the construction habits of that time. The house was also built on the basis of Yugoslavian technology, known as the IMS system, well-known by the Pécs. The Pécsians know what this means, because this technique was very popular at this time, and since then it has caused and still causes many problems because of faulty applications. In this case, the construction started in 1974 and was completed with record speed in 1976. You could say that the high house in Pécs was handed over just 40 years ago. A total of 250 single and one-and-a-half-bedroom apartments were built in the house, and even after its construction, the high-rise in Pécs became the tallest residential building in Central Europe. The symbol of the socialist gigantic construction seemed to feel the wind of the change of regime, since it became life-threatening by December 1989. As the ideology of the Council system that built it, the building itself began to rust from within, thus losing its static security, and by March 1990, the building was completely empty and uninhabited. Since the building was only available for 16 years, this building was able to break another record, this time the record of the shortness of use. Then the symbolism of the building remained in the 1990s, as despite its life-threatening condition, he often changed hands during the privatisation. In spite of the dozens of lucky riders, the building remained empty, and in 1994 it was able to break another record: as the largest uninhabited building in Central Europe. Then, in 2002, the socialist city administration took back ownership and spent 300 or more million forints on it to strengthen the structure, and in general, as it described the socialist leadership in Pécs, it also spent this public money unnecessarily, as the building remained as empty as it was, they could not do anything with it. However, in the last breath of the city, the building was a problem in 2007, at least in terms of not staying with the city, giving it to a foreign investor, a Spanish owner. There were promises in the Pécs press, you could hear that a mall, a five-star hotel, a panorama restaurant and luxury apartments were able to accommodate the torso that had been empty for three decades. But the Spanish owner referred to the crisis, and practically did nothing, and in 2012, he left the collapsed building all to himself. He also quit guarding, so anyone could enter the building at any time, and unfortunately, the looters also showed up. There were times when they were trying to steal a large elevator engine that fell from the highest floor onto the sidewalk next door, and it was only because of God that there was no tragedy. After that, Pécs' current management decided to take the fate of the house into its hands, fought with the Spanish owner, and thanks to the government's support, two weeks ago, the demolition of the high house, which the Pécs had been waiting for for for four decades.
u2016-04-12-184	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches after the agenda. Thank you for your work. Parliament will resume its meeting at 9:00 a.m. tomorrow morning. Meeting day closed, good evening, good night, everyone. [[Meeting ended at 20:18 p.m.]]
