u2016-06-13-0	Dear Parliament, The 36th day of the Spring Session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that István Tiba and Adam Mirkóczki - he will be arriving later - will help me. I welcome all those who monitor our work. Dear Parliament, Today we start our work with speeches before the agenda. After that, decisions will be taken from 10 a.m. to 50 a.m., from about 12:15 a.m. to about 13:45 a.m., and we will conclude the Parliament's meeting with speeches after the agenda. Dear Parliament, In accordance with the previous decision of the Parliament, Ms Erika Kissné Köles is speaking on the occasion of the 25th anniversary of the declaration of independence of the Republic of Slovenia. Dear Parliament, Allow me to extend my compliments to His Excellency Mrs Ksenija Škrilec, Ambassador of the Republic of Slovenia to Budapest and its members, Mrs Metka Lajnšček, Mrs Nataša Bergelj and Mr Rok Tomsic. I give the floor to the speaker Mrs Kissné Köles Erika, who will present her speech in her mother tongue. The speech is translated into Hungarian. I ask the participants to use the interpretation equipment as needed. Please wait a moment, Madam Speaker, my fellow Members are preparing your equipment. You have the floor, Madam Speaker.
u2016-06-13-1	Spoštovani Gospod Predsednik, Poslanke in Poslanci, cenjeni Zbor! V čast mi je, da kot Slovenska na Madžarschem izvoljena za parliamentarno zagovornico Vas danes lahko nagovorim in Vam ob 25 obletnici predstavim zgodovinske dogodke svoje matične domovine 23. Decembra 1990 je v Slovenski potekal plebiscit o samostojnosti in neodvisnosti Republike Slovenskije. Tega se je udeležilo 93% volilcev, so z veliko večino volili za samosojno Slovenskijo. Skupščina Republike Slovenskije je na zasedanju 25. junija leta 1991 sprejela Ustavni zakon za izvedbo temeljne ustavne listine o samostojnosti in neodvisnosti, sprejela zakon o državljanstu, o zunanjih zadevah ter še druge, s tem prevzela vse pristojnosti Republike Jugoslavije na svojem ozemlju. V svoji več kot tisočletni zgodovini je slovenski narod prvič dobil povsem samosojno državo, ka pomeni veliko sprememmb glede usode zamejski Slovenianv ali Sloveniav na Madžarskem. Takratna Republika Madžarska je med prvi - 15. januarja leta 1992 - priznala novo szeldno državo ter povezala z njo takoj tudi diplomatske stike: poleti sta se odprli velvoslaništva Madžarske v Ljubljana, in Republike Slovenije v Budimpešti. Državi sta se že leta 1992-ga odločili za prijateljske odnose in dvostransko sodelovanje. Podpisali sta Sporazum o sodelovanju na področju kulture, isobraževanja in znanosti med Slovenskijo in Madžarsko ter je bil sprejet Sporazum o zagotavljanju posebnih pravic slovenke narodne manjšine v Republiki Madžarski in madžarske narodne skupnosti v Republiki Slovenski. Prepričana sem, da moja domovina in moja matična domovina sta izbrali najboljšo pot medsebojnih stirkov in poteka nadgradnja teh. Sodelovanje temelji na odprtem političnem dialogu, dobre stike ohranja na zunanjopolitičnem, kulturnem in na gospodarskem področju. Temu so pričapolitična srečanja na najvišjih ravneh: srečanje premierov države in vlade ter predsednikov državnih zborov. Pomembno se mi zdi delovanje slovensko-madžarske manjšinske mešane komisije, dve državi vendar tesno povezujeta narodnosti, ki živejo na ozemlju drzge države: Madžari v Prekmurju in Slovenci v Porabju tudi. V zadnjih letih smo dosegli pomemben razvoj, precejšnjo so se spremenili trudi držav, skrb za ohranjanje naše identitye, jezika in kulture ter se je začel viden dvig na področju gospodarskega razvoja območij, kjer živimo. Velikost Slovenske jo uvršča med srednje velike evropske države. Število prebivalstva je malo več kot dva milijona, ki so večinoma Slovenski. Madžari ter Italijani sta priznani manjšini s posebnimi pravicami, s svojima poslancama v parliamentu. Država se skrbi tudi za ostale, pripadnike drugih narodnosti, ki so si našli stalno bivališče v Slovenski. Slovensko označi čudovito naravno okolje, poleg pokrajinske, naravne raznolikosti in bogastva je doma tukaj kulturna pestrost, pridno in do tujcev prijazno prebivalstvo. Čeprav je mala država, se lahko pohvali z vrednotami, s pridom ohranjeno kulturno dediščino, ki jo skrbno negujejo vse generacije, se lahko pohvali z vrsto znanstvenikov, umetnikov, znanih Slovensk. Od začetka svoje samostojnosti je Slovenija dosegla pomemben razvoj na področju gospodarstva, šolstva, mladinske in socialne politics. Vendar se tudi v Slovenski pojavljajo napetosti, prepričana sem, da bo država to v kratkem premagala. Tudi Slovenskijo so med potjo razvoja dosegle krize, proti katerim se vso močjo trudijo ne le politični dejavniki, temveč can posamezni Slovenski in Slovenske. Dve desetletji in pol se jeuresničil san Slovenk in Sloveniav o lastni državi. Prehojena pot, ki jo je medtem pohodila, dobro negovani stiki s neverdnimi državami nas prepričajo, da je zgodovinski dogodek dozorel in rodi bogate plodove. Pregled v nazaj ob obletnici kaže lepo sliko, smer poti in spodbudo za naprej, za nadaljnje in za razvoj inboljšave, popravljanje. Pred 25 leti je biluresničen stoletni sen naših prednisov o lastni državi. Odločilno vlogo pri oblikovanju slovenskega naroda in slovenske države sta imela kultura in slovenski jezik, ki Slovenskem kot narodu dajeta identityo. Mr President, Congresswoman and Lords! Dear Parliament, It is an honor for me, as a Slovenian national, to speak to you today in my chosen capacity as the spokesperson of the Hungarian Parliament and to present briefly the 25 years of my mother country, Slovenia. On 23 December 1990 a referendum was held in Slovenia on the independence and independence of the Republic of Slovenia. 93.2 percent of the eligible citizens participated in this election, and the vast majority voted in favour of autonomy. At its meeting on 25 June 1991, the Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia adopted the Constitution on autonomy and independence, as well as other laws on citizenship, foreign policy issues and so the Republic of Slovenia took over all competences from the Republic of Yugoslavia in its own land. For the first time in its more than a thousand years of history, the Slovenian people received an independent state in all respects, which has made a number of forward-looking changes for us, beyond the border, in terms of the fate of Slovenians living in Hungary. The Hungarian Republic of its age recognized the new neighbouring state as one of the first - 15 January 1992 - and at the same time established diplomatic relations with it. In the summer of this year the Embassy of Slovenia in Budapest and the Embassy of Hungary in Ljubljana were opened. As early as 1992, the two countries signed a friendship and bilateral cooperation agreement, concluded a cooperation agreement in the fields of culture, education and research, and the agreement was reached to ensure the specific rights of the Slovenian national minority in the Republic of Hungary and the Hungarian national community in the Republic of Slovenia. I am convinced that both my country and my mother country have chosen the best path for bilateral relations and are building it on purpose. Our countries' orderly, bilateral, good neighbourly relations in foreign policy relations, in the field of culture and at a more and more complex level can also be seen in the area of economic cooperation. The good neighbourly relationship is also demonstrated by the highest level of political meetings, meetings of the heads of state, prime ministers and presidents of their parliamentary assemblies in the two countries. I think it is important to see the working Slovenian-Hungarian minority committee meetings, as the two countries are also connected by the communities of the Hungarians in the Mura-Hungarian region and the Slovenians in the Rába region. In recent years, we have made significant progress by taking care of our countries' nationalities to preserve our identity, language and culture, and an economic development effort has also started. Slovenia is a medium-sized European country. Its population is around two million, mostly Slovenian. The Hungarian and Italian nationalities in the country enjoy special rights, but they also provide for those of other nationalities who have chosen Slovenia as their place of residence. In addition to the diversity and richness of nature, it is characterized by cultural diversity, industrious and welcoming population. Although it is a small country, it can boast of much value, its cultural values preserved with great care are cherished by successive generations, known for the names of many scientists and artists. Slovenia has made significant progress in its economy, education, youth and social system since it came to independence. A quarter of a century ago, the Slovenians had a dream, an independent state. The path that the country has been going through, his good relationship with neighbouring countries convinces us that the decision to be independent is correct, the fruits of which are constantly ripe. With the anniversary look back, a beautiful picture is presented to the viewer, an incentive for future directions, improvements and the continuation of development. I sincerely congratulate my motherland on the anniversary. Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, Thank you for listening.
u2016-06-13-2	I would like to thank the speaker for her speech and our dear guests for their participation. Dear Parliament, We are now continuing our work with speeches before the agenda. István Szávay, from Jobbik's group, applied for a pre-meeting speech:. Church and school for Hungarians living outside the Carpathian Basin! It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2016-06-13-3	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, We say that every year the population of the country loses a city of Hungarians, but we do not usually add that every year not only a city of Hungarians is not born, but about five cities of Hungarians leave the country. [[Adam Mirkóczki takes his place in the notary seat.]] This fact poses new challenges to Hungarian national policy. For the time being, we see that Hungary's national policy is currently unable to address these challenges. The Hungarian system of national political institutions was seized by XX. In the century. We are XXI. We want a nationwide policy of the century, 21st century. 21st century institutional system and XXI. It takes into account the fact that a significant part of the Hungarian population not only lives outside the borders, but has settled in Western Europe and its cities overseas. This is no longer just about adventurous Hungarians, not just those who wish to spend a few months or years in their new country. We grabbed the XX. This is the case in the 20th century, and even if, in recent years, worthy government efforts and programmes have been launched to support Hungarians from abroad, we do not support foreign Hungarian communities very much with anyone other than Petőfi or Kőrösi. Of course, we supported these programmes, and we were behind them, but much more is needed. [[10.10]] We do not see the unified government strategic planning that would help these communities to survive, they can support the fight against assimilation, and there would otherwise be patterns in the Carpathian Basin. This would require an excellent Hungarian institutional system. We have a National Strategy Research Institute and a Institute for Language Strategy. These institutions should be responsible for helping government decision-making and decision-making with strategic materials. Compared to this, we see the National Strategy Research Institute instead of researching national strategies, instead it organizes Mangalica festivals, soccer gymnastics and Santa's celebrations. At least here we see what's happening, the activities of the Institute of Language Strategy are not even that much known. If we go to their website, we can see that in two years their only publication on digital education has been produced, but they have made no progress in two years with the development of the Hungarian language strategy. What are the main points needed to support modern emigration? Well, they've been the same for fifty-hundred, two hundred years: church, school and community space. It should be noted that hundreds of thousands of Hungarians are now stranded overseas or in Western Europe who do not wish to come home. This is the fact that Hungarian national policy must face. Hungarian national policy should help these Hungarians to preserve their identity abroad and abroad, so that they can resist modern assimilation, so that we can help them to eventually return home. What are these three main points I mentioned in one sentence? One is a matter of spiritual care. Jobbik proposes that the government initiate negotiations with the Hungarian historical churches and provide support to enable churches to send pastors to the cities of Western Europe, as the church may be one of the areas of assimilation. Consider, for example, that in Dublin the Transylvanian Hungarians attend a Romanian-language mass. The other is a very, very important school system. The Hungarian state does not support foreign Hungarian schools in any way, while there are excellent examples that could be embraced. I would like to mention the curriculum proposal drawn up by András Binder and Krisztina Temesi, Head of the Hungarian School and Kindergarten in Dublin, also known by the Secretary of State. Jobbik proposes that the Hungarian government collects these experiences, sum up the experiences of Hungarian schools operating abroad, develop an accreditation system that would allow studies abroad to be accepted in Hungary, as the return of Hungarian families will also be hampered by the classification of their children in Hungary after returning home by two or three classes. It is therefore necessary to develop this education system, to support it, and to develop this support system. The fact that community spaces are also needed is also well indicated by the existing Hungarian houses where they work well, but in recent times hundreds of thousands of Hungarian communities have been established in large Western European cities where they have not been before, so these institutions are not formed either. We would like to initiate and initiate the government to help create Hungarian houses in these big cities, which can bring together all kinds of Hungarian activities. The question of suffrage must also be mentioned; it remains unsolved that foreign Hungarians can vote not only at embassies but also in other ways, even electronically. I would therefore like to draw the attention of this House and the Secretary of State to the fact that Hungary's national policy [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] face these new challenges. I ask you to help these Hungarian communities to survive. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-06-13-4	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, State Secretary Árpád Potápi wishes to respond to what has been said. I give the floor to the Secretary of State.
u2016-06-13-5	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Dear Ambassador, I'm pleased with the pre-meeting question. I think that if we look at national policy since 2010, we can talk about a radical change, and this is also true of the Hungarianness of the diaspora, and it is especially true of the Hungarianness of the diaspora, because until 2010, this area was one of the areas of Hungary's national policy that was undeserved. Since 2010, the Hungarian government has been working to ensure that people living in the diaspora get their attention. We can see very well that the Western Hungarians, like the Hungarians in the Carpathian Basin, need very much the support of the mother country. We must not forget to say it, and we have done it many times, but I think that we must do it now, thank the Hungarians of the diaspora, because through them, through their diligence, honesty and everyday life they judge Hungarians there, the Hungarians in the Carpathian Basin and Hungary, and they will and willfully have lived out there, away from Hungary, the ambassadors of Hungary, and we should thank them for that. It is also necessary to say thank you because in recent years they have always stood up for Hungary, stood up for the Hungarian government, and in connection with the unworthy campaign of slander that has taken place against us, I believe that they wanted to give a worthy answer in their own cities. We see that, in the case of Western Hungarians, there is often a lack of a helping hand, and, as you mentioned, we launched the Kőrösi Csoma Sándor program in 2013, for the first time we sent out 47 scholarships, and every year since then 100 to 100 scholarships. Since the launch of the Kőrösi Csoma Sándor programme, more than 200 young people have visited and worked in various Hungarian communities in many parts of the world, and have done a great deal of work. Their basic task was to preserve identity, to help it and to organise the lives of Hungarian communities, and to coordinate. We'll start the program again this year. I think we've chosen a good team, it starts with 100 people, last week we were preparing young people coming to the southern hemisphere. However, this work could not be done without the support of Hungarian communities, the support of Hungarians outside and the help of mentors. We also provide continuous financial support to Hungarian organizations and institutions operating in the diaspora. We run weekend schools, and we support these schools. Let me list a few, not the full circle: In Germany, according to the consular model, some 500 Hungarian students are studying in Bavaria, and in different schools in Baden-Württemberg Province, we have been able to provide support for this since 2014 on an annual basis, corresponding to the academic year, of HUF 5 million. I have personally seen the operation of schools in Toronto, Stuttgart, Dublin and Cork, and I have had the opportunity to talk to the school leaders, teachers, and we are constantly negotiating and I know about the operation of the Hungarian School in Vienna, and we also support this. Every year we support the joint training of the Balassi Institute and the University of Pannonia, and regularly provide textbooks and methodological resources through the Kőrösi Csoma Sándor programme. Since 2010 we have also helped the church's Hungarian saving activities. Following the establishment of the Hungarian Diaspora Council in 2011, a separate ecclesiastical and scout section was established. Of course, in addition to our support, several State Secretariats of the EMMI are equally concerned with diaspora institutions, churches and education, and I would like to highlight the State Secretary for Church Affairs and the State Secretary for Education here. We have provided six church support last year and 14 educational support and support for mission ministers. I agree with your suggestion. I did it myself a few weeks ago. A similar programme should be launched for pastors and priests, such as the Kőrösi Csoma Sándor program, so that Hungarians outside can keep their Hungarians and keep their faith. Thank you very much, Mr. President, for your patience. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-06-13-6	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Mr József Tóbias, Head of Group, MSZP Group, also applied for a speech before the agenda. I'll give the floor to the leader of the group. [[10.20]]
u2016-06-13-7	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The Orbán government is in mid-term, and if we look at the fact that in 2014 Viktor Orbán said that we will continue to do so, in comparison with this fact and truth, he once told the truth, because the fragmentation of our society since 2010, education, health care, social care systems, or institutionalized corruption for fidesz relatives and friends, is true and true, they are doing what they started in 2010. In the field of education, it is clear that you have put educational institutions on the verge of failure, teachers, parents and students alike. In the past five years, the continuous educators, together with parents and students, have indicated that not only have they made mistakes, but they have destroyed everything that has developed in the last quarter of a century, they have created another 58 instead of a KLIK, which they will now call the KK, but he will have nothing but to do but make a kakaban knot, and otherwise the municipalities will be permanently deprived of being involved in the operation of the educational center of a local community. You're not looking at the future of children. You only want dominance in the fields of education and culture to cement your own compulsive power, and you need to see that this is the past. The future is in knowledge, in local community values. We should give back to the municipalities what has been taken from them in recent years. Not only the right to operate, but also the opportunity to control the daily course of education within the local community. As far as health is concerned, I can say that today, in the vote on the budget, I would like to recall it in your memories, although you may not remember it: nearly 200 billion have been taken from the health sector every year through the budget. It is clear that the biggest wave of emigration is in this area. It is no coincidence that we started the first increase in salaries in the public sector, in health, in education and in the social field, because the state is leaving these areas. And if it's not good, it's XXI. In the first century health care, there will be no effective labour market in Hungary. It is certain and clear that instead of stadiums, Hungary would need hospitals, health centres, medical instruments and well-paid nurses. There's no change in that compared to the last few years, because all they know is a stadium or maybe even a small train. The social security system has been permanently torn apart, honourable Members. The fact that the municipalities are being sabotaged so that they can't even maintain social institutions and homes from their own incomes, and now they're figuring out that they're going to transfer the money from health care to social care, and that they're leaving the money in the health care area, that this is the solution, that's to admit that they can't get a quality XXI in health care. To provide basic care in the first century. As regards the Prime Minister's announcement last week, I must say that order is lacking in government. You are incapable of providing governance in this area, be it education, health, social policy, any effective, meaningful measures. However, they stated that at that time 4 million people would remain as they are, but your privileged, friends, relatives, acquaintances will try to protect their achievements through the laws you have made. There is no debate on corruption, as to this day they still cannot tell us who are involved in the ban scandal. And how György Matolcsy was going to take 266 billion forints of public money with your assistance. What Péter Polt is doing, who has one job to do, to tell who was at the National Election Office, who is involved in the Quaestor case, what is happening in the affairs of the central bank's foundations, what happened in the banning scandal. There's no answer to that. On the other hand, he protects you as a good party servant. He does nothing else today, he doesn't represent the rule of law, he doesn't defend the rule of law, he protects you and only you. One thing is certain: after 2018, there must be a rule of law accountability, because you have to face what you have done in the last five years. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2016-06-13-8	Thank you, Mr. Group Leader. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Parliamentary Secretary Bence Rétvári wishes to respond to what has been said. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2016-06-13-9	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Chief of Staff, Dear House, I believe, after your speech, that the panic situation is not so much in the areas you have listed, but rather in the MSZP before the renewal. When you're here talking numbers and cutting numbers, I think it's worth checking out exactly what's going on with what you said. On the one hand, you say that the state is withdrawing from welfare systems, while you are also opposed to the increased responsibility of the state in both health and education, because in the last six years direct public responsibility and direct state maintenance are more typical, since this has been done in education and after today's votes, and this has happened in health care with state reservations. Talking about the future of children when it was the socialist government that gave the liberals the opportunity to manage education for a while, who also saw business primarily in education, and privatized everything that could be privatized, it could be the National Book Publisher, it could be the teacher's further education, and there could be plenty of other things that they tried to make a business out of and raise money out of education, while taking away a month's salary for those who worked in education without blinking. This was 17 billion forints a year pulled out of the teachers' pockets. If I look at it, this means more than HUF 70 billion during the period that existed, and in total it was HUF 200 billion that reduced the various items, if we look at them and valorise them at the rate at that time. If we look at, Mr honourable Member, Mr Group leader, the amount of education, primary education, secondary education and higher education in the Hungarian budget in 2002, when you started government in Hungary, and we compare your eight years with 2010 and we do not count inflation, we just look at the nominal amount of money, then we find 142 billion forints less in the amounts spent on education at the end of your governance. Take a look at the budget, of which about HUF 7 billion was taken from higher education, while the rest was generally taken with the title of basic public education tasks and other educational tasks, one with more than 60 billion in one, and the other with a HUF 70 billion item, which reduced the proportion of funds spent on higher education and public education under your governance. Look, compare the last budget law you adopted and the state of 2010 and see that not only inflation has not been increased, but it has also reduced by number what should have been invested in education. However, if we look at the process that while funding educational institutions at the time of the change of regime, the funding of educational institutions in the municipalities represented 92% of the total cost, while at the end of your governance was reduced to 48% in 2010, we can see exactly what the money was missing from education, and not only during the central budget, but also through the municipalities, what the money was withdrawn or what the money was trying to transfer to the municipalities, but they obviously couldn't bear it. This was the process that Fidesz-KDNP had to break, and we broke it. We have turned this around, provided additional resources for education and provided additional resources for health care. In 2013, the teaching career began. If we look at these extra resources, this is above HUF 230 billion, which we have only put into practice so far, because we have made an alliance with teachers and an alliance that they need to do higher quality work in the interests of children, so the state pays for this with a higher salary. This year's surplus, which is accepted and published in the 2017 budget, is HUF 34.4 billion, as regards next year's education wage increases. And I think we can all be happy, because at last in health care we can give nurses and doctors the level of financial appreciation that comes closer to what they deserve from their work, and we cannot do it with credit, we are not burdened by the central budget to local government maintainers, but we have managed to produce this from real economic growth, and the results of this economic growth can now also be enjoyed by nurses, as their salary will increase by an average of 26,5 percent from 1 September this year. We do not take away, you know, Mr Congressman, Mr Group Leader, the 13th month's salary from health workers, but we are raising 26,5 percent for nurses, and this will continue in the coming years, as we agreed on a long-term cooperation. Let us not forget that this was a series of negotiations, Congressman, which started with the unions in 2004 during your administration, but we were the only ones who were able to end it, giving the salary increase they had demanded over a decade ago. And we have also reached an agreement with the doctors, and I believe that there is also a significant step forward in the life of doctors. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[10.30]]
u2016-06-13-10	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Mr Péter Harrach, Head of the Group, KDNP Group also applied for a speech before the agenda:. Just finish the session. It's an address. Mr. Team Leader, you have the floor.
u2016-06-13-11	Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, The spring session ends. For some, this brings joy, some find it difficult to leave the arena, but obviously they will find the opportunity to exercise their passion in the summer. I think that when such a period ends, it is appropriate to look back at this time and see what we have done and what is still waiting for us in the summer. There are events in politics that we don't plan. It was the same with the flow of migrants, which we can only manage. In short, the Christian Democratic opinion remains that we need to exercise dual responsibility. The person in need of help must be helped; if this is required to the extent that it is now, then we must also use it beyond our borders and, of course, as a means of self-defense. Western Europe is no longer able to do this, and Central Europe can still be protected. In the next period, it will be an important topic not only for the next six months, but for years. The issue of education has already been addressed today. Some sentences deserve that, too. I think it's obvious, and every normal person thinks it's in the best interest of the children at school. And this is nothing more than a competitive knowledge and decent human education. It is also obvious that, in recent times, teachers' movements have been motivated by party politics, and there is no place for party soldiers at school, whether they are left-wing or right-wing party soldiers. Only professional aspects should apply there. The next question is obviously the area of the economy. We see that the economic indicators have recently improved, and among them, or at the same time, the most important thing for us is the improvement in employment data and the reduction in unemployment. We are no longer living in a time of recovery from the crisis, but we are in an upward stage, and this is important for all of us. We also need to say a few words about the social situation. Not only in the last six months, but also in the last two years, those affected by the lower income tenths are in a improving position, and this is also shown by the data of the HCSO. Here, let me draw attention to the importance of children in the first place. Making meals free and discounted, the free textbook creates a situation for families in need to try to get these children out of poverty with the help of the state. Of course, parents are primarily helped by public works, and this improves not only their financial situation but also their self-esteem. [[There is constant noise in the Chamber.]] So this semester has gone by saying that in most of the issues, we have to say that there has been an improvement and that we are on a path that leads in the right direction. For a sentence, it may also be worth talking about what it means for us to abolish a free Sunday. The question is not what it means for us, but what it means for trade workers. They are forced to work on Sundays, which means that profit hunger has been given an opportunity on the part of employers and a lack of solidarity on part of society. We have only one option to improve their circumstances by maintaining the situation. To this end, we will also do everything together with representatives of employers and workers. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-06-13-12	Thank you, Mr. Group Leader. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Parliamentary Secretary Bence Rétvári wishes to respond to what has been said. Before you begin your response, Mr Secretary, I would like to ask my fellow Members to stop having personal conversations. There's so much basic noise in this room, you can't hear the answer. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2016-06-13-13	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Chief of Staff, Dear House, As you said, the economic growth in recent years, which is also reflected in the growth in the number of jobs, as now there are 140 thousand more people working than at the beginning of last year, is reflected in the decline in unemployment data or in the 5% increase in trade flows, of which indeed, or in the introduction of electronic cash registers, there has been a surplus revenue from the government which it has decided to spend part of it on further economic recovery and the other part on wage increases. If we look at the negotiations over the past months, whether on health negotiations or on issues relating to public education, we can see that the majority of teachers were on a good stand when they said that only negotiation was a solution, because the negotiations were solutions. Those who put the issue on the street and wanted to bring politics into schools did not prove their previous strategy. Those who have clearly sat down at the negotiating table in the field of health, I believe that they have achieved very great results, since the additional funding that health can receive in the next year's budget is HUF 167 billion. And it is very important that the increase in the salary of both doctors and specialists of 107,000 HUF from 1 September will continue in the following year, with an additional HUF 100,000 surplus next November. This is a long-term transformation, a long-term alliance is very important to strengthen. In the same way, the actions of nurses continue to grow for four years. This means 26,5 percent from 1 September this year, but overall, if we add it up, this means 65 percent increase in nursing pay over the next four years. If we add the increase in 2012-13, we can say that in these two cycles, in these 8 years, we will also be able to double the pay of nurses. This is part of an important larger system, which will mean the introduction of the Chancellor's system, which will be discussed in the autumn session, and any draft legislation will be prepared during the summer. This chancellorship system has already been proven in higher education, as it has reduced debt to about one third, one quarter, which was due to universities, colleges and tens of billions of forints in higher education institutions. In the same way, it will be an important issue in the summer to organise the provision of care in the capital, the issue of superhospitals in the capital and the case of nursing homes. This means that in the majority of Western European countries, the transformation has already taken place, in which patients in need of non-medical supervision, who should rather receive social care, are transferred to social care. In the field of education, too, I believe that the formal, external institutional changes have been completed and will be completed with today's vote, which we have had to implement in order to finally focus on content issues, to renew the national basic curriculum, to transfer modern knowledge to all schoolchildren; the infrastructure of the 58 district centre will be set up, the unified state maintenance and operation system will be built, the administrative burden on certification has already been reduced to one third. From 1 September, the next rate of teacher wage increase started with HUF 38 billion, and we also settled the situation of teachers and pensioners in the seven years before retirement. In the area of children's meals, this summer's holiday will allow them to cook from a larger source per day for children in need of social care, from a higher daily batch. From next September, they will receive textbooks in Hungarian schools free of charge in another class. From this, we can see that the transformation that the government has started is in the interest of the children and is of great help to the parents. Next year's budget will provide HUF 104 billion in additional institutional resources. In this way, we can say that we can check 20 points out of 25 of the trade union demands, we have fulfilled them, and we hope that the teachers will also feel it, they will appreciate it. In the next few days, we will also try to inform them after the final meeting of the round table for public education. [[10.40]] At the same time, these results and the increased security and additional resources that we have provided for education, health care are obviously threatened by what threatens all other items in Europe. We must also prepare for this in the area of increased immigration and health, and we must also prepare for it in the humanitarian field. We see that the pressure is increasing at the southern border, which is why last year's amount of 200 million has been raised, and the government is spending 250 million forints on dealing with the human crisis resulting from ever increasing forced entry, and not only three, but now five charitable organizations are involved. [[Move, growl.]] After all, we can see that the pressure is increasing and the pressure is increasing and the action is becoming more aggressive, which is why it is important to strengthen humanitarian care at the southern border on both sides of the border fence. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2016-06-13-14	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Before I give the floor to the next speaker, I would like to ask my fellow Members, who are new arrivals, to take their seats and to listen to the speakers. It is impossible to understand the words of the speakers in the Chamber. Dear Parliament, Before the agenda, Mr Lajos Kósa, Head of Group, Fidesz Group, spoke with the title of terror of the Islamic extremists. I give you the floor, Mr. Group Leader.
u2016-06-13-15	Mr. President. Dear House, From Saturday to Sunday, the world was shaken by the news of a terrible massacre, according to Hungarian time. In the United States, Orlando, Florida, a lone gunman killed 50 people in a nightclub. Turns out the gunman was a child of a family emigrated from Afghanistan, born in the United States, and as it turns out, he worked as an armed guard at one of the largest security companies in the world. This tragedy points back to what has, in fact, been pushing the United States and Europe for some time now, or putting pressure on immigration, the wave of migration, in which a large number of crowds flow into the United States, Hungary, Europe, any country that is a member of the region concerned, together with the threat of terrorism and the increase of violence. It is quite obvious, as this case shows, that the integration of these immigrants is extremely difficult, almost unmanageable, almost unsolvable. And it is also quite obvious that these cases are the most dangerous, when someone comes from a completely different civilization, they are born here, but they are simply unable to adapt, and they do not want, to accept the democratic achievements or the results that European or American civilization can possess. He cannot deal with the patience that characterizes these societies and radicalizes himself, without otherwise having an organizational relationship with radical groups, preparing himself and carrying out such horrific attacks, I add, which is almost impossible to defend against. This points back to the problem that we are struggling with here in Hungary. In particular, uncontrolled migration, forced resettlement, the influx of masses into European society that are not only unable to integrate, they do not want to be integrated, they present enormous dangers. Therefore, this process must obviously somehow be blocked, somehow framed. The solution is not that, as we see in the news, the Italian coast guard is helping immigrants from all over the world to land, and then, according to the current proposals, they are being forced to distribute them among the different countries. [[Ágnes Kunhalmi: No forced introductions! Nav.ra.chich said it wasn't there.]] The solution is to put an end to this, while protecting borders. The question has been raised several times, and every such tragedy raises the question of how many dozens, hundreds of innocent people still have to die to ensure that the Corifeans who support unlimited migration in the context of migration, the political forces who consistently, whether in Hungary the left, support forced resettlement and migration and are consistent pro-immigration, are even willing to reflect on how we are dealing with these dangers. How can people's lives, wealth, and security be ensured throughout the countries where this crisis threatens? The question arises over and over again, it seems that it has not yet been dead enough, there has not been enough drama to change the very trendy liberal-left approach on this issue, which is why we need to fight migration and forced resettlement with all the means we can. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2016-06-13-16	Thank you, Mr. Group Leader. On behalf of the Government, Mr Csaba Dömötör wishes to respond. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary. [[Interview from the ranks of the MSZP: Ministry of Trade!]]
u2016-06-13-17	Mr. Team Leader! First of all, allow us to express our sincere condolences to the relatives of the victims who died in terrorist attacks. We must say again in this House that, unfortunately, yesterday's terrorist attack raises serious questions about the integration of immigrants and the security aspects. Allow me to talk about some of the current things, other current things. First of all, that the country is under constant pressure, both Europe and Hungary, because more and more people, in the case of Hungary, are trying violently to cross the country's borders. The migration wave is expected to continue on both routes. Meanwhile, more and more violence is taking place in European refugee camps, including in Hungary. This line includes last week's events. At the reception centre in Kiskunhalas, an Algerian man attacked an armed guard and 70 migrants took action at the reception centre in Békéscsaba. In the meantime, the European Commission is proposing new proposals, such as the EU Commissioner for Migration, to make integration more effective, not least by reforming the Blue Card, and it would also create the possibility of legal migration in Europe. Thus, they will continue to put unviable proposals on the table, but they will not focus on the protection of borders. With such proposals, Brussels only achieves that Europe can be flooded by newer masses of immigrants uncontrollably. The present proposal in Brussels can also be interpreted as an invitation to immigrants and smugglers alike. Moreover, the proposal is pointless only because most Member States of the European Union have youth unemployment, unemployment is significant in general, and even in some southern European countries almost every second youth is unemployed. The government insists that we can decide for ourselves who we want to live with and with whom we cannot allow the right of decisions determining the future of the country to be taken out of the hands of the Hungarian people and the Parliament. That is what the forthcoming referendum is about. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2016-06-13-18	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Mr András Schiffer, Head of the Group, LMP Group, applied for a pre-meeting address with the title "Last Speech." Thank you for your cooperation so far, Mr. Group Leader. [[Dr. András Schiffer nodds.]] Mr. Team Leader, you have the floor.
u2016-06-13-19	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Over the past year, we have been brutally confronted with the escalation of global imbalances: climate change, destruction of natural resources, mass migration, thriving tax havens, a two-speed Europe. Meanwhile, global large companies worldwide are captivating democracies in order for profits to overtake the interests of man and nature everywhere. [[10.50]] In this situation, Hungary's number one strategic goal is to reduce its extreme dependence and exposure. This requires fundamental changes at five points. One is that Hungary should be able to preserve its natural and cultural resources, such as agricultural land, forest and water resources; its energy system should not be dependent on the East. On the other hand, we have to face the shortcomings of the Hungarian economic structure. Today, Hungary competes downwards in labour prices, while it competes upwards in support of multinationals and tax incentives. This is the Hungarian model today. We are becoming a country of untrained, poorly paid workers at an accelerated rate. Today, Hungary is the country of global production based on trained assembly work, but this could be different if we strengthened the capacity to create domestic capital, the local economy, and we imagined Hungarian development based on the knowledge economy, R &amp; D. Not least today, Hungary's export value is a quarter of that of the German, and this is closely linked to the rapid increase in the number of untrained ones held in the feudal dependency. Therefore, the key issue is to increase the share of education in terms of GDP to at least the EU average so that Hungarian young people can expand their creative capacity here in Hungary. And the key issue in the fight against addiction is to shut down offshore channels, to eliminate institutionalized corruption and institutions for the management of favors. This is the key to Hungary not being a country without grandchildren, but a renewable Hungary waiting for our successors. Such a policy, however, requires moral protection. The starting point is that we have to face our 25-year moral debt, face the still unexplored communist past. This is how Hungary is not a country without consequences, and the political elite is constantly facing accountability. Politics cannot be the privilege of the rich and must not be a means of living for anyone. Hungary is able to rise if politics is not the XX. It is about centuries of grievances, not fascistism and communism, not orbanging and Gyurcsányányok, but XXI. About Hungary in the century, about what Hungary adds to a globalization where one can overtake profits. In the last six years, I have not been ashamed from time to time to point out that if my position on various issues was in line with the positions of my group, whether it be government parties or other opposition parties. I consider it a key issue to be able to show, regardless of world view and political affiliation, what connects us here, in the House of the country and in Hungary, in this political community. If we are not able to demonstrate from time to time what connects us Hungarians, if we are not able to act united outside the borders of Hungary for our national interests, this political community will fall apart. Dear Parliament, We're on a cycle split. I am taking up my mandate, but I would like to see an effective work carried out in the context of these ideas in a 21st century. Hungary of the century, for the sake of the Hungarian nation, for all of them. Thank you very much.
u2016-06-13-20	Thank you, Mr. Group Leader. I wish you further success in your personal life and work. [[Dr. András Schiffer nodds.]] Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Mr Csaba Dömötör wishes to respond. I give you the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2016-06-13-21	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, His last speech before the agenda is proof of many things for us. Evidence, among other things, that LMP has given up creating a new alternative on the left. [[An uproar in the benches of opposition parties.]] Thus, the left-wing voters are only among them [[It's a lot of noise. The president's ringing several times.]] You can choose, left-wing voters can only count on those who have already destroyed the country once. At the same time, let me tell you where Hungary stands, what the Hungarians can expect now that you have made your speech before the last agenda. The economy is sufficiently stable, so the Parliament can now adopt a budget that allows all Hungarians to make progress. If the Parliament accepts next year's budget today, not least the wage increases may continue. Based on the government's proposal, significant additional resources will be available next year in the health and social field. The salary of specialists and hospital pharmacists is increased by HUF 207 thousand at two paces, while the average wage of nurses can increase by 65 percent by 2019. This means that in a few years the wages of health professionals can double. These are increases of the magnitude that all opposition parties can wholeheartedly support, provided that they are interested in the solution rather than in party policy objectives.In 2017, career plans will continue next year. Everyone who works in the public service can take a step forward, the government will spend 400 billion forints in 2016 and 17 to raise the wages of public sector workers. The salaries of law enforcement workers, higher education workers and educators will continue and the career model of state officials can continue. In addition to wage increases, taxes continue to decrease. VAT is reduced from 27 to 5 percent, VAT on the main foods is reduced. It is a measure that has been supported for a long time by the left, but now it is not. We must not forget about family tax incentives in the matter of tax reductions. The tax relief of the two children will be extended to HUF 15,000. Young married couples continue to benefit from tax relief. I would like to note in parentheses that, compared to the periods when you started your work, Hungarian families are already getting married more. That's good news. It's also due to government measures. Young families don't just benefit from tax incentives. They will also have the home creation programme, to which the budget will spend HUF 211 billion. This amount consists of five different housing support instruments. This is just four more than what was previously available, that was also the currency lending. The goal is to give every Hungarian person their own apartment or house. [[It's constant noise.]] In summary, we can say that next year's budget includes wage increases and tax cuts of such magnitude that opposition parties can support it with a good heart. When you made your speech before the last agenda, the country is in better shape than when you started your work. More people live from work instead of aid; about 500 thousand more people work compared to 2010, for example, the economy is on a growing path and we are no longer addicted to IMF credit. Wage increases in real terms, and families with children receive more support. This does not mean that you can sit back, there is a lot to do, but it means that, thanks to joint efforts, this country is on track. [[Agnes Kunhalmi intervenes.]] Dear Chief of Staff, As opposed to the previous period, the period when you started your work, this country is now on its own feet and has more opportunities to defend its interests in a Europe of tensions. We wish you success in your further work. [[Applause on the pro-government side.]]
u2016-06-13-22	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches before the agenda. I would like to ask Mr István Tiba to present the list of speakers after the agenda.
u2016-06-13-23	Dear Parliament, László Varju, independent; Dániel Kárpát Z., Jobbik; Péter Csizi, Fidesz; R. Benedek Sallai, LMP; Zsolt Nyitrai, Fidesz; Péter Ágh, Fidesz; Gergely Farkas, Jobbik; Lajos Kepli, Jobbik; László László Lukács, Jobbik; Balázs Ander, Jobbik; Ádám Mirkóczki, Jobbik; Sebestyén Vágó, Jobbik; István Szávay, Jobbik.
u2016-06-13-24	Thank you, Mr. Notary. Dear Parliament, We are now continuing our work with the decisions on the agenda. Please take your seats and check that your card has been placed in the voting machine. [[11.00]] After all our fellow Members have taken their seats, we will begin our work. Dear Parliament, Following a series of amendments to Act C of 2015 on Hungary's central budget for 2016 is T/10534. Final vote of bill No 1. Under the provisions of the Stability Act and the House Rules, the Speaker of the National Assembly is T/10534/14. It sent a single proposal to the President of the Fiscal Council. Opinion of the Council on the granting of preliminary consent T/10534/15. Number 2 is available on the network. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/10534/14. A single proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the single proposal by 121 yeses, 63 votes against and without abstentions. Next up is the T/10377 on Hungary's central budget for 2017 Final vote of bill No 1. Under the provisions of the Stability Act and the House Rules, the Speaker of Parliament is T/10377/1167 submitted by the national Parliament. It sent a single proposal to the President of the Fiscal Council. Opinion of the Council on the grant of prior consent T/10377/1171. Number 2 is available on the network. I welcome Mr Árpád Kovács, President of the Fiscal Council, to whom the House Rule 36 applies. In accordance with paragraph 11 of paragraph 11 of this Article, I now give the floor. Mr. President, please.
u2016-06-13-25	Dear Parliament, Mr President, Mr. Speaker, Mr. Prime Minister, On 7 June 2016, the Speaker of Parliament sent a single draft budget bill on Hungary's central budget for 2017 including the transfer of amendments adopted by Parliament, requesting the opinion of the Fiscal Council under the Stability Act on compliance with the sovereign debt rule and the prior consent of the Fundamental Law to the final vote on the draft budget bill. The Council examined the bill and, at its meeting on 9 June 2016, unanimously took the following decision. It concluded that the government debt ratio planned for 31 December 2017 was T/10377/1167 on Hungary's central budget for 2017 Single Budget Bill No 3 § 3 is well established, complies with the requirements of the Stability Act and is in line with the budgetary processes under the bill. The government debt ratio will decrease in 2017 and consequently the requirement of Article 36 (5) of the Fundamental Law has been met. The Board subsequently gave its prior consent under Article 44 (3) of the Fundamental Law to the final vote on the single budget bill. Dear Parliament, Please allow me, on the basis of the council's mandate, to take your attention very briefly, only for a few minutes. As is known, the framework of the sovereign debt rule is set out in the Fundamental Law as follows. As long as the public debt exceeds half of the total domestic product, Parliament may adopt only a central budget law containing a reduction in the proportion of the public debt to the total domestic product. In addition to the Fundamental Law, the Stability Act also contains a requirement for debt developments. This was amended by the Parliament in 2016 taking into account the indications of the Fiscal Council. On the basis of the macroeconomic conditions used for budget planning, the following should therefore apply for 2017. Since at least one of the projected inflation for the fiscal year and the real growth rate of gross domestic product does not exceed 3 per cent, the debt of public finances in the Central Budget Act should be designed in such a way that the reduction in the ratio of the government debt expected on the last day of the budget year to the gross domestic product of the fiscal year, i.e. the reduction in the sovereign debt index compared to the previous year, is at least one tenth of a percentage point. As I said at the beginning of the general debate on the bill, in its opinion on the draft budget bill, the Council concluded that the sovereign debt rule was fulfilled, since in 2017 the debt ratio decreased from 73.5 per cent to 71.9 per cent, by 1.5 percentage points more than that provision. Thus, the reserve will also cover the impact of risks arising from developments in domestic and international factors affecting the growth of the national economy, the revenue and expenditure of public finances, which may lead to a more moderate reduction. The Council also noted that the EU debt rule is also fulfilled, as the reduction in the debt ratio is higher than one twenty per cent of the rate. Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, In the process of the Fiscal Council, he followed the parliamentary discussion of the draft budget bill. On the basis of the expert analyses carried out on this basis and the review of the draft single budget bill, the Council concluded that, compared to the bill submitted, the changes in appropriations adopted by Parliament in their balance will increase the total revenue and expenditure of the central budget by HUF 56.4 billion, to a very modest percentage, a few tenths. Thus, neither the deficit nor the amount of debt in accordance with the Union methodology changes. The government forecast for the expected amount of gross domestic product for 2017 is also unchanged. As a result, the debt ratio calculated in accordance with the Stability Act remained the same as in the draft opinion of the Council in the single budget bill. Thus, the government debt rule laid down in the Fundamental Law is fulfilled, which is a condition for the Council's contribution to the final vote on the bill. The Council also reviewed the main revenue and expenditure shifts, but, as it did in the opinion of the draft bill, it did not express itself in this decision to assess either the internal ratios or the distribution policy context of the changes. The reasons for the decision indicated that, in addition to internal transfers, the source of the increase in expenditure was created by an increase in the allocation of tax and tax revenue, based on the legislative amendments adopted in the meantime and consistent with the projected economic processes. It is for the security and preservation of budgetary management that, in contrast to previous years' practice, the allocation of the various reserves has not been reduced in the legislative process. [[11.10]] At the same time, it has to be noted that the appropriations opened from above have overall decreased by HUF 16.2 billion, thereby increasing the risk of overachievement of these appropriations. In order to maintain balance, the Council considered it appropriate to call on the government to continue the disciplined management of the planning process, in particular with regard to expenditure and the use of reserve appropriations. Dear Parliament, At the end of my comment, allow me to remind you, as I did in the opinion of the draft budget bill, that the panel has now built on a very extensive background of analysts and experts, besides the evaluation of the State Audit Office and the Hungarian National Bank, to justify the Council's position on the establishment of a single bill, whose work I thank you for. Thank you very much for your kind attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-06-13-26	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/10377/1167. A single proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the single proposal by 122 votes in favour, 63 against and without abstentions. It follows that, as regards the draft Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council laying down the conditions and procedural rules for determining the Member State responsible for examining an application for international protection lodged in one of the Member States by a third-country national or a stateless person, H/10931 adopting a report on the existence of the conditions for the adoption of a reasoned opinion. Final vote on the proposal for a decision. I would remind you that, according to our decision last week, the motion for a resolution is being discussed by the Parliament with a derogation from house rules. As no amendments to the proposal have been tabled, we will decide on the submitted text of the proposal for a decision in the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts H/10931. A proposal for a decision. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the resolution proposal by 175 votes to 10, without abstentions. It follows the T/10934 of the Protocol on Montenegro's accession to the North Atlantic Treaty. Final vote of bill No 1. Welcome President Miodorag Vukovic and his delegation , who have come to Hungary for an official visit on the occasion that the Parliament confirms Montenegro's NATO accession treaty today. I wish Mr President and his delegation successful negotiations and a pleasant stay. Dear Parliament, I would remind you that, according to our decision last week, the bill will be discussed by Parliament with a derogation from house rules. Since no amendments have been tabled to the proposal, we are now deciding on the text of the bill submitted. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/10934. Bill No. 1. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] Parliament's bill with 180 votes in favour , accepted with 1 abstention. It follows that the Agreement between the Government of Hungary and the Government of the Republic of Ghana on the visa waiver of their nationals with diplomatic and service passports will be published T/10933. Final vote of bill No 1. Since no amendments have been tabled to the proposal, we are now deciding on the text of the bill submitted. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/10933. Bill No. 1. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament unanimously adopted the bill by 186 votes in favour. It follows that T/10526 on the amendment of the laws necessary to achieve the widespread applicability of the asylum procedure at the border will follow. Final vote of bill No 1. However, in the light of a request for action, we must also decide to maintain a proposal for an amendment. I would like to inform you that the Rules of the House 48th. § 4 of the Jobbik Group proposed that amendments Nos 2, 3 and 4 be maintained. That's what we're gonna decide first. Amendment 2 was proposed by Dániel Z. Carpathian and Ádám Mirkóczki. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 24 votes to 160, with 1 abstention. Amendment 3 is proposed by Dániel Z. Karpát and Ádám Mirkóczki. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 24 votes in favour, 131 against and 29 abstentions. Amendment 4 is proposed by Dániel Z. Karpát and Ádám Mirkóczki. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 24 votes in favour, 132 against and 28 abstentions. As the Parliament did not maintain a proposal for an amendment, nor did the amendment summarised for the proposal, we decided on the text of the bill submitted in the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/10526. Bill No. 1. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the bill by 127 votes in favour, 32 against and 25 abstentions. It follows that T/10720 on the amendment of certain employment laws for harmonisation purposes will follow. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/10720/4. T/10720/5. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee will accept T/10720/4. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 150 votes to four, with 31 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/10720/6. A single proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the single proposal by 151 votes to 4, with 31 abstentions. It follows a series of T/10729 on the regulation of education and amending certain related laws. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/10729/43. T/10729/44. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I would like to inform you that the Rules of the House 48th. Pursuant to paragraphs 4 and 4 of Section 4, Jobbik's group proposed the continuation of amendments Nos 3, 5 and 7 and the MSZP Group of amendments Nos 14, 19 and 24. That's what we're gonna decide first. Amendment 3 is proposed by Dóra Dúró and Gergely Farkas. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 32 votes in favour, 120 against and 33 abstentions. [[11.20]] Amendment 5 is proposed by Dóra Dúró and Gergely Farkas. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains this proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 31 votes in favour, 122 against and 30 abstentions. Amendment 7 is proposed by Dóra Dúró and Gergely Farkas. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 31 votes in favour, 120 against and 34 abstentions. Amendment 14 is proposed by István Hiller and his fellow Members. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains this proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 41 votes in favour, 115 against and 27 abstentions. Amendment 19 is proposed by István Hiller and his fellow Members. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains this proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 45 votes in favour, 137 against and two abstentions. Amendment 24 is proposed by István Hiller and his fellow Members. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 65 votes in favour, 118 against and 1 abstention. As the Parliament has not maintained an amendment, we are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee will accept T/10729/43. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 120 votes in favour, 35 against and 30 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/10729/47. A single proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the single proposal by 120 votes in favour, 64 against and 1 abstention. Next up is T/9784 on foreign representations and permanent external service. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/9784/15. T/9784/16. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I would like to inform you that the Rules of the House 48th. § 4 of the MSZP Group proposed the continuation of amendments No 7, 8 and 10. That's what we're gonna decide first. Amendment 7 is proposed by Attila Mesterházy and Márta Demeter. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 40 votes in favour, 144 against and 1 abstention. Amendment 8 is proposed by Attila Mesterházy and Márta Demeter. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 39 votes in favour, 121 against and 25 abstentions. Amendment No 10 proposed by Attila Mesterházy. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 41 votes in favour, 141 against and 1 abstention. As the Parliament has not maintained an amendment, we are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/9784/15. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The National Assembly adopted the summary amendment by 117 votes to 9, with 58 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/9784/17. A single proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the single proposal by 145 votes to 6, with 34 abstentions. It follows that H/9798 on the requirements for trade and investment agreements concluded by the European Union with third countries will follow. Decision on the proposal for a summary amendment to the decision and the final vote. The legislative committee's proposal for a summary amendment H/9798/10. H/9798/11. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts H/9798/10. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The National Assembly adopted the summary amendment by 177 votes to one, with five abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts H/9798/12. A single proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the single proposal by 178 votes to two, with five abstentions. Following up on T/10527 on the common management of copyright and copyright rights Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/10527/8. T/10527/9. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I would like to inform you that the Rules of the House 48th. Pursuant to paragraph 4 of Article 3, Jobbik's group proposed to maintain Amendment 3. That's what we'll decide first. Amendment 3 is proposed by the President of Novak. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 51 votes in favour, 121 against and 4 abstentions. As the Parliament has not maintained an amendment, we are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee will accept T/10527/8. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 144 votes to 32 with 8 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/10527/11. A single proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the single proposal by 149 votes to 32 with three abstentions. Next up is T/10528 on the amendment of Act V of 2013 on the Civil Code. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/10528/7. T/10528/8. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I would like to inform you that the Rules of the House 48th. § 4 of the Jobbik Group proposed that amendments No 2 and 3 be maintained. That's what we're gonna decide first. Amendment 2 was proposed by Gábor Staudt. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 57 votes in favour, 124 against and 3 abstentions. [[11.30]] Amendment 3 is proposed by Gábor Staudt. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 58 votes in favour, 119 against and 7 abstentions. As the Parliament has not maintained an amendment, we are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee will accept T/10528/7. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 119 votes to 41, with 24 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/10528/10. A single proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the single proposal by 118 votes in favour, 65 against and without abstentions. CCXIV 2015 on certain claims resolution measures to strengthen the stability of the capital market follows. T/11001. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. I would remind you that, according to our decision last week, the bill will be discussed by Parliament with a derogation from house rules. T/1101/2. and a summary report by T/1101/3. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/1101/2. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 120 votes to eight, with 56 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/11001. The text of the proposed amendment, as amended by the summary amendment. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the amended bill by 121 votes in favour, 8 against and 55 abstentions. The 2012 CLXXXV on waste follows. T/10530. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/10530/6. T/10530/7. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee will accept T/10530/6. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 119 votes in favour, 64 against, with 1 abstention. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/10530/8. A single proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the single proposal by 118 votes in favour, 40 against and 24 abstentions. It follows from the 2004 Annex XVIII on wine production and wine management. T/1068. Final vote of bill No 1. Since no amendments have been tabled to the proposal, we are now deciding on the text of the bill submitted. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/10688. Bill No. 1. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the bill by 151 votes in favour, 4 against and 30 abstentions. The 2013 XXII on the Hungarian Energy and Public Utility Regulatory Office follows. T/10524. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/10524/4. and a summary report by T/10524/5. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee will accept T/10524/4. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 121 votes in favour, 32 against and 31 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/10524/6. A single proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the single proposal by 144 votes in favour, 35 against and 6 abstentions. Next up is the 2001 LXIV on the protection of cultural heritage. T/10525 amending Act T/10525 and certain related laws Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/10525/7. T/10525/8. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee will accept T/10525/7. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 120 votes in favour, 35 against and 30 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/10525/9. A single proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the single proposal by 121 votes in favour, 39 against and 25 abstentions. Next up is T/10531 on the amendment of certain spatial planning laws. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/10531/7. T/10531/8. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I would like to inform you that the Rules of the House 48th. Pursuant to paragraph 4 of Section 3 of the LMP Group, the MSZP Group proposed the continuation of Amendment No 2. That's what we're gonna decide first. Amendment 3 is proposed by Mr Benedek. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 65 votes in favour, 119 against and without abstention. Amendment 2 is proposed by Zoltán Gőgös and Gábor Harangozó, István. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 64 votes in favour, 119 against and without abstention. As the Parliament has not maintained an amendment, we are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee will accept T/10531/7. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 121 votes in favour, 56 against and 6 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/10531/11. A single proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The National Assembly's summary amendment By 120 votes in favour, 63 against, with 1 abstention. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/10531/11. A single proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the single proposal by 120 votes in favour, 58 against and six abstentions. [[11.40]] Next up is the T/10728 on the protection of the settlement image. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/10728/6. No. 3, summary T/10728/7. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee will accept T/10728/6. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The National Assembly adopted the summary amendment by 141 votes to 42, with 1 abstention. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/10728/8. A single proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the single proposal by 143 votes in favour, 32 against and 8 abstentions. Next up is the T/10730 on National Farms and Farms of Menes. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/10730/7. T/10730/8. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee will accept T/10730/7. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 119 votes to 60, with three abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/10730/9. A single proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the single proposal by 119 votes to 31, with 33 abstentions. The Hungarian Development Bank's 2011 XX. T/10721. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/10721/6. T/10721/7. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee will accept T/10721/6. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 119 votes in favour, 34 against and 30 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/10721/8. A single proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the single proposal by 120 votes in favour, 34 against and 30 abstentions. Next up is the 2007 LXXXVI on electricity. Act XXIX of 2011 amending the Energy Act. T/10095. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/10095/10. T/10095/11. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I would like to inform you that the Rules of the House 48th. Pursuant to paragraph 4 of Section 4 of the Act, the Group of the LMP proposed the continuation of Amendment 3. That's what we'll decide first. Amendment 3 is proposed by Mr Benedek and Mr Szél Bernadett. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 11 votes in favour, 119 against and 52 abstentions. As the Parliament has not maintained an amendment, we are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I would like to inform you that the Rules of the House 48th. According to paragraph 2 of Section 2 of the Act, the Fidesz Group is a member of the T/10095/10. A separate vote was initiated on points 5 and 7 of the summary amendment proposal. First we decide on these, and then we decide on the further points of the summary amendment proposal. In point 5 of the summary amendment proposal, the committee shall draw up an opinion on the draft bill. The Commission proposes to add a new paragraph 4 of Article 4 of the Act. We will decide at the request of the Fidesz Group. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts point 5 of the summarised amendment. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] It proposes to supplement paragraph 1. We will decide at the request of the Fidesz Group. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts point 5 of the summarised amendment. Please vote now. (Vote.) The Parliament did not accept the amendment point by 50 votes in favour, 124 against and 8 abstentions. In point 7 of the summarised amendment proposal, the Committee will propose a new 8. The Commission proposes to supplement it with paragraph 1. At the request of the Fidesz Group, we will decide separately. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts point 7 of the summarised amendment. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not accept the amendment by 55 votes in favour, 123 against and 4 abstentions. We are now deciding on further points in the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/10095/10. The additional points of the proposed amendment are set out in the table below. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted further points of the summary amendment by 120 votes in favour, 33 against and 31 abstentions. It is now the final vote. In view of the fact that the Parliament has not just adopted all the points of the summarised amendment proposal, in the final vote we will decide on the text of the bill which has been amended with the agreed points of the summarised amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether T/10095 accepts it. amended bill No. 1. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the amended bill by 143 votes in favour, 34 against and 7 abstentions. T/10529 on the consequences of passenger car transport services without authorisation Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/10529/6. T/10529/7. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/10529/6. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 119 votes in favour, 35 against and 29 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/10529/8. A single proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the single proposal by 119 votes to 61, with three abstentions. Next up is T/10538 on the amendment of certain energy laws. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/10538/6. T/10538/7. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee will accept T/10538/6. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 120 votes in favour, 39 against and 25 abstentions. [[11.50]] It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/10538/8. A single proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the single proposal by 120 votes in favour, 34 against and 30 abstentions. Next up is the XXVI of 2006 on the security stockpiling of natural gas. T/10724. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/10724/5. T/10724/6. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee will accept T/10724/5. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 146 votes in favour, 9 against and 28 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/10724/7. A single proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the single proposal by 168 votes to 7, with 7 abstentions. Next up is the 2008 XL on gas supply. T/10735. Final vote of bill No 1. Since no amendments have been tabled to the proposal, we are now deciding on the text of the bill submitted. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/10735. Bill No. 1. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the bill by 169 votes in favour, 3 against and 10 abstentions. Dear Parliament, We now decide on the inclusion of a series of proposals. I would like to remind you that last week, these negotiations were already held by the National Assembly. I ask you whether you will be included in a series of articles entitled by Zsuzsanna Szelényi, an independent, representative woman, on making the election of Members of Parliament more democratic, T/10347. a proposal for a regulation tabled by the Court of Justice of the European Union. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not include the bill with 43 votes in favour, 116 against and 24 abstentions. I ask you whether Zsuzsanna Szelényi, independent and by Bernadett Szél, LMP, MEPs, will be included in the series of articles H/10286 on the conclusion of the Istanbul Convention. A proposal for a decision has been submitted. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not include the proposal for a resolution with 46 votes in favour, 111 against and 25 abstentions. I ask you whether you will be included in a series of articles by Ms Erzsébet Schmuck, Mrs LMP, and Mrs CXXXIX of 2013 on the National Bank of Hungary. T/9648. a proposal for a regulation tabled by the Court of Justice of the European Union. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not include the bill with 64 votes in favour, 118 against and without abstention. I ask you whether you will be included in a series of questions by Mr Schiffer András, Mr LMP, Member of the Council on the transparency of the state security past and on the amendments to the law necessary to exclude the professional staff of pro-state leaders and dictatorship from the possession of certain public offices, T/9328. a proposal for a regulation tabled by the Court of Justice of the European Union. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not include the bill with 68 votes in favour, 111 against and two abstentions. I ask you whether you will be included in a series of articles by László Varju, independent and fellow Members, on the Committee on acts that seriously harm the psychological and physical development of young people due to the moral deficit in competitions and in particular in sports management, H/10516. A proposal for a decision has been submitted. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not include the proposal for a resolution with 67 votes in favour, 116 votes against and no abstentions. I ask you whether you will be included in a series of articles by József Tóbias, MSZP, and its fellow Members. In order to better recognise Sunday work, Act I of 2012 on the Code of Work and the 2011 CLVI on the amendment of certain tax laws and related other laws. T/10285. a proposal for a regulation tabled by the Court of Justice of the European Union. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not include the bill with 65 votes in favour, 115 against and 1 abstention. Dear Parliament, Now, by Jobbik's group, the Justice Committee is 7/2014-2018. IUB's ad hoc resolution on the rejection of the case-by-case resolution, U/11016. We shall decide on your application. I would like to remind you that last week, the Parliament has already negotiated this. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts the Ü/11016 presented by Jobbik. Request No. 1. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not accept the request by 63 votes in favour, 116 against and three abstentions. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the decisions, and I am now ordering a two-minute technical break, and I wish all my fellow Members a pleasant rest during the summer. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Break: 11.57-12.02President: István Jakabjegyzők: Ádám Mirkóczki and Dr. István Tiba]]
u2016-06-13-27	Dear Parliament, We'll get back to work. Thank you for your understanding. The break was a little longer, but since the votes were carried out very quickly, we waited for the members of the government to arrive. Dear Parliament, László Kiss, a representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Minister of Human Resources a question. It's an address. Mr László Kiss has the floor.
u2016-06-13-28	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, In recent months, the government has reviewed and reviewed a series of round table discussions and conferences about the problems that you have caused, and you have created them. For this reason, this round table discussion of government is also taking place mostly among parties who are, in practice, either obligated by the government or are not real actors in education. While you are in constant consultation, all you can see from this is that you want to further strengthen the KLIK system, this is being reorganized a little bit, and the school principals get a budget card and be happy with it. I find it particularly impertinent that you are responding to the ongoing criticism of the exclusive reservation that even the operation is being taken away from the municipalities. It seems your chasos will be rewarded for the reconciliations that the others will be punished for, even the minimal autonomy of education. You refuse to admit that most of the anomalies, most of the problems, were created by you. You're the reason there's chaos in the textbook system, because of your regulations, there's chaos in the workload of teachers, and you insist on low wages for non-educator civil servants. [[Lajos Korózs: Shame!]] And, in general, the problems for which my teachers have protested this weekend, which you are responsible. Dear Secretary of State, When are you going to reduce the number of teachers to 22? When will the administrative burden of teachers be reduced? When will the school obligation be restored to 18 years? When will the curriculum, the number of homework, be reduced? When do you decide to continue the employment of teachers reaching retirement age? I look forward to your reply, Mr. Secretary.
u2016-06-13-29	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Secretary Bence Rétvári responds. I give you the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2016-06-13-30	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, I think the past few weeks, days, months of events have proven that the teachers who believed in the trial were right and sat at the negotiating table. Fortunately, the majority thought so, and this is where the results were obtained. There were no results on the street, but at the negotiating table there were at least 2-3 dozen results that could significantly improve the situation of children and, obviously, teachers. So I think it was clear the good decision of those who sat down. You underestimate certain organizations; the National Teacher Faculty, representing all educators, the Hungarian Academy of Sciences, parents' organisations, student organisations, employers' representatives are classified by you with a short rating only as pro-government internal organizations. If you had at least read the reminders that we made public, you could have seen the debate, what suggestions were made either at the meetings of the public education round table or at the meetings of the working groups, where 200 teachers, directors, practitioners, teachers took the time to improve the situation of students and teachers. I think it's disrespectful of them. Here, Congressman, you have asked specific questions about the number of teaching materials and homework. You know, Congressman, the MSZP protests twice. Once because the curriculum is too large, and if the curriculum is reduced, it objects to why it is decreasing, why the government wants to make young people dumb. Here, who are in a full-day system at school, you may now know that there is no homework for those who are not given up; on the other issue, the National Basics Plan will be completed by 18 in a new version. Instead of the clock-related pay increase, we offered the teachers a career, and that will be achieved, with an extra HUF 38 billion in the next year's budget. We also settled the situation of teachers reaching retirement age and the situation of teachers seven years before retirement. We have reduced the administrative burden to one third months ago, honourable Member. These are negotiated cases. As regards the age of compulsory education, we will examine whether or not this 16-year-old reported a change in school leaving over five years, and then it is worth talking about. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches. Ildikó Bangóné Borbély intervenes.]]
u2016-06-13-31	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Excuse me, Congresswoman. We'll get back to work. Thank you for your understanding. Dear Parliament, Márton Gyöngyösi, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Minister of Human Resources a question: Why does the government not act against anti-lifeist, destructive sects such as scientology? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2016-06-13-32	Dear Secretary of State, According to news released in the press in recent days, the Hungarian organization of the Scientology Church, whose members have already been prosecuted in several countries, has bought a new multi-storey building for nearly one billion forints. In Hungary, the National Security Office has previously identified their operation as a risk factor in several yearbooks. In 1993, Parliament itself called it a destructive sect. The price and size of the new headquarters clearly shows that scientology is constantly expanding in Hungary, and legally it is clearly in the tolerated category, despite the fact that the maladministration of the apparently hair-fearing sect is also known to the general public. Extortion, monitoring of members, collecting compromising data - just a few of the activities that Scientology has become known about and which have led to proceedings against members of several countries. It is known that a domestic leader of the organization himself openly acknowledged their illegal activities a few years ago. While many of the leading scientologists in the United States have already been convicted legally and in Bavaria their followers have been expelled from the police or public administration because of the risks they pose, this organization can still operate and even grow in Hungary. The organization that proclaims completely insane religious doctrines, despite the fact that since 1993 it has not even functioned as a registered church in Hungary, still continues to exploit its followers. Dear Secretary of State, Why do they stand by and watch while the values transmitted by historical churches are subject to unprecedented attacks throughout Europe, destructive sects can grow and spread their views? When does the government intend to stop scientology and other anti-life sects in our country? I look forward to your substantive answer. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-06-13-33	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2016-06-13-34	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, In the last cycle, we have set out to exclude from the churches organizations that have not been established for religious, religious purposes, but still functioned as churches for two decades. That's why we adopted the new church law. Based on this, there are 32 established churches in Hungary, scientology is not included. [[12.10]] Honourable Congressman, I think that's a pretty clear answer to your question. The Church of Scientology is no longer among the established churches. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2016-06-13-35	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Bernadett Wind, representative of the LMP, wishes to ask the Minister of Human Resources:. What is the wage increase for daycare workers next year? It's an address. You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2016-06-13-36	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, In relation to daycare workers, you announced before the strike on 20 April that there will be a wage increase next year for young children with secondary education, and you believe that the 2017 budget includes the necessary resources for this. I asked myself this on 18 April when Secretary of State Bence Rétvári replied and gave a fundamentally reassuring answer. The Secretary of State said that the Secretary of State will also hold discussions in these hours, and I quote the Secretary of State: . We are confident that an agreement will be reached soon, within a few weeks. Now, I am coming to you because, according to my information, such an agreement has not been reached, and we are now at seven weeks, and since then the Secretary of State has not spoken in this matter. Unfortunately, in the 2017 budget, which we have just voted for, there is no record of this increase in wages. Only one tenth of daycare workers have a wage increase in this budget. We are talking about the graduates of small children, and it contains HUF 1.5 billion. Unfortunately, the LMP amendment proposal has been voted out, although the kindergarten reform that I have planned since 2017 will not be feasible if there is no full wage agreement or wage increase, because I see that there will be no one to work in these future crèches. I would like to remind you that we are talking about 5,000 workers, 4,000 technical workers, food managers, economic administrators, and in my view, it is not good to raise the wages of a collective in the workplace that one part of the people working for the same task will receive a wage increase and the other one does not. This leads to tensions naturally. I would like to mention that the pooling of allowances is a substitute act, not a real wage increase, and that will not make the salary any more. And there are also the social workers who, I think, continue to be the worst earning workers. I know that public workers are also booked here, so - the statistics should be interpreted with some caution, but - we are talking about 89 thousand forints of earnings here. Dear Secretary of State, When will the full wage increase take place?
u2016-06-13-37	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, State Secretary Katalin Veresné Novák will answer the question. You have the floor, Madam Secretary.
u2016-06-13-38	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, I trust you know the rest of the budget more thoroughly, and when you pressed the button, your knowledge was more detailed, since the 2017 budget includes HUF 1.5 billion for daycare workers... [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély intervenes.]] - it's not for higher education, beyond that. It is also available for higher education, and it is also available for the payroll of secondary day care workers, it is in two places: once during the Prime Minister's Office there is HUF 1 billion and another half billion on the municipal line. So HUF 1.5 billion is available for wage increases in 2017. I suggest you check this out. By the way, it's a lot more than just a wage increase, because we're giving the nursery business a prestige that wasn't there before. This is also ensured by the law that we have adopted; the regulation that we have adopted; the many improvements that we have made to increase crèches. We've brought into the pedagogical career the graduates of nursery school toddlers, which, by the way, was welcomed unanimously by the profession. We create the conditions that even those who are still working in the nursery, but have not had the opportunity to obtain such a higher education, can now obtain this education in an easier way. By the way, this is confirmed by the current application data, as this year's number of applicants is several times that of last year's. We have established the profession of the nursery nurse and the name of it. This will also be published from the beginning of next year, which has not been the case so far. We are now working on the details of how to distribute this HUF 1.5 billion between secondary-educated kindergarten children's educators and nursery nurses. Given that this will be due from 1 January 2017, as has already been said, I think that we are not too late. In the budget, in addition to young children in tertiary nursery schools, there is also an amount available to raise wages for secondary schools. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2016-06-13-39	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary. Dear Parliament, István Vitányi, representative of Fidesz, wishes to ask the Minister for National Development:. Does the Romanian approach endanger Hungarian development? It's an address. Mr István Vitányi has the floor.
u2016-06-13-40	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, As far as I know, the construction site will be handed over to the builders in the second week of June in order to continue the M35 motorway to build a motorway from Debrecen to Berettyóújfalu. Thanks to the investment, the accessibility of the southern part of Hajdú-Bihar county will be improved, while the vehicle load of the settlements of the region will also be reduced in the future. As a result of these developments, we hope that the Bihar region will be removed from the vastly disadvantaged areas. Yes, but what do you know about the planned motorway M4 between the new village of Berettyó and the Romanian border, which was planning to ensure the motorway between the motorway M35 and the border? The M35 motorway is currently 44 kilometers long and connects the M3 to Debrecen. It has long been planned to build the remaining 25 kilometers, so it will be possible to travel twice on a two - lane highway to the new village of Berettyó. With the construction of the section of the M4 motorway between Berettyóújfalu-Nagykereki, as part of the trans-European transport network, another important element of the motorway network connecting the Baltic Sea with the Black Sea would be completed. National Infrastructure Development Ltd. at the beginning of the month, issued public procurement for the work. The planned forest motorway will connect to the Hungarian motorway network via the M4 motorway and the M35 motorway. Consequently, the M35 investment completes the fast-track access of the Romanian border with the new Falu-Nagykereki phase of the M4. With this development, our settlements would also be involved in the blood flow of the country, and I believe that the possibility of our economic development would greatly improve. However, on the Romanian side of the border, the construction of the motorway slowed down. April 2015 [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] The Spanish company group was selected to carry out the project. Unfortunately, the contractor still hasn't gotten to work. I ask the Secretary of State: on this basis, does the Romanian approach threaten Hungarian development? I'm looking forward to your reply. [[Applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2016-06-13-41	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, State Secretary László Tasó will answer the question. Secretary of State, you have the floor.
u2016-06-13-42	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, The work area transfer related to the second phase of the M35 motorway has been completed. In a few days' time, we'll be delivering phase one tomorrow, to be exact. Work is underway, so this section is expected to continue on schedule. As you know, the M4 is displayed and readable; calls for proposals have been published; candidates for design must submit an offer by 11:00. It takes two months to keep them tied up, that's how they're tied up, and we're off to work. 27 months is the maximum they can devote to working, but I am very confident that we will keep our time, and this phase will be completed in the second half of 2018. In both cases, two two-track motorways are involved in the construction of an expressway with technical content. On the neighbouring side, as he said, a slip was announced, that the design work related to the contract signed in May 2015 had slipped, and therefore the other side will certainly be a few months behind. But let us also add that the section between Berettyószéplak and Bors will not be completed by the end of 2017, because by the end of 2017, they will continue to build the section after Berettyószéplak. So it's a little too far to build a relationship, even though we've been told on several occasions that they'll be ready very soon, and we'll have to wait for us. The problem is also increased by the fact that we have an outstanding, addicted game, because they ask us for a parking lot of 120 seats and expect us on the Hungarian side, and a fourth truck lane, which they never use on the Romanian side. They have two truck lanes. We'd build three, they'd like four, and they'd want the medical inspection station here. We're gonna build both the station and the parking lot a little further away, and I hope they get together and move on. It's important for everyone to build a relationship. Thank you for asking. [[Applause from the benches of the governing parties. Dr. Bence Rétvári applauded:]]
u2016-06-13-43	I thank the Secretary of State for his reply. Dear Parliament, Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, a representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Minister of the Cabinet Office of the Prime Minister:. The book of Philip Rákay has money, but there is no money for chalk and pencil? It's an address. On behalf of the Prime Minister, Parliamentary Secretary Bence Rétvári, on behalf of Minister Zoltán Balog, who is competent and competent on the subject, will answer the question. You have the floor, Congresswoman. [[12.20]]
u2016-06-13-44	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, The government's decision that the government will send two-part books from the public TV program "Szabadság tér. 89 - Files of the Change of System" to schools and libraries was published in the Hungarian newspaper. A total of HUF 71,3 million is intended for this year's budget, some of which must be made up by the Prime Minister's Office and a small part by the EMMI. They even provided that the books had to be delivered to schools by the end of summer, so that they could be reached by the start of the new school year, while at other times even the real textbooks would not arrive in the schools by September. The interesting thing about this story is that today there is a government decision about the books that schools and libraries receive, but also about who wrote this book: Rákay Philip, who has a strong connection to Fidesz. Last year's two volumes published in private edition cost nearly 14 thousand forints today. This means that about 5,000 copies of Rákay Philip's book are supported by the government, the Hungarian state, and ultimately the taxpayers, while there is no chalk in schools, parents carry toilet paper, handkerchiefs, fruit. In fact, it's the second one. In the district, parents also paint the classrooms of the school in their spare time, and there is a school where students will study in containers from September because there are no suitable number of gymnasiums. With this money, you could buy 473,000, almost half a million toilet paper for schools and even run 300,000 boxes of chalk, but it is more important for the government to support Rákay Philip than to provide basic supplies to children. That is why I ask, Mr Secretary of State, what country is it where the government orders the books of one of its buddies to schools and libraries for more than 70 million forints? Why did two wallets have to provide a source to fill their buddy's pockets? I look forward to your reply, Mr. Secretary of State.
u2016-06-13-45	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2016-06-13-46	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, You know very well that the budget for which the Hungarian Socialist Party has now said no is next year [[Interviews from the ranks of the MSZP: We did not give Rákay Philip money! Talk about how much chalk Fidesz gives teachers.]] again, he gives the textbook free of charge to one more class; now, in the first five years next year, the textbook is free of charge, and even if I watch the second half of the year, in the first six years, parents do not have to pay for the textbooks. The possibility of dining on holiday and during the year will continue to increase, as more than HUF 2 billion will be included in the amount of resources. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: Why did the book of Rákay Philip have to be bought?]] in next year's budget, which is also [[Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] He's gonna help the school kids. There is a surplus of HUF 38 billion to raise the wages of teachers, and it is precisely the problems or situations that the congresswoman has said that everyday purchasing matters within schools will be worth more than HUF 104 billion this year in the budget adopted last year, with HUF 104 billion greater opportunity for schools to spend on all kinds of expenditures, for school supplies, for operations and other purposes. So we hope that none of the schools will have any problems getting these, with such additional resources. But it's actually something else, not that you said no to this additional resource in the budget law, but that there was a very popular television program about the files of the regime change, the period after 45, the programmes about the Kádár system were watched by hundreds of thousands. [[Nándor Gúr: Deal with the present! Answer the question.]] More and more people watched and became more popular, and then many thought how good it would be for schoolchildren to see it in printed form with hundreds of graphic illustrations that would reveal the Kádár era. [[Nándor Gúr: Deal with the present! Answer the question. Shame! Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] his real face. I am not surprised that it is precisely the Hungarian Socialist Party that protests the most vehemently against a programme that hundreds of thousands of people watched, from which they learned about the period before the regime change and the era of the regime change, where the socialists oppose: [[Nándor Gúr: Answer the question! Shame! Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: How many are sitting in your ranks? Oh, my God. Nándor Gúr: Shame!]] This book should reach the students, every library, every school, and be aware of history. That's why you're attacking this, because I don't want to. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] if as many young people as possible could learn as much truth about the story of the predecessor party of the MSZP. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the pro-government benches. Nándor Gúr: Shame!]]
u2016-06-13-47	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, I know that we are on the last working day of the spring session, but I would ask my fellow Members to listen to the answer. I don't remember Mr. Secretary interrupting. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: It was difficult, but I stopped. Nándor Gúr: Answer the question!]] Thank you for your understanding. [[Nándor Gúr: They're not even in there! They've gone to watch a game! Sallai R. Benedek: They're gone, now they're barely there! It's constant noise.]] Dear Parliament, Dear Parliament, Gergely Kulcsár, representative of Jobbik, would like to ask the Prime Minister a question: It's an address. On behalf of Prime Minister László Trócsányi, Minister for Justice, who is competent on behalf of the Prime Minister, Mr Pál Völner will answer the question. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-06-13-48	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, The time has long come for a change in the procedural rules relating to the obligation to make declarations of assets. Back in 2014, Gergely Gulyás said that in the future he could sanction the misplaced or misplaced representatives' property declarations, and that they could have financial responsibility for them. After that, however, nothing happened. The government and Fidesz did not come up with a proposal that would have fixed this issue, but the scandals about it were real. We can remember the case of Antal Rogán, who improved his property declaration twice in 2014, because he did not remember how many properties he owned, what size and how much he owned. Péter Szijjártó's wealth growth was also reported in the newspapers for weeks, because it was not in line with what was stated in his declaration of property. Last time István Tiba was in a tight spot, because his confidant, former notary, Margit Veres, found himself on the bench of the defendants, because according to the authorities, he took 5 million forints of bribe money from an entrepreneur. He gave this money to Veres Tiba, who explained in court that it was just a friendly loan. Now, this loan was not included in his property statement, so I launched a property declaration procedure against him, only that after three and a half years István Tiba corrected the document, and that ended the story without consequences, just as the previous cases did not have any consequences. Recently, I have tabled a proposal for a parliamentary decision to sanction such cases. It is proposed that the declarations could be improved for six months after delivery, but this could also be improved with financial penalties and that improvements beyond six months would result in a loss of mandate. The proposal for a resolution was simply swept off the table by the pro-government representatives in Parliament's Judicial Committee. Dear Secretary of State, Do you see that everything is in order with regard to declarations of assets and that there is no need to change the system? Don't you think the scandals listed will further destroy the authority of the representative's profession? Do you agree that the Fidesz MEPs voted against the improved proposal? I'm looking forward to your reply. Thank you. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2016-06-13-49	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Mr Pál Völner, State Secretary, answers the question. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2016-06-13-50	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, The obligation of Members of Parliament to make declarations of property is governed by the Act on Parliament. Accordingly, each Member shall make a declaration of assets within 30 days of the establishment of the mandate and every year thereafter, and this obligation shall also apply upon termination of the mandate. The representative shall also be obliged to attach the property declaration to the children of the spouse or partner living with him in the same household. These data are also published by the Parliament on the website, so they are public. Failure to comply with the obligation shall be subject to a penalty. The Member shall not exercise the rights of his or her representatives, nor shall he or she receive remuneration until he or she has replaced it. The Register of Declarations of Property shall be checked by the Committee for compliance with the information contained therein in reality. The proceedings relating to the declaration of assets of the representative may be initiated by the chairman of the committee, false disclosure or intentional failure to make a declaration of assets shall also be sanctioned. In this case, the chairman of the committee shall initiate the declaration of a Member's conflict of interest, which is much more stringent than a financial penalty. In the event of a declaration of conflict of interest, the term of office of the Member of Parliament shall be terminated under the Fundamental Law. It should be pointed out from a constitutional point of view that the procedures for the declaration of assets entail a limitation of fundamental rights, as personal data is made public, but, in order to ensure transparency and non-influence, the constitutional standards of Members of Parliament provide less protection in respect of personal rights. As a comparison, I note that both Austrian and German legislation only raises a question of the income of Members, so the Germans only declare income and the representatives of the Austrian Federal and Provincial Councils are obliged to declare their regular and non-regular income. In comparison, it can therefore be concluded that the Hungarian legislation is much more stringent than the neighbouring states. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-06-13-51	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, István Hollik, a representative of KDNP, wishes to ask the Minister of Human Resources:. What kind of family support can fathers use? It's an address. Congressman, you have the floor.
u2016-06-13-52	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Since 2010, the Fidesz Christian Democratic Government has helped families, including mothers and fathers with children, through a number of measures. We can mention the introduction of the family tax system, the restoration of the child, the restoration of the three-year old child, the increase in the amount of the child, the extra introduction of the child, the tax relief of young married people, or the family benefit for the purchase of the new and used apartment in the last six months, as well as the state-supported preferential loan, as well as the VAT reduction. [[12.30]] Society has always wanted to give mothers great respect, respect and maximum financial security, but there is much less talk about fathers. At the end of May, at the conference organised by the Hungarian Christian Democratic Association, Christian NGOs exchanged ideas about the expectations of men of our age, about their role as fathers in the family. The lectures also showed that the old traditional approach of caring for the family, and the mother for the children, has now changed significantly. Much of the mothers do their part in the search for bread, and the expectations for fathers to play a much greater role in raising children, in addition to making a living. And it is hardly necessary to explain that the role of fatherhood is essential in the development of a healthy father's image of the child. On this basis, I would like to ask the Secretary of State what kind of family support can be used by fathers and whether the working family support system can help fathers meet the dual expectations of them. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-06-13-53	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, State Secretary Katalin Veresné Novák will answer the question. Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
u2016-06-13-54	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Dear House, It is true that, like Congressman today, more and more fathers with small children are actively taking their part in raising children, and we also know that female employment is at its peak, which is why mothers and fathers must both take their place in the labour market and in the family, alongside children. Indeed, we may not talk enough about how important the role of fathers in the family is and how widely family support is available to men and fathers. I would like to highlight what is specifically addressed to fathers, the paternity leave that comes after childbirth, five days in the case of the birth of a child, seven days in the case of the birth of twin children, which can be used by fathers. In fact, however, we can say that the entire spectrum of family support is accessible to both fathers and mothers. There is practically only one exception, this family, the baby care fee, which is the first six months of support, based on the fact that this period is actually about symbiosis of the mother and the young child, so this is basically for mothers if there is no force majeure to justify the use of the father. After that, however, either the child - care fee, the child, can be used by the father, or the father as well as the mother. Just now, as of 1 July, this child care allowance will double for these families. But fathers are also entitled to benefit from family tax benefits or family allowances, and they can share this among themselves. They are also entitled to the CSOK, and even if a father raises his children alone, he may also benefit from a family home-building discount. It was an important change to double the additional leave for children from 2012 onwards, just so that mothers and fathers could make use of it. So the entire spectrum of family support is accessible to fathers, and the freedom of choice is theirs. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-06-13-55	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Róbert Benedek Sallai, a representative of the LMP, wanted to ask the Minister of Agriculture what is the government doing in the dumpsters? It's an address. On behalf of Prime Minister Miklós Seszták, Minister for National Development, who is responsible and competent on behalf of Prime Minister Zsolt Szabó, State Secretary. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2016-06-13-56	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Dear Parliament, No misunderstanding, for once I would like to talk not about the performance of the government, but basically about the issue of waste management that I have in mind. Mr Secretary of State, you are aware that from July 33 municipalities in Pest County and Nógrád County can stop the entire waste management public service because of the lack of funding. In 108 municipalities, the service providers reported further news that there is a crisis in the central part of the country, as the National Waste Management Coordinator and Asset Management Ltd. is practically everywhere, so this is the KLIK of the waste disposal and the government, this centralised system is trying to take over the entire service. They want to do this so that the service providers can advance all the costs of this, do the work and do the work, and this KLIK, which is a concentrated waste, will collect all the money and then pay the service providers. We know from KLIK's experience that these centralised systems do not like to pay very much, so they like to collect money, not to pay back the service providers, and obviously the service providers cannot expect to advance practically everything themselves. For this reason, as nearly 50 percent of these are still loss-making and do not receive the resources from the population, but will at some point be referred to by this National Waste Management Coordinator and Asset Management Zrt., the situation may arise as a result of waste management problems in such a large number of settlements, in a central region of the country. I would ask the Secretary of State to assure me that this is not going to happen, or I would like to see the government's plans on how to advance it. That's the problem. I mean, if I may ask, and you don't think it's disrespectful, press reports have mentioned the names of István Garancsi and Lőrinc Mészáros in several cases, that it's basically about conscious destruction of the system. I hope these are only ducks in the papers, but I would be reassured if you could make a specific statement on this, Mr Secretary of State, on what we can expect. I look forward to your reply with all due respect. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2016-06-13-57	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary Zsolt Szabó. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2016-06-13-58	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear House, Honourable Congressman, I'd like to reassure you, that's not the case, and I'll tell you the facts. I thank you very much for your question, because in recent times, there have been a lot of rumors, unfounded economic and political arguments that have come to the public, which are actually not true, and I will give you some figures on this. The public service providers themselves were able to collect the financial fact of the performance before April, with the funds being used to cover the current expenditure. The Accounting Act regulates this quite firmly: there is no way to give money retroactively, there is no possibility in this case. The liquidity problems could not have been caused by the transformation of waste, the current transformation of waste, since they are not entering a new public service provider, but the same public service provider continues to carry out its task, and there was no need to refer to these public services from the coordinating body. It also says a lot that North Pest, West Nógrád County Kft. sent the advance claim, which we paid to the public services on 15 June, but not the amount attached to the application, but not even the amount attached to the justification. How much do you want? How much should we give him? Zöld Híd Nonprofit Kft., the other company that made such statements, is currently under the procedure of the Hungarian Energy and Utility Regulatory Office, since it has collected far more fees from consumers for waste collection than it would have had the opportunity to do; he has asked for an advance of HUF 267 million on depreciation and depreciation. Again, we are not talking about the operation, yet again the entire funding demand that has been set up is not real. I would like to reassure the Member that the supply of waste does not stop at all, the legislation is alive, there are financial opportunities and we are helping financially everyone who is in need. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-06-13-59	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Péter Csizi, a representative of Fidesz, wishes to ask the Minister of National Economy:. What can the Pécs, who is concerned about their national treasure, expect? It's an address. Congressman, you have the floor.
u2016-06-13-60	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, allow me to pay tribute to the Zsolnay factory workers present in the gallery. They are the ones who decided to leave their former workplaces from 130 of the 150 factory last Tuesday, and Ledina Porcelán Kft. was founded by the city. You'll have employees in the future. Their brave act fits with what the mayor of Pécs and the Hungarian government have done for Zsolnay in recent weeks. [[12.40]] After all, the Mayor of Pécs, Zsolt Páva, has decided to turn to the Government of Hungary after a clock imitation scandal and real estate contribution, because of a hundred million loans, bank debt, utility debt and even a supplier's debt, and the resulting economic uncertainty, the majority owner has decided to turn Zsolnay and Zsolnay Porcelánmanufaktúra Zrt. into a strategically important economic entity. While the government and thus the decision of the city of Pécs thus gave Zsolnay legal protection, the workers' action provided physical protection for this national treasure. After all, they are the ones who preserve the Zsolnay heritage, they have knowledge in their own hands, their own spirituality, which gives the value of Zsolnay to the future. And they're the ones who are worried because every day they see that something's wrong at the factory. 15 minutes ago, a recording was released that proves that the majority owner of the Zsolnay factory took out the national goods and national treasures produced by employees without VAT, without supplier's paper, in his own car. Dear Secretary of State, I ask, therefore, how is the procedure initiated by the National Tax and Customs Office on suspicion of fiscal fraud and other criminal offences, or, in short, what can the Pécs concerned about their national treasure expect? [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2016-06-13-61	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Mr András Tállai, State Secretary, will answer the question. Secretary of State, you have the floor.
u2016-06-13-62	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, As you said, it's the success story of a long-standing Hungaricum that goes back 160 years. The outstanding figure in the history of the Hungarian industry lived on the turn of the century, they also took part in the building ceramics, ornaments, porcelain sets and exhibitions in the area of the Carpathian Basin. The government has already paid particular attention to the situation surrounding the Zsolnay porcelain factory, which is our national treasure. Our aim is to maintain and even increase demand for Zsolnay products. We don't forget how many families in Pécs have jobs and livelihoods from the Zsolnay factory, the Zsolnay brand. I can't give you details about the procedure and details of the National Tax and Customs Office because of your taxes, but I can tell you that the employees are doing their job with the utmost care, because they know that it is our national pride and that we must also do very thorough and responsible work in this case. I would like to highlight the merits of the city of Pécs, the mayor of the Pécs municipality, the merits of the body of representatives, because, thanks to their effective and rapid intervention, the knowledge with which famous porcelains are made will not be lost, it has provided employees with access until this illegal legal procedure to the reputation of the factory is over. Indeed, the government's decree of February ensured that the company would be declared an organisation of major importance, hopefully the joint process, the cooperation of the municipality and the government will save the Zsolnay porcelain factory. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2016-06-13-63	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Gábor Bellozó, representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Minister of the Interior a question: ? It's an address. Congressman Gábor Bellozó has the floor.
u2016-06-13-64	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, Well, it's summer, and everyone can see there's a lot of mosquitoes, and we meet a lot of annoyed people, and they're always asking when the mosquito slaughter is going to start. On 13 April 2016, just two months ago, it was published in the Gazette that a billion and a half forints were intended to kill mosquitoes this year, and I quickly asked in writing when the mosquito slaughter would begin, who would execute it, and what procedure would be used to select the mosquito control companies. Then you informed me in writing, Minister, that disaster management is continuing, so it continued public procurement as early as April-May, and that mosquito slaughters will start in early June, and that there is no plan to launch a preventive procurement procedure, given that it will be possible to start mosquito slaughter in time before the invasion. Now, after that, we were constantly watching when something appeared in the Public Procurement Notice, and we had to notice that nothing had appeared until last Friday, when it turned out that an appeal had been filed, this was published on the Public Procurement Authority's website for the public procurement carried out. After that, I can only conclude that, like last year, it was probably chosen this year in a bid without publication of a notice, who would be the winner, Mr Secretary of State. Last year, they referred to the big rains in May, but this year, it wasn't that suddenly it turned out that again this year we had to kill mosquitoes, and to some miracle of great wonders we had to decide who they would suddenly give this public procurement to or who they wouldn't give it to. So, we'd like to make it clear in this case that you're going to execute him, when you're going to execute him, and in what procedure. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2016-06-13-65	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The question will be answered by Secretary of State Tibor Pogácsás. Secretary of State, you have the floor.
u2016-06-13-66	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, As the written reply had already been received, the procurement procedure was indeed initiated in accordance with the rules. The BM National Disaster Protection Directorate-General for Public Procurement, 2015 CXLIII. It has conducted procurement procedures for the execution of mosquito control tasks and for monitoring and expert activities, as required by law. These procedures were effective and the contracts were concluded on 9 June 2016. The construction starts on 13 June 2016 following prior notification of the municipalities, and the first mosquito damage in the Balaton region will be carried out between 15-22 June 2016. In the light of the experience of recent years, this mosquito reduction will now take place in areas twice as large as the previous exposure to mosquitoes for tourism purposes. Information on the programmes, where, when the mosquito control itself takes place, or mosquito control, will be published on the OKF website and will be available there. In his written question, he asked about the cooperation with the Ministry of National Development in relation to the programme. I would like to inform you that the Tourist Agency has made recommendations regarding the selection of sites and their extent, so BM, OKF and the Tourist Agency will cooperate in this programme. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties. Interviews from the ranks of the MSZP.]]
u2016-06-13-67	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Fellow Members, we will continue our work. Dear Parliament, Ander Balázs, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Minister of Human Resources:. I wonder what Klebelsberg would say about closing the country schools. It's an address. Congressman, you have the floor.
u2016-06-13-68	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, I can tell you how many times you have been mentioned in Sándor Hopeik's poem, where the poet writes: "Don't leave the temple." / The church and the school. In spite of this, many times, if I only looked at my narrower Patriots, Somogy County, then, as a true Pharisee, they closed down the previously renovated school in Nikla with good pedagogical results, on which only a few metrosexual government puppies would have had to spend their Gucci-ridikulas and could have been saved. [[12.50]] If it was somewhere to be treated as a prestige to protect the institution, then Nikla, our national poet giant, Berzsenyi's village, is that place. And now they're closing the high school in Vízvár, and there's no doubt about the fate of the lower school. While Klebelsberg has taken schools to the most miserable places, you are centralizing and closing schools in the most disadvantaged small areas. About 13 million forints would be saved by the move, only to sign another village's death sentence. Yeah, according to the law, we need 56 students in high school, but only 41 students in the four classes are expected. There really aren't enough children, but the minimum number of children law can be amended. It is true that this would have budgetary implications, which is also a pity because about 20 thousand times that amount is being spent in stadiums. With the hundred billion-dollar profits of buddies with settlement bonds, the future of all rural small schools could be guaranteed in the long term. But even Andy Vajna's dividends from casinos would amount to 500 times as much as they save by closing the waterfront. It is important to see that the dying of small settlements is the result of a tragic, decades-long division of the countryside, which each government has laid a shovel on. The destruction of agriculture and the narrowing of the rural living space have also led to the population disaster leading to child shortages in our country. The question is, do you want to use this devastating step to put another nail in the country's coffin? I'm looking forward to your reply. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2016-06-13-69	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, State Secretary Bence Rétvári will answer the question. Secretary of State, you have the floor.
u2016-06-13-70	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, I do not know if the congressman knows the opinion of the staff community in Vízvár regarding the restructuring of the school, the opinions of the parents and the opinions of the students. These three communities had to be asked before the school reorganization. It was a variety of plans, and finally the plan that was supported by the employee community, the parental community and the student community. You stood up here in Parliament and said that it was not good what the parents asked for, the students asked for it and the employees asked for it. Very well said, Congressman, there are certain legal minimums. We started our period of government by reopening some of the schools that the socialists closed. You put a lock on school buildings where you can and can be opened at 381 place of duty. At the same time, you know that the school is not really closed by the government, but that it is quite simply empty, that the classes are constantly empty every year, and that is why classes had to be grouped together in the lower school, and now the minimum number of children in each class is not 14 in the upper school. That's why we sat down with parents, students, and employees to see what they would consider appropriate for the children. Finally, it will be a way for the KLIK to transfer these students - 12 kilometers - to Babócsa by bus, because the number of students has fallen below the legal minimum. We would like to have more children after six or seven years, of course, which is why we announced the home support system, the CSOK, so we announced the family tax reduction, which is why we introduced the job protection action plan, which is why the ged extra came in, so we introduced the family-type taxation to make it all of their advantages. [[There's a lot of noise in the benches of opposition parties.]] Those who have children do not have to pay for textbooks, they do not have to pay for school meals in a very large proportion, but they get it free of charge during school hours and holidays, as opposed to the previous period. We hope that this will encourage the commitment of so many children that this school will be able to be operated again in its old light. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-06-13-71	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, István Ikotity, representative of the LMP, would like to ask the Minister of Human Resources:. Will the introduction of vocational grammar curricula be postponed? It's an address. On behalf of the Prime Minister, Minister for National Economy Mihály Varga, who is responsible for the subject, will answer the question. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-06-13-72	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, The May Other in Politics has recently protested in many ways against the debauchery of vocational secondary school training. The government wants to extract public knowledge from the vocational school by their misleading, new names: the vocational schools. In the future, only those who, according to the government, are closely associated with their future profession could learn physics, chemistry, biology, geography. According to the LMP, once again, the order of the oligarchs, who need disposable, disposable wage slaves and not employees with extensive knowledge and skills and general education, is being carried out. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: What's a wage slave?]] Our current question is focused on another important aspect. In agreement with the request made by the Presidency of the National Pedagogist Faculty, we also ask the Government to postpone its introduction if it does not want to stop from taking this seriously harmful step at least. At the time when we recently asked Minister Zoltán Balog in writing, the State Secretary Bence Rétvári replied that they did not agree with the Faculty of Pedagogism. However, these young people applied to vocational schools this year without changing the curricula. They applied to the vocational schools expecting to learn all the subjects of public knowledge. Perhaps they have not yet decided where they are going; they want to give themselves the opportunity, whether it be physics, chemistry, biology, geography, to learn from anything. Why are you taking this opportunity away from them now? Why are they restricting their ability to prosper? Why don't you give them time to prepare? Why are these changes not just for next year, for the new applicants, how fair and legitimate it is to enter the conditions? Please also consider these aspects and consider the possibility of postponement.
u2016-06-13-73	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to State Secretary Péter Cseresnyés. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2016-06-13-74	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, I am pleased that after asking a lot of questions and hearing many answers, you acknowledge that science does not disappear, but that their education takes place in a different way. This is a huge step forward. [[On Dr. Bence Rétvári's mark:]] But I can see from the head of Secretary of State Rétvári that he did not exactly quote him, so this will be another time when we will be able to quote precisely the idea in the wording of certain government actors. That is why I would like to confirm the ideas, the sentences I have said to you on several occasions, that students applying to the vocational secondary school - from September onwards we will call them vocational schools - choose this form of training because it is important for them to have a certain career in addition to graduation. The structure of the new vocational education and training based on basic education in primary school is well adapted to these objectives, since it provides first and foremost assistance in obtaining technical qualifications and moving on to vocational higher education, while already providing an opportunity to acquire a profession in the framework of graduation, which is not the case at present. In addition, it will continue to ensure preparation for compulsory exams. The new draft, the framework curricula, can also be seen on the National Vocational Training and Adult Education Office's website and offer flexible opportunities for science subjects, which I would like to emphasise. So it offers a flexible opportunity to study and educate science subjects. [[Sándor Lezsák, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] Young people leaving the vocational school will be able to use their professional skills directly and immediately with any of the economic operators or to continue studying in higher education, so that the road is not closed to them. It is therefore appropriate that the system of vocational schools can be introduced and education launched as early as September this year, as planned in advance. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-06-13-75	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. I salute my fellow Members. Dear Parliament, László Szakács, a representative of the Hungarian Socialist Party, wants to ask the Minister of Human Resources:. The Hungarian reforms work, but the hospitals can't afford a vaccine? Who is responsible for the temporary national shortage of tetanus vaccination? It's an address. Mr László Csakács has the floor.
u2016-06-13-76	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen of the State Secretary. In the treatment of injuries, the basic vaccine is the tetanus vaccine, which is sometimes missing in Hungary today, and this is acknowledged. Many times doctors also draw attention to this fact that unfortunately there is not enough in the country, many patients sometimes get that unfortunately there is not enough in this country, there may not be enough for everyone. [[13.00]] But the communications director of the National Institute for Pharmacy and Food Health also acknowledged that the tetanus vaccination was one of the most basic vaccines in Hungary for about two weeks. This was also confirmed by the holder of the vaccine's marketing authorisation and said that they had reported that this would be a missing item in the country as early as the 20th of May, and then the larger manufacturers started to deliver this basic medicine. How can it be imagined, Mr Secretary of State, that a simple open wound is a cure for infection of injury, a tetanus shot, which, I think, is a vaccine very, very well known to all of us and basically applied to everyone, is missing in this country for a week, ten days, sometimes several weeks? I would like to ask you what this institution called the National Institute of Pharmacy and Food Health is doing, if you can't organise the stockpiling and supply of a completely basic medicine. Not least, Mr Secretary of State, you have drawn attention to a wide variety of emergencies over the past year and a half. Here you have talked about the most diverse things, from migrants, through diseases carried in by migrants, to any other kind of emergency that only you can solve, but even flood water. Well, there's no vaccine, Mr. Secretary. They can't solve this either. Thank you very much.
u2016-06-13-77	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2016-06-13-78	Thank you very much for the floor. Well said, honourable Member, the Hungarian government has had to solve a wide variety of crises and emergencies here. In connection with immigration, they encountered diseases such as: [[Interview from the benches of the MSZP: Where is the tetanus?]] professionals who do not usually meet in Europe, in Hungary, because they can also bring in exotic diseases or they can re-install dead pathogens in Europe. [[Dr. László Kács: I asked about tetanus!]] Mr President, the Hungarian government steps in this regard, the provision of medicines and humanitarian care were examined by the WHO a few months ago and said that Hungary did perform at the best professional level at the time. [[Nándor Gúr: I'm sure they'll fire the communications director.]] When emergency healthcare was needed along the southern border. And as far as this transition situation is concerned, what you're saying is that it's over, and it wasn't really a problem. [[Dr. László Kács: I didn't say that! Nándor Gúr: You didn't pay attention!]] And that's where it came from. [[Dr. László Kács: You didn't listen, I didn't say that!]] that a company has the right to import such a vaccine. This indicated in advance that during the import, it would not deliver the quantity that had previously been expected to be delivered, which is why OGYÉI, the organisation quoted by you, has started the usual measures. In such cases, other wholesalers are given the opportunity to bring in a so-called fixed quantity of vaccines and quotas. They began to prepare for this, just before the problem arose, and before, in accordance with the legislation, wholesalers brought in these vaccines in a different way than otherwise, the pharmaceutical company began to re-distribute them. [[Nándor Gúr: Answer the question!]] So there was no such situation. So, as the holder of the licence has indicated by law that he is not going to bring them in, the mechanism that is now in place in all countries in Europe and also in Hungary over the last 20 years [[Nándor Gúr: And the tetanus? Not in the last 20 years! May!]] It's always started. So there was no problem here. You can cause panic, Congressman. [[Nándor Gúr: Sure! And the answer to the question? Where is he?]] only then will you face reality [[Nándor Gúr: Your time is up!]] The reality is also faced by those who want to replace these medicines, since this problem was solved before it was created. Thank you very much. [[Nándor Gúr: Shame on you! You didn't answer!]]
u2016-06-13-79	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Dóra Dúró, representative of Jobbik, would like to ask the Prime Minister:. Film production on a small train - why does a buddy circle get billions from the Film Fund? It's an address. On behalf of the Prime Minister, Antal Rogán, Minister of the Cabinet Office of the Prime Minister, who is responsible and competent on the subject, will answer the question, or at the request of Mr Csaba Dömötör State Secretary. You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2016-06-13-80	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, It was five years ago that Andy Vajna marked the Hungarian National Film Fund. At the time, even many national-minded voters might have thought that they would re-create the films that worked on the defining periods of Hungarian history, but this has not been done with the support of this organization until now. In response to an earlier question on the same subject, you referred to films that Andy Vajna's team did not give a single forint. But that's not the only problem. Over the past five years, more than HUF 20 billion of public money has been spent on grants, and almost half of this amount has been spent on six people. Tamás Hutlassa, the former partner of Ágnes Havas, CEO of the Film Fund, made the most of the money, who made nearly HUF 4 billion in five years. This contrast, of course, is not appreciated either by the viewers; of the 65 films supported by the Film Fund, there are only 4 of them whose revenue has brought back at least one third of the amount of support. Perhaps the most outrageous film by Kriszta Goda, which was supported by nearly 800 million people, but was not able to take more than 8,000 viewers to the cinemas. From the point of view of the civic values, it is incomprehensible to support the so-called post-holocaust love story, which deals with the acquaintance of Miklós Gárdos and his wife. In his writings, he aposted the participants of the 1956 revolution as criminals and prostitutes, enthusiastically approving the subsequent cruel retaliation. The above-mentioned protagonist of the film, which consumes more than 300 million forints of public money, was a journalist of the Free People, who was manually controlled by Mátyás Rákosi. Obviously, you can only congratulate him on supporting a film about such a man. Meanwhile, plans were rejected for the Black Army, Hunyadiak, Zrinyi, Toldi, Bethlen István, Bartók, Munkácsy or the Kuruc era. But what happened without the support of the Film Fund, The rider himself attracted more viewers than all the other Hungarian films presented this year. That's what they say there's a need, but there's no government. Why does a buddy circle get billions from the Film Fund? I look forward to your substantive answer. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2016-06-13-81	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Secretary of State Csaba Dömötör. [[In the notary seat, Adam Mirkóczki is replaced by Loránt Hegedűs.]]
u2016-06-13-82	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and I am glad to hear the question, because in the last few days, it has not been possible to know how far the wave of democratic exclusion in Jobbik will reach. [[Intercoms from Jobbik's benches: What?! Oh, dear.]] Allow me to say that when the current government took office, Hungary had a film support system showing weak results. There was an example that the Ministry of Culture had several years in advance of grant contracts without having any budgetary coverage. This situation had to be corrected, which is why the government launched the new film support scheme in 2011. Contrary to Jobbik's accusations, the Film Fund's support system is fully transparent and decisions are taken by a panel, the Film Committee. I'm sorry you missed a number of historical works. For example, I could bring up the works of Ibolya Fekete, Péter Gárdos or János Szász [[Dóra Dúró: I brought up the work of Péter Gárdos!]] His work, the great brochure. [[Dóra Dúró: What's that about? István Szávay: We are talking about people outside the Holocaust!]] This may not be the kind of movie you'd like to make, but you can't argue with the fact that these are historical works. I think it's a little strange that he's making tough criticism at a time when the success of Hungarian films speaks for themselves [[István Szávay: Which one?]] Hungarian film production is back on the world map. Films supported by the Film Fund have already won more than 130 awards abroad. [[Dóra Dúró: And why is no one watching them?]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Allow me to make one more point. In 2013, Jobbik put the same tough criticism on the Film Fund for deciding to support a director's first feature film. They said - and I quote - that they will put an end to the Holocaust industry in the film industry. The director in question was named László Nemes Jeles, and since then the film has been awarded an Oscar. I can assure you that many people are going to see this movie. That was way before the cute age. I don't want to analyze your unparalleled texts here, it would be unworthy, and it's another story anyway, but I would note in silence that if your suggestions were to prevail in the Hungarian film industry, [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell. Dániel Z. Carpathian: Your time is up!]] Today Hungary could boast an Oscar prize with less. Now, that's the national pair of Jobbik. Thank you for your attention. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: Shame on you!]]
u2016-06-13-83	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, István Ikotity, a representative of May Other Politics, wants to ask the Minister of Human Resources:. Intentional destruction or.. Just., irresponsibleness - What happens to cultural and artistic journals? It's an address. Mr István Ikotity has the floor.
u2016-06-13-84	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, In recent years, NKA and the magazines have jointly developed a form of funding that has enabled editorials to obtain a longer-term, predictable source of tender. [[13.10]] The point of the model was that in 2012 a three-year contract was concluded with key magazines. This affected 27 printed magazines and 14 online periodicals, and if they were supported only by a few million forints a year, this meant their survival. However, the contracts expired in 2015 and no new applications were issued, the funds were low. Finally, a new tender was only launched for 2016, but this is only a bridging solution, and it is not for six months, compared to the original promise, but for the whole year. Knowing the rise of the Hungarian Academy of Arts in the National Cultural Fund, there is a fear that many journals will not be supported in the future if there are finally resources. The editorial offices have been put in a position of complete uncertainty, and several have already announced that they will not continue their work in the future. Dear Secretary of State, Are they deliberately starving the editorials, weakening the papers? You're just gonna leave a couple of government-bound newspapers? Or is the government simply not interested in the fate of these papers and the spiritual workshops behind them because they do not fit into the system of national cooperation? At the same time, it was decided today that the NKA would take hundreds of millions more away from Artisjus, some of which could be financed. The solution to the problem is simple, it's only a matter of intent, but will they do it? If not, is it deliberate destruction or is it just irresponsible? What happens to cultural and artistic journals? I'm waiting for your answer.
u2016-06-13-85	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2016-06-13-86	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Let me figure out what the LMP calls destruction. These newspapers received HUF 352 million in 2014, so last year they received HUF 368, and this year almost half a billion forints. This is the destruction of the LMP, the withdrawal of resources, and I can continue to see how much you have said, Congressman. In fact, these grants have been reorganized within the NKA system, as instead of the former Journal Edition College, these grants have been returned to the professional colleges, in Hungarian: within a profession, they can decide on the proportion of magazine publishing and other applications to be supported, and here more people have ringed the alarm bell that if these magazine applications are to compete within the profession, within the sector, then what will happen to them. But I think that this huge surplus of resources, the expansion of resources, this plus 158 million 233 thousand forints is a bonus for everyone. However, it is very important, and I would also like to point out here that these additional subsidies serve as additional sources of operation, but obviously, the reading camp, the subscribers, should provide a solid basis for the functioning of these journals, and, obviously, state aid may be added, but it is very important for the state to support journals, magazines for which there is a need, and obviously the cultural added value, quality and quality improvement to be developed by the state with such additional support. But if you look at the difference between 352 million and nearly half a billion, you can expect quite a significant improvement in quality if you have money to provide quality. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-06-13-87	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Nándor Gúr, representative of the Hungarian Socialist Party, notary, would like to ask the Minister of National Economy a question: It's an address. Mr. Nándor Gúr has the floor.
u2016-06-13-88	Thank you very much, Mr. President. As you said, Mr. President, football tickets are tax-free, that's what's going on. But why not, why not voluntary health insurance or voluntary pension insurance savings in the same way, tax-free? The cafeteria system, it looks like it's getting smashed up, and it's showing how self-care is starting to get messed up. You know, when, no matter where we start, workers will not want to finance the cost of their own training from the support of local rents, or they will withdraw as regards start-up support, and in support of the health or pension savings mentioned above, there is a big problem. There is a big problem, because on these surfaces we should rather create additional resources and new opportunities, widen and provide more resources. In addition, you believe that this is well enough to break down some of it into wages - quoted in quotes - and give it to people to serve their daily livelihood. But I would like to tell you that it is the people employed by micro, small and medium-sized enterprises in Hungary, i.e. the SME sector, who represent two thirds of the total workforce, and more than three quarters of these people do not benefit from cafeteria. So again, the source is not there, not even the 8,000 forints a month source where it should be, i.e. the people who need all this or who need all this. So my question is why they want to eliminate the system of self-care, why they are taking the funds away from the circles of questions I have mentioned, and why they are not trying to, they are turning to have the source here, and where it is needed most, to have what is the basis for a decent living. Mr. President, thank you very much.
u2016-06-13-89	Thank you, Mr. Notary. I give the floor to State Secretary András Tállai.
u2016-06-13-90	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, First of all, I would like to remind you that, at the time of your governance, before 2010, there was a tax system that punished higher income. Higher income is subject to higher tax rates. It was in your time that the public sector workers were deprived of their 13th month's salary. It happened in your time. [[Nándor Gúr intervenes.]] [[Nándor Gúr intervenes.]] That you've been taken away, whether you like it or not, whether you yell or not, from the pensioners for the 13th month. The current government is pursuing a different income policy: lower personal income tax rate, rising real income. Read the statistics for the past few years. (Nándor Gúr interrupts.) As far as cafeteria is concerned, I would like to let you know if you do not at least read the newspaper that the European Union has abolished the Erzsébet voucher in Hungary. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: That's right!]] The favorite Elisabeth voucher that employees loved, and that's why we had to transform the cafeteria system. But the Hungarian government and the Hungarian Parliament have decided to transform the cafeteria system in a way that is favourable to employees and favourable to employers. Yeah, it's good, because they're gonna get the benefits tax-free up to 100,000 forints in cash, and it's up to the employee to decide what he's spending this hundred thousand forints on: possibly for purposes he's been given in cafeteria, or he's got a different need, and he's gonna spend it on something else. And you don't have to be sorry about self-care, because the 20 percent personal income tax allowance continues to exist. By the way, the amounts paid to self-care come primarily from the employees and in such a way, i.e. through the personal income tax allowance [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] This one's gonna stay. And the fact that you don't support sports, culture or churches is nothing new. [[The president's ringing again.]] I think it's in Parliament. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-06-13-91	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, István Szávay, representative of Jobbik, wishes to ask the Prime Minister's Office:. When will the Government return the agri-environmental support taken from them in Soltvadkerten and its surroundings, as well as to the fruit and vine-growing family in other parts of the country? It's an address. Congressman István Szávay has the floor.
u2016-06-13-92	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, In my hometown, Soltvadkerten and its surroundings, but also in the Eger and other wine regions, the results of this year's AKG competitions caused great outrage. Hundreds of farmers have lost this kind of support, who have been taking on additional obligations to preserve their environment for 10 to 12 years, so they were right to expect this kind of support again this year. According to the stakeholders, Fidesz changed the rate of the aid at the last minute, so they significantly increased the number of successful field applicants by adding them to some 200 thousand forints per hectare. [[13.20]] This decision made the Soltvadkerti who suffered a 90 percent rejection rate to write a letter addressed to Minister János Lázár. Sándor Font, the Fidesz Parliamentary Representative of the region, has not been able to prevent the diversion of these subsidies, even as chairman of the Parliament's Committee on Agriculture, even though this decision endangers the livelihoods of hundreds of local families. Many of the press, but also farmers, suspect this step, that the fidesz agricultural barons fattened up in the field are stuffed with another tens of millions. On May 23, János Lázár said in Parliament that 25 billion - because they are also involved - for poor animal keepers, while for fruit and vegetables producers a new HUF 15 billion grant will be opened. While no substantial progress has yet been made in the case, Mr Secretary, it is already clear that this money will obviously not be sufficient, it will not cover the needs, since the original EU framework was HUF 176 billion, and 80 percent of it was previously won by fruit and vine growers, not by those with arable land. On the basis of the above, I ask the Secretary of State why Fidesz again supports the oligarchs instead of farmers. How many applicants will have between HUF 15 and HUF 25 billion? Is it expected to open up further frameworks so that all families in Soltvadkerten and around the country as well as in other parts of the country can receive the AKG support they have taken from them? And finally, specifically, when can farmers expect to get their money? Thank you very much, I look forward to your reply. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-06-13-93	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Mr Zoltán Kovács, State Secretary.
u2016-06-13-94	Mr President, Dear fellow Members, Honourable Congressman, We both know, because your fellow Members have already asked Minister János Lázár about the expiry of an earlier term, and on 7 October 2015 - not at the last minute, as you claim - a new call was issued, in which everyone knew the conditions under which to apply for the new AKG system. Obviously, you also know that it has been said several times here in Parliament that there has been three or four over-subsidisations in this case. It is very unfortunate, however, that everyone does not win, but not all applications can be won by everyone, especially that there is less money than there is to be applied for. Moreover, this is not an automaticism, so even though someone was supported by AKG for 10-12 years, in a new scoring system it is not certain that they will automatically receive support. As you mentioned, unlike previous practice, more than 80% of the customers applying for arable land were rejected. With the point limits set by the Prime Minister's Office, small and medium-sized farms have benefited, since 99 percent of the AKG winning applications are below 300 hectares. And the list of supporters has been made public, so you can see exactly who won. Honourable Congressman, We will increase the number of 9500 customers who have won. We are primarily thinking of grape and fruit producers here. This framework will increase by 15 billion, and by 25 billion, it will match the number of animals. In this respect, discussions have already been carried out in part, in which your fellow Members have also participated, and farmers will receive additional state AKG support from 1 January 2017. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-06-13-95	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Erzsébet Schmuck, representative of May Other Politics, wishes to ask the Prime Minister a question: why is profit and power more important to the Government than life? It's an address. On behalf of the Prime Minister, Mr Sándor Fazekas, Minister for Agriculture, who is competent on the subject, will answer the question at the request of State Secretary Zsolt V. Németh. You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2016-06-13-96	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, A week ago, at Orczy Park, motor saws started again, despite the fact that the Secretary-General of the National University of Public Service promised a social consultation, the date of which has already been set. The massive destruction of trees has now become a symbol of the Orbán government. According to recent data, 15,000 trees have been cut down in Budapest over the last five years. True, some 40,000 were planted in the meantime, but the logging mostly takes place in the inner, frequented districts, while most of the trees are planted in Csepel, Rákospalota, Pestlőrinc. Debrecen, Miskolc, Balatonföldvár, Kossuth tér, József nádor tér, Orczy-kert, Városliget, and then the Roman coast show that the large-scale investment and business interests of the visitors are always higher than life and the quality of life of the locals. However, the state could do a great deal to ensure the right of the city's population to a healthy environment guaranteed by the Fundamental Law. The lumbering mania has already appeared to the deputy Ombudsman, representing the interests of future generations, and has also made proposals to stop it. For this reason, I ask the Secretary of State whether the regulation on public trees will be re-established. Is the ecological value of trees recorded in law? Are wood health tests required so that no healthy tree is cut out lying about being sick? Will substantial penalties be imposed for the timber cutting restriction? Will the broken environmental institution system be strengthened? Do you rule out the possibility of wood cuttings being started before the appeals are considered? Will the key investment law be amended for all of this? Secretary of State, just answer yes and no. Thank you for your answer.
u2016-06-13-97	Thank you, Congresswoman. I give the floor to State Secretary Zsolt V. Németh.
u2016-06-13-98	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and I can also say to you and your fellow factions that the effectiveness of environmental and nature protection does not depend essentially on the formal and structural design of the institutional system, the introduction of an integrated procedural model in the territorial administration does not lead to a reduction in the level of protection of environmental and nature conservation achievements that have already been achieved in recent decades, nor does it pose a risk. As far as the government's obsession with logging, mentioned by Congresswoman, is concerned, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, for example, in the framework of the Liget Budapest project for the renewal of the City Park, the government plans nearly HUF 6 billion for the rehabilitation of the Park in City Park. When you talk about the massive destruction of trees, we cannot go past the fact that the green surface of the City Park has deteriorated over the past decades, that its tree and plant population has grown considerably. As part of the reconstruction of Városliget, we therefore develop the structure of the park in such a way as to protect ecological vegetation and to update the green surface in the long term, for example by installing new shrubs, perennials and by overshadowing the existing lawn surface. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and At present, almost 60 percent of the Liget is green, which can reach 65 percent as a result of developments. This means that from 2018 onwards, in the renewed City Park, tens of thousands of square meters larger green surface will be waiting for those who want to relax and relax. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-06-13-99	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, There is one more question, and then we move on to immediate questions. Sándor Szabó, a representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Minister of National Economy a question about the tax-free cafetheria - or how can it melt to 65 thousand forints? It's an address. Mr Sándor Szabó has the floor.
u2016-06-13-100	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, You and your minister, as well as my fellow government colleagues, have repeatedly said about next year's budget that it will be a year of tax cuts, and how good it will be for everyone here. One of the elements was to change the regulation of cafeteria. It has been repeated several times, and the key word here is the tax exemption, that the employees will receive 100 thousand forints tax-free. In comparison, it was then at the Legislative Committee meeting that one of the questions was expressed in a completely different manner by your Deputy State Secretary. I would like to quote: the cash provided as a cafeteria, of course, has a 34.5 percent tax burden, so this 100 thousand forints will also bear the public costs as a regular extra-wage allowance. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Dear Secretary of State, Yeah, the question is, once you're tax-free, once you're not tax-free? What stage will the cafeteria system be in tomorrow? If I assume your Deputy Secretary of State was telling the truth, then we have the question of what makes the rules of cafeteria more different than it is now. How do you pay less taxes than this year? And, therefore, my fellow Member has already said that this is also a question of the benefit of the fact that so far the workers have decided that they would like to buy a schooling allowance, a BKV pass, and I do not want to spend it on a wellness weekend, or they do not have a choice in this respect. [[13.30]] And finally, I would ask you to answer the main question: will the amount in question be tax-free, or did your Deputy Secretary of State be wrong, and you forgot to share with society that out of the 100 thousand forints, there will be only 65 thousand forints left in the workers' pocket? I'm waiting for your answer.
u2016-06-13-101	Thank you, Congressman Szabo. I give the floor to the Secretary of State, András Tállai.
u2016-06-13-102	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, The question raised is a false problem. 100,000 forints is 100,000 forints, and 100,000 forints is tax-free. We have to pay taxes or public fees for the HUF 100,000, and the Deputy State Secretary said so at the Legislative Committee meeting. By the way, if you don't understand something, feel free to read the bill, ask the experts. [[Sándor Szabó: I just asked.]] And they'll tell you. By the way, it is an honor to use the public of Parliament for tax interpretation questions. Again, the net HUF 100,000 is HUF 100 thousand, the employee and the employee are not burdened with anything but and exclusively the employer. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-06-13-103	Thank you very much. There's just one more question, Mr. Secretary, that's a short answer. I give the floor to Gergely Farkas, who is a representative of Jobbik, and he wishes to ask the Minister of National Development:, Was there once an M9 motorway? It's an address. Congressman Gergely Farkas has the floor.
u2016-06-13-104	Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, The country has long been waiting for the construction of an east-west expressway corridor. This corridor would be the M9 road, which for now only exists on designers' papers, so far only a few kilometers have been made. From the southern lowland region, it can only be achieved by poor quality roads and extremely slowly, or through the capital city, with a huge detour and cost beyond Western Transdanubia. Building the road would be a very important step forward at both national and local levels. At national level, because it would significantly reduce the burden of the Budapest-based jet expressway network and the creation of the East-West Corridor would help start up further investments. In my narrower Patria, Bács-Kiskun county, infrastructure developments would also be extremely important, especially because of the creation of new jobs. Since 2003, i.e. 13 years ago, unfortunately, there hasn't been a single inch of the construction of the motorway network in the area. Therefore, given the state of the M9 motorway project, according to some expert opinions, it would be worth connecting the M5 and M6 motorways with a faster main road with a small budget, while maintaining a long-term plan for the highway. There is also a burning need for this link to the town and neighbourhood of Kiskunhalas, which is particularly affected by the problems of migration and unemployment. The population of the settlement and its surroundings is running low, and it will be quite difficult to find investors who create jobs for many properties for sale without a major main road. My question to Mr Secretary of State therefore concerns what the population of Bács-Kiskun County can expect with regard to the M9 route. Are you going to build a highway or a highway? Is progress expected in the coming years, or can we only think of the fast-track connections of the Danube and Kiskunhalas as sci-fi? I look forward to your substantive answer. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-06-13-105	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary of State János Fónagy.
u2016-06-13-106	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, In the EU budget period 2014-2020, one of the government's priorities in the field of road transport development is to connect cities with county rights to the fast-track network and to build existing motorways to the border. In addition to these goals, and this is good news for you, the government is committed to implementing the M9 motorway, which is why it is included in the long-term development plans of the road network. On several sections of the motorway M9, the environmental authorisation process is underway between Vasvár and Zalaegerszeg and Zalaegerszeg and Nagykanizsa. We are looking for opportunities to schedule further stages. In the long term, the M9 motorway contributes to the resolution of the central beam structure of Budapest. The county section of the M9 motorway would have been implemented between the 51-54 main roads for a length of 12.5 km, designed twice for one lane, with separate levels of nodes, avoiding settlements of Nemesnádudvar, Dusnok, Süköd and Hajós. [[Mrs. Loránt Hegedűs will be replaced in the notary seat by Adam Mirkóczki.]] As memorable, the public procurement applications for the execution of the works were won by the international chemical company before 2010, and the construction process stopped in 2011 due to the bankruptcy of the Végyeszer. The problems were increased by the fact that we faced a significant increase in the cost of archaeological research: by autumn 2010, archaeological explorations reached 500 percent of the amount indicated in the preliminary heritage study. So there were significant costs. In 2015 the government decided to prepare the investment of the Danube Bridge in the area of Kalocsa-Paks in order to serve traffic in the east-west, to concentrate the possibility of crossing the Danube. Technical planning is ongoing and implementation can start in 2017. Thank you for your patience, Mr. President.
u2016-06-13-107	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, We'll move on to immediate questions. Gergely Bárándy, representative of the Hungarian Socialist Party, wants to ask the President of the National Bank of Hungary an immediate question entitled "Relationship 2." Congressman Gergely Bárándy has the floor.
u2016-06-13-108	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Mr. Suede, Looks like he wasn't telling the truth the other day. He claimed his cousin had nothing to do with the VS news portal. Compared to this, the editor-in-chief of the VS said that Mr. Szemerey had negotiated with him as the owner and that an editor-in-chief could only recognize such a thing in a conversation. Or don't you think? For the record, if you had nothing to do with VS, what were you doing in the newsroom? Of course, it's just the tip of the iceberg. Mr Szemerey has a thousand ties to the central bank, for example through his new bank. And not just because he got a growth loan. It is not that your cousin benefited from the growth loan scheme, but that the new bank's main activity is the placement of growth loans. Even the bank's name refers to what his cousin gave him: Growth Bank. So, the Matolcsy-Semerey family started a bank to tap into central bank funds. According to Mr Szemerey, in addition to lending, this bank accidentally manages the billions of the six foundations of the MNB and several related companies. But he also ran through Tamás Szemerey's bank for 12 billion forints in the management of his other cousin, which was intended for the matolchysta training in Kecskemét. And of course, your son, Mr. President of the Central Bank, Ádám Matolcsy accidentally received the loan from the same family bank for hundreds of millions of forints. But let's take another look at your cousin's business. BanKonzult Kft. has contractual relations with the MNB's six foundations and the central bank itself. According to Mr Szemerey's own statement, for a total of approximately 60 million forints a year. Obviously, the National Bank does not have financial analysts, so the expertise of a cousin has to be paid for tens of millions of forints a year with taxpayers' money. And to make sure Tamás Szemerey's wife doesn't miss out on the good stuff, she became the director of one of the MNB foundations, I imagine, for a lot of money. Since then, we know that the kinship also bends down for small change, as they also received payments below HUF 5 million. Isn't there a lot of kinship around the MNB money, Mr. President? Thank you very much.
u2016-06-13-109	Thank you very much. I give the floor to President György Matolcsy.
u2016-06-13-110	Your Honour, Mr. President. Dear House, Honourable Congressman, For a few months now, you have launched a political attack on Hungary's central bank, using all kinds of false and bluff-based claims. [[13.40]] Let's take a look at your first claim that a resigned former editor-in-chief remembers that... well, you have to look at the stock book, counselor, you have to see who owns this particular news portal. If you do not spare the effort, you will immediately see that another gentleman is the owner. But his further claims are, indeed, somewhat false and limping. Why shouldn't someone in Hungary buy a foreign-owned bank if their financial resources are an opportunity to do so? Why shouldn't he call it the Growth Bank? Why would this certain banker discriminate that he doesn't give credit to someone who's creditworthy, he has a good project, just because he's somehow called or not called? That is, therefore, a false claim. In addition, you mention a bank with funds from the Pallas Athena Foundations. It is located at four banks, two large and two small banks, and happens to be in Hungarian-owned banks. You might want to mention that. Moreover, it is perfectly natural that the more you know about something, the more help you get if you use other sources of information; this is what we do with different macroeconomic analyses. And lastly, you're going to announce an excellent lady, the headmistress of the PADA has graduated from the University of Arts, and she has three higher education exams. We could use more of these in Hungary! [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. Crying from the ranks of the MSZP.]]
u2016-06-13-111	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I give the floor to the congressman in return.
u2016-06-13-112	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. The President answered only one thing, or at least that could be extracted from this answer. So you're saying that you're perfectly okay with these kinship ties at the Hungarian National Bank, and it should be taken for granted by someone else, not that you should be thinking that this is not okay. But, Mr President, I don't think that's okay, and I would like to maintain this. Since we're getting together, there are two things I'd like to ask you that more and more people are going on about. Is it true that you banished number 8 from the National Bank of Hungary? And is it true that only a secretary who was born on August 20, 1984 can win the position at the presidential secretariat? I sincerely hope that you will clearly disprove these, because if these are true, then there is even more trouble in your house than I have listed. Finally, Mr President, one more thing: even if you sue me every day, I will not leave you alone or uncover the corrupt cases of the MNB. But I'm gonna get everyone's attention on that. [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] that the limitation period for criminal offences against assets that cause more than HUF 500 million is at least ten years, and that is an improbable time in politics. Thank you very much.
u2016-06-13-113	Thank you very much. The rejoinder shall also apply to the President.
u2016-06-13-114	Thank you very much. Your Honour, Mr. President. Dear House, Honourable Congressman, So far, you've used dramatic instruments, and now you're leaning into a clown about all kinds of numbers and secretaries. I want you to study the genre of tragedy, because after the drama, it's not the clowning. But why don't you ask me why László Trócsányi is a minister of justice while he is my cousin? [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: Two minutes is short!]] We are cousins through Héjjas and Darányi families. [[The intervention of Lajos Korózs.]] Is the Minister of Justice a minister because he is a relative of mine? You don't even know that, do you? [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: I'll ask you for the next two minutes. Crying from the ranks of the MSZP. The president's ringing the bell.]] Why is it possible on the 444.hu news portal that a cousin Kesnik or rather Mr Kasnik writes articles against the central bank day and night? Is this some kind of evil conspiracy on the part of the family? A little deeper, and don't make a fuss. Facts!
u2016-06-13-115	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, György Szilágyi, representative of Jobbik, would you like to ask the Attorney General an immediate question, "The Prosecutor's Office assists in concealing corruption crimes?" Doesn't the D.A. care about the identity of the real perpetrators? It's an address. Congressman György Szilágyi has the floor.
u2016-06-13-116	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Attorney General, Although it was over two years ago, I'm sure you remember the American ban scandal. You see, this was the banning scandal after which I asked for an interpreter, Ildikó explained to the U.S. Advisor; this was the case after which I had nothing to do with the government; Árpád D.C. posted pictures that he was not banned; and this was the case where the involvement of high-fidesz political circles arose. There was an investigation under social pressure, and then the prosecution's indictment was issued, which would be completely different about the whole case, saying that it was a lone perpetrator, and that this lone perp was probably even bored and bored, and he went to a large American company in boredom, and told this great American company that he could provide various benefits and give two billion forints to the Századvég, linked to Fidesz. I'm saying he was a fool because he wouldn't have had access to this money, because he had nothing to do with the century's end or any fidesz political circles. That is what you have established, and then a court hearing, and the court had a completely different opinion: the court ruling stated that Tábor Viktor was not a solitary perpetrator, he was a mediator, and in all likelihood he was sending someone's offer to the American company. But what does the D.A.'s office do? He doesn't care who this client was. The D.A.'s office announces that he's closed the investigation, doesn't care who this client is, most likely, close to Fidesz, doesn't investigate any further, he's closed the investigation. They announce this when it is the day of the prosecutor's office, and Viktor Orbán says that the prosecutor's office is one of the most prominent supporters of the system. Indeed, one of the biggest foundations of the Fidesz corruption system is the prosecutor's office, which is constantly trying to hide those corruption cases and not investigate them. I ask the Attorney General: do you agree that you are doing your job for the benefit of Fidesz and the prosecution for the benefit of Fidesz, and not for the sake of Hungary and Hungarian society, to reveal the entire group of perpetrators in such corruption cases? Thank you. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-06-13-117	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Attorney General Péter Polt.
u2016-06-13-118	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Honourable Congressman, Unfortunately, I have to say that your starting point is no longer real, as is true in the case you mentioned, not the prosecution's investigation, so you couldn't close it, but the National Bureau of Investigation has initiated an ex officio procedure, and the prosecution has brought charges of bribery in the face of a mischief. Indeed, one of the witnesses claimed that the suspect, then later accused, now sentenced, asked the President of the Századvég for an undue advantage in reducing the VAT on the food oil and other advantages that Bunge will be granted later. The investigation covered this thread, and it was very detailed, i.e. hearing witnesses, examining file traffic, electronic data traffic, and there is no evidence of this link. For others, he later said that he did not know the president of the century, and after the president of the century had been interviewed as a witness, he confirmed this statement. In his judgment, the court condemned the defendant, with one exception: he condemned him as an accomplice, considering that the reference was real, but if you read the reports, or even had accurate information about what was said at the hearing, you would also know that the court had declared that the authority had carried out a conscientious and multi-directional investigation, which, in turn, could not be detected. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-06-13-119	Thank you, Attorney General. I give the floor to the congressman in return.
u2016-06-13-120	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr. Attorney General, please tell me who is overseeing the investigation in Hungary today. You should be overseeing the investigation. Was it a full-scale investigation? Indeed, it must have been a very comprehensive investigation, when it is also included in these data, that they did not even bother to listen to Viktor Tábor's phone, say, if appropriate, and to map his connection system. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: What are the methods of work?]] Mr. Attorney General. Then I hope you believe that the D.A. can conduct this investigation now, but we wish to help you with this: today I have filed a re-trial on the matter; today I have made my report on suspicion of bribery, acceptance of bribery, acquisition of influence and trafficking of influence. I ask you to take this report seriously, to investigate this corruption case in full, to explore the people involved and to name the guilty. This is what Hungarian society expects of you, Hungary, so that people who ask for two billion forints of bribe money to give different discounts to different companies will not be able to hide here. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]] [[13.50]]
u2016-06-13-121	Thank you very much. The Attorney General is entitled to a rebuttal answer.
u2016-06-13-122	Thank you very much. If the honourable Member points to any fact in his report that the authority has not yet examined, then, of course, these authorities will act according to the relevant laws. I'm not sure how you know it or how you know it. By the way, we should watch the public news of how the investigation started, the facts that led to it, what it was going to do, and what it came up with, and there's a lot to figure out. The D.A.'s office made a professional, good and quick decision on this case. And if, once again, new facts come to light, you will also examine them. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2016-06-13-123	Thank you, Attorney General. Dear Parliament, Bernadett Szél and R. Benedek Sallai, representatives of the LMP, want to ask the Minister of Agriculture an immediate question: "How long will you protect the indefensible?" It's an address. The Minister has appointed Mr. Martin Bitay as Secretary of State to respond to his urgent public mission. I would like to ask Congresswoman if she will accept the person who is responding. [[Dr. Wind Bernadett nodds.]] It says yes. Then Congresswoman Bernadett Wind will take the floor.
u2016-06-13-124	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, A country was absolutely shocked by the fact that Szilárd Kiss, who is currently in criminal proceedings, has failed double in national security due diligence and has been involved in fraud and corruption cases and is still in complete peace with his luxury car using Russian diplomatic licenses in the country. I begin by saying that the May Other Politics has been drawing attention to the need for someone in the Ministry of Agriculture to assume political responsibility. This is obviously about Minister Sándor Fazekas, because it was you who for years turned a blind eye to the scandals of the Minister's Commissioner and your confidant, Szilárd Kiss. [[Dr. László György Lukács: That's right!]] It was you who appointed this man and held him in office despite the fact that Szilárd Kiss twice failed the national security screening. By the way, the LMP therefore initiated the hearing twice last year at the National Security Committee to find out why it was necessary to assume political responsibility for what Szilárd Kiss could show up for a useful job that would make him absolutely fit, but you didn't appear before the National Security Committee, so we still don't know what Szilárd Kiss knows, which is why they took on such a political risk. But the scandals haven't stopped, so I'd like to remind you of a few things. We know about Szilárd Kiss that he sold Schengen entry visas for money; we know that he had partners in the business and that Russian underworld ties were also raised; and it is of no consequence that Szilárd Kiss had eight supervisory board members in two Quaestor brokerage houses for five years. This means that the company that embezzled ten billion from the taxpayer was watching the legitimate operation of this company, Szilárd Kiss. I ask what was the ministerial protocol, or what was the very extra added value, for which you held Szilárd Kiss in position and ignored the professional position of the Constitutional Protection Office and sent this man to Moscow. Does it have anything to do with the fact that this man is now driving around Budapest with diplomatic protection and luxury cars? Why is Szilárd Kiss still in position?
u2016-06-13-125	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Secretary of State, Mr Bitay.
u2016-06-13-126	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and I'd like to begin with your last question. What position do we keep Szilárd Kiss in, let me ask you, because he said... [[Dr. Wind Bernadett: Where did you get the diplomatic license plate?]] Where did you get the Russian diplomat's license plate? Well, I must tell you, unfortunately, neither I nor Minister Fazekas will be able to answer you very much as to where your Russian diplomatic license plate came from. However, I also wanted to make it clear that I would reject that he is currently not in any status in the Ministry. So your question about what status or why we keep it is pointless. With regard to the diplomatic license number, I also referred to it here at the beginning of the debate: it is a foreign state, a number given by another state, and the Hungarian authorities, especially the Minister of Agriculture, have nothing to do with this. I would also like to draw your attention to what we have tried to say on several occasions that all the criminal matters in which this gentleman has been involved have nothing to do with his functions as a agricultural diplomat. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: Ah!]] he wasn't even involved in that case, in a completely different case. And just as Minister doesn't know which Secretary of State or, where appropriate, Deputy State Secretary or Head of Department is doing what work in other areas of life, I don't feel that he should take responsibility for it either. [[Interviews from the ranks of the MSZP.]] By the way, he asked what results could be reported in connection with his work. Agricultural exports to Russia increased exponentially during the time the gentleman mentioned did this work [[Dr. Wind Bernadett: exponentially?!]] It was a success sector in this respect, we could find a lot of new markets. This is certainly an objective fact, which can be said in this regard. All in all, I can tell you that you are responsible for us or Minister Fazekas, which is his responsibility and authority, and cannot take responsibility for anything else. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2016-06-13-127	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I'll give the floor to the congressman in return.
u2016-06-13-128	[[Without sound:]] Thank you very much, Mr. President. Secretary of State, please tell me who is responsible for the grief... [[Intercoms from Fidesz: We can't hear it! The president's ringing the bell.]]
u2016-06-13-129	Congressman, we need to get in the mike... Or isn't it working?
u2016-06-13-130	[[The sound's working.]] He's in!
u2016-06-13-131	That's good.
u2016-06-13-132	[[Lajos Korózs: Start from sorrow!]] So the question was who did. [[Dr. Zoltán Kovács: Faster!]] So the Ministry of Foreign Affairs said... then I speak so that Mr. Kovács can understand. [[Zsolt Csenger-Zalán: We too!]] That he was not fit for foreign representation, he said that during national security screening, the Constitutional Protection Office said he was not fit. Sándor Fazekas personally said that he should still be a farmer. What you're talking about is the license number of a foreign state: please, as a lawyer, I think you know - in the Index article - that you can claim this for the person whose diplomatic duties are being confirmed. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: Yes!]] So no one else has the right to ask for the country. You have some sort of task to do. And the reason why this whole situation is weird is because there's a central bank president here who boasts that he's not going to be prosecuted while he's a Cousin of the Minister of Justice. [[Defiance in the ranks of the MSZP.]] here you are, drinking coffee with Hungarian billionaires, while the land privatisation is taking place, and here is a Kiss Szilárd, with whom his wife has created all kinds of Russian underground connections in different places, and you are surprised that, for some reason, FM is keeping him active. That's the weird thing. [[Interviews from the ranks of the MSZP: That's right! Applause from the lines of LMP and MSZP.]]
u2016-06-13-133	Thank you very much. The rejoinder shall be granted to the Secretary of State.
u2016-06-13-134	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'm really glad that the Index article confirmed it and that you read it, and you're treating it as a fact. [[Dr. Wind Bernadett: Why didn't you come to the last meeting?]] On the other hand, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, especially in Russia, where every governing authority has a special right to provide diplomatic licenses, and certainly not to honorary consuls, but I will recommend to Minister Fazekas that the Russian authority issuing such diplomatic licenses be assigned to you in any event and that he be accountable for the grounds on which such a registration number is issued. [[Interview from the lines of the MSZP: Legal Basics One!]] Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2016-06-13-135	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Mr Zsolt Csenger-Zalán, representative of Fidesz, wants to ask the Foreign Minister of Foreign Affairs and Trade an immediate question: - How much did Prime Minister Gordon's travels cost the taxpayers? Title II. The Minister appointed Mr Levente Hungarian Secretary of State to reply. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: Finally a current question! On the signal of Zsolt Csenger-Zalán:]] Congressman says you'll accept your identity. I give the floor to Congressman Zsolt Csenger-Zalán. [[Interview from Jobbik's ranks: Ask the current government. Interview from the ranks of the MSZP: Hard! It's ringing.]]
u2016-06-13-136	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, In response to my immediate question last week, it turned out that Bajnai Gordon was an offshore index owner, current investment fund manager in Paris between these two activities that were kind to his heart. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: What does Parliament have to do with it?]] how much he spent on his travels abroad. During his short 13-month prime ministership, he traveled a total of 231 million forints, of which 49 million 285 thousand forints of taxpayers went on an American journey. Today, this corresponds to 57 million 600 thousand forints. Ladies and gentlemen, Bajnai's microparty asks about the official ways of the current Prime Minister, but forgets that he should clean up his own house first. One of the flag bearers of the heck campaign is the Nihilist blog known as 444.hu [[Deterioration in opposition benches.]] of which the background is known as one of its owners [[Dr. István Szávay: 888! Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] Media Development Investment Fund, which finances, among other things, the operation of the Hungarian Orange. Media Development Investment was created by the Open Society Institute in 1995 and continues to support [[Dr. Wind Bernadett: Long live the '50s!]] , only between 2005 and 2009, for example, $15.7 million. [[14.00]] That is, György Soros is behind the attack on the Hungarian government, as it has already been revealed so many times. We already know the results of Bajnai's travels. The rescuer of the MSZP, the head of the so-called expert government, boasts that in the year of his prime ministership, the total national product decreased by 6.8 percent, the budget deficit was 4.6 percent, and the debt was upped to 80 percent of GDP by EUR 20 billion. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] However, we do not yet know what Bajnai Gordon spent 182 million forints above 49 million.
u2016-06-13-137	Thank you very much.
u2016-06-13-138	Dear Secretary of State, I'm looking forward to your reply. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. Interviews in the ranks of the MSZP.]]
u2016-06-13-139	I give the floor to the Secretary of State of Magyar Levente. [[Interventions in the lines of the MSZP: There was no question! Noise.]] But before that, Mr. Secretary...
u2016-06-13-140	Mr President, Dear House, Honourable Congressman, [[Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]]
u2016-06-13-141	Mr. Secretary, just a moment, please. I would like to ask my fellow Members to take a summer break, but I would not like to order a break sooner, so that I may wait until... [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: But it's very difficult to take it seriously, Mr. President.]] Please take this seriously, Congressman. [[Interviews in the ranks of the MSZP.]] You're in Parliament, Congressman, and please don't talk back. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2016-06-13-142	Thank you very much. Mr President, The question is not primarily how much Gordon Bajnai's roads cost the country [[Bangóné Borbély Ildikó: Is the answer written down?]] but the question must first of all be how much the eight-year governance of the socialists has cost the country. And if we compare these two figures, Mr Bajnai traveled some 231 million forints during his short prime ministership, this means about 20 million forints a month on average. This figure is not even comparable to the one which was likely caused by the socialists to the country by the magnitude of a thousand billion and which ultimately had to be paid by the Hungarian taxpayers with their savings. [[Interviews in the ranks of the MSZP.]] Mr President, Dear House, I would like to draw attention to the fact that the prime minister of Bajnai Gordon fell for a period that was a unique low point in modern Hungarian economic history. Hungary has never been as critical since the change of regime, in some 25 years, as under the Prime Ministership of Gordon Bajnai [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély intervenes.]] In particular, the fact that hundreds of millions of forints were spent by the then socialist government to promote its supposed successes in different parts of the world is a consequence of this. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: Relax, it's only half a minute.]] I have a list, it is very interesting that in Washington, Brussels, Frankfurt, Berlin and other Western European cities Prime Minister Bajnai and his populous delegation have promoted a policy called crisis management, in which the country was almost disabled. Dear Parliament, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the Balliberal Government first weakened the Hungarian economy fatally with bad economic policy. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: After that came Kosa, said...]] Then, in the course of the crisis, the country was indebted to the neck, however, this debt was now extracted by Hungary, and it was repaid to the last cent. So I think that this issue deserves no more words in this regard, because we are over this drama. Thank you very much. [[Interviews in the ranks of the MSZP. Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-06-13-143	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I give the floor in return to Congressman Zsolt Csenger-Zalán.
u2016-06-13-144	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Indeed, I fully agree that the HUF 20 million monthly is nothing compared to the damage that Bajnai Gordon did as Prime Minister. But I think it is rather regrettable - and I said it the previous time - that, while it is one of the founders of the Együtt-PM and its former frontman, who was throwing money with both hands, now the Együtt-PM, this micro-party is trying to count the current government with a kind of double standard. It's the typical double standard. And of course, where George Soros appears, we should not be surprised if the double standard is there, because they are hand in hand. Thank you very much. [[Interjection in the ranks of the MSZP. Defiance. The president's ringing the bell.]]
u2016-06-13-145	Thank you very much. The Secretary of State is also entitled to a rejoinder.
u2016-06-13-146	Dear House, Everyone can be sure that if the kingdom of Bajnai Gordon had marked a successful period, no one would mention in 2016 how many million forints or how many ten million forints he had traveled. However, that is not the case. The Prime Minister Gordon Bajnai's time brought about one of Hungary's biggest crises, in all respects we showed the image of a vulnerable, weak country, which Mr Bajnai obviously had to represent and convey abroad, while today, if we look at the unprecedented success of Hungarian economic policy, the Hungarian foreign economy, Hungarian exports [[Bangóné Borbély Ildikó: We are last in the EU!]] then I think that the current period can be strongly contrasted with the 2008-2010 period, because today, in almost all major respects, the country's economy is stable, our macroeconomic indicators are not comparable to those of eight years ago, and current foreign ministers and prime ministers travels generate new forints and jobs for the country, not unnecessary expenditure. Thank you very much. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély intervenes. Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-06-13-147	Thank you very much. I would like to ask your socialist fellow Members with due respect to their fellow Member, Bertalan Tóth, who wishes to ask the President of the National Bank of Hungary an immediate question. It's an address. Congressman Bertalan Tóth has the floor.
u2016-06-13-148	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. One week ago, the MNB imposed a market surveillance fine of HUF 105 million on FHB, controlled by the Fidesz Oligarch of Zoltán Spéder. The MNB also stated that the fine had to be imposed because, three and a half years ago, FHB issued the euro bond as a core loan capital and did not provide a commitment of some HUF 30 billion to disclose false information about the fact that it was not for investors in Hungary. This whole bond story is full of strange things: the circumstances of the issue, the role of the state, the position of Zoltán Spéder and the timing of the fine. I have also addressed a number of questions to the members of the government, in which I have been trying to find out whether the Orbán government and the Spéder empire are ever closer and closer to the state, that is, the taxpayers, better, or rather, the Spéder empire. I haven't had any merit answers so far. However, as far as the specific bond transaction is concerned, this is also strange because you were still Minister of National Economy when the Government of Viktor Orbán began to deal with the capital situation of FHB. As Minister János Lázár informed me earlier, on 4 September 2012 the Government accepted a proposal on the capital situation of FHB, which resulted in a series of subsequent government measures. For example, from the information provided by Miklós Seszták, it was concluded that on 20 December 2012, according to the MNB, the HUF 30 billion FHB bond issued by the MNB was transferred to the Hungarian National Asset Management Ltd. within a few days of the issue, presumably through a swap. Lászlón Németh, who is currently responsible for the integration of the savings cooperative, signed the decision of the shareholder law practitioner. Based on all this, what took you three and a half years? Why did you have to wait so long for financial supervision to find out everything wasn't okay with the deal? [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] What did the MNB find in its overall investigation? What does the MNB expect from the personal liability procedure? I'm waiting for your answer.
u2016-06-13-149	Thank you very much. I give the floor to President György Matolcsy.
u2016-06-13-150	Your Honour, Mr. President. Dear House, Honourable Congressman, As the Magyar Nemzeti Bank clearly indicated in its communication, the Hungarian National Bank has punished a false misinformation, and I think it is right. I think that, in the last few days and weeks, there has been a series of information in the press that needs to be examined in the future, so I agree with you, Congressman, that we probably do not know enough to explore this whole story. It is certain that the government had the right intention from 2012 to strengthen the Hungarian-owned banking sector. I also believe that it was the right intention to set up a strong financial group strengthening the Hungarian-owned banking sector within the framework of cooperative integration. If this process had flaws, errors, or even decisions that could be made with slightly stronger indicators, it is likely to be revealed in the tests that have taken place these days. As President of the National Bank of Hungary, I would like to thank the Parliament for giving it the opportunity to act in the supervisory power of the Hungarian National Bank in the investigation of the organization of integration, in order to correct the previous failure of the legislator. [[14.10]] It is not right that one part of the banking sector is subject to a certain supervisory regime in Hungary and another part of the banking sector is subject to a different regime. That is why, under the leadership of Vice-President Windisch, in recent days, the process of controlling the integration organisation has begun. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2016-06-13-151	Thank you, Mr. President. You have the chance to rejoin the congressman.
u2016-06-13-152	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr. President. You were a member of the government, and, as I mentioned, this government has been babysitting all along to ensure that FHB survives the crisis with various capital injections. But I didn't get an answer to whose supervision, whose encouragement, whose approval was made by a non-Hungarian investor, with a nominal value of HUF 30 billion, issued with an uninsured commitment to form a basic loan capital bond, that it had been transferred to the State before that time. Who was the notary? Why did the state need this bond package? What did the state give in return? What was the spark that has now reached the National Bank of Hungary, and in three and a half years it will begin to investigate this? Is it possible that this was a fake transaction, behind which FHB's lack of capital by the State was the real goal? I'm asking you to answer that specifically, and I'll tell you that as a minister, you were still in this government. Thank you.
u2016-06-13-153	Thank you, Congressman. You have the President's rejoinder. [[Interview from the benches of MSZP: Go!]]
u2016-06-13-154	Mr President, Dear House, Honourable Congressman, The questions you raised, I think, will be answered in the next few weeks, months. Once again, both the objective of strengthening the FHB group and the integration of the cooperative was correct and clear. In Hungary, the domestic-owned banking system had to be strengthened. What a series of steps this has taken, and it was right or wrong, once again, I think it will be revealed in the coming weeks and months. The Hungarian National Bank has decided this because the investigation process has just been completed. [[Interviews from the benches of the MSZP, among others: Stealer!]] the findings of which, once again, are clearly indicated in the communication. [[Intercoms from the benches of the MSZP. Applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2016-06-13-155	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Mr. Dániel Z., representative of Jobbik, wishes to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question:. Is there an imminent emergency at the border? It's an address. The Minister appointed Secretary of State Bence Rétvári to respond. I'm asking if you'll accept his identity. Congressman says yes. Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát has the floor.
u2016-06-13-156	Mr President, Dear House, It is Jobbik's custom to personally attempt to gain experience before developing its political position and opinion on a matter. This is what we have done in the last good year and a half, when, following the direct guidance of Mayor László Toroczkai, we have acquired the life-like and life-sounding experiences of Röszke, Magyarkanizsa and other settlements in the area, without which we believe that it is more difficult for a Member to press a button with responsibility in Parliament. Already during the period of one year ago, problems have arisen, various rumors have been heard that the members of the incoming migration wave bring with them problems, diseases, health risks that Hungary is not necessarily prepared for. We then received emergency signals from a health institution in Szeged, but also from an infectious department in Budapest, as well as from those serving in the region concerned, that there are diseases, diseases, because of the activity of the arrivals and because of the passage that was largely unregulated, that this raises the country-wide extent of the more serious, wider health risk. For this reason, in order to avoid panicking, we call on the government, on the one hand, here and now, to give a statement on the mass of information on the health risks posed by migrants, as this is being constantly purged by epidemiological and other experts, but we have not seen a combined set of data from the government on this. The second half of our call therefore clearly refers to making these data public so that Hungary can intervene in time if this threat is widespread or widespread, since it is not expected that Hungarian citizens will pay even their health to pay tens of thousands this year in addition to being vulnerable through tax forints. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] They walked through in order of magnitude, essentially [[The president's ringing again.]] undisturbed. I'm waiting for your answer. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2016-06-13-157	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2016-06-13-158	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, People's immigration, uncontrolled mass influx into Europe is an increased risk both in Hungary and elsewhere, obviously in the field of health. There are many reasons for this. One of the reasons is that, obviously, because they are less cooperative, only 5-10 percent of the Hungarian authorities' mandatory and free screenings were fully involved when there was a great wave of immigration before Hungary closed the illegal border at the southern border. It was only a fraction of them who went back and wanted to see what the results of the screenings were. There is a risk that diseases that can emerge in Europe, exotic, distant diseases that have not been characteristic of Europe. Another risk is the re-entry into Europe of large quantities of pathogens that have been extinct in Europe decades or even a century ago through prevention, through vaccinations, which did not pose a risk that they could reappear. Another problem, obviously, is the difficulty of communication, that it is harder to ask these people what kind of illness they are suffering from. Even if you want to tell me, language difficulties can be a barrier. Another risk factor is that their entire medical record system, their previous history, is also in a remote country, which cannot be accessed by the Hungarian, German and other European authorities. Hungary is therefore also more prepared to deal with this crisis. When it was the great wave of immigration, we directed separate doctors and nurses into this area to filter and monitor the processes there. The World Health Organization has also monitored or, I say, has, rather, subsequently controlled our activities here, and has acknowledged that Hungary has done very well and well both from a humanitarian point of view and from a public health point of view. We would like to continue to do so, but basically we want this problem to be resolved not within Europe, but at the place where it was created. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] and we could help these people, both from a humanitarian point of view, from an economic point of view and from a health point of view, at the point of origin, and there would not be such a huge wave of migration. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2016-06-13-159	Thank you very much. I'm giving the congressman the opportunity to respond in return.
u2016-06-13-160	Mr President, Dear House, We must point out that if we are looking at a kind of live stream only through the public Facebook profile of László Toroczkai, it can be seen that on a daily basis people who can infect the living and the population directly in Europe are arriving through the hermetically closed border. So what we see is that as long as you walk across the hermetically closed border with tens of thousands of people, you refuse to set up an independent border guard at Jobbik's request, and indeed to reverse those who do not necessarily have a place here, this danger is acute. Our request, and for which I ask you to respond, is it clear: are you willing to publish the data to compile who has been treated in communicable departments, other locations, what diseases, what diseases have been treated; what dangers have occurred in Hungary; and were you able to model at all what this could do in the event of a mass disruption? Because it is our duty to protect Hungarian citizens all [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] a similar contagion hazard. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2016-06-13-161	Thank you very much. The Secretary of State is entitled to a rejoinder.
u2016-06-13-162	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Months ago, at press conferences, we've told you several times the data you're curious about, both the types of diseases and the approximate number of incidences. Jobbik is also behind in this case with a record or two. [[Moore from the benches of Jobbik, a voice from the same place:]] The Health Act has also been amended, honourable Member. I don't remember exactly how you voted, but I don't think it's possible that you voted against it with the other opposition parties. [[Interviews from Jobbik's benches: We voted!]] in which the health institution system is also prepared for such an extraordinary situation. If you voted for it, then also tell your fellow Member Daniel Z. Carpathian that he may have voted in favour of what he is now demanding. So we are over this, honourable Member, and we have also amended legislation here in Parliament, precisely in order to be able to take the measures that are necessary. So we are prepared to protect Hungary, to protect Hungarian people, the health of Hungarian people, and to support all opposition parties, both in stocks and in the preparation of health authorities and in the transformation of legislation. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] So, most importantly, we would like to ask the pro-immigration left to take a turn on this issue, although there is little chance that we can count on it, I see. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the benches of the governing parties.]] [[14.20]]
u2016-06-13-163	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Erzsébet Schmuck, representative of the May Other Politics, wants to ask the Minister of National Economy an immediate question:. The crushing of the cafeteria system is not a solution for raising wages! It's an address. The Minister has appointed Mr Péter Cseresnyés State Secretary for his response to an urgent public task. I ask the congresswoman if she accepts the person who is responding.
u2016-06-13-164	Yeah.
u2016-06-13-165	It says yes. Congresswoman Erzsébet Schmuck has the floor.
u2016-06-13-166	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, The government is making false communications about cafeteria. He claims that the European Commission has crushed the Hungarian cafeteria system, that the Union has abolished the Elisabeth voucher, and that the most the government can do is leave its cafeteria share with the people in the form of a wage increase. Of course, half of that is not true. The European Commission did not have a problem with a non-tax benefit, not with criticisms of the whole system, but only with the Erzsébet voucher and the SZÉP card. In the end, none of the stories about the wage increase are true either. In fact, the government is using the EU infringement procedure as an excuse to further weaken the cafeteria system. For years, Viktor Orbán's comma horse has been cashing out extra-wage benefits, and the decision of the EU Court of Justice is now in hand. They see an opportunity to increase income on paper without raising wages. The government is now about to put an end to a well-functioning, popular benefit system for short-term policy purposes. The tax increase is particularly detrimental to low-income workers, since they benefited most from the promotion of catering, school start-ups, training, health promotion or reduced taxation of self-care. The government will invest these socially important goals without even counting the 100,000 forints of cash in the pension. Instead of expanding the cafeteria and raising wages by reducing the load on the job, which is also a record in Europe, you are once again destroying a well-functioning system. How long are you going to delay the real raise?
u2016-06-13-167	Thank you, Congresswoman. I give the floor to State Secretary Péter Cseresnyés.
u2016-06-13-168	Thank you very much. Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and I would like to tell you that this year 48,000 employers give their employees, more than two million users some kind of cafeteria benefit, as regards the SZÉP card and the Erzsébet card, and a change is taking place from 2017, which, as you well know, is due to the need to think about how the benefits provided under the cafeteria can be delivered in the simplest way - so that they can make optimal use of it to workers - workers. I think that the solution that Parliament has adopted is good, because the employees can receive a cash grant of HUF 100,000 on the one hand, with a very reduced tax condition, so that they do not tax, but the employers, the employers, only have a very reduced tax rate, and after the Hungarian government considers Hungarian workers to be adults, they can decide to use the discount options and to spend this 100 thousand forints they have been able to solve in the framework of the cafeteria. On the other hand, of course, the SZÉP card remains, as you know, and you can continue to use the money referred to the SZÉP card for the options provided by the SZÉP card, within a given framework. Thus, the sum of the cash-paid, reduced-tax cafeteria that can be added to the SZÉP card is 100 thousand and 100 thousand forints so that, in addition to the public sector employees, this shows up to 350 thousand forints and gives the employees the opportunity to spend the reduced amounts of money. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-06-13-169	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. The congresswoman is entitled to a rejoinder.
u2016-06-13-170	Mr Secretary, I would like to point out once again that there are several weak points in the transformation. On the one hand, they take out items that are particularly important for low-income people, such as food, support for school start-ups, training, health care. Another weakness: they weaken self-care. We believe that the voluntary pension fund is very much needed. More than two million people are pensioners in Hungary today, whose average pension is just over 100 thousand forints. It would be very important to have the possibility of a voluntary pension fund. Thirdly, we would like to raise our awareness: this payment in cash is not a wage increase, it would require a real wage increase. And what I would like to add is that the cafeteria system needed not to be narrowed down, but to expand it. The LMP has already proposed to include the housing loan repayment aid. For the SZÉP card, it is important for the SZÉP card to be able to be used for several purposes and for several years. Thank you. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-06-13-171	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. The rejoinder also deserves the Secretary of State.
u2016-06-13-172	Thank you very much. Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and I would like to reiterate that this is not a wage benefit, and by receiving cash for the employees for a budget of HUF 100,000, it does not mean that the government is thinking of it as a wage, but that the cafetheria was thought to be a cash benefit, to treat the workers as adults, to decide whether, for example, they are spending on a voluntary pension fund or health insurance, or to spend on other things that they need. By the way, I would like to say that the options you have listed, which you have chosen so far, will continue to be in your hands as an option, you can choose them, only with a different discount rate, but as an option, you will still have this option as an option. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-06-13-173	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Gábor Harangozó, representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Minister of the Prime Minister's Office an immediate question:. What is the connection? It's an address. The Minister appointed Mr Zoltán Kovács Secretary of State to respond to his urgent public mission. I'm asking you if you'll accept the response.
u2016-06-13-174	Thank you, Mr. President. I wanted to find out more from Mr. Lazarus, because I wanted to ask you one thing...
u2016-06-13-175	Do you accept the responder?
u2016-06-13-176	... which he personally knows better, but I accept.
u2016-06-13-177	He'll take it. Then you have the floor, Congressman Gábor Bellozó.
u2016-06-13-178	Thank you, Mr. President. Back in 2012, Minister Lázár, referring clearly to Sándor Csányi on a radio programme, said that a large Hungarian-like and its leader would surround the country as an octopus and have an impact on the Hungarian economy, society and Hungarian policy. Then, in 2013, Mr. Csányi struck back, saying that he did not know Mr. Lazarus, but he is a talented man, since we can see how well he handled the traffics. Well, Mr. Lazarus said he called Mr. Csányi the country's number one loan shark, who then sued him. Then there was peace for a while, and then in 2015, when the first man of the OTP received the highest state medal, Minister Lazarus said that he did not agree with the medal, and then Mr Csányi said that he did not find it reassuring that Mr Lazarus was overseeing the distribution of EU money. Then something happened, because it was a sudden turn of events, because on 15 December 2015 at the annual hearing of the Committee on Agriculture, Mr Lázár said, I quote, that the other branch of the model economy, and this certainly coincides at the moment with the interest of the Csányi family, we believe that there is a state interest in supporting them by guaranteeing the lease of the land in the long term. And then here he comes, which is quite amazing, Kaposvár's case. Mr.Csányi sent the owner of the rubber burning company to Kaposvár, and then let's see a miracle, Kaposvár's Fidesz mayor announced that Kaposvár would volunteer to go to Kaposvár, and then three days later, the Fidesz majority voted to put it in Kaposvár, and then the government announced that he wanted to risk it as part of a major state investment. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] the health of Kaposvár. Secretary of State, what's going on here?
u2016-06-13-179	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Mr Zoltán Kovács, State Secretary. [[14.30]]
u2016-06-13-180	Mr President, Honourable Congressman, I am not an impresario of Sándor Csányi; I cannot bring up so many additions from the past three to four years, which you have just presented to Parliament. I think you've linked a number of cases here that are not related to each other. One of them, I think, was the aim of the Hungarian State in terms of the banking sector, so that 50 percent of the Hungarian state should have influence over the Hungarian banking sector. To this end, a number of steps have been taken in the last year, starting with bank purchases and also in the context of the savings cooperative world. Today, it can be seen that there is confidence in the banking sector in these matters, both in savings cooperatives and in other banking sectors. As far as the model economy is concerned, the agricultural economic portfolio, represented by the name of Sándor Csányi, meets the legal criteria of the government's decision-making, which states that the sample farms that are not only engaged in production, processing, but also trade, thus covering the entire portfolio, are the only sectors in Hungary capable of supplying this, and I believe that it is important to highlight and support this by bringing this agricultural sector to the ground in the long term. As far as the municipal case is concerned, I think that the Kaposvár body of representatives and the citizens of Kaposvár should be asked here, as there has been a public hearing in this case. In this case, the government has nothing to do. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-06-13-181	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. You have the chance to rejoin the congressman.
u2016-06-13-182	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Minister of State, the Hungarian Government has identified the investment that seriously endangers the health of the Kaposvár people as a priority investment. But I understand, Mr Lázár has said exactly how the great Hungarian octopus can affect Hungarian politics. You will have to account for this in front of the electorate as you will face all other corruption cases in the next elections. But now I have the good news, not only for you, but for the public in this country, that the Kaposvár people have been given the opportunity to take matters into their own hands. There was no public hearing, no one listened to what the Kaposvár people wanted, but we managed to get the signature collection started in Kaposvár, so that a referendum could prevent this insufferable investment, and the Kaposvár people would do so. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2016-06-13-183	Thank you very much. The Secretary of State also has the opportunity to rejoinder.
u2016-06-13-184	Honourable Congressman, Everything about the referendum is important, because we have talked about it several times here in Parliament. If local citizens want a referendum, and they collect signatures for it, and the referendum starts, it will decide on this matter in some respects. As far as the priority investment is concerned, any investment that creates jobs, which is significant and large, supports it either financially or by treating it as a priority investment, because in such cases the procedural deadlines will be faster, it will be possible to facilitate procedural conditions earlier, which will help all large businesses that will create jobs. Finally, you are talking about the great Hungarian octopus. I think that as a representative of the party in which you are a member or sitting in your group, it is better not to talk about a large Hungarian octopus; you have had enough corruption issues in the past period, so it is better to keep quiet about this. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-06-13-185	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, László György Lukács, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question: It's an address. The Minister appointed Secretary of State Bence Rétvári to respond. I'm asking if the congressman will take it. [[For signal:]] It says yes. Mr László György Lukács has the floor.
u2016-06-13-186	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, Last week, it became clear and public that after six years, health workers may receive a substantial wage increase, and it is worth noting that anyone who does not appreciate the tax forints that the government now uses does not really acknowledge that their wage situation is in need of improvement. Of course, all wage increases come in handy, and some of the workers have thanked for this, and the Jobbik Hungary Movement is also interested in working among better salaries, but the Orbán government can pay off a long-standing debt with this, or at least start after six years, because before the government, before the two governments, there were bad conditions in health care. But it must also be noted, Mr Secretary of State, that the increase has not been comprehensive. According to current data, it is clear that health professionals, who are most affected, can benefit from a small, proportional wage increase of HUF 10-30 thousand gross increase, which is an average net increase of HUF 5-20 thousand. But it should also be noted that with this increase, we will be able to create a wage tension within the system, but also that there are some, and unfortunately, on the day of the women's advocates - because we are celebrating their day today - it must be said, for example, that the women in charge have been left out of this wage increase, or that they seem to be staying out of this wage increase. However, technical workers working in hospitals, health institutions, administration or otherwise the maintenance of the hospital itself, who would also look forward to paying their wages, their otherwise outstandingly low wages, were missed. It must therefore be said that for them this wage, this low wage is a very big, serious problem, and it must also be said that it would indeed be appropriate to consider reopening the wage negotiations that seem to have been completed. I would like to ask the Honourable Secretary of State [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Why these employees were left out. Do they plan to receive a raise or, if so, when? Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-06-13-187	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2016-06-13-188	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, I think it is a huge success that we have achieved together with health workers in the negotiations over the last few months. This is not the first step, because we can remember, in 2012-13, when health professionals received the first wage increase of about 27 per cent - this was obviously added by what we were able to give in a residency grant - and the next step was another two or four steps, when, in the case of specialists, in September this year, an extra HUF 107 thousand will be added, in November next, another HUF 100,000, and in the case of nurses, where, in four years, their salary will increase by 26,5 per cent from 1 September this year, and then by 12, 8 and 8 per cent for further years. But this needs to be managed in conjunction with the fact that in the last six years, the construction of the super hospital in Budapest and the development of additional centers in North Pest and South Pest, and the construction of the new hospital in South Buda, has helped hospitals to improve working conditions and to improve the possibilities of care. We hope that this will also improve the quality of supply in Budapest, as we did before. The chancellors are also coming into the health care system. In higher education, this is a success story, as we managed to reduce the debt and debt by a third to a quarter. It fits into this, this joint programme, the plan, the alliance, the multi-annual wage increase that doctors and nurses working in health care receive. This is part of the basic care - and this is partly the answer to your question - plus 10 billion resources for the general practitioners involved in the primary care and for other actors. It's all about our alliance with the medical staff for the benefit of the patients. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-06-13-189	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. The congressman has a rejoinder.
u2016-06-13-190	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State, I think we need to go back to those circles again, or we need to say again what was said by the profession, or their interpretation of this wage increase or wage increase promise. On the one hand, it is too late, and it seems especially true for the workers, perhaps too little. The question of how to speed up the increase in wages, which has already been extended for about four years and which is only 60 per cent, was also addressed and addressed by the Secretary of State. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: -Only 60 percent?]] which they will benefit from. We believe that there is a need to speed it up, in any case, to catch up this increase to the expected raise of about 100 percent. [[14.40]] And the other is a negotiation issue. Many, and by the way, quite rightly questioned, and in this we ask the State Secretary, consider whether they can involve new partners, new trade unions, people who are really representative, people who are actually better able to represent the interests of their employees, because it is absolutely necessary and I believe that a satisfactory wage agreement can only be reached if this chapter is reopened and new negotiating partners are able to come forward with new results. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2016-06-13-191	Thank you, Congressman. The Secretary of State is also entitled to a rejoinder.
u2016-06-13-192	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, I don't think many people would say the sentence you said that only 60 percent of the wage increase is higher. So in Hungary, the economy has a good performance, but in few European countries, they would say that there is only 60 percent wage increase for workers. Obviously, we'd be happy to give you more, and if you add up this 65% by the previous 27 percent and multiply these numbers, you'll see that this is a doubling of the pay of the nurses in eight years of our two cycles. Obviously, if you look at what happened before, what kind of withdrawals, withdrawals, taking off the 13th month's salary, that turned all the trends around, and I think a double-up like that is a great achievement in two cycles. Of course, you may be opposed to this increase in wages because the Hungarian doctors will be more satisfied, the nurses will be more satisfied, and the family business that you started and your family members run will be able to get fewer doctors out of Ireland; in six months you have been able to bring 62 doctors to Ireland, and now, if the doctor's wages increase, the business that the family business can count on will be smaller, which is why you are so against it. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2016-06-13-193	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Before speaking after the agenda, I would like to announce that T/10531 on the amendment of certain spatial planning laws during the decisions. T/10531/11. The Parliament voted twice on a single proposal; therefore, it voted twice. On both occasions, the Parliament adopted the single proposal. Obviously, the second vote was unnecessary. All this will be indicated on the IT network in the voting results and in the Parliament's authentic record. Dear Parliament, We are now moving on to the speeches after the agenda, as we have reached the end of the discussion of our agendas today. After the agenda, Mr László Varju applied for an address on the subject of his speech on the subject of the last week's events. I'll give you the floor in a five-minute time frame. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2016-06-13-194	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, The events of the last week, I think, should be extended for the last day of the session, even for the last six months. And in addition to the general assessment that we made at the press conference, there is also a question of whether there is a matter that has been ignored by the House, the government activity has made the situation worse, and I would like to examine this, and I would like to draw your attention to this, because there is such a subject. This means that since mid-2013, civil servants entitled to old-age pensions have had to choose either to retire or to continue working, but they are not to receive pensions in addition to their salary. There are 5,000 people who haven't been pensioned in the last few years while taking a job because they've been working. One of them demanded this in court and reached the European Court of Justice, where significant compensation was voted on or awarded to him, and the court decided that it should be paid to the Hungarian State. You can expect millions of forints of compensation for those who do the same here. They, I believe, have the right and the opportunity to claim this compensation themselves. This is particularly the case because since mid-2013, since this law has been alive, the State has used a particularly discriminatory solution. When this decision was made, only one part of the discrimination was that the Hungarian State did not enforce it in the field of private entrepreneurs and private workers, but the public servants did. But there are special exceptions within them, and there are special exceptions to those involved in political leadership. And that's why it's unacceptable in this form. The decision was previously justified by the fact that the relevant part of the pension law is contrary to the European Convention on Human Rights, which violates the prohibition of discrimination, because, as I mentioned earlier, as in the private sector and public sector, there is such a difference in public employment. The European Court of Human Rights, although it has accepted as a legitimate objective the intention to reduce costs, cannot be done in such a way. Therefore, the large number of lawsuits against the Hungarian State can have more serious consequences, and in this decision or in this solution, which the Hungarian State has applied here, there is the last six months, but it is also a longer period of time, how it has acted. Others, the weaker ones, who have less ability to assert their interests, take money from them and give it to people from which stadiums, for example, are built. Because of the coercive rules, it was possible for those affected to choose between two evils. Or they gave up further employment and thus ceased the possibility of active employment for them, but if they chose to continue employment, they had already lost their pension. For the sake of those few, I'm telling you right now. The fact that the suspension of a rightful pension service violates the right to social security is also a violation of the right to work. Just in the Hungarian case, the court held in Strasbourg that the public service relationship requires a long-term special trust, which is offended by the state's unexpected and unilaterally committed, completely new relations compared to the previous one. Therefore, in this respect, the Democratic Coalition is working on a new bill, which we are submitting in order to ensure that the state does not use such extraordinary solutions and does not live in the future; those who have been harmed and those who have to pay their debts. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2016-06-13-195	Thank you, Congressman. The government doesn't want to react to that right now. Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát, Jobbik Group also applied for a post-the-meet speech:.How long? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman, within a five-minute time frame.
u2016-06-13-196	Mr President, Dear House, The final vote of the bill on the budget has always been a turning point of the year, according to which we can say that we can issue a certificate of the performance of the Government of Hungary, and this certificate is, to say the least, devastating. We see that the cosmetic facilitations that this government wants to provide to citizens are pathetic, insufficient, and for example, the reduction of 1 percent of personal income tax in the case of a store seller may not even be worth a thousand forints, and in the case of a State Secretary or Minister, it may exceed 10,000 forints. In contrast to Jobbik's proposal to reduce VAT on all basic food and child-rearing articles, which would bring a noticeable relief to families, the government's draft does not amount to a total reduction of 1 percent of the average family's consumer basket, in a manner that affects only 6-7 percent of the average family's consumer basket. While we see that children's education articles are being taxed in Hungary from the most brutal point of view of VAT in Europe, we do not understand how the government intends to achieve a demographic turn, since this overtaxation is not only typical of child rearing articles and not only of VAT, but, indeed, according to OECD surveys, Hungary was almost always in the first five countries in the period under consideration if we look at the tax burden of families with two children and two workers. [[14.50]] So it can be said that Hungarian families are being brutally taxed in Europe, if you will. However, we also need to see that not only the demographic shift is lagging behind, since in recent years, unfortunately, the rate of population loss has continued to increase, but the migration spiral has not slowed down or stopped. And while we know that it is not possible to compete with the Western European wage level alone, even those not of a cosmetic nature, but much more important steps have not been taken by the government, to which the draft budget would have given the opportunity. We do not understand the fact that we are moving resources towards the CSOK, 10 plus 10 and home-building benefits, which, although supported by Jobbik, can be said to be directed to the more fortunate social groups, they may be able to move up or down from the upper tens of thousands of people, but at the same time it is painfully lacking a comprehensive home-building and mainly rental-building program that would provide the opportunity to make progress for Hungarians living in a difficult line, so it would ease the amazing shortage of new-built apartments and the lack of a tenement apartment, and it might be possible to reduce the rent prices in Budapest and in the metropolitan area a little bit lower, thus making it easier for everyone to do so. We also have to say that besides the already mentioned slowing down of the emigration spiral, if we work with Hungarian contractors, central procurement of materials, Hungarian entrepreneurs, Hungarian suppliers and domestic economic branches could also receive capital injections. Such a program could have been launched, launched from the mass of resources that was moved only by the government to the amount of benefit mentioned by the CSOK. In addition to negotiating the budget, there was also a kind of state of grace, as, along with the spill-over effects, more than 400 billion forints were actually distributed, which was made by the government in another bill. At the same time, Jobbik feels untenable that, while it does not have access to a home creation programme to establish a demographic change, Hungary is influenced by external influences, as a German economic province with half status, that a German car manufacturer is throwing out seasonal offers or coming here, because the Hungarian labour force is cheap. It is not only possible to compete with cheap labour, it is not necessary to keep Hungary as a vulnerable German province from an economic approach, but it is necessary to have separate economic branches, entrepreneurial spirit, support for domestic entrepreneurs and a tax system supporting production. But in the meantime, in order for the Hungarian families to feel the ease, we do not convince the government enough to embrace Jobbik's comprehensive VAT reduction concept, since by proposing a very broad reduction in basic food and child-rearing articles, and taking it through it, the burden of the families will decrease in a noticeable way, roughly six or eight times as much as the government has now put in this draft budget with gestures and cosmetics. But if we do not take these very serious steps, then neither this government nor another can show any real success in tackling the demographic disaster. So don't wait for the Jobbik government to do this, do it now, do it now, because there will be a future government that will be able to deliver results, and this will be the Cabinet of Jobbik. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-06-13-197	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Government, State Secretary Peter Hoppál wishes to respond.
u2016-06-13-198	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, I must say to your statement after the agenda that you either do not live in this country, or you do not know the numbers, or you have now carried out a mandatory political action, and you have said the opposite of what has been happening in Hungary in recent years. Honourable Congressman, Let's see what the facts are in contrast to what you have just mentioned about Hungarian family policy. In Hungary, after the 2010 change of government, significant changes were also appreciated and appreciated by foreign analysts. Support and support for families have been put at the centre of government policy. To say that families are being taxed into coal in Hungary and that they do not receive family support is an obvious lie, honourable Member. I think you should get to know the Hungarian families before you start making accusations. In 2010, your claim would probably have been closer to reality, because the number of children committed at the time was close to disaster in Hungary. We are well aware that family support has always been abolished by socialist governments after periods of civil governance. You should only remember a little bit about the social measures that socialist government has taken from its name after 1994 with the Bokros package and how it has brought the Hungarian families to the brink of bankruptcy. Then came the civil government, the first Orbán government between 1998 and 2002, which raised the minimum wage and which introduced the family tax reduction in Hungary, Member. I'm asking you not to keep this from me, because it's the only way we can get to know the whole truth. If you were talking about post-2002 governance, you'd be right. Between 2002 and 2010, the socialists regained the potential for governance, and they completely abolished the family tax reduction and frozen the minimum wage. Indeed, in those eight years, the support of families has decreased immensely, and we can also say that the reason why the negative demographic trends have accelerated and the result of the terrible and painful decline in Hungarianism is because the encodement of the measures of the then eight-year government was that the result will be that we are losing more weight than we should reproduce ourselves. On the other hand, the results of the change of government after 2010 cannot be refuted, because they are burned into the statistical results, which have long been recognised not only by the Hungarian statistical office, but also by foreign statistical offices, Member. If you read them a little bit, you wouldn't be so arrogant and you wouldn't have the lack of reality. I will tell you for your sake that you should also meet the facts: the number of children committed on average by women in 2010 rose from 1.25 percent to 1.44 percent in Hungary due to a very coordinated and serious economic policy change and a demographic and family support system. Congressman, to say that this is a negative trend, at least stupidity or malice. However, in terms of the number of marriages, it can be said that in 2010 there was a marriage of less than 35,000 in Hungary, while in 2015 this number increased by 30 percent, Member, almost 46,000 marriages were made in Hungary. If that's not a positive trend, then what is it? There have been 11,000 more marriages in Hungary in five years, which is a very short period. Statisticians say it takes a long time for significant changes in demography to take place. This was a positive change over a short period of five years. This is confirmed by the welcome decrease in the number of abortions in Hungary by 23 percent during the same period. It can therefore be said that the family support system, which the government of Fidesz, the first, the second and the third Orbán governments put in place to motivate Hungarian society, is also unique in Europe, and statistics do reflect that although we are not satisfied, we would like the demographic opportunity and the situation of families to improve even further, but the thousand billion forints that the family support system left for Hungarian families in Europe is exemplary. You should be proud of that. [[Applause in the ranks of Fidesz.]]
u2016-06-13-199	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Péter Csizi Fideszes, Member, applied for a post-meeting speech: we are proud of the 130 employees of the Zsolnay factory. You have the floor, Congressman, within a five-minute time frame.
u2016-06-13-200	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, In the last moment of the spring session, even in the moments before the summer break, it is clear that when we look at the personal dimension, the moment when we agree with each other is very rare in the Chamber of this House. Usually there are duels and political battles, which, I think, is completely natural for a political body. However, if we raise our eyes a little higher, look around this room or look at this beautiful building, we are all proud, regardless of political affiliation, of the building that is now the seat of the Hungarian Parliament, the Hungarian Parliament since 1904. Everyone sees someone else in this building. Some are fascinated by the size of the building, its dimensions, some are based on the incredibly modern technical, technical and design technology supply, which was unique at the time, not only in Hungary but also in Europe. [[15.00]] And there are those who are proud of the decoration, color and atmosphere of the building. Well, the way we're doing this, Pécs, is that we're proud that this building was decorated with Zsolnay ceramics. I mean, it's the 19th. The Zsolnay plant, which was founded in the second half of the century, became known both in Europe and globally at the moment of the construction of Parliament, the Parliament. At that time, the factory was able to introduce innovations that we are still proud of, and from Budapest to Cluj-Napoca, from Paris to the New World, there are buildings, public institutions, sculptures, and there are porcelain products in a lot of civilian homes that were the product of the Zsolnay plant in Pécs. Unfortunately, in recent decades, we have often feared that this glorious past would disappear. Several times, especially in the period after the change of regime, we Pécs were concerned about the economic background, financial background and liquidity difficulties of the factory, that Zsolnay products would be the past. Now, however, at the most recent moment, we must especially draw attention, even here in the Parliament, to the great trouble in the area of the house of Zsolnay. Because today there are not only economic difficulties in the factory's everyday life, but 130 out of the 150 employees decided to leave their old jobs. A job where many have been active since they were young. It's not a simple factory, it's not a simple workplace. This job can't be done by everyone who works at the Zsolnay factory. Technically, the Zsolnay heritage is in the hands, creeds and spirituality of people who have worked in the factory until today, until Tuesday, exactly. Of the 150 people, 130 have had enough of the conditions that have characterized the factory for months. We have hundreds of millions of HUF in debt, countless unpaid bills and news in the process that the factory's products are not sold by official means. The latest recording released today shows that the foreign owner of the factory is not a good owner of the factory, a good owner of our national treasure. Therefore, the Mayor of Pécs, Dr. Zsolt Páva, initiated the government to declare the factory to be a strategically important economic organization. This request has been approved by the government, so it can be said that while the city and the government have provided legal protection, last week the workers have physically supported the Zsolnay values. So, ladies and gentlemen, although the fight is still going on, although the owner tries to defend the honour of the munter in fierce duels, although the NAV has not yet made public its investigation, which is about unfaithful treatment and theft, we can say that we are all concerned about the Zsolnay factory, the Zsolnay value, and we hope that our national treasure will soon fall into safe hands again. Thank you for listening. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-06-13-201	Thank you, Congressman. I'll ask the Secretary of State if he wants to answer. [[For signal:]] Secretary Peter Hoppál says yes. You have the floor.
u2016-06-13-202	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Zsolnay Porcelánmanufakture, formerly known as Zsolnay Porcelángyár is one of the most important treasures and treasures of Hungarian culture. That is why we consider it very important that, looking back at the past 100-150 years of the porcelain factory, we find the points from which we can draw strength, and the government supports in every way, with every step, that the initiative of the Pécs and the steps of the Pécs municipality can be supported by the government, so that we can further escape and inherit the Zsolnay value for our nation as a whole. As you know, there was obviously a crack in the factory's history in World War I, because then the military industry had to produce primarily, and then the global economic crisis came in the period 1929-33, when the production of the factory was halved, and therefore the workforce was very much replaced and a three-day working week had to be introduced. Then, from the 30s, when the demand for Zsolnay was strengthened again, he was once again at the center of the world's interest, just as the Art Nouveau, during the turn of the century, Zsolnay returned with grand prizes from every existing world exhibition. Thus, it represents a value that could not have been crushed by a global crisis, and it could not have been crushed by the second. Not even after World War II nationalization, when the Communist state took them away from owners, heirs, and drove them away, they forced the owners to leave their own property within 24 hours. The Žilnays had to leave with a suitcase during the interning period. Then, we know that by designing a new range of products, the socialist period of 40 years has tried to improve the prestige of the factory, but it took the period after the change of regime to find this value in the market. However, this period did not favour, as you have said, Mr President, this period, the period of privatisation, did not favour the factory. After all, majority ownership has migrated from owner to owner, and let us admit that when the company split into three parts in the 1990s, it obviously did not favour the Zsolnay brand and the strengthening of the conditions. However, now that there are signs of another crisis, the municipality of Pécs reacted vividly and decisively. So I can tell Mr. Congressman that the effort that came out of the direction of the Pécs was immediately supported by the government. After all, Zsolnay Porcelánmanufaktúra Zrt. was granted by the government on the initiative of the city of Pécs in February this year. the designation of a strategic priority farmer as an organisation. This was initiated by the Pécs, and the government responded to this motion immediately. I think that, since in this regulation the government guarantees that, in the event of the possible liquidation of the manufacturing industry, with its special national economic value in mind, the special procedural rules provided by the bankruptcy law are in place, we can be sure that this value that the Zsolnay factory has accumulated for centuries does not go to waste. It is very important to emphasise this, because indeed, as we have seen here in the gallery of Parliament today, they are the owners, owners of a culture of work, they are the only people in the world who know how to do Zsolnay decoration technology, we can think that without them there is no Zsolnay. Therefore, their united stand in favour of 130 out of 150 employees getting out of the old company and moving to the new company created by the municipality shows that in addition to the value of Zsolnay, the city, the employees and the government stand together. It is important to emphasise this, since both of the five-acre, unique and fantastic Zsolnay Cultural Quarter, established in the Zsolnay and Zsolnay factories during the European Capital of Culture programme, have been honoured among the Hungaricans proposed by our chairman. Zsolnay Porcelánmanufakture, Zsolnay product and Zsolnay Cultural Quarter have legal protection. I think that this line of steps that the Pécs city administration and government have taken in a coordinated manner over the last few months, all of them, has led every step in the direction of saving Zsolnay for the nation in the long term and making it valuable for a broad market interest. Thank you for our joint efforts in this.
u2016-06-13-203	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. After the agenda, MEP Zsolt Nyitrai, Fidesz Group asked for a speech:. What we can be proud of at European level is the title of Eger bull's blood. You have the floor, Congressman. [[15.10]]
u2016-06-13-204	Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, As a representative of Eger and its region, as well as of the Eger wine region, I asked to speak here in Parliament today. Eger is an old historical wine region. It is very important for the people of the region to have grapes and wine, as thousands of people live in winemaking and winemaking. Many people are given a living in the wine region and families. We are in constant dialogue with the wine-growing vineyards and winemakers, we regularly invite them to professional forums and discussions. The wine region, perhaps Hungary's best-known wine, is the bull's blood of Eger, our red cuvée, which we can be proud of at European level; also at European level, the Challenge du Vinen, also known as the Olympics of wines, was the best featured wine region in Eger. A few months ago, I initiated the entry of Eger bull's blood into the Hungaricums. I did all this because the Eger bull blood meets the criteria of the Hungaricums, because it is a kind of peak performance of Hungarians. It is an important development that we can say that today each of the serious Eger wineries has created the white pair of the bull's blood, the Eger star, which is a white cuvée. This Friday, the Hungaricum Committee will meet in Kisvárda. Our plans and hopes are that at this meeting, the committee will bring the bikavér of Eger to the National Bank of Hungary, which will make the excellent product of the Eger wine region an outstanding national value. This is also important, and from here I ask the members of the committee to support this proposal, because this would be a very important step for us, because getting into the Hungarian Value Reserve, becoming an outstanding national value is a prerequisite for becoming a Hungaricum. I trust that I will be able to report this soon, so I will also be able to report on the status of Hungaricum to the public of the Parliament. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-06-13-205	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor on behalf of the government to Secretary of State Peter Hoppál.
u2016-06-13-206	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Honourable Congressman, Indeed, it is of the utmost importance that the Hungarian wine sector's questions relating to the protection of origin should be answered as quickly as possible. This is obviously the result of an initiative from the direction of the mountain village and a decade of cooperation to protect large brands. The government supports this with a very good heart, since the Hungarian product range occupies a particularly important place. Since the change of regime, the entire palette of wines of international rank and quality, not serving mass production, but serving high taste and quality in the form of family wineries, has served consumers. The Eger wine region, we can say, was the first to respond well to the challenge of protecting origin, the challenge of the era. This was necessary, because, as you said, it was indeed necessary to place great emphasis on the quality development of Eger bull blood. It is well known that the socialist period before the change of regime did not favour the award of Hungarian wines, the bull blood of Eger, and, with mass production, the old wonderful, fantastic high quality of the socialist production period has unfortunately been very low, but the steps, the self-limitation that the mountain village and the producers of Eger have introduced in recent years have brought their fruitage. These items deserve special attention in very prestigious international competitions, and have also brought significant success to the Hungarian wine sector. We can say that the Eger wine producers were indeed the first to develop more detailed rules for bull blood, the Eger bull blood than general legislation. It was a self-limiting gesture, which I referred to, which led to a rapid increase in quality, in a very short time, in high steps, and marching forward. I believe that this is the right framework for Community legislation to allow producer communities to decide themselves on the protection of their wines in an autonomous manner. This guarantees, therefore, the Hungarian legal environment guarantees the guarantee of quality. I would also like to mention that, as a unique initiative, the new wine with a protected designation of origin mentioned by the Member, the Eger star, the highest quality selection of white wines, has in a short time earned the appreciation of the market, so we can say that the Eger product palette, besides the Eger bull's blood, has now served the highest items on the shelves with the Eger star. I wish to the wine producers in Eger that the invested work, the exemplary regulatory system that has been implemented in production, should accompany the upward, domestic and international appreciation of recent years, and the efforts of the Egers to move the brand towards Hungaricum, of course, the government intends to support this by all means. Thank you very much, Congressman.
u2016-06-13-207	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Mr Péter Ágh Fideszes, Member of the European Parliament, asked for a post-meeting speech: Mr Gencsápáti can be proud of the title. You have the floor in a five-minute time frame.
u2016-06-13-208	Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Allow me to present to you the joy of a community here in the House of the country, as they contribute to the building of national consciousness through their activities. In this regard, I would like to draw attention to the fact that there is a great tradition of maintaining our folk traditions in Vas County. Whether music, dance, or other areas, the Ironians are worthy guardians of the customs of their ancestors. It is therefore a good feeling to attend the events here, as we can often see and hear groups whose pillars are the values of the past, but they want to give something in today's day to keep folk culture alive in the future. Such a community is also located in Gencsapáti, where the 25th Pentecost festival and the 20th Gencsapát regional folk dance festival took place this year. In the north-north-north-west neighbourhood of Szombathely, the Gencsapát Traditional folk dance ensemble operates, but the Vas folk song studio and the Kőzőkör Association of Fine Arts and Folk Arts are also connected here. The outstanding and often recognized work of these organisations also shows that in the settlement of nearly 3,000 people, outstanding work is being done to preserve our values. This is also confirmed by the fact that this year the 20th Jubilee, Gencsi sweeping, regional folk dance festival could be held. In spite of the bad weather, the Pentecost events were a celebration of the local community. The fact that this round anniversary could take place this year proves that one of Gencsapati's values has become the love of folk dance. From the popular dance meetings that started in 1992, since 1997 the Vas county folk dance festival, which has been held since then, has been called the Gencsi sweeping event. In 2000, they opened up to the wider region and became a regional festival. At the same time, the programme could be developed through international cooperation through Transylvania, Slovenia and Croatia to Austria. Guests and folk dance groups from many countries have thus increased their rank. From this year's occasion, only two songs: 550 performers, 28 productions. Therefore, I should like to thank Mr. Ferenc Bodorkós for the fact that the municipality has always been behind those who were the engines of spreading culture. Among them is Varga Albin, whose name has become a trademark of the cultural life of Geneva. I trust that such events and civil society organisations will continue to help as many young people as possible to discover the values of our folk culture and the beauty of our traditions. This is a mission that can help the members of the new generation to live their Hungarians as deeply as possible. For this mission, I wish the Gentapátians a great deal of strength. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the benches of Fidesz.]]
u2016-06-13-209	Thank you, Congressman. I'll ask him if he wants to answer on behalf of the government. [[Dr. Peter Hoppál says no.]] No. Dear Parliament, Gergely Farkas, betterman, applied for a post-meeting speech: let the opinion of the students also be expressed in the National Assembly. Report to Jobbik's Youth Department. The results of your campaign. CHAPTER XVII Part A. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2016-06-13-210	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Allow me to introduce you to the Jobbik Youth Department for the 17th time when the school year and the spring session are over. The messages received during his campaign were sent to us by high school students. We know very well that the educational problems and educational disputes are not over yet, which is why it is important that the opinion of this social class, perhaps the most affected, should be expressed here, within the walls of the Parliament. [[15.20]] Bálint's 10th grade student wrote: "There are many lessons, after 6-7 hours the students are unable to fully focus on the course. Often, we take over the curriculum, but we do not understand it, because there is so much that there is no time to deepen. They're just pushing the teachers to move forward with the material so that the students don't understand anything about it. We need to make a difference. In fact, it should be changed. Jobbik has also been stressing this problem for years, and we are calling for a decisive solution, since there is an unreasonable and indisputable amount of teaching material. We believe, in line with students and teachers, that less is more: we need to reduce the curriculum so that learning can be deepened. Most of the complaints, such as Tamás's, have been received for the overload and unrealistic amount of teaching material, and I quote: "It is very stressful to sit at school for 8-9 hours a day. Besides, we don't have time for anything. Tímea says that's also the problem. I quote him: "Too much or more is the curriculum" - as he puts it. It is necessary to move very fast to keep up with the course, so students will be left behind. There's a lot of unnecessary material to learn, but most of it doesn't have to be done for graduation. In addition to the principle of., we also claim that what is much is much, we need to reduce the number of hours so that neither students nor teachers feel eviscerated. We have also heard from the State Secretary that there is such an intention, but we believe that it is too late when the new National Basics are being prepared by the end of 17 or who knows when. Even now, we need to radically intervene and reduce student overload. Viola also emphasizes this in her letter: Instead of Qty, teachers should strive for quality and knowledge with the curriculum. We need reduced hours, instead of 8-9 hours a day, 5-6-7 hours, as he puts it. Another very important aspect that Gergő touched on and wrote this opinion on our leaflet is the question of predictability. This is what Gergő wrote:. As regards constantly changing requirements and recruitment scores, both further education and the completion of the school are in some ways unpredictable. Yes, unfortunately, today it can be concluded that the school system is unpredictable, even though predictability would provide young people with the security that they could plan in their life in the long term, even in relation to their school progress. In addition to reducing the number of hours, Béla drew attention to the appreciation of teachers and the payment of overtime. He thinks this is important because the perseverance and commitment of teachers are keeping the education system alive. They should also be thanked, and this should also be reflected in the payment, where appropriate, in the payment of overtime. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. "The teachers need a psychic examination," says Szóka. There is no doubt that a more stringent competence test should be required to obtain a teacher's degree. In this context, the psychological criteria should also be met by applicants. By the way, it is interesting that recently the president of HÖOK, Tibor Gulyás, raised the same question. They also consulted teachers and teachers who also confirmed that input recordings should be tightened up, it is necessary to tighten competence tests. One of the following comments: - The KLIK system is not working, as the applicant of the complaint puts it. If something goes wrong, we'll have to spend months without it. Sometimes the ladies' room was bad for three months because nobody did anything. This is a typical example of having problems with who is responsible for the particular problem, who would be in charge of repairing it or getting the missing tools. There are thousands of such examples. Kinga also wrote this regular example of excessive and irrational centralisation for KLIK. We are afraid that the creation of 59 small CLIKs voted on today will not be a solution, nor will it be a step forward. Ladies and gentlemen, I think you should hear your voice. Our campaign was a shortcoming initiative, a very rare example is that one of the parliamentary parties actually asks for the opinion of young people. So young people are important to us, not only now, but also later. So we will probably continue to present these complaints even during the September session. As I said, unfortunately, the debates are not over yet, and we believe that all opinions may be necessary. Thank you so much for listening. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2016-06-13-211	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Mr Lajos Kepli, Jobbikos, has also applied for an after-the-date speech: "To do it or not to do it?" It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman, within a five-minute time frame.
u2016-06-13-212	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Allow me, ladies and gentlemen, to report to you in a few words on my work as Members of the session closes. What's the job of a congressman? Of course, if you are an individual Member, you must represent the settlements of your constituency, the interests of the people who live there, speak in Parliament and submit motions on this matter. Such a task may also exist in the case of a list of Members, if they feel they own the affairs of their constituencies, and I consider myself to be such a Member. I have spoken several times in Parliament for the interests of my constituency, the region of Balatonfüred and Castle Palace. This is particularly true if the individual parliamentary representative of the same region does not carry out his duties and does not do everything to ensure that the interests of those living there are represented. Mr Károly Kontrát, State Secretary, elected as an individual parliamentary representative of the Balatonfüred constituency, I regret to say that, on the basis of parliamentary statistics, he has not once spoken in Parliament in the last two years for his constituency. [[Dr. Csaba Gyüre: Shame!]] He has zero individual applications, so he doesn't care at all about the fate of his constituency. For this reason, I feel that it is more than a matter of my heart to bring the affairs of the Balatonfüred and Castle Palace region to Parliament, as I have done dozens of times in the form of speeches, and most of my individual proposals have dealt with this area, the problems of this region. I think that the authentic representation of a constituency who sees its everyday life, sees its problems, and can represent those problems faithfully in front of the Parliament. While Mr Károly Kontra's speeches in Parliament were limited to answers to questions from opposition representatives alone, I have, among other things, brought problems from the constituency to Parliament, such as the issue of Lake Balaton, the question of job creation in the vicinity of Várpalota or environmental investments and planned hazardous activities in the Balaton area. So I was the first to raise my word about the war factory planned for Balatonfűzfő, and then, under repeated pressure, an investigation was launched in the case of the application, which would have financed this investment from a tender. This investigation revealed shortcomings, which made it seem that this is not a dangerous investment for tourism and the people living there in Balatonfűzfő. I feel that I had considerable merit in this regard, since the inquiry started to ask my many written questions. I was also the first to speak about the transport of asbestos planned for the landfill in Castle Palace, which would have destroyed the health of the people there. The pro-government congressman was late there, too. In general, his activity is spent in appearing in residential forums and telling him that he represents the interests of the local people, and then nothing happens. [[Dr. Peter Hoppál: Net lie!]] It may be difficult to represent the interests of a constituency if a person can only drive his own constituency along the way between his job and his papal residence in Budapest, whether it be a holiday reception or a ribbon cutting. But it is different to live there, believe me, fellow Members, in the constituency, to listen to everyday life, to listen to the problems of those living there and to bring it to Parliament. That is what I intend to do, and I would like to call on my fellow Member, although he is not here in Parliament now to answer me. I hope you will do so later in writing. Further, in particular in matters belonging to the Ministry of State of which he is Secretary of State, please represent the interests of the constituency more effectively. I have repeatedly submitted a written question to the Ministry of the Interior in order to break down illegal Lake Balaton stations, entrances and uploads, for which I have never received a specific reply. All I ever heard were promises. The State Secretary of the Ministry of Interior also replied, but not Károly Kontrat, but Minister of State Tibor Pogácsás about the return of camping on the shore of Balaton to municipal property, for which the municipalities concerned received the possibility of borrowing as a solution. I think we need a lot more than that. What is needed is that the representative of the single mandate constituency really represents the interests of the people in the constituency, because he has been elected. And as an opposition representative, my job is that if I don't experience that, then I'm going to talk about it here in Parliament. [[15.30]] I am also trying to do my job in this respect, but, of course, my work is not out of criticism, but I have had a few, hundreds of proposals, either for job creation or for other problems in the constituency in the last two years, and I intend to continue to do so. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-06-13-213	Thank you very much. On behalf of the government, I give the floor to Secretary Peter Hoppál.
u2016-06-13-214	Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, This was obviously a political speech, which is all right, because in Parliament, [[Lajos Kepli intervenes.]] such must also be said, but I would like to draw the honourable Member's attention to the fact that it is not appropriate to look down on voters. The voters know what values they are voting for, and in 2010 and 2014 they decided to be represented by a Fidesz MEP in the Hungarian Parliament. Mr Károly Kontrát is currently doing his work as State Secretary, but as an individual Member, he is discussing a matter concerning his constituency at the Secretary-General of State for Culture today. So the net lie you've told me is that the congressman doesn't represent the people who elected him, I reject it on his behalf. [[Lajos Kepli: Facts!]] We, Fidesz Members of Parliament, who have received the mandate from the voters, who have been wisely elected by the voters and have been told that they will give the mandate to us, we all work in such a way that this very high trust in the future, if we have the honour to do so, we deserve it. I appreciate that as an opposition representative - I was also an opposition-listed representative - you do a lot in the form of submissions for your district, but believe me, a pro-government representative works not only with words but also with actions. I'm asking you to appreciate that. [[Lajos Kepli intervenes.]]
u2016-06-13-215	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Mr László Lukács Jobbikós applied for a post-meeting speech with the title "The Parliamentary Hit List" 2016. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2016-06-13-216	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, There's no need to be alarmed. It's not about music. [[Intercoms.]] It is quite fashionable to measure the performance of words recently, although many people say that we could even talk about fashionable hits, but fashion is actually that in today's world it is measured not only in social media, but also in a lot of places and news, what are the words that most often come to the public with news or news. I also wanted to know what the most commonly spoken words were from September 2015 to 2016. I have taken into account the reports available so far. I wondered what the trend of words was, what was said in the National Assembly, what the hottest topics were, if you will. It became clear that it was necessary to look for words that really moved public opinion, such as events or media platforms such as the one on the list - and I did not shoot the joke in advance - Árpád Habony, Andy Vajna, or even corruption was a good expression. But, by the way, the term Jobbik, like the real national consultation, was included in the top ten list. So let's look at the whole list, if you like, from the less well-performing or the fewer mention numbers to the biggest mention numbers. If you look at 8th and 7th places, you can see that the real national consultation of Jobbik preceded the 8th-place Wolf Florian, which appeared in 35 speeches with a number of around 100 mentions in recent years alone, which, by the way, was abundantly more than the number of speeches mentioned by Farkas Florian. This clearly shows that the subject of the real national consultation was a hot topic, and in the positive sense, and perhaps the only word that appeared in a positive sense in the minutes of the parliamentary session, but it clearly shows that it has moved massive masses, as it will move large masses of mail sent back to around 4 million and sent to all households, which the population will be able to learn during the real national consultation. The real national consultation prior to Florian Farkas, a scandalist Roma municipality, shows that not only crisis issues can be included in the top list, but also positive messages. In the 6th place Árpád Habony was able to find more than 100 places in 76 speeches in a short time. Habony, often imagined as a hologram, who may have been photoshopped by evil elves for all the photos of Fidesz because, by the way, no one wants to admit that he is working with him or that he knows at all, well, the dull media star of the parties in Ibiza has performed well in the National Assembly, his scandals have been through the papers of the speeches of the parliamentary horseshoe almost every week. Although many people have asked who Árpád Habony is, but we still haven't learned so much about him, no one has provided certain information about him yet, he remains a riddle, and he is on the sixth place of the list. In 5th place, Andy Vajna, not surprisingly, is a media mogul with casino privileges and now also with media, who is undoubtedly mentioned in 79 speeches more than 240 times, and otherwise preceded by words such as illegal immigration or TTIP, as well as phrases well mentioned on the list of otherwise frequently spoken words. In 4th place is György Matolcsy, who was undoubtedly one of the favorite topics due to the foundation scandals. His name - we know clearly - belongs to foundations and foundations' public finances. First, in part of the 120 speeches, we looked for whether it was public money that the foundations were managing, and then after we found out that it was the subject of spending it, so we could face the spending of György Matolcsy, from which he obtained the purchase of his own book, the purchase of coin collections, artifacts, and even the construction of the media empire of relatives. Third place was KLIK, which shows that otherwise hot autumn and hot spring is behind education. Obviously, the KLIK could count on protests, popping, teaching, clicing - this appeared in quite a variety of contexts, but with 202 speeches it was enough for 3rd place. The second place is corruption, with 297 speeches and more than a thousand references. It is no coincidence that corruption played so well, and it is not an accident either, an interesting trend, that the word was always attached to Viktor Orbán, if you will, to him, or, if you will, he was the alpha and omega of all corruption speeches. In 1st place, health care, although it is a general term, has been completed by health care, which has been included in 307 speeches, and has been more than a thousand, which shows how bad health is. I believe that these trends will continue in the coming period, so if you look at the top list, it is unlikely that the top list will be deposed; corruption, health and education will continue to be the leading topic in Parliament. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-06-13-217	Thank you, Congressman. They don't want to respond on behalf of the government. Dear Parliament, Mr Ander Balázs also applied to speak after the agenda in the Jobbik Group: . You do know that, at this time, ten thousand railroads, the match is being pulled out properly, or where is the limit of labour maiming? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman, within a five-minute time frame.
u2016-06-13-218	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Here, within the walls of this house, I last spoke on 24 May about problems affecting the railway society in connection with the international rail freight agreement, during its negotiation. At that time, I proved, with a series of examples, that the dissatisfaction among railwaymen was entirely justified and well founded. In fact, the Secretary of State's reply was based on the fact that the government's attitude towards railway passengers was in fact exemplary, and one of my Fidesz fellow Members, under the assumption that I had stolen 15 minutes of his life here, he threw it to my head by giving me a quasi-rail day of debate, away from the point of view. That was also my goal, in some ways, because I wanted to highlight, at least in this way, the blatant injustices that plague these 37 thousand railroad workers. What was the conception of this, however, is another issue, although both the European expectations of fixed-track transport and the development money that the EU has provided in this financing cycle, amounting to some HUF 1 000 billion, and the traffic-geographic realities, namely that our country lies at the intersections of the pan-European transport corridor, so in theory we could become the logistics centre of Eastern Central Europe, predate the Ironway Society to receive much more attention and concern from the current government. But despite all the beautiful plans, the dreamy pro-government propaganda, the system is crunching its foundations. What am I thinking? I don't want to go back to Gábor Baross, the Iron Minister, but back in the cursed 60s, when 170,000 employees worked at the MÁV, or even in the early 80s, when the number of employees was 130 thousand, and the railway was about a state within the state, it could give its employees much more respect than it is now. [[15.40]] Today, however, only a fraction of the former population, only 37 thousand people, should be cared for in a worthy way. At the annual level, some 150 million passengers and one fifth of the freight carried in Hungary are not valued. However, they feel the unspeakable anti-workerism of the Urizing Government as a braked freight train, even though they are the ones who, in addition to their dedicated work, are holding the railway plant together with the winter frost and the summer weeds. However, they are often confronted with the fact that the slogan with the face towards the railway has been replaced by the reality of the, with the back towards the railway: the system of examination that can be criticized by law, poor working conditions, lack of careers, low salaries, Latin-American wage differences between top drivers and small railmen. And as a result of the excruciating, outrageous labour maiming, the shortage of workers will only increase. It becomes a reality that sooner or later the trains will not be able to be properly operated, the network will be operated, the sideline closure, the flight thinning, so the net division of the countryside. While the government does not regret anything about its oligarchs, and even the lawyer of the mayor of the gas plant who became the railway builder of the nation makes HUF 180 million out of his railroad contracts, they also regret the additional payment of the miserable basic fee from the railway passengers. It is well known that, after a long fight, in February this year, the final judgment finally stated that, going back three years, some ten thousand railway workers had to pay about HUF 5 billion of overtime. However, government revenge did not wait for you: last Tuesday, the pro-government majority adopted the salad law establishing the 2017 budget, in which they were kind enough to change the labour code, they were kind enough to eliminate the rules limiting weekend work, they were willing to abolish the special working hours allowance for many people on Sunday. There is nothing more than the employer's ability to shape the schedule of working time, in Hungarian: for those working in stand-by jobs, the employment of the weekend will not be conditional, and this will lead to a brutal, 10-percent reduction in earnings. Call the railway, wait for the MÁV! "A long time ago," they said. I don't know how serious they are. Obviously nothing, especially if we see that Andy Vajna's one-year casino business dividend is HUF 6 billion, and the over-hour money of ten thousand railway workers in standby jobs is HUF 5 billion for three years; it is clear who is worth more to the government. For Jobbik, however, this is outrageous, repulsive [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] and totally unacceptable. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-06-13-219	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Government, State Secretary Peter Hoppál wishes to respond.
u2016-06-13-220	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Honourable Congressman, Allow me not to respond to demagoguery. [[Ander Balázs: This is reality, please!]] We're used to those from Jobbik, but I'd like to respond to your comment on the amendment of the law. To suggest that, a hundred years ago, 170 thousand workers did the necessary two-hand work that 37 thousand today did: you obviously do not mean it when you do not speak in front of the cameras, that time would move backwards and that modernisation could be changed. [[Ander Balázs: There was no such thing! Comprehension, Mr. Secretary.]] In all industries, in all kinds of activities, the world is moving in this direction, so that previous tasks can be carried out by reducing numbers. The bill referred to by you on the basis of Hungary's central budget for 2017 is set at 144. According to Article 101 of Act I of 2012 the Labour Code does indeed expire. Paragraph 3, you quoted this. With this provision, the state of the former labour code will only be restored, honourable Member, and thus the restoration of the former state. As an exception to the regulation currently in force to regulate employment in stand-by jobs in the context of normal working hours on Sundays, such a restriction was not included in the previously applicable Labour Code in respect of the employment of railway workers. The employers of the MÁV group, in accordance with the characteristics of the railway plant that has been operating for 170 years, the workers who hold stand-by jobs were assigned to work on Sundays and on Saturdays immediately before that. In recent years, the employers of the MÁV group have used a working time schedule that takes into account the interests of employees. The new amendment does not mean a reduction in earnings for workers, and I would like to draw your attention to this, Mr honourable Member, if the exceptional working time, otherwise limited by law, does not decrease annually. The same can be said in the case of Sunday's work: workers in stand-by jobs continue to be entitled to the Sunday allowance, both in the case of regular working hours and in the case of extraordinary working hours, and the law has not changed that. As a result of favourable management for workers, they did not have to spend more time away from their families. In order not to have to change this management practice to the disadvantage of workers in a completely unnecessary way, and not to have to have the normal working hours lost at other times on Saturdays due to any overtime which the court has decided to impose, the need to repeal the legal provision referred to has arisen. The employers of the MÁV group continue to have an elemental interest and obligation in legal employment, for which they will continue to do everything in the future.
u2016-06-13-221	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Also, after the agenda, MEP Ádám Mirkóczki, from the Jobbik Group, asked for an initiative to create a tradition in Szentkút: the pilgrimage of athletes and supporters. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2016-06-13-222	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Secretary. I asked for the floor after today's agenda because I would like to draw the attention of as many people as possible to an unusual event by the Parliament and its Members, as I might say, an unusual spiritual program, which will be at our national shrine, Mátraverebély-Szentkút, on 26 June this year, where the pilgrimage of athletes and fans will take place for the first time in Hungary. Those who are familiar or at least occasionally come to this shrine in Szentkút, may not be surprised or surprised, since if you look at the farewell order of the Szentkút or watch the colourful series of events that can be found on the website of Szentkút, you can't be surprised, because with the need for completeness, you couldn't even list in five minutes how much spiritual program they provide. There is a special pilgrimage for kindergarteners, vicars, betrotheds, married couples, children, motorcyclists, monks, so there are many, many social groups, regardless of everything, who do need spiritual recharge. I think that this event is equally necessary in terms of sporting events, because sports success can be expected not only from athletes themselves, not only from fans or support from fans, but also from the sky. The aim of the organizers was not hidden, in many ways, that we envied Poland, the Polish society, and this pilgrimage, if one should give a close example, looks back to Poland: the Polish national shrine, Częstochowa, is home to the pilgrimage of Polish fans, which is already eight years old. We also hope here in Hungary that this pilgrimage of 26 June will become an attractive pilgrimage of a similar quality, similarly traditional, year after year, which will also be held at the celebration of our King Saint László. [[15.50]] In addition to the fact that there is also a European Championship, and the vast majority of organized cheerleading groups in France will hopefully still encourage the Hungarian national team, which means that the Hungarian national team has moved on from the group. I trust that this will happen, and because of this, many organized cheerleaders may be away from the event, but the only reason for this is that Hungary will achieve bigger football success every day. At the same time, I trust that next year more people will be attracted to the event, with even more colourful programs, and I believe that both the sports community in Hungary and the cheerleading society will feel the importance and importance of this pilgrimage, and will bear witness to the fact that not only are false stereotypes that characterize fans or others, which unfortunately get more and more space in lay public speaking or in various media organs, but are an example of humanity, faith and an important area of life without which almost everything is unimaginable, and this is nothing more than our Christian faith in God. And I think that from this point of view, it is only possible to encourage the szentkút organizers, good luck with the tradition-making initiative, and I hope that even with your help, more and more people will get the news of this event in the next two weeks, and whether or not someone is an active athlete or an active supporter or just a fellow Christian Hungarian countryman who lives in his faith, as many of us will participate in this pilgrimage. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2016-06-13-223	Thank you very much, Congressman. On behalf of the government, Péter Hoppál wishes to respond to what has been said.
u2016-06-13-224	Thank you very much, Mr. President. And thank you very much, Mr President, for your speech, obviously at the end of the parliamentary season, in the last few hours, when there is even the last period of give-and-take, a refreshing moment when there is a topic in which opposition and government sides can identify and agree. Thank you very much, Mr President, for making your speech on the pilgrimage of athletes and fans, this festive event, which we hope will be held in the coming years with the aim of creating tradition in Mátraverebély-Szentkút. It is very important to determine the location, since the proposal of the Franciscan Fathers and the Hungarian Catholic Church was accepted by the government, the shrine has been undergoing a very significant renovation program in the last year, and as a result - not even a year ago - the shrine could be renewed with HUF 2.76 billion European Union and Hungarian state support, and the fathers and pilgrims with the participation of President János Áder. I think that a beautiful, renewed and enlarged pilgrimage place can be a new home for such social occasions in the future, and that is why we really consider it important to be able to stand together, as a community, for values that are rooted in Hungarian culture, our Europeans, regardless of their nationality or without belief. I believe that this initiative in Mátraverebély-Szentkút is a renewed church of grace, in the renewed house of Franciscan fathers, in the peace of mind inspired by the outdoor altar, in the comfortable pilgrimage house, where, I believe, 140 new pilgrimage places have been established, a place of worthy and international rank for such events and such events that Hungarian society needs, you have rightly said, and I wholeheartedly agree with this wording. If you allow me, Congressman, I would overlook the fact that, obviously, the church, the historical churches in general, but even the Catholic Church's teachings on sport and health and its rich, well worth considering, I believe that the preaching bishop will do this more than I do at the Holy Mass of the Celebration, but the farewell of athletes and fans is certainly an event to follow, and we are very confident that there will be a continuation in many corners of the country. We consider this important, too, because in recent days, if we have opened up the newspapers or looked at the news on the Internet, we have indeed seen quite sadly what you have pointed out, that the accompanying phenomenon of international major events is football hooliganism, vandalism and horrendous negative acts, unfortunately, even the European Football Championship today. Obviously, we, who like to approach sport, think that this is a social event that strengthens and raises both the soul and the body - not to mention, based on classic values, the ancient Greeks and the Romans have done so - we really think that a spiritual silence can actually contribute to reducing and even eliminate these social phenomena, from a cheerleader's and athlete's side. This, I think, is a special and special interest for us Hungarians, but if we can set a little example in the direction of major events in Europe, then we have done more than we can undertake. In any case, I wish, in agreement with you, that after the pilgrimage, the Hungarian audience and team of refreshed fans and athletes were renewed in one body and soul after the pilgrimage, as well as the post-team supporters camp is always the Ria, Ria, Hungária! By calling out for national identity and healthy lifestyles, they can stand up for it. The government will always give you the help that belongs to him. Thank you very much for your speech, Congressman. [[Adam Mirkóczki applauds.]]
u2016-06-13-225	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, After the agenda, Mr.Sebestyén Vágó, Jobbik Group, has applied for a post- Agenda address:, Is the child protection warning system really working? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2016-06-13-226	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, Unfortunately, for the past period, we can say that almost every month there has been an event that has horrified the moods of the country, many cases of tragedy, cases of child abuse or even child harm. From these cases, too, we can see very well that the system of child protection in Hungary is not working today for some reason. One of the reasons and one of the participants is the child protection warning system, which does not work. By the way, we had the same problem 15 years ago, when I worked as a family care provider in child welfare, it didn't work. When I mentioned this in the National Assembly in other cases or other matters, or even in connection with a legislative amendment in Parliament, I was told that it was in progress, that the government had already published a document about this which had been sent to the participants, and that would allow the child protection warning system to work effectively. As we know, the child protection warning system is a broad concept, but there are also professional participants, in fact, those who are in daily contact with children, whether we think of the pediatrician or think of the protective service or the educational institutions. However, the child protection warning system is quite broad, because the immediate living environment or even relatives are members of it. What's the reason this doesn't work? That's what we need to find the answers to, that's what we need to fix this system. First of all, we can also look at the reason why, say, a member of a child protection warning system does not take the appropriate steps in due time, does not make the signal to child welfare services. One of the reasons for this may be that you do not recognize the child's danger, and we should not only consider such extreme cases as the last case in Pearly, when parents starved their own little girl to death, but also think of far milder cases, we could also say that a child's danger could be monitored, noticed and taken the right steps in time. Why isn't this happening? By the way, speaking of the pearl case, it also shows very well that there is a problem with recognising situations, because there was a theme for this family among the members of the child protection signalling system. In fact, Gyöngyös is a place, as we have read from the news reports, where participants of the signalling system meet regularly, but they did not come to terms with it, and this allowed that child to remain in the family. [[16.00]] By the way, I would also like to say specifically that, even after similar cases of child endangerment, the child could still remain in the family. And speaking of which, what else could be the reason why such cases might happen? There is a very bad protocol in Hungary, and I could say that this protocol has been strengthened into dogma in the Hungarian child protection system, namely that if it breaks, if it breaks, the child must be kept in the family at all costs. The child can only be removed from the family at the moment after the last. Unfortunately, that's what we're experiencing. There are also situations where there is already a child in the child protection system, a specialist child in the family, or a serious danger caused by it, but the newborn baby is still being released into the environment from which a second child had been highlighted shortly before because of actual danger. And in many cases, I have encountered similar cases, even in my career, when, in such a life situation, a returned child has already experienced a tragedy and a very serious consequence of danger. So the system itself is bad, the laws themselves are bad, by the way. The members of the child protection warning system are not informed and normal guidance is not provided. There are no means of effective accountability; failure to act cannot be held liable, either by professional members of the signalling system. In many cases, there is a lack of communication, even among members of the child protection signalling system. This shows that it needs to be changed. So we need to change the law; we need to change the guidelines we have issued; we need to change the dogmas, and we need to make continuous communication between the members of the child protection signalling system, or the joint processing of cases, so that results can be achieved. It's just a matter of political will. I think that what works on a small scale works on a large scale. Ow! Ow! Ow! Ow! [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] it has been implemented and there are tangible results in the renewal of the system. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2016-06-13-227	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the government, Secretary of State Peter Hoppál has applied for a statement.
u2016-06-13-228	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Honourable Congressman, The child protection warning system is one of the cornerstones of our preventive child protection, as you mentioned, and is of particular importance in enforcing child rights. It has an outstanding role to play in promoting the rearing of children in the blood family - a very important professional endeavor. I can see that you are basically in favour of this, and that it is indeed necessary to correct the shortcomings of the signalling system, as you have indicated. The principles of the operation of the child protection signalling system, as you well know, are regulated in the relevant law on the protection of children and the management of guardians, and is regulated by a ministerial decree. Employees providing family and child welfare services should have primary and emphasis on coordinating, organising their task of assisting members of the detection and signalling systems, professional professionals and individuals with children to identify and detect risks to children. The warning system should be encouraged to indicate the identified risk, thereby facilitating timely response to the problems. Obviously, any professional who does this profession somewhere professionally, as you have done in such a job, always contributes to making this signalling system work more efficiently and better. We will never be fully satisfied as long as any danger to children can persist in our society today. It is clear to those in family and child welfare services responsible for the effective operation of the signalling system that this task is a constant challenge, attention and constant activity, since it is necessary to re-establish with the members of the detection and signalling system the meaning of a concept, or even the need for reports and signals. A further objective is defined by the legal environment, so that professionals providing family and child welfare services are helped to implement their professional cooperation with the members of the detection and signalling system, which is a very important condition. In order to facilitate the more efficient operation of the child protection signalling system, I think it is essential that local, basically municipal, and inter-branch cooperation at district level be linked more widely and inter-sectorally. For the purposes of these objectives, the following concrete measures have been taken in relation to the signalling system. First, at local level, the family and child welfare services are responsible for organising the local child protection signalling system, establishing, operating and documenting forms of cooperation. It is recommended to specifically name the person responsible for the task. The indicator system is responsible for reporting signals from the area to the central district signalling consultant on a weekly basis. I think we can hope for progress in this. In addition, a local warning system action plan for the organisation of proposals and measures to assess and improve the functioning of the local child protection signalling system was introduced after the annual professional consultation. This is a technical proposal for one year. At the district level, thirdly, the family and child welfare centre provides a continuous professional background for family care providers, signalling officers, and receives their signals and problems. It is the task of the district signalling consultant to assist the operation of local signalling systems and their professional support. Honourable Congressman, In the spring of 2016 five professional guides were published on this subject. The documents shall specify each process, the content of each process element, the required professional steps related thereto, their responsibilities, deadlines and the rules for related documentation activities. The Ministry of Human Resources provides professional support for the transformation of family and child welfare services through the methodological support network in the field. Our principle, as you have suggested, is that no child can become a victim. To this end, we need to operate systems and change legislation; we need to adapt to a changing social environment. The child is the greatest value.
u2016-06-13-229	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, István Szávay, from the Jobbik Group, has applied for a post-meeting speech: the Fidesz commemorates the overthrow of the party state? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2016-06-13-230	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, If there's someone who responds so strongly to the speeches after the agenda, I'm glad to be able to turn to you. Last year, at the establishment of the 1956 Memorial Committee, Zoltán Balog, Minister of Human Resources, said, I quote: "The 60th anniversary of the 1956 Revolution and War of Independence must be commemorated in a dignified manner next year, and in addition to saluting heroes, it is possible to hold the necessary debates to make the commemoration as credible and realistic as possible. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Instead of showing respect, however, we should be ashamed of our heroes in many ways. We should continue to be ashamed, because László Rajk, Minister of Interior for the Communist Mass Murder, which created the ÁVH, is still named a university of the University of Patinas in Budapest, while the Áron Márton Szakcollegium, which provides residence, study background and community to Hungarian students across the border, is planned to be closed for decades. We should be ashamed because 26 years after the change of regime, there are Red Army roads across the country, 4 April streets and Liberation spaces. But we should also be ashamed because to this day we do not know who was guilty, who was the victim, who was the observer and who was the observer, because the agent files were encrypted until 2060. We have come to the point that even the socialists are demanding their disclosure. But we should also be ashamed that György Mátsik, asking for the death penalty for Péter Mansfeld, can enjoy the rest of his life in his elegant apartment in Buda. Dear House, However, we can at least talk about these today. Unlike Imre Nagy's historic role, which is still taboo to this day, Imre Nagy, despite the fact that Imre Nagy was a salami of the democratic forces in Hungary and one of the aides of the inhuman Communist dictatorship led by Mátyás Rákosi, while, in the darkest fifties, he crippled the lives of tens and hundreds of thousands of people during the attic sweeps. Yet, the lying tops created by reform communist historians on a political basis to ensure their own survival after the change of regime, such as the eight classes, but with academic title Imre Nagy's extremely one-sided cult, cannot be understood and especially today's generations are able to understand the powerful forces that worked deep into one of our nation's greatest revolutionary achievements, rocking a superpower. However, one of the most important goals of the 56 Memorial Committee was to reach out to the youngest generations and bring them close to XX. The message of our revolution in the century to this day. This, however, will not be possible from itself to install the tram stops of Budapest with the heroes of 56 gypsies. Which, of course, wouldn't be a problem if we saw something else. But we can't see. [[16.10]] Zoltán Balog believes that we should finally have fair discussions that have been pushing us ever since the lied-down regime change. This is why, among other things, representatives of national emigration wrote a letter to the Ministry. They asked that not only those appointed by the government should be included in the Memorial Committee, but also those who may be able to present new aspects and nuances in the joint work. However, they were not even given an evaluable answer to their proposals, let alone heeding them. Thus, according to the relevant government decree, they are now not only appointed and invited by the Government on the standing committee of the '56 Memorial Committee, but also on its advisory board, its Historian Working Group and on the panel evaluating the relevant proposals. So you have not, by any chance, exercised restraint over the 60th anniversary of this year's revolution, nor have you even attempted to involve as broad a circle as possible, including parliamentary parties, in common thinking, perhaps in the selection and request of members of these regions. Of course, the socialists would have been in trouble, but we would have found someone from Jobbik who would have been able to represent the national side in a worthy manner, alongside Mária Wittner, the current patron of the committee, sentenced to death in 56. In this case, and only in this case, could there have been real professional debates, a real evaluation of the groups involved in the revolution. We're sorry we missed that, too. Ladies and gentlemen, In 2006, the lying government and its swordsman police made it impossible to remember, and now the Fidesz is about to implement a spiritual swordplay with its one-party memory committee and memory policy. In addition to the Jobbik government, the 62nd anniversary of the revolution will be celebrated with the broadest possible consensus of the profession, the civil sector, politics and Hungarian society, and by the 70th anniversary, we undertake to close the 26th anniversary of the late reconvening of the characters and events of the 1956 revolution, rid of all the paralysing and lying tops of the reform communist history. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-06-13-231	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Government, Parliamentary Secretary Peter Hoppál wishes to respond.
u2016-06-13-232	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Thank you very much for your worrying speech, preparing for the 60th anniversary of the events in 56. I believe that it is very important, not only a gesture, but also a big step from a social point of view, it was a significant step that the Government of Hungary set up in 2015 the Memorial Committee that you, I think, called a little inappropriate, some kind of one-party Gremium, in order to commemorate the 60th anniversary of the 1956 Revolution and War of Independence. The patron of the Memorial Year is the President and patron of the Hungarian Parliament, the former executioner, Mária Wittner, and the co-chair of the House of Terror, Mária Schmidt. I consider the grémium which has delegated to permanent members of the Committee the heads of the ministries on the most important topics, the Ministry of Human Resources, the Head of the Ministry of Interior, the Minister of Justice, the Minister of Foreign Affairs, the Minister of Defence, the Prime Minister's Office, and the Government has asked the President of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences, the President of the Hungarian Academy of Arts, the Director-General of the National Museum, the President of the National Memorial and the Committee of Kahelen, the President of the National Association of Municipal Governments and the Director-General of the National Széchényi Library to be a permanent member of the Committee. If we really consider these professional people to be prominent personalities from the perspective of the international professional gremlin, then the argument that this is some kind of political gremlin can be rejected. The Committee shall be assisted by the Historian Working Group and the Advisory Council of civil society organisations. So there is a broad-based, broad-based committee and its advisory body, which tries to reach all Hungarian citizens as far as possible through the networks of local authorities and various civil society organisations. Let me give you a few more thoughts about the goals of the Memorial Year. On this basis, it is clear that the preparation, coordination of the commemorative year of 56 and the Memorial Committee set up to do so will be supported by all major public organisations and background institutions and civil society organisations. The 16th anniversary gives us the opportunity to commemorate 1956, both at national and international level, in the light of the events of the anniversary ten years ago. The unworthy situation that the 2006 commemorative year was desecrated by the then government must be restored both nationally and abroad, and I believe that we all have a responsibility to do so, and we must prepare for this together. It is necessary to wash away the reproach which had fallen at that time from the Hungarian nation. We need to put 1956 in a worthy place in national memory. At that time, many people were not afraid of any sacrifice, that they had saved the nation in their honor, and their sacrifice enabled us to look at Western integration with a head raised during the regime change, because Hungary had done what other countries and other nations had not done: it had opposed the communist dictatorship. Our goal during the Memorial Year is to create a bouquet of programs with the support, cooperation and applications of civil society organisations, which will help Hungarian anti-communist resistance events and heroes to finally take their place in our national memory, 60 years after the 1956 Revolution and Freedom Fight, like the young people of March 1848. Watching the work of the Memorial Committee, and seeing how the body meeting for the first time on 23 February 2016 makes gestures, and how, with the help of the very important state resources, these billions, trying to reach out to the smallest village and small-town communities from the point of view of their own identity, their own local history, about the events of 56, I am confident. I am confident that this will finally replace the heroes of the First World War and World War II with 56 events, and that, as heroes and proud tops of national memory, the whole society will be able to carry in the heart of the 60th anniversary the events of 56. Thank you very much for your speech.
u2016-06-13-233	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Today's work is done. Thank you for your cooperation. I would like to inform you that the next meeting of the Parliament is expected to take place in September 2016. The summer break is coming, the mandate also obliges us in the summer, and with good rest, I wish you an effective job as a representative. The meeting's closed. [[The meeting ended at 6:18 p.m.]]
