u2016-10-26-0	Good morning, everyone. It's 9:00 sharp. The 15th day of the autumn session of the Parliament is hereby opened. Welcome. I would like to inform you that Mr Attila Móring and Mr Nándor Gúr will be here to assist me in leading this meeting. Welcome to our guests and to all those who monitor our work. Dear Parliament, A general debate will follow on the bill amending certain laws on child protection and health in order to enhance the safety and protection of children until closure. Presentation submitted by representatives of Selmeczi Gabriella, Horváth László, Törő Gábor, Kovács József, Bene Ildikó, Dunai Mónika, Révész Máriusz, Demeter Zoltán, Molnár Ágnes, Zombor Gábor, Vinnai Győző, Kucsák László, Simon Róbert Balázs, Pósán László, Tapolczai Gergely, Fidesz, and Harrach Péter and Hoffmann Rózsa, KDNP, T/12477. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr László Horváth, author of the item on the agenda. Congressman, please.
u2016-10-26-1	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, It is difficult to find the right words for our presentation, and it is difficult to speak of them, and with due humility instead of those who can no longer speak, and when they were in very great trouble, they could not speak. It is difficult to talk about those who had such a short life that they couldn't even learn to speak, perhaps they could say so much that Mom and Dad, but it didn't help them, and it was the mother and father who tried to kill the vulnerable and defenseless baby. It was not for nothing that the country's public opinion was shaken by cases and reports of ruthless child murders in recent times, and the indignation combined with incomprehensibleness was voiced when it was discovered that two children, 18 months of age, and a two - month - old child, had been killed by none other than their own parents. The starting point for our bill was these incomprehensible, tragic, painful murders of children. Of course, the question can be asked what can be done when a parent's fundamental responsibility for caring for, raising, resigning and neglecting his child is not due to negligence, but consciously. Unfortunately, it can be said that the murderous parents consciously, almost preparedly, systematically performed the serious neglect of their children and the violent kill of their children in the crack case. After the tragedies, a number of investigations had to be carried out, since it was necessary to clarify why and how this could have happened at all, whether there were omissions, errors, what responsibilities could be identified, and not least to answer whether there was a need for a step, even in relation to the child protection signalling system, which, if it could not eliminate it permanently, but in any case effectively, could significantly reduce the risk and possibility of similar tragedies in the future. The question is, if a parent consciously attacks the life of his own child, then there is an organization, a warning system that can effectively combat the problem, in contrast to this rabble. And the answer here can be that there must be a warning system, because we cannot give up the life of any child, even if they endanger the child's life in such an extreme situation. The government, the competent government offices and the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights himself have carried out his own investigation and published their reports. I believe that the findings and proposals of these investigations have been incorporated into the bill before you. The amendments - as we propose several amendments to several laws - have the common aim of ensuring that in such cases the members of the signalling system can cooperate and cooperate more effectively, effectively and in a clearer way than today, since it would be easy to say that all these tragedies could have happened because the child protection signalling system was wrong. If that were the case, we would have a simple task, because the signalling system should be repaired or renewed, but unfortunately that is not the case. Even in this state, the warning system would have been able to save these children's lives if there had not been failures and professional errors that were fatal and life-threatening in this case. [[9.10]] Allow me to quote the recently published report by the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights on the death in Gyöngyös, where it was recorded, the Ombudsman concluded that due to the repeated omissions and incomprehensible steps of the child's child, the child welfare centre and the guardianship office, it was not possible to prevent parents from withdrawing food from their children for a long time. The faults of the signalling members thus played an indirect role in the death of the baby in Gyöngyös. And the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights also concludes that the tragic case highlights that the meaningful cooperation of the members of the signalling system can be the only viable way, since the individual and isolated attempts of the members in the case of parents and families who are not renegade together have serious risks and consequences. For this reason, it is necessary and very important to make the functioning, cooperation, procedural rules of the signalling system even clearer, even clearer, this cooperation, if necessary, be forced out and minimise the discretions that involve the possibility of error during the procedure. Experience from the tragedies also requires clarification of certain procedural rules. With regard to the pearl case, we had to be saddened by the fact that for months following the birth of the child the offices were practically operating, but if we ask whether they had done what could have been done or should have been done, our answer is that they did not. Among the members of the signalling system, the person who acted with complete responsibility and conscience throughout the process was the protective woman. It can be established that the protective service was in place in these cases. He did what he could, but his signals were not taken by the other players in the signal system with the degree and severity of the case and with a binding seriousness. After the sign of the guardian, when it became clear that the mother did not cooperate and reject the protective care from which the guardian gave the guardianship a signal, the guardian's office gave a decision that the child welfare centre had to carry out the necessary environmental study and make a proposal on the placement of the child, although this decision was issued, the child welfare centre did not respond to this decision. New decisions had to be made to ultimately report to the Child Welfare Centre that it could not go in, because the parents did not allow the employees to enter the home for the child; he could not go in and therefore did not make a report or a proposal. After that, both offices, like they did their job, put the file in the drawer for five months. Nothing happened in the first ten months of the child's life. Everyone did their job, so to speak, but nothing happened. Then again, four months came when nothing happened, and the child lived for 18 months. This is a procedural failure, a professional error that raises the issue of personal responsibility, consideration, commitment. I have indicated that they have not adjusted their actions to the degree of seriousness of the case and of the cases. This can also be seen from the fact that, in both the pearl and the crack case, we can talk about recurring parents, so to speak. In the pearl case, the mother had already been assassinated against three children; attacks on the firstborn and second-born children, where the court took the children away from the mother. In the case of the third-year-old girl, there have been continuous protective procedures, and I would like to say that there have been unsuccessful protective procedures. In the crack case, there was already a violent manifestation of the parent, and in this connection, the firstborn child was also placed elsewhere. It is important for the signalling system to know in such cases that it is not a single case. There are serious precedents and, after such a serious history, the system should be more attentive, more responsible and more vigilant. That is why we propose that the proceedings and handling of the matter in the case of brothers should be combined so as not to be the case that has taken place here. We also make a clear suggestion that, if necessary, parents may be promoted in cases where immediate action is required, even without prosecutor's approval, because the case proved in Gyöngyös that this prior prosecutor's approval, the acquisition of this has partly prevented parents from being heard. This hearing has never been held. We would also like to end it so that someone can hide their child, lock it behind closed doors, and, if necessary, exploit the child's defencelessness at his own convenience. We want to record that, in the event of the removal of cooperation with the members of the signalling system, the classification of serious danger should be governed by clear isolation, as Gyöngyös also had the possibility that the parents did not allow the employees of the child welfare centre to enter, but could not obtain a permit for the possible regulatory coercion which would have been necessary for access, because such permission should be accompanied by evidence. And the evidence is inside. We would like to put an end to this matt situation or stalemate - from the child's point of view - by placing isolation in the category of serious risk classification. [[9.20]] It is also a very important element of our amendment proposals that the child cannot be smuggled out of sight, removed from the child protection signalling system; it should be mandatory to take the child to screening tests and status tests. It is not possible, like what happened in Gyöngyös, that the general physician accepts that the parent will report the child's weight gain data on the phone, while otherwise the child is being starved to death. It is not acceptable, and let me note that here the general doctor's statement was the decisive one, so to speak, the serious life-threatening... - since the guardianship authority was informed by the general doctor on the basis of such telephone contact that otherwise the child's placement was adequate and that its condition was satisfactory. It was fatal, a mistake on the part of the general practitioner, but it cost the child his life. That is why we consider it necessary for health workers to have a clear obligation to indicate, and it is very important, and I think that we also followed the Ombudsman's recommendation to issue a ban on non-cooperation with members of the signalling system. Therefore, it is not possible to reject the cooperation between the women of the defence, the pediatrician, the general doctor, the nursery, or the public education institution, and to set out a clear sanction in the proposal, and we believe that all of this together can provide protection against the occurrence of similar tragedies. But there is one thing no law can effectively provide: it is the ability to turn, not only from the members of the signalling system, but from all of us. Even though months have passed, and I know that feelings, emotions and question marks may inevitably appear on this issue, this is partly natural, because all those who are willing to face this horror are involved and are also involved in the environment, the narrower and the wider environment. For if, for 18 months, a child can be starved to death in a row house, under decent civil circumstances, or in a family house, with great wealth, that the living environment does not appear, the living environment is not sensitive to the fact that this child has never been seen outside, that this child has been screaming and crying and screaming for weeks, then the sensitivity and responsibility of the outside society is certainly raised. These exterminations of children's lives have left no trace, they could not leave behind, but they left signs. Our common strength has become a huge exclamation and question mark. I ask you, while I ask for your support for this proposal, that together, and if I may ask, we humbly try to improve the signalling system in this respect, so that such an exclamation mark and question mark may not come to the sky again. I would also like to ask you to take account of what can and must be called to account on this proposal. [[You got it, Lacey, you got it. Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: Done!]] After all, I mentioned in what field, in which subject we make our proposals, so we take responsibility with honor. Thank you for your attention and your support. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-10-26-2	Thank you very much, Congressman. Now you can comment on behalf of the government. I'm asking the Secretary of State if you'd like to comment now. [[For signal:]] Mr Károly Czibere, Secretary of State, has the floor. Here you go.
u2016-10-26-3	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear House, Honourable Congressman, The protection and safety of children is our common concern. This bill, building on previous and so far results, includes one step in a series of measures aimed at strengthening the child protection signalling system and child welfare services to protect abused or neglected children or children at risk in any other way or for other reasons. The key importance of the bill is to make the parent's responsibility and duty to cooperate on issues relating to the care of the child even clearer by amending the laws on child protection and health protection together, as well as to increase the possibilities for service providers and authorities to intervene in order to protect children. Even one child should not be allowed to be abused or threatened. I would like to briefly describe the steps the government has taken to achieve this. One of the key social policy objectives of the government is to create a chance and guarantee the child's right to protection guaranteed by the Fundamental Law. The aim is to provide family and child protection professionals with much more coherent, efficient and targeted assistance than before. In addition, it is essential that children receive the goods and services needed for their physical, spiritual, spiritual, moral development as early as possible. A multi-stage set of measures, affecting the system of child welfare and child protection benefits, as well as catching up services, will help to achieve the above objectives, known as children's welfare. The changes launched at the end of 2014 were preceded by extensive professional discussions, based on professional background support and professional consensus. One of the most important measures in relation to the measures taken in relation to child welfare services is family support and the integration and integration of child welfare services in order to bring together, strengthen, eliminate parallel capacities and create a better coordinated system for the protection of children and the benefit of families, which can view and support the family as a whole. [[9.30]] For this reason, it has been required at a legal level from January 2015 that family support can be established only through child welfare services, newly based on a service provider. The next step towards strengthening the child welfare service from January 2016 requires that family support can only be integrated with child welfare services, within the framework of family and child welfare services or a family and child welfare centre and with a name. On the basis of this, the family and child welfare services and the centre have continued to be a mandatory municipal task using more efficient resources on the basis of family support and child welfare services. In addition, the disadvantaged areas have been given additional resources to enable the region to employ more professionals in line with the number of families to be supplied, and to make available special services in cities and metropolitan districts that had previously been mostly county-only and accessible in all municipalities. The Ministry of Interior has helped this construction, this development with a grant of 400 million, with a development contribution that the family and child welfare centers have received to prepare for this work and this additional task. In the operational programme for territorial and urban development, there is a targeted opportunity to develop infrastructure for family and child welfare services and centres, as well as to continuously present applications that offer the opportunity to develop the content of services; they also serve to support, prepare for the professional development of colleagues working in these services, not only to extend or expand service capacities. One of these important developments is an already published programme and tender, the call for proposals for integrated children's programmes in the region, which provides an opportunity to preserve the results of the ongoing child risk programmes between 2007 and 2013 and, as a new element, to expand and complement the services of children's welfare centres established from 2016 with a budget of 15 billion in 31 districts. It has operated in 23 areas of the previous child's risk, and now we can launch this programme in 31 most disadvantaged walks and strengthen child welfare capacities, and in addition, children's welfare centres can apply, so the operation of child welfare services will be coordinated in the given area in the given district. The other development related to this is the development of social assistance in kindergarten and school; this call was again presented to family and child welfare centers, where the centres can apply for grants of around HUF 18-20-30-40 million, with a budget of 1.7 billion. The next important step is to strengthen the child protection signalling system in recent years. The safety of families and children is a matter for society as a whole, so families or professionals helping them should not be allowed to remain on their own with their difficulties and problems, and children should not be exposed to the possibility that professionals may not cooperate. This is why it is important to strengthen the signalling system, also because this is the practice of sectoral cooperation; it is necessary to create strict legal certainty in which it is not possible for a specialist, whether a teacher, a nurse or a pediatrician, to indicate that the child is at risk in time. Unfortunately, in the operation of the child protection warning system, it is still apparent that there is a serious and long-term threat to children due to a lack of signals or a delay in signaling; the Member has also referred to this. Failure to intervene or delay will lead to a significant breach of rights. The child protection warning system is one of the cornerstones of our preventive child protection, it is of particular importance in enforcing children's rights, it plays a key role in promoting the raising of children in the blood family, in detecting problems as early as possible. One of the most important roles of the inter-branch network covering all the countries and children's fields is to detect, detect as soon as possible the problems of children and young people, and to take the necessary measures to organise the services and benefits most appropriate to the needs of the child. This is why the development of a multi-level signalling system is justified, in line with the adapted family support and child welfare services, as well as the strengthening of the child protection detection and signalling system and its legal background, as well as the establishment of a methodological guide, which will result in the strengthening of the provisions on the mandatory tasks of the signalling system. In order to protect children, we consider it particularly important to strengthen the child protection detection and signalling system, to become two-tiered from January 2016 and to integrate the signal system of the former family support and child welfare service, since family support also includes the obligation to operate a signalling system since 1999 with the integration of services. At local level, family and child welfare services are responsible for organizing local child protection detection and signalling systems, creating, operating and documenting forms of cooperation. This is level one. The second level is the level of walking. This has also been confirmed since 1 January 2016. The family and child welfare centre provides a continuous professional background for family care providers, system managers working at the municipal level, receiving and processing signals. As a continuation of the reinforcement of the child protection detection and signalling system, two additional signalling levels will be defined, further clarification of the liability system - these two levels are the organisation of county and national levels. This proposal will include further clarification of the responsibilities system and the organisation of the national system code and targeted methodological task provision. However, in the care system, although it is still mandatory to apply the methodological guide "S sector-neutral Principles and Methodology for the Recognition, Elimination of Child Abuse," which all colleagues need to know and apply, it is not enough to regulate and set standards only in legislation and implementing regulations, but to provide protocols, guidance and methodological recommendations, all of which have been ensured and developed during and at the start of child welfare reform. In addition, professional processes regulators were released in the spring of 2016 in the form of protocols and recommendations for service providers and all signalling members. They define the professional steps required and to be taken in order to protect the child, their responsibilities, deadlines and the rules of the related documentation activities. So much for the steps we've taken so far. [[9.40]] Allow me now to explain the content of this bill in a few points. We think, and the government's view is that the bill that I have tabled, which I am thanking the people who have tabled, will guarantee more protection for children and fit in with the series of measures that I have just presented. An important part of this proposal is the obligation on the members of the signalling system to comply with the uniform procedure set out in the methodological guide. The bill builds on practical experience, and builds on these practical experiences, it strengthens the tasks, responsibilities and the functioning of the signalling system, in addition to the parents' duty to cooperate. One of the tools for this is for the Minister to publish the technical methods for the operation and operation of the signalling system on the Ministry's website. The guarantee rule is that the law requires that all signalling members apply a uniform guide. Another important point is the joint handling of brothers' affairs. The proposal provides for the joint management of the cases of siblings raising together to be carried out in the guardianship procedure. We have seen that the Member has also said how important this has been, let us say, in the case of the tragedy in Gyöngyös, and it is particularly important to explore the child's vulnerability, to establish a guardianship decision in his interest, to fully clarify the facts. The guardianship of the child's sibling should also be provided with accurate knowledge in order to reach a prudent decision. The next important step is that immediate action should not be an obstacle. The law empowers the guardianship authority to proceed without the consent of a prosecutor in order to hold a hearing or trial, if immediate action is required in the interests of the vulnerable child or of the person to be placed under the care of the guardian, or of the person to whom the capacity to act is to be exercised. In guardianship practice, there are several instances where there is no evidence of serious harm to the child's life, physical integrity, mental development at the beginning of the procedure, as there is no evidence of the child's care or lack of it because of the total lack of cooperation and isolation of parents who care for the minor. It is also important to clarify the causes of serious danger. The child protection law is regulated if the parent does not allow the protective woman, the general practitioner, or the family pediatrician to stay in the household for the child, and does not stop working with them. We have also seen the effect of this in the case of the tragedy in Pearly. This circumstance is considered to constitute a serious threat, even without other evidence of endangerment. It is also an important part of the proposal to amend health legislation, which clarifies the rules of the basic health care law. The amendment of health laws allows for the prohibition of refusal of care for minors to include a general practitioner, a pediatrician, and cooperation with a protective woman. The reason for the amendment is that the provisions on refusal should be brought into line with the Child Protection Act. It should be made clear that a child's risk warning is governed by the rules of the Child Protection Act; other sectors are also governed by the Child Protection Act. Workers in the health sector are still subject to the obligation to indicate. The provision facilitates their ability to comply with the marking obligation. Under the current legislation, health services for the prevention and early detection of diseases in the context of compulsory health insurance and screening tests are authorised to carry out paediatric screening tests by the territorial protective woman. The bill also ensures that, in the event of failure by a legal representative to carry out the screening and the rejection of services falling within the role of the protective woman, the protective woman is obliged to initiate an official procedure for the imposition of a screening and compulsory use of the services provided by the protective woman in the district office acting in its public health function. While health screening is currently mandatory for newborns and children of compulsory age, the bill introduces more frequent screening to monitor the development of children, which makes personal appearance mandatory. With this measure, the risk of a child being at risk is also more likely to be filtered out or detected in time. In addition to the above position on the bill, which I have just said, I can also provide you with information that the wallet, the State Secretary of State, has started to develop measures to protect children who have already received child protection measures from their families and children living in their families who are seriously at risk, to prevent their abuse, to eliminate their exposure to sexual abuse, and to provide the smallest possible zero tolerance measures, of which we are preparing proposals for legislative amendment at this time, and we are about to submit them to this House. The government is therefore committed in every way, whether in the area of child welfare or in the area of child protection, to achieving greater consistency between care systems and the measures taken by the authorities concerning the child in order to protect children. The safety of our children is a shared responsibility for everyone, for all of us, and for our common cause. That is why the Government supports this proposal, and that is why we are asking this House to support the legislative proposal. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2016-10-26-4	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. First, I give the floor to Congresswoman Gabriella Selmeczi, the lead speaker of Fidesz. Here you go.
u2016-10-26-5	Mr President, Thank you very much for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, The most important thing for us is the child, and each child's life, physical and spiritual integrity, counts. Our children's lives must be protected. We legislators, who are sitting here in the Hungarian Parliament, have an obligation to shape the laws in such a way as to ensure the protection of children. Civil servants, civil servants working in public institutions, also have a duty to do their job, to work in such a way that we can protect children through public institutions, including through the signalling system. My fellow Member, László Horváth, spoke of the shock that we received the cases of child abuse; the cases of death - by mother and father - in the family - were the lives of these children. Child abuse is unacceptable and child death is unacceptable. It is clear that there is a need to review the child protection system and it is clear that the child protection system needs to be further strengthened. It's a process. There can't be a hole in the wall. There must be no area left in the child protection signalling system that is not clear. [[9.50]] We need to create such strict legal certainty for us legislators, in which it cannot happen that a professional does not signal in time, because it is not clear to him what his task is. With the power of the law, we must ensure the cooperation of those working in the system. The protection of children is a matter for society as a whole. Steps have already been taken for a better child protection system, because, as I said, this is a process. Allow me, in a few words, to remember the steps we have taken so far in the interests of child protection. I would not list so long what has happened so far, Mr Károly Czibere, Secretary of State, has done this for me, but let me mention a few important points. In the previous cycle, we created child-friendly interrogation rooms with qualified staff. Then the Hungarian Parliament declared the inexorable for sexual abuse of minors. Here, my opposition colleagues voted in favour of this proposal. From now on, the sexual crimes committed by pedophiles to the harm of minors will not lapse, so they may know that there is a chance that they will be caught for the rest of their lives, and then the law will strike them with absolute rigour. We've established family-friendly child protection centers. The kindergarten-school social assistance activities will be available by tender this year for about half of the small settlements, and will be mandatory from 2018. This is a very important step. Social helpers should be brought as close to families as possible, which is why they will be present in kindergartens and schools, for example, from 2018. This was also an important professional recommendation to bring help as close as possible to families. Mr. State Secretary also said that this year family and child welfare centres can apply for the HUF 1.7 billion grant application aimed at developing social assistance activities in kindergarten and school. Placing in foster care is a very good priority. The placement of a child under the age of 12 in foster care is stated by the legislation that entered into force on 1 January 2014, and these children are no longer institutionalised. Another step in the renewal of the child protection system is the establishment of a working group on priority issues for the safety of our children, which is already working and has come up with a lot of proposals. Ladies and gentlemen, What are we supposed to do now, legislators? It is necessary to clarify who in the signalling system has what to do, what to do. In case of a signal, the process should be much faster! Finding out the case, protecting the child by virtue of the law, should be much faster and tighter. And third of all, I wrote that prevention is very important, that, where possible, we recognize the threat in time, and those who have to take action. This is also important because the child, according to experts, does not tell us about the abuse and harm he has suffered at home until the age of 10-12. This is a very interesting thing, the child will never confess to his parent - but experts can tell you this in more detail and in more detail - so it is the task of this signalling system to recognize in time if there is danger somewhere, if there is a problem somewhere. Ladies and gentlemen, Allow me to say a few words about the specific amendments to the law, the specific paragraphs and sections. The Child Protection Act 17. In its section, we regulate at the statutory level when, in what cases, nurses, general practitioners, general care professionals are required to report. That has been the case before, but we're going to make that clear. We are thinking, in particular, of health workers, to whom it must be clearly stated, as the Secretary of State said, that the provisions of the Child Protection Act also govern them, and they must follow it and be observed. In the same paragraph, we rule in section that every year the minister issues the professional protocol, the methodological guide, which governs the actors. The Child Protection Act XX. Chapter III of the European Parliament and of the Council is hereby amended as follows: During the guardianship procedure, the brothers' cases must be dealt with together - and this has already been mentioned - not only in the family, but also in the case file for a separate minor brother should be accompanied, where appropriate, by a guardianship decision. Here, my fellow Member László Horváth pointed out very carefully that, for example, in the case of Gyöngyös, dealing with the issue of children together contributed to these tragedies, because we know that once someone has turned against their child and was able to commit such a crime, there is a great chance that they will be able to do so in the case of other children. The Child Protection Act XX. It is proposed to supplement this chapter. Here, we will provide for a pre-emption. So far, we've had to get a D.A.'s approval to lead the parents. This has slowed the procedure, putting the child under protection, leading him forward. Therefore, we say that it is enough to give an ex post prosecutor's consent, so we need to continue in the future because of legal certainty, but first we need to act if we see the child at risk and then we only need the prosecutor's consent. The Child Protection Act 130/A. In addition to the provisions of Section 4 of the Act, the Commission will take the view that, in the light of the The refusal of cooperation with the primary healthcare provider - this is extremely important - therefore, cooperation with a protective woman, a GP, a GP, a health care provider cannot be denied, and what is very important is that if parents refuse, this is the basis for serious endangerment. Why is it important? Because in the event of serious endangerment, it is possible to ask for assistance to go into the apartment and make sure that what my fellow Member László Horváth has said is that the child is seriously threatened. Here we dissolve this vicious circle, you cannot point fingers at each other after this, because if the parent refuses to cooperate with the protective woman, the home pediatrician, from then on this will be considered a serious threat. Ladies and gentlemen, Just think that it is our duty to let the electric clock reader in to read the electric clock, but so far we had no obligation to let the damsel in to see if she was a few months old or a couple of years old, how she was growing and if things were going well at home. The Health Act is 21. It is proposed to add to this section. It is not possible to give up cooperation with the hostess and the family pediatrician, which is part of it, Mr. Secretary of State has also spoken about it. In fact, it is a harmonisation of laws and a clarification. The Health Act is 81. §2 is proposed to be amended. If the parent does not show up for mandatory screenings with the child, it will be ordered by a decision of the administrative body, so the risk of the child will be more likely to be detected, and otherwise we will speed up the process, which is our goal. The basic health care law also clearly regulates the obligation to cooperate with the general practitioner, the protective woman, and if there is no indication that the members of the signalling system, i.e. the protective woman, the family pediatrician and the general practitioner, when their duties are done, will clearly be described. We make it clear that health care workers are also governed by the rules of the Child Protection Act. So it's practical for them to report these cases to Social Services as well. Ladies and gentlemen, I really don't know what happens in the mind of a mother and a father when he turns on his own child when with the basic instinct to protect my child, protect him, and give him everything, something happens, and he turns on his child. [[10.00]] I think we legislators should not make this up, because there are serious experts in helping those working in the child protection signalling system to identify these situations and come up with suggestions for solutions. It is our job, us legislators, to create a system and by the power of the law to ensure that we realize as soon as possible that if a child is threatened, don't give it to God, they will seriously endanger us, and this whole system will be given the opportunity to act as quickly as possible. Unfortunately, we do not have the Philosopher's Stone, we cannot yet say that we can save the lives of each child, because, as we have said, we cannot see into it, we cannot see into the minds of these people, I would not perhaps call them parents. However, it can be said that when a parent has already turned against a child, there is a high chance that the other children will be at risk, and we can also say that there are signs of these cases that the protective woman, the home pediatrician, the educator, and the living environment can detect, signal, and perhaps we can detect. This current bill, tabled with my fellow Member - and thanks to my fellow Members who have joined the proposal as rapporteur, there are many of them - is a step in this process, a step for the safety of children. If we accept this bill, unfortunately, we still have more work to do in broader areas, but now I would like to ask my fellow Members to talk about what we have just tabled. At the end of my comment, allow me to thank the professionals, civil servants, civil servants, and employees who have done their job in a very honest manner, whose profession is child protection. Allow me to thank the experts, the civil servants working in the ministry, the state apparatus, who have helped us to bring about this legislative amendment. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-10-26-6	Thank you very much. The next speaker was Ms Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, head speaker of the MSZP. Here you go.
u2016-10-26-7	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary. Colleagues! I'd like to begin with a Chinese saying: "A child's life is like a paper on which everything goes. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Today, in Hungary, we have to call on the government, because either it doesn't realize what's going on with our children in this country, or worse, it doesn't care about the future generation. I listened with interest to my fellow Member, Gabriella Selmeczi, who said interesting sentences. One was to scan the warning system, the child protection system. Two weeks ago, we attempted to do this at the committee meeting, when we presented a proposal for a resolution so that the government could carry out a comprehensive investigation of what had happened since January 2016, since the transformation of the supply system, what experience there was, and this was not supported by the committee. This bill, which has now been submitted to this House, does not affect just the provision of specialised services. You know, my fellow Members and Secretary of State, we have the feeling that you want to cover the scandal of the last few weeks with this amendment or to communicate that you are dealing with it, but that is precisely the provision of specialised services that is left out of this amendment. We can talk about the disruption of the education system, the anti-knowledge education policy, the elamoration of vocational training, in particular, the reduction of the school obligation, but we can think about the depreciation of family allowances or the destruction of the social support system, which has made the lives of hundreds of thousands of families more miserable. We also need to think about the system of child protection, which affects our children much more than we think. In Hungary today, about 200,000 children are listed as vulnerable, thousands of children in child protection care, tens of thousands of children and young people in the prison system, and about 6,000 children per year will be victims of a crime - says an ombudsman's report. A well - functioning child protection strives to prevent trouble, protect children's rights, and grow up under the right conditions. In a well-functioning child protection, the workers are valued and paid for. There is a long list of things that would make it better, but I'd rather get to the point of what's going on right now, because that's what we have to start from. And today, there are very big problems with the child protection system, some of which have not improved for decades, some of which are due to government intervention. I told you yesterday, and several times in recent weeks, we have said that more and more news is coming out about the serious abuses and crimes that are happening to children in Hungary today. Everyone's heard about the case of children starved to death, when they tortured and locked children in a basement, and what happened last time in the media, the sexual abuse that happened and happened in foster homes. The problems of the child protection system are indicated by the fact that some of the cases happen to children who are in front of the basic care, yet the system cannot prevent the various abuses that have occurred to them. Unfortunately, the warning system is unable to detect many problems in time, and some are almost completely out of child protection. It has not helped that the government has merged family and child welfare services, and the problem is that certain tasks can only be carried out by district centres, leaving the services almost without resources and tools on the ground. But it's not just the basics. In recent weeks, more information has been reported on cases in the other area of the supply system, specialised care. A few weeks ago, several young people from a foster home went to the hospital, four of them drugged themselves, and one of them slit his wrists, all because of sexual harassment and abuse at the institution. There were many more who reported serious abuses. The abuse of children's homes is particularly serious, which is linked to a shortage of professionals, a lack of adequate skills for workers and a lack of adequate professional control. The Ombudsman also prepared reports on this, which also found that children and young people were physically or otherwise abused in some children's homes. There were cases where children with behavioural disorders were to be treated with medication. The Ombudsman also drew attention to the need for skilled workers and to the need for appropriate supervision, mental health support programmes for child protection professionals. Unfortunately, the Ombudsman's proposals were not often received by the government, the competent minister. Unfortunately, Minister Balog hasn't responded in weeks to the news of how he could have been charged with pedophile charges, and since then he has been awarded a school principal in custody on 20 August. In order to protect children, the Hungarian Socialist Party submitted a proposal for a parliamentary resolution a few weeks ago. In order to effectively prevent physical, psychological or sexual abuse in different places and ways, it is considered essential that the government revises the system of child protection and submit a report to Parliament. The committee did not support it, but we will re-submit it a little modified, and we hope that because my fellow Member said that he would support the screening, he will support it from now on. Our initiative also goes hand in hand with a civilian initiative, which also draws attention to child protection problems. The Company for Freedom Laws launched a campaign called Missing Memories. Their call is about the fact that every year more and more children are raised in public care, away from their families, despite the fact that the Convention on the Rights of the Child and the Child Protection Act are fundamental principles for the protection of families, supporting the growing up of children in the family. According to the latest data, more than 23,000 young people live in specialist care in Hungary today. [[10.10]] They also draw attention to the fact that, although explicitly prohibited by the law, the primary reason for breaking up families is, directly or indirectly, the high poverty of families. And the Child Protection Act forbids that. Meanwhile, John Lazarus threatened the families of poverty a few weeks ago that the refugees would take the aid away from them. As if this government hadn't already done so, it's already taken some of the social support away from these families. After all, we know that the government stopped housing support, regular social assistance, kindergarten support and all equity care, a few years ago, the 28 500 HUF aid was reduced to 22 800 HUF, and public work today is subject to less money than in 2009. And yesterday, news came out, and Secretary of State Czibere responded that today there are about 4,000 children who do not receive any care, because the child does not have a address card. Minister of State said that this could not happen in Hungary, so that no number of children could receive care because of housing problems or poverty problems. Secretary of State, I would say it happens, and there are more than 4,000 children. It cannot happen, today thousands of children in Hungary are without care! The other news is that about 42-44 thousand children have been released from the education system and the number of children who leave school after 16 years of age has increased. In most cases, the reason for the family allowance is that the public wage is higher and consciously either the parent takes it out of the school, or the child himself decides to do so. Do you know what they call this, Mr. Secretary? You legalized child labor in Hungary! It's legitimized! [[Interviews from the ranks of the MSZP: That's right!]] Children's work has been legitimized! What kind of child protection system are we talking about if children in Hungary come out of the school system knowingly because of poverty eradication, because public wages are more than family allowances? ! Mr Secretary, we would have preferred it if it had not come to Parliament as an independent motion, but, let's say, the wallet or the government had drawn up a law. Why didn't they do that? Why didn't you ask the professional organizations? Why didn't you give me a chance to do that? They don't put together something so quickly that won't solve the problem, they don't answer the problem, they don't touch important things that happen in residential homes. Mr. Secretary, when are we going to deal with this happening in children's homes? When are we going to deal with the foster family network, which raises a lot of problems? Because you've said a lot about the government's intention to eliminate homes and make sure that every child grows up in a family. Everyone can only support this, that would be the ideal goal, but we just don't see that they have started to do this and that they have taken action. Mr. Secretary, I'm asking you to submit a good law next time. You don't want to cover up a scandal and cover it up with the fact that you're here in Parliament right now. It must be eliminated so that such an institution can develop, which has caused the scandal, and real action must be taken to ensure that our children are not subjected to any violence. Once again, I have to say that it would be good for the Istanbul Convention to be ratified by the Government, and finally steps have been taken to bring the subject of domestic violence back to Parliament. Secretary of State, I would very much ask you to consider these. And I would also ask the Fidesz fellow Members to accept our re-submitted amendments and our proposal for a resolution, with which we will try again to review it, look at the system, where there are problems, the government should report, draw up a statement, a survey, a study, and then together, let us try to work out a good law together, Mr. Secretary of State. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2016-10-26-8	Thank you very much. Congressman István Hollik, lead speaker of the KDNP. Here.
u2016-10-26-9	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Mr. Secretary. Fellow Members! I am pleased in many respects because, on the one hand, I see that every political group, Mr Secretary of State, starts by saying that every child's life counts. Unfortunately, we have been going through days when we thought, for example, that the celebration of 56 can be a national minimum, in which we all agree over parties, it seems that this did not happen, but I am happy now because I see that the life of our children, the safety of Hungarian children, and the spiritual and spiritual development of Hungarian children can be a national minimum, this is important for everyone, so, of course, also for us Christian democrats. On the other hand, I am pleased that I have heard a lot of things in opposition speech, but I have not heard any criticism of the concrete amendments to the bill. I understand this as a way of saying that the MSZP can support it in this regard, for example, because here my socialist fellow Member talked about a lot of things, but he did not say one word about the specific content of the bill. I can't interpret that any other way than to agree. I have no doubt that the child protection system is not perfect, but I tell you, I think we agree that the amendments that are now on the table, and we will have to decide on it, we can agree with them. Mr President, Mr Secretary of State has also said, and I agree with the statement that the child protection system is basically good, but it needs continuous improvement, and development is a process. And I also have to agree that, of course, the child protection system is not perfect, because if it were perfect or almost perfect, then the cases in Recski, Gyöngyös or Agárd wouldn't have occurred; even if I agreed with what my fellow Member László Horváth said, that in many cases these cases have highlighted omissions that didn't result from the fact that the legislation was not good, but simply professional omissions. At the same time, what I see is that the purpose of this bill before us is only that the recent months, the tragedies of the past years, have highlighted such problems, that it has shown precisely where the warning system for child protection is vulnerable, and that these problems, these specific problems, are addressed by this bill. I believe that these are life-related problems, and this bill can provide completely sound, realistic and rational answers. What are these problems? Several people have mentioned it, but I'd like to run through it quickly. There were several instances where a member of the warning system, such as in the pearl case, felt that the child's life was in danger, but the other authorities somehow did not take the necessary steps - the child's welfare service in this case in particular - and could not do it or administer the problem, but the problem was not dealt with, and the child was still in the terrible state and situation in which months before, so that several months had passed and child protection professionals had not yet seen the child. So this legislative amendment proposal is trying - and I think you will be able to - to correct this mistake, and it will make the cooperation of the members of the signalling system even closer so that it will not happen in the future. [[10.20]] Another important point, which was also mentioned by the Member, was that in the future, a child should not be able to be fully removed from the perspective of child protection; that, for example, it may occur that, for example, the pediatrician, the general pediatrician, should be informed by a parent, let us say the infant, by telephone; that it should not be possible for this to happen in the future. Therefore, I must say once again that a completely sensible change would occur when it says that screening tests are made mandatory by law, making the responsibility of parents fully clear. It could also be seen that in many, even in all cases, the lack of cooperation by parents can be clearly demonstrated. In fact, in most cases it can be shown that the work and access of child protection professionals to children at risk are specifically hindered. This once again highlighted another problem, which has also been mentioned by my fellow Member, that, for example, children's welfare staff cannot get into parents' homes, because parents prevent it or, for example, social services cannot get in because parents prevent it. But the evidence the D.A. needs, and they're in the building, so it's actually a vicious circle out of which there was no way out in the previous legislative environment. This legislation, this legislative amendment proposal, which is before us, also addresses this particular problem by requiring ex post approval by a prosecutor. Once again, the merger of the brothers' affairs took place from life, as this was a problem in the case of the pearl case. It is quite clear that if a parent has abused his child or endangered his child's life and now brings another child into the world, this can happen in the future. Thus, it is entirely justified to merge the brothers'affairs, as this can reduce or eliminate the lives and emergencies of later born children. To sum up, therefore, we must say that this legislative amendment proposal, which seeks to amend several laws, responds to specific problems, seeks to solve specific problems, clarifies the responsibility of parents even more and clearly. It also increases the scope and scope of the child protection warning system members' responsibilities and makes it even more clear what protocols should be followed for them. I hope that these amendments will prevent future tragedies such as those of the Pearl. Of course, the KDNP Group will support this legislative amendment proposal, and I also ask the other opposition parties to do the same. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-10-26-10	Thank you. Congressman Sebestyén, the lead speaker of Jobbik is next. Here.
u2016-10-26-11	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, My first question on the proposal is why its representatives are discussing this serious issue as a separate motion. Of course, I know the geographical and political reasons of Mr László Horváth as rapporteur-general, and I know the background to that, but I still think that this is a matter of a weight which could otherwise be changed in such a weight that it would have been the task of the government or the Ministry to bring this forward. In addition, the submission to the Ministry has a serious role to play in the law. With the signal system working, we know there are big problems. Since the Child Protection Act has been in place since 97, there have been problems with the child protection signalling system, and unfortunately this has not been resolved. Since I've been in Parliament, I've said that there is something to be done about this situation, and since then there have been quite a lot of tragedies, which has made me even more aware that there is a mistake in the machine, that the system is not working. We will see what the document published by the Ministry, Minister, will contain and how detailed it will discuss the operation of the signalling system, how detailed it will address the duties and what needs to be kept and what methodology it will provide to the members of the signalling system. We will see this then, otherwise you can expect us to monitor this, and we will also support it with our possible improvements and we will also try to help it work. I would note here in brackets that if you were looking for good examples of a well-functioning and efficient child protection warning system, you should feel free to turn to the city of Ozd, the mayor's office of Ozd, because they have been bringing together the child protection warning system for over a year, holding regular meetings, holding case meetings, and, in fact, establishing a well-functioning system alongside the administration and assistance of the mayor's office. We know very well that Oz is a city that is not in a good position from a child protection point of view. [[To intervene:]] Of course it's true, he's not in a good position. We know very well that there are a lot of isolated, uncomfortable residential areas, and we know very well what kind of child protection problems this causes. This is an effective way of trying to improve the operation, and I can also say that they have effectively improved the functioning of the child protection signalling system. There are two important things about the operation of the child protection signalling system that we cannot forget. One is the protection of members of the child protection signalling system, whether it is the protection of members working in social care or health care. I know there have already been restrictions on violence against an official at Btk., but I think that even more protection is needed, especially case managers working in child protection, child welfare centers, and family support colleagues, who need more protection. The other thing that concerns Btk., which I have constantly stressed, is that I know, of course, that the endangerment in the occupation is included in the Criminal Code as an item of the Btk., but I think that the appropriate sanctioning system could be developed in relation to the failure of the signal if there was a separate pass at Btk. level that, as a member of the child protection signalling system, failure to signal would have such criminal consequences. In this case, it would no longer be a question of consideration, whether or not the guardianship authority would file a criminal complaint. Because if you've missed the signal, it's clear that he's already committed a crime. I believe that the events and cases of the past period prove that this is necessary; that members of the child protection signalling system should feel the weight of what they are risking, even risking the life of a child by failing a signal and not doing their duty. With regard to changes in guardianship, I would say that yes, I agree that there is a need to deal with cases in common with the affairs of children living in a family, because the examples show very well that, yes, it has led to tragedies here too, that this was not a practice. We are aware of cases where the mother and the child are not allowed to come home from the hospital after giving birth, but they do not review the danger of children already in the family, and there are many cases where there were clearly and proven vulnerable children in the family, who may have been removed from the family, and yet they do not think about it and do not consider the possibility of further endangerment in a newborn child before the release of the mother and child. I hope that this amendment, this change, will provide sufficient guarantees that this will not happen. I trust we'll never see them again. What has already been mentioned in the author's exposé, but not since: the signalling system, the child protection signalling system, has a very important character, and this is the immediate residential environment. They are the ones who cannot be legally obliged to fulfil their obligations, and they cannot be sanctioned if they fail to fulfil this obligation. For them, the only solution is information and information. [[10.30]] If they experience this in their immediate living environment, in their neighbors, in their acquaintances, or experience child endangerment or abuse, indicate it in the required place. I think that, in contrast to countless other cases, this is what would be worth a national campaign, whether it would be worth a billboard campaign or a flyer campaign by the government. I think that what would be included in the budget would bring it back many times, because if we could eliminate the life or danger of a child, then this was all worth it. I think that such a national campaign would make a lot more sense than what we've seen recently. Let us not forget one thing: apart from guardianship as an authority, the main pillars of the child protection signalling system are the child welfare services themselves, the child welfare centers and the workers involved, working and working on cases on a daily basis, as well as on the ground. I think that we can't make the child protection system or the social system 100 percent operational until then and we can't save it from the crash, by the way, I'd say until the social career model is introduced, because the wage conditions that the workers in the sector have to work in today are unsustainable. This is why there may be cases where, with a degree from 10 to 15 years in the profession, a worker working at a child welfare centre in Spain is more likely to eat apples than to work in his own profession as a dedicated colleague, because if he does not do so, he cannot sustain his own life, his own family's life. As long as there is such a situation, let us not be surprised that people who carry this system on their shoulders will fall out of the pillar, or they will go abroad to work, or in other ways, whether within the country, they will be untrained, this is one half of them. They remain - I don't know how to put it delicately - highly professionally dedicated people who risk anything to practice their profession, they are the other category, and unfortunately, there is a category emerging in areas where there may be no other job opportunities, that there are neither professionally dedicated nor even capable people in the social care system. I think this is unsustainable. Our social professionals, our good social professionals with a sense of professionalism, must maintain the system in cooperation with them, and they will also be able to effectively manage and operate the child welfare and child protection signalling system in their area. This can be a solution to problems, the basis from which to start and from which to build further. Thank you for listening. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2016-10-26-12	Thank you very much. Congresswoman Bernadett Wind, lead speaker of the LMP, is next. Here you go.
u2016-10-26-13	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, First of all, I must say that once again, by circumventing social consultation, we have received an important bill which, I think, would have been worthy of the Government, in order and in its way, to bring it to Parliament by means of a ministerial submission. I think there's a reason for this order. The fact that Fidesz has been constantly submitting such proposals in individual motions for six years now has its reasons, but we do not consider this to be a proper procedure. We believe that hearing the opinion of the social profession is essential for Members to be able to debate or talk about a bill afterwards. In addition to the method of submission, there are also content issues with this plan. There will be things in it that I will praise, but let me start with the basic and structural problems that we cannot leave without saying a word. First of all, the truth must be told, which is that the child protection warning system in this country is on the verge of total collapse. I think that it is time for a comprehensive proposal to put things right in this country with regard to the child protection signalling system, and a proposal to respond to both prevention and crisis. By the way, you have been promising this for years, it was the Secretary of State who has told us a lot that they will make the signalling system more effective, they will increase cooperation, but we have not seen much of it. It is true that the institutional system has been shaped, the combined family and child protection services have been established, child welfare services, which you have said in your introductory text, but we expect more than that. So we would very much like the government that has been promised to implement them. This year, just on the day the court announced the judgment of the little boy of Agarde three years ago, a year and a half old undernourished girl died in Gyöngyös. According to the news, as we know, the two children from the mother's former relationship were not properly fed, so they were placed with their separate father. So we're hearing the tragedy of this family. The mother and her mate, due to the dire loss of the sister of the deceased child, had already come to the attention of the authorities in 2013 - years earlier. Despite all the facts we have learned from the news, the child protection system in Hungary has not been able to detect the serious threat of the younger girl in time and take the necessary steps. I have to add that, following the death, the Ombudsman also investigated and found that a series of omissions by the general pediatrician, the child welfare centre and the guardianship office led to the failure to prevent this tragedy, so the Ombudsman found that the system did not work. It seems to us that this pearl case has now led the government, more specifically the pro-government politicians, to change the system. On the one hand, we see that they want to strengthen the obligation of parental cooperation and, on the other hand, to regulate and clarify the responsibilities and responsibilities of the signalling members. I would like to add that we are three years late, because these proposed amendments could have been made three years ago, because the Ombudsman had already asked the Minister of Human Resources to consider the possibility of compulsory use of the services of the patroness or the legal consequences of the refusal of the service, the extension of the screening obligation and a series of other things, which, by the way, is now reflected in this amendment. So what I can conclude from this is that these problems have become visible three years earlier through the Ombudsman's work, but the government has not acted, and it has taken another tragedy to finally speak about these issues in Parliament. The one you put on the table is certainly not going to solve the problems of the child protection system that bleeds from a thousand wounds on its own. As I said before, it is no exaggeration to say that the child protection warning system is on the verge of collapse in this country, and the severity of the situation is supported by internal surveys. It is no secret to anyone, nor should it be a secret to the government that it has long been unable to fulfil its function: to prevent the endangerment of children and to eliminate the situation at risk. So this, which we are now reading in the bill presented, is actually a symptomatic treatment, which in itself will certainly not be enough. I have heard what my colleague Selmeczi said to talk about this, this bill. I will talk about this further, but it is my duty to tell you, and it is my duty, in opposition, to say twice that the work cannot stop here. The sector is in a very serious situation, and you, Fidesz and KDNP have every opportunity to change that. So be nice, don't stop here, just keep going. But let's see what's in this bill right now. According to point 1, they act by applying the professional methods of the operation and operation of the child protection signalling system, which the Minister shall publish on the website of the Ministry which he manages. Obviously, so that's important, that's what's going to happen. But I have two problems with this story. On the one hand, in addition to the general professional methods for the operation of the signalling system, it would be very important to publish specific methodological guidelines, such as a methodological recommendation to establish a professional basis for the recognition of risks or the procedures to be followed in case of refusal to use protective services. This is important because even though the law will say that it is mandatory, let's say, to cooperate with the protective woman, and to refuse to do so is a serious threat, child welfare services will not yet know what further steps are needed. So I think that this needs to be made absolutely clear. The second is that, just because methodological principles are published on the Ministry's website, their acquisition or practical application will not be resolved. So I want you to make sure it's not just a simple publication. Every law is worth as much of it as it is implemented, so in this view they try to make it explicit. [[10.40]] Point 2 states that the case of the brothers raising together must be dealt with in a case file in the course of the guardianship procedure. This proposal, I think, is eligible. The case in Pearl and I have just described showed that the authorities made a fundamental mistake when they did not handle the brothers'affairs together. Not to mention that, when considering the child's risk, important information is the behaviour of the parent threatening the other children, the existence of ongoing protective procedures, and the experience of cooperation willingness. So if this has not been sensible before, and I have experience in my practice that this has not been clear, sensible, it is important that the law says so and that everyone should stick to it. However, I would also like to say here, Mr Secretary, that this is step zero, and I would like to propose a direction that I would consider important for the government to implement. I can see that the whole system works in an infinitely outdated, ageless way. We see that, instead of or alongside paper administration, it would be a real step forward if they could finally manage children's data in an electronic system. I think that we need an IT system and infrastructure that would not only facilitate the work of the workers, but would significantly accelerate the process and, in such cases, speed up the process, it could save lives. So I think that in this country you have proven many times, my fellow members of the government and most of all the government, there is money for a lot of things, so let there be money for this, and I think that this would really be necessary. The operation of the signalling system could also be much more effective. Of course, strict data protection rules should be applied, but individual cases could be accessed by members of the signalling system, and all relevant information about children could be monitored. Point 3 is that the guardianship authority may decide to take the pre-direction without the consent of a prosecutor in the event of a child's risk. I consider this eligible. We saw, unfortunately, that in many cases the parent did not appear at the trial despite subpoenas, and then, after multiple subpoenas, they turned to the prosecutor, but the result was very often that this was practically the only way to contact the parent and could not happen if the prosecutor refused. I think that it will make the system more efficient if the law changes in the way it has been brought forward. In accordance with point 4, I quote: If the parent refused to cooperate with the GP, the GP, the protective woman, or the care provider, the institution and the public education institution, it would be considered as a serious risk in the absence of any other indication. This is the point that has led to tough reactions from civil society organisations, and I would like to stress that it is not without reason. It is important here that there is no excess of this bill. The proposal codifies that the parent's refusal to cooperate with the protective woman or the pediatrician or the school would constitute a serious threat in itself. So this means that a decision could be made to take the child out of the family temporarily elsewhere without a more thorough assessment of the risk. There is a legitimate concern that this in such a way, without careful regulation and without guarantees of abuse, could lead to administrative abuse. I myself know of unwarranted points, so they came to me on such matters, and there were events where children were illegally removed from their families because of financial circumstances, although they were not supposed to do so. I think, Mr State Secretary and honourable fellow Members, that we should pay close attention here, so that this change of legislation does not, by chance, result in children being removed from their families unduly. I would like to add, however, that this proposal is not without precedent, and in the Ombudsman's report on the death of the Pearl, it is almost word for word. Let me quote you. So the Heves County Government Department recommended that the Child Protection Act be amended, and this is the way it was put in danger, even in the absence of any other indication, if the parent caring for the minor is considered as a serious threat. refuse to cooperate with the provider of basic health care, the general practitioner, the pediatrician, the protective woman, the child welfare service or guardianship. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. What happened? Let's look behind this case and see exactly what happened. In the pearl case, what happened was that the parents really refused to cooperate, so they couldn't get information about the child's real condition at the child welfare service, and therefore, in the absence of any information about the risk, they couldn't turn to guardianship. What happened here was that the Child Welfare Service interpreted the law as meaning that the refusal to provide protection and health care was not in itself a threat. This was the mistake, because the methodology guide on risk already states that health neglect is a dangerous situation, i.e. the recommendation already states that rejection of protection and health care is a dangerous cause. What happened here was that the workers of the child welfare service simply did not know this recommendation, and apparently they did not know what to do with this situation, that, in the absence of parental cooperation, there was no evidence of serious harm to the child's life, physical integrity, mental development, and that, therefore, they could not propose to guardianship. I think that it is important to clarify this at a legislative level, so if the recommendation is not enough guidance, then let us also clarify this at the level of the law, because I think that the lack of parental cooperation should not prevent the state from performing its child protection functions and fulfilling its obligation to protect lives. However, careful regulation is important, so this will be the point where the May Other Policy will present three amendments to the bill. I would very much ask you to examine them out of absolute party policy, to establish a regulation here that is absolutely in the best interests of children. So we're gonna be doing this by 4:00 tomorrow -- I understand we're gonna have to make the amendments by then. We will propose case discussions, and we will propose that instead of being a serious threat, it is sufficient that a complete refusal of cooperation is considered a threat. At point 5, I would like to say that there you said that gynecologist, paediatrician and protective health care services cannot be refused, so you will be explicitly declared. This is basically okay with us, but we would like to give a little freedom to parents, for example, in such a way that we will propose an amendment so that the rejection of the territorially competent protective or general medical care or the free choice of the person of the guardian should not be considered as a breach of the duty of cooperation, so we will propose such an amendment here. Points 6, 7, 8, 9 are basically agreed, so I do not want to add any more to these points. On the other hand, I would like to make one point: it would be important if this legislation did not stop here, but started working on the government side to reduce the burden on workers, and the immediate and significant increase in wages could be achieved in the profession. What I see is that in this country, they can really give money to places where there is no need at all, and I don't understand why social workers have to remain the worst earning workers in the national economy. I can see that these people do responsible work on human fates and children for a net of 80 to 90 thousand forints. I'm not optimistic at all about what they're planning, because what we're seeing now is what wage increases are going to be, at least pretty much, now you're planning to do. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] I'd like to point out that this is not going to make a penny more than social workers. If I'm wrong about this, be kind and correct me, because I would very much like to hear that the wage increase for social workers is finally being made. Thank you.
u2016-10-26-14	Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. The first independent Member to come forward and present may now speak. Congresswoman Zsuzsanna Szelényi, please.
u2016-10-26-15	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear fellow Members, It is an interesting debate, and it is good to clarify that many of you have done this, and what we are really talking about. I think that when we are faced with a proposal for such serious cases, we should essentially consider whether this proposal is suitable for solving or helping the Hungarian government, the Hungarian state, to fulfil its function of raising children in Hungary in the safest possible environment, preferably by loving adults close to them. That's always the question of talking about children and endangering children. Never a specific case or tragedy is the subject of our investigation, since these are always just the tips of the iceberg. When we find out from police reports and tabloids that there's been some tragedy, we can be sure that there are a lot more children suffering, and these are just random points, but otherwise there are serious, big problems. [[10.50]] When children are sexually harassed, we may think that most children at risk are exposed to some kind of violent abuse. When we say that children at risk - 240,000 children we are talking about in Hungary today - it is possible to think that most of them are subject to abuse and neglect, because neglect is also a subject of endangerment and violence. We're talking about 240,000 kids, not an isolated, current case. So it is obviously our expectation that, when an amendment is trying to remedy this, either by the government or instead by its representatives, the whole problem is being examined, because it is never a proposal about an Eger case. Our job is to think in general and look at real problems. So there are 240,000 children today registered as vulnerable minors in Hungary, there are 50,000 children per year who are included in this system. We're talking amazing numbers, 12 to 14 percent of all kids in age groups, and the numbers can change somewhat. 10 percent of children today are underage at risk in Hungary. In 1997, when the Child Protection Act was born, it was a large and very forward-looking, fundamentally child-righted, focused amendment of the law, which transformed the child protection system in Hungary. Over the next ten years, the number of children who had to be taken into state care has steadily decreased, because basic care has become more and more suitable for children to live better. Of course, this includes the fact that in Hungary there was a social stability, a prosperity, and parents were better suited to raise their children. However, this has changed since the crisis and, specifically, during your governance, over the last ten years, the number of children who are going into state care has been increasing steadily and steadily. This is a serious problem, because, as the Secretary of State said, and we all know, our goal is to allow children to grow safely in their homes as far as possible and only to highlight them if there is a greater threat to them than if they are raised in community state care, which can never be as individual-focused and filled with love as a family education. So the situation is bad. The situation is bad and, in any case, continues to deteriorate, so we are facing structural, systemic problems. These tragedies, as I said, only show the tip of the iceberg. Why is this so? Obviously, it's a complex matter, which is why we can't think about a little story. I think that in Hungary today, despite all the government slogans that are family-friendly, there is basically a government lack of interest in the lives of vulnerable children, and the government does not address this issue at all. It is only when there is a brutal tragedy that a proposal on this issue comes before us in Parliament. This is totally unacceptable. Another serious problem is that in this sector, and no one has actually talked about it here today, there is a government centralization that is very much based on the basis of the logic of a family-friendly government. But let's look at it, and I'd like to get a report from the Secretary of State on whether or not the pooling of basic child welfare care and family support helped, say, the children's things. Because today, for example, there are situations in which people with organic weed teenagers have to work for professionals who are otherwise trained to care for older and sick people and do not understand the problems of teenage children. It would be possible to help them if they knew how to do it. So there's a lot of anomalies. Obviously, a centralised logic, a social care system with a power logic, cannot serve to enable local communities and families to successfully manage the tasks of raising children. Of course, centralization always involves withdrawal of resources, and it is always in the naughty sense that people go away, send them away, or are forced to leave. So the number of professionals is also decreasing. I think the fact is that we are faced with these news that today the government cannot really solve this principle, so raising children in a safe environment, possibly in their families. Today, the Hungarian government cannot support this in any way. Compared to this, the proposal actually helps to ensure that as many children as possible can be taken into public care as easily as possible. I don't think it contributes in any way to an effective management of the situation and to a better life for children. So this proposal is not good, basically, even though it has a sympathetic point. Obviously, there is nothing wrong with caring for brothers together and working together with professionals, but these alone, as we are facing systemic problems, are not going to improve the situation, and I cannot support a proposal which, by the way, does not target real problems. Several people have already referred to the fact that an ombudsman's report was prepared, and in 2014, an expert opinion was prepared on child abuse with concrete proposals on the problems of the child supply system. By the way, in the last few months, I've been to several of these facilities this week; Foton, too, I was at the reception center on Alföldi Street yesterday. I find it practical to meet with the professionals and stakeholders we are talking about before we form an opinion on them. So now we have a lot of information and, of course, we don't know enough, we don't have enough data, but we don't have empty hands when we want to touch the system, and we want to change the serious structural problems of basic supply. I think there are some points that need to be reviewed. For example, whether local services managed by public authorities under stronger public control can mobilise local actors and, where appropriate, cooperation between professionals. It would be nice to know a little bit more about that. It's important to fill the amazing lack of expertise. I've been mentioned by several people, but let me give you some data, too. In the specialty of state care, babysitters, who are with children day and night, so also during periods where, for example, in a foster home, in state care, sexual abuse can occur in secret places, have to provide 40-50 children 12 hours a day. And this man makes 80-90 thousand forints. He's actually doing it for fun, because the money he's getting is obviously inadequate for him to make a living on his own, so he can support his own family. We can't expect anyone to do proper individualized fine work to see if that child's behavior has changed over the last few months, and we're talking about traumatized children, when he's himself suffering from elementary physical and material problems, he's been eviscerated forever, he's tired and he's got all sorts of problems. But I'll give you another example. Child protection guardians should exercise parental functions, responsibilities and responsibilities of 30-40 children and their driver's licenses. It's an amazing responsibility. Today, these people spend 70 percent of their working time traveling. So they barely meet the children they're supposed to be parents of. How would they realize that there is a serious problem with that child? What miracle do we expect from these child protection professionals to function perfectly in a completely imperfect structure? This is obviously unacceptable. I would add that we encourage them, say, in this proposal, to work more closely with the patrons, school teachers, kindergarten teachers and everyone who is a member of the so-called signalling system, but where are they? Isn't there a lack of female protection in Hungary? Are teachers in the right position who themselves are in a completely impossible situation because of school centralization? [[11.00]] So we're asking these people for things they just can't solve. We are talking about real, serious structural problems here. Centralized systems are unsuitable for professionals to work together locally, for the community to function, to notice that something is wrong next door. When it comes to thinking that I'm doing everything in power logic, I can't expect people to achieve perfection within the framework of local cooperation and professional cooperation. There is a problem with the spirit of this whole proposal. Of course, it fits the government's logic. I'm saying that you can't solve your basic duties. There are other problems. For example, in recent years it has become more and more common that children with special needs have been considered more and more vulnerable, taken into child care, taken away from their families, and then found that when an autistic child is among 30-40 children, he is even less able to be treated by the system, and brought back to his family a year later, even though he was previously considered unfit for parenting. Then what is the task of the Hungarian state? Your job is to get the family to handle this. A mass or many children's treatment system is inappropriate to solve individual problems. There are a lot of other problems, these are also structural problems. Not to mention the fact that we're talking about children who are being packed here and there by the state, away from their parents, back to their parents, and no one can actually fix his life. There are more problems. Of course, these children are unable to grow up intact and will obviously be extremely vulnerable when they grow up. The point is, therefore, that this proposal certainly does not represent any serious progress in the vast sea of problems that we are facing. I'll tell you something else: for example, the Child Protection Act was still very good in 97, but since then it has been twenty years, and the world has developed a lot in assessing child-centred benefits. But in this law, there's no mention of violence, there's no mention of abuse, there's no mention of prostitution, there's no mention of sexual exploitation. When we know that, by the way, most of the children affected are suffering from one of them. At least from neglect, as I said, it's considered violence under all international conventions. The training of professionals, which has already been discussed here, is inadequate. They receive so little money from these otherwise often underqualified professionals that they hire people to work at any cost, because so few people simply want to work in child care. When it should be a very serious filter, who could be in such a position to live with children, raise troubled children, then the system must employ people who do not comply. Of course, then there will be an opportunity for very, very serious abuse, which seriously undermines the renome, prestige and pride of all other employees. I think that a pro-police proposal, like this one, is completely inadequate to solve serious structural problems. I expect the government to present a much more comprehensive, meaningful, forward-looking proposal for children. Until then, I cannot support this proposal. Thank you very much.
u2016-10-26-16	Thank you very much. I'd like you all to stick to the rules of the house and keep an eye on the time frame. Dear Parliament, No one has applied for a two-minute speech, so there will be further speeches by their representatives. As the first speaker to be announced, the representative of the MSZP, Lajos Korózs, can give his opinion. Here.
u2016-10-26-17	Thank you very much. Dear House, Mr President, I, unlike others or many others, do not think that the tragedies that almost all my fellow Members have mentioned here have occurred because Fidesz is on the government, and I do not think that it is only because our fellow Member László Horváth is a Member of Parliament in those two settlements. Obviously that's not why these things happen. Such things occur primarily because there are hiatuses in the supply system that not only amplify, but now make these events common. I would like to deal with three things in detail in the context of the law: the affairs of the brothers, the promotion, the concept of danger and the compulsory nature of protective care. I'd like to start with this one. I see that the definition of vulnerability defines the nature and scope of the problems, as well as the objective, direction and means of achieving the public services for the protection of children. This part's okay. The bill, on the other hand, I think is leading the child protection system in the wrong direction by pushing professionals towards a public and criminal approach. Therefore, it should not be supported that, instead of promoting the proper cooperation of the signalling members, the bill stresses solely the obligation of parents and other legitimate representatives to cooperate. Because failure to comply with the rules, lack of indication, lack of cooperation makes professionals responsible, labour law and even criminal liability. At the same time, it should be stressed that one of the important principles of the Child Protection Act is the principle of cooperation that you expect from professionals and parents, from legal representatives and children alike. However, the lack of cooperation alone cannot be considered as a serious threat in my view, and further examination is required. The threat is a state of conduct, omission, or circumstance caused by the child or another person which hinders or hinders the physical, emotional, intellectual or moral development of the child. The system of danger: the situation is harmful to the development of the child, the problem is not normal and the parent can be blamed, the solution of the problem cannot be left to the family, then it is necessary to control the state, to limit the autonomy of the family. In this case, it is the duty of the pediatrician and the nurse to assess the degree of risk, and then to decide on further action. She's also an important indicator member of the child protection system, we know that. In accordance with the provisions in force, if the parent refuses to provide protective care, the protective woman shall notify the child welfare service, which may at any time verify the circumstances of the child's upbringing. In the event of insufficient circumstances, the guardianship may protect the child and, as a rule of conduct, the parent may be obliged to take protective care by assisting the family, its child rearing and childcare tasks, by a seconded social worker. I do not want to advance the in-depth debate, because it will have to be held in committee, but it still wants to be done, because I mentioned it there: the supply system in Hungary is so inadequate today that it is legal that such cases, which have seen the light of day recently, will occur. I mentioned to my fellow Members at the committee meeting the unblessed state of the general medical system. Today, regions, microregions, and microregions are completely impossible in the country. I set an example: in the Abaúj region, all the general practitioners are retired, and two thirds of the retired general practitioners are over 70 years old. My dear friends, in a few years there will be no doctor in the entire Abaúj region. I'm sorry. I'm not talking about a pediatrician. We see that where the home pediatric services are unfulfilled, the government is simply doing - or the supervising body - to bring together the practice of the home pediatrician and the general practitioner. If nine jobs are announced at the training centre in Szeged, and no one is applying for them, if there are only three interested parties in Budapest, then there is nothing left to talk about. [[11.10]] Any way you can explain that, Secretary of State Onodi-Szűcs, there's nothing to talk about. I also set the example for my fellow Members. My dear friends, take a day to come with me to Burgenland. Only Hungarians work out there in the social care system, and no matter what element I look at: social catering or home assistance - about the same structure as ours - or residential nursing home, Grazig is only working for Hungarians. From Vienna to Grazig they are only Hungarians. They leave the field because they don't work for 70-80,000 forints, even the most determined leave the country. Even the most determined! I agree with my fellow Member, Mr Cut, until there is a decent salary and a declared career model in the social sector, that is what we should expect. You have to understand, you can't have public workers do all the work. We know what they're doing: a lot of people get kicked out of one of the sub-systems of the state administration, and in a few weeks, they're gonna take back 60 percent of their salary as public workers. Because you can't build the whole supply system on public workers working in it. It is therefore a professional matter to be decided whether to leave the legal exclusion of the refusal of protective care unchanged, or to require all parents to take territorial protective care in the interest of the child. It should therefore be examined whether the protection of children's life and health is proportionate to the legal exclusion of the refusal of protective care. Even if we respond to this in accordance with the requirements of necessity and proportionality, the lack of cooperation cannot mean that the child is at serious risk without further testing. In the event of serious threats, an official procedure must be initiated and, after all, the child should be removed from the family. The real solution is to comply with the provisions of the modern Child Protection Act, to strengthen the child welfare service and the protective network, to reduce the number of cases, to increase material and moral appreciation. It would also be necessary, Mr Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen, to provide the members of the signalling system with sufficient professional training to identify and deal with situations of danger, to learn about methods and techniques of cooperation. The situation of children can best be explored at case meetings organised by the Child Welfare Service, which can be helped by the counselor and case manager of the family and child welfare centre. I mentioned that there are things that depend specifically on the government, and the government's decisions influence every action that takes place. I'm sorry, I can't just walk away from the Bicske case. Talking to a colleague, talking to a colleague, he is not sitting in the expert box with whom I have continued this conversation; let me not want to anecdote, I will read what he said: "We had many cases with children's homes. Although it may seem cynical, the fact that a child is being harassed by an employee was not surprising, as were many cases where there were sexual abuse, shower violence, initiation rituals, power games, coercion, prostitution. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I've seen a lot of things by then, but this case was different. The charges against the unbreakable director of a well-known institution have been filed by the coworkers. Not the children, not the guests, the colleagues. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Then we got a CD where the boys in the facility tell us what happened to them on camera. They told me about the ambiguous speeches, the accidental touches, the case of the principal, what happens when the child is called to play chess, and, of course, how the director used them sexually to satisfy his own desires. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. That's literally from a colleague. When we joined the case, the prosecution was already under way, and although there were more and more indications that children's rights were not respected and fundamental violations were also taking place, I thought it was so clear that the end could not be different from the fact that the sinner would receive his punishment. Therefore, I advised them not to turn to the public, since it would be very difficult for these children to live with the stigma later on, that a man had used them. I defended the children's right to privacy more strongly, because I thought justice would do its job. However, I made a huge mistake. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Although the criminal proceedings and the mandatory procedure within the child protection system were carried out, there were many errors, this was subsequently established by an ombudsman's inquiry. We have all seen the Ombudsman's inquiry, and Mr Balog is responsible. Here's Zoltán Balog's responsibility! They have given a detailed description of the problems, a detailed proposal on what should be resolved, and did not move the staff of his ear to solve this problem. I'll turn back here. The director was acquitted during the course of the procedure, but he lived in the home area all the time, thus influencing children and educators. Children who testified incriminatingly were persuaded to withdraw their testimony by high - value gifts, bribery, and manipulation. The legal representative of the children involved in the case was not independent of the director charged with serious charges. The adults who stood up for the children who confessed gradually made it impossible and humiliating. Of course, you don't know what would have happened if there hadn't been one. Still, one thing is certain: in 2012, the procedure was closed in the absence of a criminal offence. The director returned to his original position, the educators, who joined the children, left or were sent from the institution. You understand that, don't you, fellow Members? Not the principal, but the colleagues who told me what this principal was doing, they were sent from the institution! I'm going back to the bill. I have mentioned a lead, Mr Secretary of State, that I would like to deal with some of this. If the person quoted does not appear for repeated subpoenas and does not excuse his absence, he may be brought to the attention of the police. In order to implement the advance procedure, unless otherwise provided for by law, the prosecutor's approval requested by the head of the authority is required and the relevant paragraphs are available. For example, the approval of the pre-leading shall be refused if the proposal for a pre-leading relates to the client who initiated the procedure, unless the procedure is carried out by the public administration on his own initiative, and the conditions for prioritization from the documents are not excellent, e.g. the service of a written subpoena cannot be justified. The documents show that the ordering authority has no jurisdiction, jurisdiction, jurisdiction or other grounds of nullity in the case. In view of this principle, it is of great concern that, in specific cases, the bill would give the guardianship authority the power to decide whether to proceed without the consent of the prosecutor. In my opinion, Mr Secretary of State, the apparatus in this section of administration is not prepared for this. I'm sure he's not prepared for this. I mentioned the brothers' cases last. The wording of the bill should be supported by the fact that, in the context of the guardianship procedure, the case of the brothers raising together should be dealt with in a single case file, since many people have mentioned that it is a fundamental right for children to place the brothers together, and that the children themselves can ask for their joint placement. It's partly okay. Looks like I've got a few more seconds, Mr. President. You know, Mr. Secretary, it's a shame that that former director has been decorated. They lied all over the place. They lied all over the place! They moved it to bodies, committees, when it was clear who the proposer was: Zoltán Balog! It was initiated by Zoltán Balog and the institution under his control. It's a shame of the world that in a month's time, you'll be acquitted by a man who'll give you a medal first! [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] There's no explanation for that. Thank you so much for listening.
u2016-10-26-18	Dear Parliament, One of the national representatives and the government have asked for the floor. According to the house rules, the rapporteur, Mr László Horváth, first receives the opportunity to speak. Here. [[11.20]]
u2016-10-26-19	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. I asked for the floor that it might help to remove a permanent element of opposition speeches from the debate. This permanent element, I might say, is the party element of the government on your part, because you all miss that it is not a government referral, it is only a motion from its representatives, and that this motion of its representatives wants to distract from scandals, attention about current scandals, throw something together, cover up a scandal and the rest, and so on. Well, the thing is, on 24 May - and you can look back on this, on 24 May - I came out to the public and told them that it was necessary to amend legislation, and I told them that I was going to submit a separate motion of representatives, and I also marked what laws and laws. So it wasn't... how should I put it, if you think I wanted to cover up a series of scandals on 24 May, which would have happened later, it's a bit of a wild idea. This proposal is precisely because a Member can do so. But I think you need to do this. In my constituency, Gyöngyös and Recskemén, these two brutal child murders took place in close proximity to each other. What is wrong with what is offended and offended by a Member not only being informed about this matter but also taking a step? Obviously, he is a representative and not a child protection specialist, so he asks those practitioners, women in charge, family therapy, hospital, health care workers. He asks - that's what I did. This is what I did, and this is the basis for the decisive part of this proposal, and it is visible - but I do not understand Zsuzsa Szelényi, that there is a need to talk about life and real problems. Well, what if it's not a real, lifelike problem, is what I'm talking about? That's also the point of the motion. You said it was just the tip of the iceberg. Not only for me, but for me, the death of these two children, which occurred in my constituency, this tragic, terrible nightmare is not only real; it is very real. If, as a representative, I bring to the House a proposal, which, by the way, if you look at in detail, going point by point, as Mr Bernadett Szél, for example, it seems that in the case of real, practical matters, I am doing the work of my responsibilities and of my duties, with due regard to the truth - because please do not doubt that, with integrity - I am doing the work of my representatives. With a good heart and decency, I think he is careful, and I think that not beyond the circle that a Member must respect, since I am a Member, for example, at the moment, I am not a child protection specialist, but I must prepare myself from the subject, I believe that I have done so. Once again, the reason for the motion of representatives should be rejected. I don't know what's wrong with you, and I'm telling you again, I'm not hurting anyone, I'm not hurting anyone. However, the expansion of a motion by its representatives is limited, and it cannot handle the whole system. Thank you. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-10-26-20	Thank you very much. On behalf of the government, Secretary of State Czibere has come forward. Here.
u2016-10-26-21	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear House, In the short time available, I would like to clarify a number of misunderstandings, and there have also been untruths, and I think that they should be corrected. One of the most serious accusations, I think, is something the government is trying to cover up. No such intention, I do not think, can be outlined from this proposal or from the government's preparations for the last two years for child protection and child welfare. In all cases where there has been serious abuse in the last two years, and in particular where service providers, authorities, which we have entrusted to our children, have abused opportunity and children's lives, and have exposed our children to neglect, abuse or endangerment, we have in all cases launched an emergency investigation without delay. To my knowledge, the incident in Bicske occurred on 23 September at 10 a.m. and the director was suspended on 23 September at 5 p.m. The director was suspended that day, and then moved after a few days, exactly the experience mentioned by the congressman of 12... [[Interviews from the lines of the MSZP: Now is not the time, it is the time, but the time!]] I'm sorry, I'm talking about this one. So on September 23, 16th, as the story arrived, at the moment... [[Zsuzsanna Szelényi: Moved back!]] He didn't move back. I'm sorry. There was no moving back. On the morning of September 23, the information came in, in the afternoon the director was suspended, and an internal investigation of the Ministry began, which obtained all the related investigation reports. The Ministry, the Directorate-General for Social Affairs and Children's Protection and the Directorate-General's Office had no knowledge and information on case 12. Don't worry, there wouldn't have been any medals. [[Bangóné Borbély Ildikó: It is included in the ombudsman's report!]] No, no! The congressman mentioned this particular expert whose opinion I have read out. I read that, too. But you could ask this expert why he was silent. He says that the expert statement in the letter quotes that he was silent because of the right of children to privacy. If this expert is not silent, for example, in 12, it may not end that way. [[Zsuzsanna Szelényi: Was he to blame?]] We believe that at the moment, as these cases were discovered, there was a measure on that day. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: in 11th grade, Mr Secretary of State!]] We have appointed a new head of the institution, brought from outside, not from the institution, who, since then, I think is working with satisfaction to investigate and clarify the situation. Gyöngyös: as it turns out, there was an internal investigation in the moment, we closed it within two weeks, and I personally filed a complaint against the head of child welfare and child welfare. I think there's no cover-up against the government in these cases. Every step was taken immediately. So much for specific cases. With regard to systemic matters, the accusation and criticism was also raised that only specific cases and scandals are being dealt with by the government. May I remind you that I was standing here at the end of 14 when I told you that a longer process of remodeling the child welfare system would begin. Quite simply, several people here mentioned, for example, Zsuzsa Szelényi, how great the child welfare system was. You know the children's welfare services from the 2000s that worked that way. [[Zsuzsanna Szelényi: It has been spoiled ever since!]] that the child welfare worker spent two hours a week - two hours a week - in the given settlement? Is that what you call the excellent and prosperous operation of the child welfare system? [[Zsuzsanna Szelényi: No!]] Well, I think quite simply when you say that the law was in order in 97, you're right about that, but then the child welfare system - and all the professionals say so - didn't get the conditions, capacities, and tools you were supposed to be able to use to operate the signalling system. [[Dr. László Varga: The Orbán government didn't give it!]] Far from sharing the same picture of the quality of the child welfare system in the 2000s. It was quite simple to take action not to be inaccessible, to reduce the number of cases and powers that have been requested for a long time to separate the types of services and authority, and to do so. Last week, 400 child welfare professionals attended a professional conference in Siófok, to which I was invited. This has a final statement - let me recommend this to your attention - which says that these measures have been initiated and that the measures envisaged will lead the area and the cause of child welfare in the right direction. They come here on the charge - and many have raised - that there is no consultation of the profession. [[11.30]] Read how the professional associations and experts put together the professional concept from which the Act of July 15 was amended in 2015, from which the 16th system, which started in January, was developed. So I think that if, somewhere, we do have the uniform assistance, support and professional background support of the child welfare profession, and we are developing the system in those directions. Let me give you a few more answers. Preparation: protocols, methodological procedures are on the website. So they're done, and they've been raised by a number of people. These could not be prepared in such a way that, at some point, they were completed and available. It is the responsibility of employees to know and apply them. Of course, we are involved in this preparation, and there is still a network of technical and methodological support. Right now! And this is the network that organised, for example, the conference, which constantly tries to provide this background support to the centres and services. I also think it is important to mention - Mr Zsuzsa Szelényi said - that centralisation is a major problem in relation to basic supply. This could be a misunderstanding, there's no centralisation in primary care. In my comment, I made it clear that the child welfare system was adapted without being centralised. It's not nationalized, it's a municipal responsibility. I don't even know what kind of centralization you're talking about, police and centralization. No! There is no centralisation in the field of basic services. The mere fact is that the district centre has an additional responsibility in terms of administrative matters and the provision of additional walking services as a whole and the oversight of children's roads. So not all services are equal in one walk, but one in the walk - this particular children's welfare centre - stands out; because this was the request for them to appear in such a strengthened position, and to do so an additional development resource. The next question was the number of people at risk. It's important to put this right, that's 135 860. Okay? So we use the KSH statistics, and we have tried to agree on this several times that in Hungary the largest, most validated, internationally validated collections and statistics are produced by KSH. So we all work from KSH, on 31 December 2015 there were 135,000 such children, who were registered as at risk. I think that one is a lot, it is not that, but it is important that we do not bomb public opinion with data that does not hold up. Congresswoman Bangón said that nothing had happened in the case of foster parents. Well, if any government has made progress in this area, I think it is precisely this government, because it has taken a very important step in two cases. One is that from 2014 onwards, the foster family system has developed at a forced pace, the essence of which is that by the end of this year, children under the age of 12 cannot be in a large institution, and we will do this. This is the result of these three years. The fact that nothing has happened in the development of the foster family network is a very steep claim, and the facts do not justify it. Another important issue is that, in parallel with the extension of foster care, large child protection institutions are being dismantled, as we know that there will be children with special and special needs who will not be able to reach foster parents in the long term; we are working on it, but they will not be able to. Thus, institutional structures must be maintained, but there are not large, ageless and crowded institutions, but housing homes. This replacement programme, which will be implemented and completed by 2019, will not be a large child protection institution in Hungary after 2019. It's a very important thing, I think. So that, in order to improve the living conditions and life chances of children in child protection care, there would have been no progress and serious results in the development of foster parents, foster families and extended housing services in connection with ejaculation, we must at least deny them. Again, I think it is important, and many have asked whether, if we strengthen the concept of risk in this way, as the rapporteur suggests, there are guarantees that prevent abuse. Let me say that there are currently four very serious guarantees of protection of the rights of children living in child protection, independent of the world of service, services and maintenance. First of all, he's a child protective guardian. It was the government that created the legal institution of child protection guardianship. Until then, the head of the institution was the guardian. That's exactly what caused a lot of problems. Here many have raised the question of whether to encourage... - yes, encourage, encourage, conceal, conceal things, for example, in the case of an institutional abuse, if the head of the institution is the guardian. That's why institutional guardianship had to be lifted. For example, the child protection guardian, who now filed a complaint with Bicske, started the case from there. So the fact that the independence of child protection guardianship has been created and can function independently suggests that, for the next period, serious vision will be reduced in terms of institutional abuse, simply because the child protection guardian is an independent actor from the institution. This, in itself, is a guarantee that such cases will not happen or, if they occur, will be brought to the surface very quickly. The other guarantee element is guardianship, the third is child rights representatives, and the fourth is the Ombudsman. So today, in the area of services and in the area of children, around children at risk, there is such a four-inch legal protection ring, and we hope that, as this ring has already helped children's rights in a significant way, in addition to the fact that the preparation of child protection workers, methodological assistance and the rest of what we have talked about are still mandatory and should continue to be improved, in addition to the role of this legal protection ring is becoming increasingly important and more important. With regard to the address card, which was raised by the Member, which I said yesterday, what we see is a crisis, if a voluntary service, whether it is an official type of service, there is a rule of competence and competence in child protection, which says that it cannot be a case, but we will set up a working group this week which will investigate which benefits actually have such effects. We have also called a working group on special child protection issues in November, in which the police and the prosecutor's office are there and play a role, and we consider it important that the law enforcement staff, not only the service providers, but also the prosecutors, the courts and police law enforcement, tell us the lessons about these cases; quite simply so that we can integrate them into the regulation on the one hand and into the various developments on the other. There is no way around the issue of wages, and thank you very much for your encouragement. The government is committed to constantly raising wages, in 14th grade, the gross wage was 130 thousand among employees of child welfare, say, F2, F3, F4, now 178. So there was a 43-44 thousand, about 34-36 per cent wage increase in the course of 14 and 15 respectively. We have prepared a career model, and we very much hope that we can launch it within months. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2016-10-26-22	Dear Parliament, There are now two-minute speeches. First, Congressman Attila Petneházy, Fidesz! [[11.40]]
u2016-10-26-23	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr. Secretary. Dear fellow Members, I asked for the floor because at the very first speech, I felt that the kind of sensitivity and humility that my fellow Member László Horváth demonstrated was rare, as he began to approach this whole topic. Yes, the pain is that you feel that you have not fully achieved your goal. After all, the opposition and Lady Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, who is the master of yelling, immediately struck at the idea that the child-skinning Fidesz, the child-skinning government, is trying to create a picture. I think, by the way, that it really is not from the devil, that something should start as a motion from its Members, because we should appreciate ourselves so much, because a legislator should try to make a law, and I think that this is precisely what shows that his motion was made was dictated by lifelikeness, and not by some ulterior motive which opposition Members have been avoiding. I don't think there's a perfect system, and I don't want to seem like a revelation, but there won't be a perfect system in this regard. So the kind of sensitivity that reacts to a particular incident is completely self-evident and natural to submit a law or an amendment to a law. In conclusion, I would say to opposition representatives, i.e. those who did not make appropriate and appropriate proposals like Bernadett Wind, so that they would not sink in the swamps of generality and cliche. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-10-26-24	Congresswoman Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, MSZP!
u2016-10-26-25	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. I would just like to ask Congressman Horváth what happened if he announced it in May. [[Defiance in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] I'm still going to be critical, everyone here is going to say with big lyrics how important our children are - what happened for six months? [[Interviews from the Fidesz ranks.]] Secretary of State, everything is fine and good, it was announced today that social workers will be employed in educational institutions, schools and kindergartens for HUF 1.7 billion, but they did not add, Mr Secretary, that two years ago they themselves abolished the youth responsibility system; they left it, but did not provide resources to educational institutions. They're only returning what was taken two years ago, Mr. Secretary, and they've caused enormous damage. And they're talking about this law here... Yes, we raise our questions, opposition representatives, why now, why not sooner [[Dr. Imre Vas intervenes.]] When these cases are discovered and the government intervenes with the authorities. There you go, now. And believe me, we have reason to ask these questions. Mr Secretary, this case in Bicske, here is the report of the Ombudsman, Máté Szabó, I printed it out, the children indicated it in 2011. And what my fellow Member said: the case was closed in 2012, and to this day, Zoltán Balog did not say what was the August 20 medal - how could this happen? And you're telling me that the coworker is to blame, and you're telling Congressman Korós why you didn't tell me? ! I beg you, we're criticizing the system, telling you the faults of the supply system, the signal system. It's not a man who's wrong in the system. Thank you, Mr. President. [[A rare applause in the ranks of the MSZP.]]
u2016-10-26-26	Please, in a two-minute comment, as a member of a faction, I can only give the floor to one person in a circle. Congresswoman Selmeczi and Congressman Horváth will also present themselves, who, if they wish to speak not as two minutes, but as draftsmen, can speak; if they are two minutes old, they will have to wait for a round. [[For signal:]] Well, there is already the agreement that, as a representative requesting a normal word, the floor should be given to Mr Nándor Gúr, the notary of the Parliament. Here.
u2016-10-26-27	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, The best thing about life is that no unborn child knows where he's going to be born. The chances of starting a life are not determined for themselves by the unborn children; it is not, but by the situation that emerges at the moment of birth. Then how it can be shaped, shaped, influenced, helped depends to a large extent on the wider environment. I would mean this, for example, in the legislative phase, for example, basically in Parliament or in the government, but most of all, I see on the government, because even the words of the Members of Parliament, especially the opposition, are not actually confirmed and desired to be accepted, and I have not found any such feedback in the debate three hours later today. From this it seems to me that you are on the path which, in many cases, you have already been in the legislative phase, that you are thinking something about something, and that it is completely indifferent to what others think about the same things, are going on their own path, you are not interested in what kind of awareness-raising or warning amendments Members are making. Relax, my fellow Member, and read once again the presentation, their own presentation, or the presentation of their fellow Member, so that he can give a credible input. I think that this responsibility must be addressed to this issue and to many other issues. We are facing a multitude of tragedy over the last few months. I do not claim or say that you are behind every tragedy and you are responsible for it; no. It would not be fair, but obviously I will give you some examples of why, if any. Three years, it has already been said here in Parliament, so to speak, three years doing nothing. Ombudsperson reports, signals, 2011, 2012 cases closed, the Secretary of State stands up and gives evidence that on 23 September 2016, he will be aware of the ominous story of Bicske, and then take immediate action, rapid action, and that day... Secretary of State, I don't mean to be cynical, but where are the supervisory authorities' relations with the institutions, the institutions, if you don't have information about the processes over the course of four years? Quote: don't you think it's political or professional impotence? Don't you think you're gonna have to stop standing up and telling this story and turn your back and say I'm sorry and walk around? Don't you think? ! Or do you, along with your minister, do this arm in arm? So, when you've left a lot of children in a situation where they've let them down, for years as it has been, you shouldn't think with such a simple answer that you can blame this issue. The most unfair things that can happen to children are now most likely done within the framework of this institution. And what have you done these four years? And almost shifts responsibility to the author of a particular expert opinion? Almost says it's his fault because he hasn't published his opinion, his position, his knowledge? What do you have? What's with the surveillance agencies you run? Why don't you talk a little bit about that? Why don't you talk a little bit about what you should do to prevent situations like this from happening? With regard to health care - because I do not want to be stuck here - or the rejection of interventions in lifesaving situations, it is obvious that it cannot be accepted by anyone or by anyone if the child's life, the child's health, is threatened by anything. [[11.50]] This law is not only about child protection, but also, in a sense, health issues have appeared as health laws, so I would like to add two ideas to this. One of them concerns the obligations of filtering systems, just to see, Mr Secretary of State: I think that the thing that is being formulated in the draft law is the right way, from the birth of the child to the obligation of filtering systems for the age of 18 years. But I would also like to add that you also remember that 16 years have been set by you in relation to the obligation to teach, and that the distorted processes that have evolved in this respect have not been random. Or, in terms of limited capacity or incapacity, the wording of matters relating to the use of a child's GP and other protective services, or the non-rejectibility of them, I think this is also the right way, and this is also a good course to go. So I do not mean to say that there is not one thing to be strengthened in this draft law, which, if any, is to be set on a different path than you have conducted in the last six years - no! But what I'm trying to say is that there is a lot of maladministration and a lot of dissonance about child protection or the operation of child protection signalling systems. Check the network's system, see what the vacant posts look like, whether there is one, and if there is one, to what extent. I'd like to tell you that there is, and it's not a ten, it's a hundred if it's the case. In addition to job vacancies, what does it look like for both GP and pediatric practice? How many practices are there that don't work? What does this look like, say, in the more disadvantaged regions of the country, in Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg County, Borsod-Abaúj-Zemplén County? My fellow Member, Mr Korózs, gave a concrete example. Like in Zemplén, to narrow it down so you can find it yourself, Mr. Secretary, there are a multitude of walks where virtually zero GP care is no longer on the part of the doctor, but on matters run by the system. You know, where there's no specialist, there's no way to fulfill the duties. The problem is that legal regulations cannot be complied with by professionals in the field. The process simply becomes unobservable, precisely because of the hiatus I was talking about. And the patient there, in Zemplén, in North-East Hungary, and in all parts of the country, has the right to be confronted by rested doctors; not by those who have not spent a single minute of their 24-hour hours, let's say, sleeping, because they are, not in one case, not in more cases, and not just because of the maintenance of on-call services. So, the problem is, I see that if something doesn't go well, then you want to make an obligation, and you want to solve the situation on this path, you want to act on the basis of such,, pro-policeism, rather than focus on prevention, prevention, tangible assistance. My problem is not that its representatives will be submitted an individual amendment to the law, because the Member has the right to do so. But I have a problem with that, in a sense, bypassing what should be combined with the necessary negotiations. In the preparation of the law, it could be asked with a calm spirit whether all the negotiations that, let's say, when a government referral is made in the matter, have taken place. I believe, unfortunately, that the answer cannot be yes. Of course, partial negotiations are possible. I'd like to get back to the matter of child protection for a few more thoughts. Mr. Secretary. I don't want to argue numbers here, not the number of children at risk of nearly a quarter of a million or 136 thousand, KSH or anything else, but I'd like to tell you, I'd like to tell you, yes, anything else, because there's not just KSH. So if you look at - I'll give you a similar example from the world of employment - the statements within the framework of the KSH and you look at the real situation, which is about the slippages that have been put into it, simply by the fact that they are more than a year old working abroad, as if they were doing work in Hungary, by saying that, let's say, the student employment of 6-7 years ago was not a part of it, and today it is a part of it, and they are comparable, in the same sense, there can be a difference with regard to the statements of children at risk. I would like to say that the point here is not that it is 136 thousand or a quarter of a million children who appear at risk, but what they are doing to resolve this vulnerable situation. They have a huge responsibility in this. You know, what you can't even get out of the numbers is that unfortunately, the number of children in this situation is growing. And in terms of getting out of the situation, I am absolutely strengthening the logic - not just now, even a long time ago - that is coupled with housing in the family or in the foster family network. Yes, with regard to the foster family network, there have been steps that have been taken forward, but I would like to point out that I believe that better respect could still help us in this regard. And while we are talking about the foster family network, I would also like to avoid the fact that, in addition to these, it is obviously also essential to respect those who perform the professional task. And it is also essential, but I do not want to go into repetitions, which my fellow Members have already said, that raising awareness of the network, i.e. the direct environment outside the framework of professionals, shaping it into behaviour adapted to the situation of children at risk, is a very important factor, because obviously it is not possible to only account for what is going on with children within institutional frameworks. It is not possible to rely only on caregiver networks to raise children who are considered vulnerable to the lives of families, but obviously also on the environment and must have a stronger influence, at least at the level of indicators. In this respect, however, the conscious formation in a good sense, the help that we have in this respect, the processes that are taking place within other families, not directly, but indirectly, in such a way that we have an obligation to indicate in particular situations and cases; and I would also like to say in the one minute that remains to be appreciated. And the basis of appreciation is that at least decent career models, wages and wages are used to do their job, which provide the basis for their own normal survival. In the social sector, you know that, Mr. Secretary, that's not true. It is no coincidence that tens of thousands of people left the country with professional qualifications who carried out these types of tasks. It is no coincidence that in matters that affect their pay system, the opposition is violent, right, because we believe that the child is the greatest asset, and that among those who deal with children we need at least a salary, I say once again, which provides the basis for their personal, decent livelihood. I could say a thousand more things, maybe I will, but that's all for now. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[12.00]]
u2016-10-26-28	Thank you. Congressman László Horváth, Fidesz!
u2016-10-26-29	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. A little, not a little bit, but I am sorry that we failed to maintain the spiritual posture that was hoped for at the beginning, because I see that it was indeed one of the opposition speakers who spoke with honor to the subject, such as Sebestyán Vácó or Bernadett Szél, who had read it with honor and made suggestions, considerable and considerable proposals. For example, Edith Sebestyén suggests that you really should be a source to become a sensitizer, even a campaign. But to move on to the topic, the signal system, which is the best signal system, the living environment that worked in the traditional world, so in Hungary a few decades ago, let's say, in a peasant society there was a signal system, there was a flawless signal system, and there was also a flawless social service, only these traditional communities were beaten up nicely, and today everyone falls into that, better not to say anything,, because I don't have to be bad with the neighbor, I need this, but I don't want to... - I'd rather say that the child has been screaming, screaming for weeks, so it's got abdominal pain, it's really bad digestion and so on. So, for example, this proposal, which is a form of thinking, would not perhaps be more important than to shape a view on this matter. Bernadett Wind and Lajos Korózs touched on the subject, but I am sorry, Congresswoman Bangón began with a Chinese quote, I see that she could not get away from the Chinese, because she is partly Chinese, what she says and, you know, the congresswoman, who lives as she sees it. So you're assuming that on May 24th, I said to the public that there was a need for a law amendment in several places, because I had already connected with your idea that there would be some shit that we would cover up. If this turns out to be wrong for you, because that theory can't be kept, then you're telling me what I've been doing. For example, we waited for the Ombudsman to drop his report on the pearl case. This happened at the end of the summer. On the one hand, they ask that the Ombudsman's proposals are not taken into account; on the other hand, when there is a proposal that contains all the relevant Ombudsman's recommendations on the subject, and why they have the problem with the motion for a representative. [[Sándor Lezsák, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] And I'm sorry, Congressman Gúr, but I haven't seen you in the first two hours of the debate. Maybe he watched it on TV. Or was he upstairs? I beg your pardon. [[Nándor Gúr: Look around the room!]] My apologies, that's not relevant. I'm sorry, but it was a net whining that you made. It may be because, as Congresswoman Zsuzsa Szelényi said, which in itself is a very sad, self-explanatory statement that although there are small stories, she said literally. Two children's deaths, a two-month-old and an 18-month-old, I can't tell you what kind of pain these kids had to go through, to go through, and what kind of madness have they been victims of - a small story? Should we be realistic? Are these little stories? Should we deal with the big cases? That's sad. I couldn't keep the mental posture in which there's some humility, and it doesn't assume that your conspiracy and I don't know what theories this bill is supposed to cover up. So, in any case, I thank those who have been objectical, and those who have been sitting here peeping, I think they have the wrong house. [[Applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2016-10-26-30	Thank you very much, Congressman. I salute my fellow Members. I give the floor to Congressman György Szilágyi, Jobbik, his speech.
u2016-10-26-31	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Actually, when I'm listening to Mr. State Secretary, I don't understand why we're sitting here, because Mr. Secretary of State is saying that everything is good, everything is very well, everything is working normally, and he's talking about the guarantee elements, the new guarantee elements that have been added to the whole system. Oh, no, these are the guarantee elements that should have worked when these tragic events happened. Right? - if I'm reading it correctly. On the subject of László Horváth's speech: Mr President, I absolutely agree with the intention and purpose. I can't understand it either, and I don't think, by the way, I dare not think that there would be a man here in Parliament or even in any part of society who wouldn't be shaken when he hears such tragedies when he can face such tragedies. So once again, I fully agree with both the intention and the purpose. However, I already have a debate as to whether this change will be effective and effective, so whether it is appropriate to change so much, because in my view, the current proposal does not provide sufficient guarantees to solve the problem. However, it is a fact that if we make good use of this opportunity, this proposal can also improve the current situation. It is therefore both timely and important that we talk about this in front of this House. The issue of child protection is a key strategic issue for the survival of our nation and for the future of the country. Due to the importance of the subject, we need to exercise caution and careful consideration in relation to all decisions to be taken on regulatory issues. A number of tragic cases have recently come to light in the press, where children's health has been threatened, and children's lives have been lost because of inadequate parental treatment. Of course, the parents of children have the primary responsibility in these matters, and their accountability has not failed in any case. However, we cannot leave silently under the responsibility of the institutions maintained by the state, which are responsible for the elimination of such situations, the avoidance of emergencies and the prevention of tragedies. How well do the guarantees work, Mr. Secretary? We need to examine whether the tragic cases could have been eliminated in addition to institutional practices other than those currently in place, or whether the institutional practice that was unable to detect the danger and react in a timely and appropriate manner was due to the inadequacy of the institutions or to the inadequacy of regulation. The regulation, its highest level, the legislation is the responsibility of the Parliament. The operational arrangements for implementation are the responsibility of the current government, which it provides through the responsible wallet. The management of implementation, the provision of the necessary institutional, personal and material conditions for achieving the objectives set out in the Act, are also the responsibility of the current government, which it carries out through the network of institutions managed and supervised by it. So, before we go to regulation and change it even in the smallest part, we need to be fully aware of whether the existing regulation provides the implementing institutional system and the proper framework for the functioning of its employees. Expecting any institutional system or regulatory environment to exclude entirely the likelihood of tragic events occurring is a utopian idea. Therefore, the efforts to amend legislation in this way are not effective. However, we can expect the regulatory environment to provide the necessary means for achieving the objectives for those working in the enforcement system. Based on the requirements against legislation, let us see in detail the bill before us. Article 1 § introduces a new rule according to which the Minister of the Sector publishes an instruction on the website of his wallet, which defines the technical and methodological basis for the operation and operation of the child protection signalling system; it is thus stated. [[12.10]] I wonder why the Minister responsible for the sector needs a legal mandate to issue such a technical and methodological guide. Wouldn't your job be to create this for the institutions under your supervision and professional authority and for the workers involved, helping you carry out your duties? What has the Minister responsible for the sector done in this area if such a guide does not exist? How have you managed to perform the tasks set out in the law if such a guide has not been posted on the website? The amendment proposal complements the existing legislative text with a new paragraph, but the text to be added contains today's obligation to cooperate with the bodies concerned. The addition does not define a new task, nor does it impose a new requirement on the institutions. The legislative amendment proposal will not improve the cooperation of the institutions. The addition will only be useful to verify that all the institutions involved have done their best, that the papers are in order, and that the institution is not responsible for the events. But that wouldn't be the point! So the goal would not be that if a tragedy happened, everyone would be able to wash their hands! Ladies and gentlemen, This is a bureaucratic response to the problem that will make life miserable for those working in the institutions, distracting them from their actual duties. If we are thinking of cutting red tape so often said by the government, then it is definitely a system alien to the amendment contained in the bill. According to the legal text currently in force, in the performance of tasks related to the child protection system, Article 16 of the Act provides that: A total of 13 bodies or institutions, each of which is obliged to cooperate with each other, shall participate in the procedure referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article. That still applies today. Effective institutional cooperation would be the aim. The question is whether there is effective institutional cooperation whether there is a guide published on the Ministry website or not. Cooperation between the 13 different institutional actors will not be effective because a guide will be published on the Minister's website. No! It will be effective if these institutions can really work together in a normal and effective way, as my fellow Member said, for example, in a normal and effective way, without any guidance, the institutions that need to work together in this area can cooperate, even if there is a representative in Fidesz who questions this. Improving the efficiency of institutional cooperation is an operational management and organisation task, which is not the competence of the Parliament, but of the government. The Parliament's task is to check the government, to account for its operation. Similar problem is the bill 130/A. Paragraph 3 is replaced by the following: The addition considers it a serious risk to the child when the parent or caregiver refuses to cooperate with the healthcare or nursery provider or the public education institution. In this case, the authority has an obligation to initiate proceedings. We can only assume that the authority becomes aware of the fact of non-cooperation by indicating the institution concerned, but that the refusal of cooperation to whom exactly what it means is not even possible. The current text of the law, i.e. 130/A. According to the text of paragraph 1 of Section 1 of the Act, it is still possible for a parent who does not work together to use a sign to the authority, who is not aware of the lack of cooperation, who can take the necessary steps, so there is no reason to extend the text further. We have already had the opportunity to do so, and we should have used it on a continuous basis with the guarantees that Mr. Secretary of State has listed here, along with those guarantees. In conclusion, the bill before us is an example of inadequate Fidesz governance and governance. In response to truly tragic, unique cases picked up by the press, the press seeks to maintain the appearance of action by making a legislative amendment rather than by exploring the problem issue thoroughly, objectively, with the intention of improving it, and preferably preventing similar cases. It brings to Parliament the operational problems of the executive institution system rather than making the cooperation of the institutions and bodies as effective as possible, and it would train the staff in the institutional system, value it, reward effective work, and subtract appropriate personality and organizational convergences against potential failures. So, in my opinion - and once again, do not misunderstand, I absolutely agree with the authors, and even thank them for submitting it to the House, and we can at all talk about this in front of this House, and we express our will to change the current institutional system, but - it should not primarily change the institutional system, but rather the efficiency that this system is working at the moment. The Hungarian government is responsible for this. The minister responsible for this is the one who has done his job as he has done, as a result of his work, such serious tragedies may occur in his territory. We should change that, and if we change that, I hope that we can protect the lives of children in the coming period. That should be the goal in front of you, not to wash your hands. Thank you so much for listening. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-10-26-32	Thank you, Congressman Szilágyi. We're gonna have two-minute comments. [[To Nándor Gúr in the notary seat:]] I'd like to ask you to take your place, notary. I give the floor to László Horváth for two minutes. [[László Horváth says no.]] No. Then be so kind as to stop or withdraw the signal. Then I would like to ask Mr Nándor Gúr, a Member, in two minutes; then I would like to see Mr Gábor Riz.
u2016-10-26-33	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, About three weeks ago, there was an ombudsman's report between the walls of the House. We do not remember that my colleague, Gabriella Selmeczi, Horváth, was here. It wouldn't have been a problem. I seem to remember you weren't here. It would have been okay, because then they could have listened to it, debated - they could have done anything - what was said there; it would have been worth it. But I do not want to deal with this ombudsman's report from three weeks ago, but, let's say, the parliamentary resolution submitted by the Hungarian Socialist Party two weeks ago. I'm sure you're familiar with this, because you've been thoroughly studied. That's H/12075. under the heading "Nos 1 and 2'. We have presented this draft parliamentary resolution on psychological or sexual abuse of children. Their relationship, their answer, was a big zero, a negative attitude in this regard. You understand the process, don't you? Can you buy things? ! Look, what I see in your process is that you approach the most vulnerable and the poorest, including children who suffer from the cumulative disadvantages of this, with no targeted and basic intention of helping. Whatever legislative proposal you're talking about in this case, it's my six-year experience in this regard. Mr Secretary, I understand your attitude towards salaries and wages, but I would like to ask you not to demonstrate your commitment, but to make a significant change in the hands of these people in terms of net forints. Mr. President, thank you very much.
u2016-10-26-34	Thank you very much, Mr. Notary. I'll give the floor to Congressman Gábor Riz for two minutes, Fidesz.
u2016-10-26-35	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Several times there was mention of Ozd's name. It's a city where, unfortunately, the disadvantage is quite well achieved. Indeed, there are a number of children involved in amending the law on our table. It is also good that Congressman Sebestyén Vátor has dealt with the case of Ozd separately. It is also good to hear that you find the services and institutional background in place to ensure that you carry out the tasks of child protection and child welfare in Ozd. But let me be clear about one thing. This is not the great virtue of the current city leadership, but the establishment of an institutional system and a service system that has been passed over several cycles as a result of the earlier adoption of the legislation. [[12.20]] I would like to make it clear that, as much as it is good to hear that the current better management has solved everything, has not solved it, nothing has changed. The fact that you visited and found that otherwise everything is all right and all is well, believe me, at the moment it could be the fruit of the earlier period. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-10-26-36	Thank you very much, Congressman. I'll give Congressman Sebestyén the floor for two minutes, Jobbik.
u2016-10-26-37	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. I'd argue with that. So it doesn't matter if someone in an existing institutional system operates something or doesn't operate something compared to the specific options. That is why I brought up Ozd as an example that, even after the entry into force of this law, mandatory ministerial instructions will be on the website, they have already preceded this and tried to tighten up the cooperation between members of the child protection signalling system, with regular meetings and other systems built up between the institutional system and the legal environment currently in force. So I'd argue in that, it's not the grand result of the past cycles. The great result of the past cycles in terms of child welfare was that the temporary home for children and families had ceased, and this has been done over the past period with Ozd. Since then, a new city leadership has come, these two institutions will be re-established, they are working on this, and they do operate the child protection signalling system as an example. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-10-26-38	Thank you very much. I don't see any more candidates to speak, so I'll give the word to Gabriella Selmeczi for two minutes.
u2016-10-26-39	Thank you very much. Mr President, So, as we approach the end of the debate, allow me to respond to what has been said in two minutes. I would like to thank the well-intentioned contributions and the contributions that have been made on a professional policy basis, and we look forward to the amendments to the proposed legislation. By the way, I would like to reject comments or speakers who are trying to say that nothing has happened here in recent years on child protection. State Secretary Károly Czibere has made a long list of what we have done in the case of child protection and the protection of children. The screening of the child protection warning system, my fellow Members, is not a one-off act, and it is not a matter of taking a decision in Parliament, which is addressed to the government, so that it would be nice to scan the child protection signalling system. It's a continuous job that's needed. The amendment tabled by us, a separate motion, has actually been made on the basis of what has so far been the result of the screening of this signalling system, such as the ombudsman's report, for example, which is being carried out continuously by the State Secretariat and indicates what needs to be amended. So you guys don't think we're gonna make a parliamentary decision, and that's gonna solve everything? No, and in the future it will be necessary to continuously, every month, every week, every day to see how the signalling system works. I just want to make it clear that we do not require prior approval by a prosecutor, but we say that prior approval is not necessary, but ex post. Since time is short, the Secretary of State has already said that children's rights prevail. I'd like to say it here. [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] that the breakdown of the details of the refusal of cooperation, which constitutes a serious threat in itself, is typically a level of regulation. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-10-26-40	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Congressman György Szilágyi for two minutes, Jobbik.
u2016-10-26-41	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. I feel that the speeches I heard were all about improving, by the way, I say, what I heard were all about improving. Of course, there were some who tried to put a political upheaval into this issue, but they should not. That was Gábor Riz's, by the way, but the congressman misunderstood what we said. We have said and say this now that changing the institutional system or taking it as a basis for the current institutional system, however, the main responsibility is always to manage these institutional systems, how they can take advantage of the institutional system's potential and how effectively they can work together with these institutions in order to protect children. We bring Ozd up as an example because we can see through Ozd. We don't want to say that only Ozdon works that way. I hope and believe that it can work well in many places in the country, in cities where there is no better mayor. We did not mean to say politically, we said that there is an example in Ozd, and that what you are now clearly trying to achieve here, we said that Ozdon is already working and that it can really work effectively. We told you because we can see this city, because there's a better mayor here by two thirds. That's why it happened. So once again, it wasn't a political upheaval, it was an example. If you had just given us another example, because there must be a city, we would have been very happy, because it is not about who controls the institutional system, I think it is not important that you are on the government, and you can give children the protection to prevent such tragic events from happening, but the point is to prevent such tragic events from happening in the country, that would be the job of all of us. Thank you. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-10-26-42	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I will ask if anyone else wishes to take the opportunity to speak. [[No one's reporting.]] I do not see an application; the general debate is closed. I give the floor to the rapporteur if he wishes to respond to what was said in the debate. [[For signal:]] No, he answered earlier. Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. We now have a general debate on the bill amending Act I of 2004 on Sport until closure, Mr Parliament. The government referral T/12459. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mrs Tünde Szabó, State Secretary of the Ministry of Human Resources, the rapporteur of the item on the agenda. You have the floor, Madam Secretary, you have a 30-minute timeframe.
u2016-10-26-43	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, In recent years, the system of sport support and sport management has changed to such a magnitude that, five years after the last comprehensive amendment to the Sports Act I, the Government has considered it appropriate to examine the current system of state sport governance. The issue has become topical because during the past period, many new professional and sports development programmes have been launched, which directly affected both public sport management and the funding system for sport. The timing of the comprehensive legislative amendment also marked this period, as it was important to take into account the Olympic four-year cycle, as sports strategy programmes are always designed and launched for four-year periods. It is important to note that the present government has declared sport a nation strategy sector and has been given a prominent role in the state aid system in line with the agreed government programme since 2011. The sport sector needed this radical change very much, since between 2002 and 2010, the institutional system of sport and the situation of sports facilities continued to decline, and the level of state aid has fallen to unprecedented depths, has steadily decreased and has also affected the physical activity of young people. In view of the gravity of the situation, it required immediate intervention and, at the same time, long-term foresight and action. In recent years, the government has launched and continues to promote the sport sector, as the various sports development programmes, the development of sports facilities, international events organised in Hungary and the promotion of re-education programmes have come to sport. As we know, the development of sport has a very positive impact, since it has a significant public health impact, and has a positive impact on children, youth, family and older people, education and, moreover, on the economic sphere, as sports investments increase economic and national wealth. [[12.30]] Sports development can create additional jobs and generate significant revenues from international sporting events, sport tourism. And if we consider that in Europe the number of people working in sport in the labour market is already above 8 per cent, then it can really be said that nowhere can we experience a sector that is so rapidly and dynamically developing, with positive effects. At first, the tasks of the public sport management body were performed by an independent ministry and then by a national body, then again by a department at ministerial level, and some of the sub-tasks operated in background institutional and other public-law structures. In addition to the structured state sport management, the civil sport administration level was also shared. By amending the Sports Act, which was put into effect on 1 January 2012, the civil government has made significant changes to this situation. The main point of this was the transformation of the tasks of the Hungarian Olympic Committee, since the amendment of the sports law at that time transferred the actual sport management to the MOB, which is a civil public body, focusing practically on the entire Hungarian sport in one hand. In addition, the sports law integrated into the MOB four other independent public bodies of sport, including the Olympic sports, non-Olympian sports, recreational sports, sports for disabled people and the representation of student and college sports. The MOB apparatus was expanded according to increased tasks and State aid was indirectly granted to sports organisations and associations. Meanwhile, the sports infrastructure has continuously improved and improved thanks to the development of facilities, the Olympics and Paralympics have been able to prepare for this year's Rio Olympics and competitions under much better conditions than before. In the Rio Olympics, as we know, the 15 Hungarian Olympic medals and the results achieved at the 18 Hungarian medals in Paralympic games speak for themselves. This must be seen as a fantastic success. The situation of sports that have failed to meet the expectations, Olympic points and medals of themselves in advance is primarily the professional task of sports, sports associations and the Hungarian Olympic Committee to evaluate and define future directions and tasks. As we have heard, the sports sector is a very rapidly and dynamically developing sector, which has a significant positive impact on almost all sectors, and therefore, after each Olympic cycle, the entire Hungarian sport governance needs to be reviewed and, if necessary, amended. The fundamental reason for the amendment of the sport law is, in particular, the new public sports development programmes and systems, as well as the increased administrative tasks associated with them, and the implementation of single channel funding. In 2011, when the restructuring of the structure had taken place, the sport development programme of the 16 priority sports disciplines had not yet started, the development programme of the 20 catch-up sports disciplines had not yet started, the system of priority trainers' status had not yet been established, and such a high level of sports facility construction and renovation programme had not yet been launched. There was no system of support for major associations, and there was no such magnitude of the number of international events organized in Hungary, nor was there any intention of organizing the 2024 Hungarian Olympic and Paralympic Games. As a result of the full review, it has been established that it is necessary to reduce the administrative functions of the organisations supported and its rates. There is a need to strengthen direct communication with the sports professional association and to build an even stronger monitoring system for the system of State aid for sports development. The Secretary of State for Sport will put even more emphasis on these tasks in the future. In the future, the self-organization and autonomy of sports organisations should also be provided for the public sector of sports organisations. To this end, the division of work between public sport management and civil sport administration has been reviewed, and the necessary organisational, operational, financing and sporting measures are still taking place to a large extent. According to the Government's decision, the primary objective of the amendment to the Sports Act is to implement the so-called single channel financing system, which could not be implemented in practice following the amendment of the 2011 Law, in addition to the dual management role of the State Secretary for Sport and the MOB, and in addition to the large-scale sports development and support programmes that have started since then. On this basis, the tasks and powers relating to the aid will be amended by amending the Sports Act, so that the tasks relating to the planning, distribution, use, accounting and control of State aid for sport will be fully returned to the State Secretary for Sport. With this, we can ensure that the MOB is significantly relieved of its burden, and thus the task of the Hungarian Olympic Committee to carry out its work in the field of sports is even more important, with the aim of proposing sports and creating professional concepts. On this basis, as a result of a change in tasks and competences between the State Sports Administration and the civilian side, the Minister responsible for sports policies will be transferred from the MOB to the task and competence of establishing allowances and scholarships, paying related official tasks and allowances for the operation of the Aladár Gerevich Sports Scholar Scheme, performing tasks related to anti-doping activities, the tasks and support system related to recruitment and its management. During the preliminary discussions, the MOB initiated an amendment to its previous membership system, resulting in the independence of internal departments, and will continue to function as a public body for certain classes of living sport involving non-Olympian competitions, for sport for disabled people and for student and student sports. On this basis, the amendment of the Sports Act establishes the public body system of the Hungarian Paralympic Committee, the National Competition Association, as well as the public body of the National Student and Leisure Sport Association, in addition to the public body carrying out the tasks of Olympic sports. The tasks related to the Paralympic movement will be carried out by the MPB according to its current status, the amendments will specify specifically who its members are as public bodies and indicate the conditions to be fulfilled for membership. The amendment of the Act also defines the exclusive powers of the General Assembly of the Hungarian Paralympic Committee, which can be further extended by its statutes. As with other public bodies, legal control over the operation of the MPB will be exercised and performed by the Public Prosecutor's Office. The tasks of student-student, university- and leisure-port will also be performed by a sports public body, whose tasks are precisely defined by the amendment of the sport law, also in view of the importance. In the organizational competition sport of non-Olympian sports, the National Competition Sports Association will perform the national public body tasks. The amendment therefore strengthens the representation of non-Olympian sports, the performance of its professional and administrative tasks, the definition of its potential members and the conditions for becoming a member. This includes public bodies, professional associations and national sports associations whose sport is included in the International Federation of World Games. In line with this division of tasks, the Hungarian Olympic Committee will be once again responsible for the professional public tasks related to the competition sport of Olympic sports. [[12.40]] The Secretary of State for Sport, who also confirmed their intention to become independent, agreed before the amendment of the Sports Act. In addition, we also discussed the restructuring of the sport management system with the leaders of the relevant sports associations. Dear Parliament, The amendments to the Sports Act include technical amendments aimed at regulating the work of associations and sports organisations, as well as other tasks of the Hungarian Olympic Committee. Important change: the rules on the allocation and control of State aid for sport will go from the former ministerial level to the level of government regulation. The Law requires sports associations to establish a code of ethics and child protection and, also representing the interests of athletes, to establish a sports health code within 45 days of the entry into force of the amendment. The mandatory regulations of these regulations are intended to protect the health and physical integrity of athletes. Taking into account everyday practice, it was necessary and justified to lift the rigid rules for a permanent arbitration court in sport, since other arbitration forums are also available for athletes and sports professionals. It should be noted here that in recent years there has not been one case in Hungary involving sport where the parties would have turned to a permanent arbitration court, and this also means that in the future the effectiveness of the enforcement of the right in sport must be ensured even more effectively. According to the amendment of the law, the supervision of the Olympic Centres in sports trades is carried out by the Hungarian Olympic Committee and the Hungarian Paralympic Committee, with the assistance of the Minister responsible for sport policy, and the professional supervision of the asset management and development of facilities is carried out by the National Development Minister responsible for the supervision of state assets. By amending the Sports Act, the National Sport Information System system will be regulated under a separate chapter of the Act. The amendment includes the conclusion of an agreement on the transfer and transfer of tasks between the state and the Hungarian Olympic Committee and the three newly established public bodies - the public body of sports - in order to ensure that the provision of tasks is continuous and uninterrupted even after the transfer. It also includes the need for the MOB and its organisations to set up sport public bodies, to which all professional assistance is provided by the Secretary of State responsible for sport. Mr President, Dear Parliament, In the light of what has been said, I would like to ask you to support the purpose and direction of the amendment, as it lays the foundations for the so-called single-channel financing system for all disciplines, which will make it even more predictable and thus fully coordinate the provision of State aid for sport. It should also be supported as it places greater emphasis on leisure sports, student and student sports, as well as on university sports, sports areas for people with disabilities, and non-Olympian sports. It will establish a uniform system for the public support and operation of replacement education and programmes established in the context of it. Together, these goals serve the growing generations, their health-conscious approach, their formation and practical support for the sporting nation. In view of this, I would like to ask you to support the proposed amendment to the Sports Act. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2016-10-26-44	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary. Dear Parliament, Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. First, I give the floor to Mr Sándor Hadházy, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2016-10-26-45	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Before explaining the position of the Fidesz fraction on the proposal before us, please allow me to remind you in a few sentences why we consider sport policy to be a priority. This could also lead to an understanding of why this amendment is necessary. I think that the importance and role of sport in general cannot be emphasized enough, but this is particularly true of Hungarian society. Sports raises you, raises you, makes you strong, drives you to competition, and gets you used to regularity. Since its establishment, our political family is aware of this and we strive to ensure that as many as possible sport regularly; that young generations move more and live healthier than their parents or us; that they do so under European standards, professionally and financially respected, with dedicated tools, and that they also have sports models in front of them. Ladies and gentlemen, What is all about sports? Sports is a bonding force, because sports sikers strengthen the nation's cultural cohesion. This is what we saw this year at the football European Championship and the Olympics. Congratulations to our athletes. The aim is to make the Hungarian nation a proud, self-conscious athlete nation, and, according to its tradition, it will continue to take its place in the world's sports life. I consider it extremely important for me to create communities that can build human relations, and this is something that is extremely necessary at this age. Sport is also a culture. Culture is an instrument of self-expression of the human body and soul, proof that human life is more than a struggle for mere existence. Part of the culture - fine arts, theatre, literature - raises the soul, and sport raises the body. Sport is therefore entitled to the same basic resources as other areas of culture. Sports is also health, which is why we pay attention to further improving people's health, increasing the number of regular athletes, reducing territorial differences through recreational sports, which, as a macro-economic impact, contribute significantly to reducing health expenditure in the long term. It is also extremely important to note that maintaining health is also an economic factor, since healthy people can train themselves better, acquire more knowledge, spend less time in sick populations and participate more actively in the world of work, in Hungarian: they have better performance. However, we had to develop a financing model that fully ensures the conditions for achieving these objectives. The emphasis was, and it is now, that money can't depend on it. The money should not depend on whether a mother can buy the soccer uniform for her child, whether she can pay for the travel and other expenses of the games played at the guest's house. Money shouldn't depend on the fact that a top athlete is the 21st. to prepare for world competitions or the Olympics according to the requirements of the century. I remember, as a member of the sports committee, we have discussed many times that the Olympics do not receive the funds necessary for their preparation from the budget in time. That's not the case anymore, thank God. [[12.50]] Money shouldn't depend on sports clubs to clean up their careers after 30-40 years, and they shouldn't be ashamed of receiving foreign guest teams. Dear House, Money should not depend on how and in what capacity the future of Hungarian sport is founded in today's education of supplies. For us to be more successful in 20 years, we have to pay the coaches today, we have to train them today, we have to use the experience and mentality of professionals from abroad today. All of this took and needed resources, a significant amount of money. A system of funding has had to be established on a temporary basis for several years, changing the attitude of sports associations, businesses and the public in a positive direction in relation to sport. It is our responsibility to ensure that this allocation of funds, this system, works as efficiently as possible and fulfills its expectations in the long term. I would also urge my fellow Members here to assess the amount spent on sport as an investment in the future. This is why the government has enabled businesses to spend 75 percent of their corporate tax on sports purposes. The money is made by businesses, they can decide where to give it. This is a clearly transparent process, since all sports organisations, sports schools and re-educational foundations belonging to the sport sector can benefit from offers from companies, which are approved by the professional associations of sports. We have also stated in the amendment of the Tax Code, but here too I think it is important to stress that according to data from the beginning of the year, more than 300 new Hungarian sports estates have been built and nearly 500 have been renewed since the introduction of the tax benefit scheme in 2011. In the five visual team sports in the Tao, the number of certified competitors has increased from 260 thousand to 350 thousand in the last four years, and the increase is particularly significant in the field of replacement athletes. Nor is it a secret to you that the current aid scheme will live until 31 July 2017. Tao 2 is already being prepared and the national sports strategy is being renewed. Ladies and gentlemen, Then allow me to proceed to the amendment of the bill. Based on the practical effects of the actions of the past Olympic cycle on sport, the processes of the implementation of the funding programmes in sport and the effects of the organisation of the sport administration, the draft proposes a re-regulation of the division of tasks and competences between public sport management and civil sport administration, as follows. The primary responsibility for the distribution of state resources is the State Sports Administration and the Hungarian Olympic Committee is responsible for the use of state aid and the accounting of resources in connection with its tasks. Adopting the MOB's proposal, the MOB's so far faculty system will be transformed, the departments operating as the internal departments of the MOB will become independent, and they will continue to function as sports public bodies with public tasks in some other major areas of living sport. The State considers it a priority area in particular in the field of replacement education. It ensures the conditions of professional work within a new organisational framework and in a function order. This statement is true of the bodies including recreational sports and sports for the disabled, but also of student sports. Dear House, The amendment of the sport law is supported by the faction in the light of the following: The tasks related to the planning, distribution, use, accounting and control of State aid for sport, as well as the establishment of a new sport-public body system, will be significantly relieved of the burden of the MOB and its activities in the field of sport work will be confirmed. The MOB remains the main depositary of the professional programmes for the preparation of the Olympics. This will further strengthen your ability to perform the sports professions of the preparatory work for the 2024 Olympic competition. With the creation of living sports areas, in particular leisure sports, sports for disabled people, student and student sports, as well as the operation of independent civil sport administrations, the civil interest and sport administration system will be transformed in such a way that, alongside the MOB, as the sports public body responsible for the Olympic movement, Olympic preparation and Olympic competition, there will be independent sport bodies in some major areas of living sport in the future. This clearly strengthens the functioning and representation of areas beyond elite sport. The Fidesz faction welcomes the creation of independent organisations that focus even more on the civil character of sport and supports the adoption of the bill in the light of the above. I urge you and the opposition parties, with all due respect, to bear in mind the importance of this proposal in sports and its pro-party interests. It is important that there is at least broad agreement on issues related to the organisation and financing of the Hungarian sports world, as we are talking about a project of decades, if you will. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-10-26-46	Thank you very much, Congressman Hadházy. I now give the floor to Mr László Varga, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group, in a 15-minute time frame. You have the floor.
u2016-10-26-47	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, With great self-control, I listened to what you said together for about 25 minutes. And it really took a lot of self-control, because I know that this issue - to live with such a joke - will be one channel communication, so obviously public media, Vajna and Mészáros's media literature will present this presentation as an incredible innovation and a new milestone in Hungarian sports life. I think that is what we understand, but it is very difficult to do, let us say, take the debate seriously, and then we can put arguments on the table. Obviously, the second approach may be to approach the story formally, to look at the text of the proposal, and to use amendments. To say just a few of the directions that we would like to say here: yes, excellent, let it be subject to the Ministry of Human Resources Secretary of State for Sports here, there are a lot of things, so let's get back to the Ministry with a lot of things, so let's have a one-channel system, but let's say, national sports centers, so why don't the NSK get back from the NFM. It is possible to make such an amendment, and I note that we will make such an amendment to my fellow Member Mr Attila Mesterházy. It can be said that a significant part of the sports associations in rethinking the leading role of the MOB can be glad that there is less waterheads to deal with, but otherwise, why not propose that funding be more pro-social and direct access to the resources where this is really needed. Let us consider here, by the way, the territorial inequalities that have not been eliminated in the last six years, and of course not in the past. So obviously, there are very serious funding problems in the eastern part of the country, including, where appropriate, in my constituency, such as Miskolc, there are no resources available for long-standing associations in Budapest. And, of course, let us also consider a success, based on objective parameters. Thirdly, my fellow Member Hadházy here said, of course, what an innovation it is that these separate public bodies are being created; I note that five years ago, you have abolished these public bodies, and what was said in the debate is how good it is that a public body will be, a unified, one-channel management, the MOB knows what the situation is, and then it will be able to disposal directly with resources. We saw how this story turned out. [[13.00]] I'm saying that we can re-create public bodies, obviously this can work well, but let's say we put it on the table that over the past five to six years, your politicians and parliamentary representatives have been occupying the trade unions. What is the guarantee that, if not directly, their people will occupy the public bodies in this way - the newly created ones? So I think it is worth introducing a detailed conflict of interest regime for the new public bodies and professional associations, for example, so that Members of Parliament cannot sit in the chair of the professional associations, because this is far from objectivity in this story. So much for communication and specifically that, of course, this is a proposal, where, for example, we are pleased that at least the government has submitted it and is likely to have consulted with those involved. By the way, we have done such things, obviously those involved are in favour of most of the direction, and by the way, so are we, but I only suggested the amendments that I think have been omitted from this proposal. However, five years ago, stakeholders have said what is wrong with the system that you are developing, and now they are doing it as if it were innovation, that after five years, with 100 billion people going into sports funding, then they are going back to virtually, literally - now their names can be changed a little to these public bodies - but they are coming back to where we came from five years ago. Let's look at a couple of situations, what they said about that, some statements. On 3 May 2011, a report was published in part in the MTI, partly in online media and in written newspapers about an open day in Parliament's Upper House Hall. Erik Bánki, then chairman of the well-off Sports and Tourism Committee, obviously started the argument on your part that this will be a very good method, and everything under the MOB will be arranged, a channel, unified funding, and then directly stakeholders will know what Hungarian sport needs. Well, we saw what came of it. László Kövér, President of the National Assembly said that after the re-regulation of the Sport Act, a new period can start in Hungary. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Attila Czene said something interesting - we are talking about Mrs Secretary of State's predecessor, because she was then the State Secretary of the Ministry of National Resources at the time - and the quote will be interesting, and I will do it literally, so that we can look at this quote in the light of the comments that we have just received:. One of the main objectives of the new law on sport - therefore its main objective - is to reduce the number of public bodies, thus making funding and sport management more transparent and simpler, and to keep public and non-state sports professional tasks well separate. Your Secretary of State, your chairman of the Commission, your politicians have clearly argued that the old system must be broken down, that another system, the MOB, will be built omnipotent, and that there will be a great deal of innovation in Hungarian sports life. Zsolt Borkai, who was the president of the MOB at the time, also your representative here in Parliament at the same time: the introduction of single channel funding, because the institutional system has been oversized so far, so he argued very well for it... - the parallel tasks have increased the costs. Obviously, as president of the MOB, he had not yet talked about how much money the MOB would spend on its own operation, expenses, representation and so much in this regard. I wouldn't quote a lot of myself, I've had about a hundred speeches in the last six years on the subject of sports, including on this subject. Along with a number of fellow Members, I myself have said that otherwise this will not be good. It will not be good, it will be far from the National Assembly, it will become increasingly opaque for people to see how sport is financed. That's what happened, I report it, that's what happened. Unfortunately, we were right when we thought and saw that you were moving in the wrong direction. In comparison, of course, we can support a return to five years ago, but it is a pecan situation that you are presenting this as an incredible innovation. The question is why this is happening. Obviously, it can happen because they admit the failure of the system of sport management, the system of sport funding. I note that there are also such information, so there are press announcements that Viktor Orbán is dissatisfied with the results of the Rio Olympics and is dissatisfied with Zsolt Borkai - so it has been said in particular that what is behind this, the people involved are obviously disproved, but what to do - and he actually wants to re-button the coat, because he sees that the system we are pushing everything together during the. The other thing is that there is a personal conflict behind this, specifically with President Borkai, and they are now sewing the buttons on the coat in a different way, just because there is a conflict in this regard. For the record, none of them are a good solution, because they either noticed that there was a problem late, or they're destroying the current system for a personal reason, which, by the way, I don't think is good, of course. Obviously, you can be critical, because you can analyze five to six years. Very much respect for the Olympians, Paralympics, and everyone who prepared for Rio, by the way, for London, but the fact is that eight of our gold - that I should only stay with the gold and only the Olympics in the first round - is, let's say, six of them are very difficult to interpret as the result of the system you have produced in the past period. What two can be interpreted in a way - obviously I am thinking of fencing gold - obviously they are huge and huge sports skiers, as well as the rest, even if someone else prepared for the Olympics elsewhere, in other countries, in any case, it is also a serious national success, but certainly not your funding and systemic success. Traditionally successful Hungarian sports were played in the Olympics, Hungarian sports, sports whose professional associations were occupied by your politicians, but they could not produce any results, unfortunately. [[Dr. György Rubovszky is on the phone. The president's ringing the bell.]] Obviously, this could also be changed by a broader conflict of interest regulation and the structure really needs to be changed. I would like to point out that I am one of those MEPs - whether we approach him or not from a party political point of view, but I am one of those MEPs - who believes that big money should be spent on funding for sport, and that there should be a lot of public money, but, of course, my dilemmas can't be resolved - to turn a little towards my district again - what kind of funding system is it where, say, in 1800 enthusiastic villages in Felcsút, a stadium is built much sooner than in Diósgyőr, one of the biggest rural clubs of history. No one can explain to me that this system is based on objective basis. And the big problem with that is that there are very serious social expectations in return for large subsidies from the budget, quite rightly otherwise. Hungarian society would like to see what these funds are going to do and what the results of using these funds are, so this is untenable. We can go back to where we started, but certainly not by looking at how we've come to this in the last five years. So I propose that there should be an ad hoc committee to examine the fate of hundreds of billions of forints spent on Hungarian sports in recent years, in the last five years specifically. What am I thinking here? The resources used by the MOB, even if a significant part of them are said not to be treated as data of public interest in an outrageous way. Let's see how the NSK spent the money under the supervision of the NFM. Three, let's see how Taós resources are used. You have just encrypted this for the future, in which we will make a submission, it cannot be that citizens cannot see behind the Tao grant system, because these are allowed public funds. If you wouldn't let me through, if you wouldn't let me through, if the National Assembly wouldn't give me the opportunity to do that, then that would go into the budget as a tax revenue. So let's look at the Tao system as a third, and fourth, let's look at the issues that have been directly funded by budgetary resources. What I would like to say to you is that, obviously, supply sports and recreational sports are important, and we have always considered it important. We wanted the Tao to serve this, and, no matter what, competition sports interests are almost exclusively, as you can see in the club on Felcsút, for example. So these aspects need to be sorted out. [[13.10]] The cry for help of mass sports and leisure sports should have been heard at this particular conference, which I even quoted when Monspart Sarolta said his concerns about the new system that was established five years ago. You didn't pay attention to that, and now you're pretending to change the world with this new regulation in the context of some incredible innovation, after very serious sports career failures. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2016-10-26-48	Thank you, Congressman Varga. I will ask if anyone from the KDNP Group wishes to speak. [[Dr. György Rubovszky says no.]] They're signaling no. Then I give the floor to Congressman György Szilágyi, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group.
u2016-10-26-49	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. I'm standing here with a big surprise for you. Not because they made this law, but because of what we've heard so far. So far, we have been able to hear from both Congressman Hadházy and the Secretary of State about the horse-zungs, the generalities, the same sentences that were said five years ago in Parliament when they changed the system that is now being developed. They're resetting it now, and we've heard the same things. They were the same sentences. It would have been easier to stand up, apologize, say you're sorry, you were right. Then we were opposed to the establishment of this Mob kingdom and everything else. They could have said, "I'm sorry, I'm sorry, we threw five years out the window." We were talking about a long-term sport financing system, then we were talking about solving the long-term problem of sport. It's been five years. [[Following Dr. Savolt-Szabó Tünde:]] It shouldn't have been you, because you weren't here at the time, it was Congressman Hadházy. But you could have told us that we were apologizing to you, that you were right, that we should change the law. And the Jobbik Movement for Hungary will support us in changing this law. I'm going to tell the Secretary of State just to quote the 2011 issue. CHAPTER XI From a general debate on the 14th of October, when you weren't sitting here, but poor Attila Czene. The Czene Attila, to whom you are destined to give orders, hand over every authority you have to the MOB. He was sitting here arguing how good this is gonna be. I was sorry then. And we have said the following, I would quote from my speech, from five years ago: This step can also lead to the formation of an oligarchic society. The Jobbik also wants to play a significant role in Hungarian sports management, but not in this way. We just wanted to take control of Olympic sports under the control of the MOB, which would have been accompanied by sports interests, and, of course, we support the introduction of a single channel support system also through the MOB, but that is not what Fidesz's proposal is about. I'll say it again: 2011. CHAPTER XI I said those sentences on the 14th of October. The Fidesz proposal makes the MOB a separate kingdom. He's giving the MOB rights that they don't give in countries that look like this. In practice, a government preparatory function is intended for the MOB, which receives significant power without government control. A State Secretary is a legitimate political force with government oversight, currently under the bill, the MOB takes everything and there is nothing to curb its power. In our opinion, the State Secretary should be brought up to ministerial level, but with this proposal, you are sinking the State Secretariat for Sports to the level of a Taoregistration Working Party. Since significant power will be concentrated in the hands of the MOB, but this significant power will not appear in the government, because neither the MOB nor the representative of the MOB are members of the government, this means that a powerful organization will be formed without government control, but the Jobbik Movement for Hungary cannot and will not support it. That's what we told you in 2011. Do you know, Madam Secretary, what was the answer then? They said we're stupid, we're unprofessional, we don't know what's going on. This is the innovative new way to get everything to the MOB. The opposition simply gets involved in every good step of the government, and we will see what huge changes will come. Allow me to quote you, because it could be an interesting, historical case. The same was the case in 2011. CHAPTER XI What did Sándor Hadházy say on the 14th of October? He said word for word: "The most important part of the law is that out of the five public bodies so far, there will be only one public body. That means four will cease to exist. That's the most important thing. Now you're arguing that there's gonna be public bodies again. What remains is the Hungarian Olympic Committee, which, as a civil society organisation, will carry out state tasks in the future. It is extremely important that there are areas of life where public presence needs to be increased, strengthened; we can see the financial processes around the world about the unmanageable conditions that have emerged. There's probably a need to strengthen the state's power. On the other hand, there are areas of life in which the civil sector should be preferred, both the authors and the majority of the committee are of the opinion that sport is an area where civil life needs to be strengthened. Mr Hadházy even said then that the actors, who give them, and who accepts them, feel legally ill about the system that was in place until now, which we are restoring. So we are talking about the system that we are about to have, Congressman Hadházy, about how badly those who were involved in this system felt. In the future, this will be resolved with one channel and transparent, transparent funding and the use of this resource will be coordinated in the future by a professional organization, the Hungarian Olympic Committee. The spirit of sport is not compatible with the practice that has characterised the field of sport over the past decades. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. So then he said that it was incompatible - once again - with the spirit of sport is the practice, the system that we are restoring. That's not good, so they said then, and now they stand up, and without actually even apologies, they say the exact opposite. So they're not saying the opposite, they're saying the same sentences, they're just saying it to a completely different system. I don't want to read what Erik Bánki said, what Attila Czene said, what Zsolt Borkai said. They're here, I can quote you. They said exactly the opposite of what they said now. That's okay, 'cause you can figure out how to make a mistake. It was only then that it should be said, and then this debate would have been brief. You gotta get up. They stand up, they apologize, we support or we don't support them, and if you tell us, the vote will be different. After all, Erik Bánki and Ferenc Szalay proposed this amendment to the sports law. The Parliament approved it with 275 votes in favour, 42 against and 5 abstentions. We voted 'no' because we said it wasn't a good system that they wanted to set up. Now we're gonna vote yes, we're gonna have a bigger vote, because that old system is gonna come back. It could also be improved, of course, we still say that it could be improved, but we just have to admit that we threw five years out the window. Congressman Hadházy now says how bad he was on that sports committee. By the way, sport has been so degraded, and the tao is so transparent that even the sports committee had to be terminated so that it could not be asked anything about sport. He says the Olympians didn't get the support in time. Now, in what system did the Olympians not receive the support? Which we're about to restore. Mr. Congressman, in this system, that is, when the Secretary of State had everything when there were public bodies, not just the MOB, the funds were slipping in that system! But it doesn't depend on the system, it doesn't depend on the institutional system, it depends on the governance. I hope that Mrs Secretary of State will handle these matters very hard and that the Olympics will receive the subsidies normally. We have even been asked by Congressman Hadházy, especially opposition representatives, to bear in mind the importance of this amendment in the field of sports. What I don't understand is why you didn't think of it five years ago. When we told you, and we really put up sports arguments about why we shouldn't change the sports law, why did you think we were stupid and unprofessional? Now, after five years, it's been proven that we're right after all. We have fought a great deal for the current situation, even if my fellow Member Imre Vas finds it funny. [[Dr. Vas Imre is smiling.]] We have worked very hard not to transfer everything to the MOB and try to make the institutional system more efficient so that it really stays with the state, because this is a state engagement, the state has a very important role to play in checking how the money is spent on sport, and how and how these funds are spent on sport. The Secretary of State is talking about a single-channel system that finally has a single-channel financing system, even though at the time they were talking about the development of single-channel funding when it comes to the MOB. [[13.20]] Then let's decide when it's going to happen. I don't think it is, by the way. Actually, we'll see how it's gonna work, but actually, if it goes to the State Secretary, and there are public bodies, and it can go to more places, whether it's a sports club or even a professional sports association, it's not a one-channel system. We'd like to create a single channel system. We are in favour of this, and this would be the better, the more transparent, the more transparent, the more transparent the money spent on sport, but in our opinion this is not the right one. And then maybe I'll just have a little more fun, and if it doesn't fit in, I'll still be doing a normal speech, and I'll tell you what things we should be paying attention to. But what I would like to say now is that we want to know the reasons why. The reason why sports funding is better is not because five years ago it was the opposite, we created an opposite system. [[Dr. Vas Imre: The justification must be read!]] Even so, sports funding will be better. That's not the reason. The reason - and we want to know whether that is the reason - is that Zsolt Borkai lost the confidence that he might have had against him. Or there may also be a reason that Zsolt Borkai refused to give up his position as president of the MOB for the benefit of someone else, because if he were willing to resign, then it is possible that this bill is not in front of us now, but then they would say that everything is good, as it is now, that the MOB can function normally, and that it is indeed the best solution for the MOB, and that is the best one that works at the moment. The fact that they want to pin our performance on the head of the Hungarian Olympic Committee is going to be weird enough, I am defending Zsolt Borkai, an ex-fidesz congressman, currently Fidesz mayor, the Fidesz mayor of Győr, so they don't want to pin our Olympic performance on him. Zsolt Borkai should not be responsible alone for bringing the medals to numbers in an Olympic performance, but let's say, if you look at the sports distributions, then there are some serious problems and things there! Where are their responsibilities, through Lajos Szűcs, Bencé Tuzson, Szilárd Németh, Máté Kocsis, Gábor Kubatov, we can talk about them, all the Fidesz representatives are already in one of the sports associations or at the head of one of the associations. Is it the responsibility of Zsolt Borkai, an Olympic champion, world champion, European champion, the Tusking King, who has been in the Presidency of the Wrestling Federation for twenty-some years... - before the Olympics, he goes there a little before Németh Szilárd Németh and simply puts him on a zero sports field? Do you think that when you go to the Olympics, it's a coincidence that you're being lured away from wrestling, say, the Hungarians' matches? Do you think they'll say in the international alliance that this Németh Szilárd is cute because he was the cash commissioner? No! Csaba Violin will be the one who matters there. Csaba Violin! He's more important to me than Szilárd Németh. Csaba Violinist has put a lot of things on his sports table and has normally led an alliance. Szilárd Németh went there because he needed the space, and they blew it. If that's how it's gonna work, we can just stack it up, say, and tell people who's in charge of sports funding, and how much money we're gonna give away, if that's how the system's gonna work, it's way too bad. Jobbik has repeatedly proposed that it be incompatible with political careers so that someone can run a sports professional association or run an association, because unfortunately, this is how Hungary operates today. What matters is who's close to the fire, who can talk to who, and then get paid. It shouldn't count, it should count for what results have been placed on the table. After all, if we look at our Olympic performance again, the only alliance that has achieved results and has fidesz leadership was fencing, and indeed Zsolt Csampa is the president. By the way, who brought the Olympic gold? Which Fidesz congressman led a sports union? I asked the question then about the fact that Zsolt Borkai has a mistrust, and then they immediately change the law. That's where I asked the question. What then - because you talked about the long term, we will solve it in the long term, and this will be the long-term financing of sport - I asked what would happen if you did not choose a Fidesz for the head of the Hungarian Olympic Committee. I've given Attila Mesterházy an example of what would happen if the president of the Hungarian Olympic Committee was Attila Mesterházy, and you were to govern. Then what? It would have been the same as now. It would have been the same as now: they would have changed the laws and immediately taken away all the powers of the Hungarian Olympic Committee. This is not a predictable and normal system of operation, which, by the way, I say once again, we consider it a good thing that the State Secretariat should be responsible and that these rights should be with the State Secretariat. The only problem is, you're not standing up here and apologizing, you're trying to explain what a new achievement you're making up. There's no new achievement, they're restoring the state of the world almost five years ago. But if everything works the same as it did five years ago, then it doesn't matter who has the money distribution, it doesn't matter who has the check, because in the last five years there hasn't been a check, we can talk about checking the tao here. Today, much of the tao money was stolen in Hungary and not spent on replacement development. It's the truth. Thank you very much for listening, and I will continue. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2016-10-26-50	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to Mr István Ikotity, the lead speaker of the LMP Group.
u2016-10-26-51	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, Allow me to take this opportunity a little more widely in the debate on this amendment and to talk about sport in general about what the emphasis should be on. I am well aware that sport is a matter of the heart of Prime Minister Viktor Orbán. I know, because he has said on several occasions that sport is a national matter, and this is very visible from many of his activities. Moreover, we fully agree with this statement, it is indeed a national matter. A few days ago, that's why I turned to the Prime Minister, worried about the future of sport, and wrote him a long letter. I wrote that sport is the only basic condition of a healthy lifestyle, not a luxury, in a society that is basically equipped for a sedentary lifestyle. For an earlier, but not too old, research carried out at the University of Debrecen, I'm presenting you with some of these highlights. This research reveals that Hungarians regularly play sports in a very small proportion. The Hungarian figures are very bad in international comparison. The most athletic nation is the Scandinavian countries, where participation rates are 80-90 percent. In Western European countries, they are over 65 percent, with only 18-23 percent of the total population in Hungary, and this includes compulsory physical education. According to a survey by the National Institute for the Development of Health - another organisation - the health status of the Hungarian population in international comparison is extremely unfavourable and significantly below what the overall level of socio-economic development would allow. At present, life expectancy at birth in Hungary is far below the EU Member States. Especially tragic is the extreme death of middle - aged men. The unhealthy eating habits associated with society's poverty and poor public health, the spread of smoking, alcoholism, drug use and mental health-related diseases, and the rather poor health situation are all causing this health crisis. At the same time, a lack of mobility is one of many factors. The promotion of a sporty lifestyle is therefore a priority. Joint sporting experiences have a very important socialisation effect, strengthen the community's cohesion and strengthen national identity, and the sport is an integral part and value of Hungarian culture, it is enough to refer only here to our good participation in the Olympics. The results of our athletes contribute to the aging of the country's reputation. However, we can see that sports management led by EMMI and centralised by the MOB has not, in recent times, been as it should have been. We either didn't make it to the last Olympics, or we didn't bring any acceptable results in terms of the amount of resources invested. Apart from our three successful sports - swimming, fencing and kayak canoes - the major sports with billions of support have played out in the five-ring games. [[13.30]] Even more heartbreak for us is the fact that leisure port development has been treated as a stepbrother within the Hungarian Olympic Committee in recent years. The fact that we look at the report of the MOB to the EMMI, this 144 - page publication, says a lot about all of this. A total of 2 pages, out of 144 pages, 2 pages deal with the recreational port. We think that says a lot about the government's current sports policy. Although the Hungarian government communicates the current amendment to the sports law by reducing the burden of the Hungarian Olympic Committee so that it can focus on the Olympic movements and the Olympics, we consider it a legitimate demotion. At the same time, it is important to note at this point that the EMMI and the government are still responsible for the distribution and use of state resources for sport. So, in our opinion, this demotion is also a self-critic of the government. I think that in a democratically functioning country, if the leaders clearly fail to achieve the professional goals set in a highly supported area, then you cannot simply run away from responsibility, you cannot hide behind legislative changes. What is worse, we cannot reform a malfunctioning system until we face the flaws of the system, we do not speak out openly, we do not examine the responsibility of those involved in the matter. On the other hand, I believe that the area of public funding, where, in many cases, current or former Fidesz politicians are at the head of the sports professional associations, requires social control in particular. This control in a democracy can be ensured by opposition parties, civil society organisations and independent media, i.e. full transparency. Therefore, when I wrote a letter to the Prime Minister, I asked that, before starting to reorganize sport, it should be made clear what the professional associations and associations have used the money they received from Tao resources and other public sources. I asked that, on the one hand, the professional and financial accounts of the Olympic participation in Rio be made available to the public on the four-year professional and financial accounts of the Hungarian Olympic Committee to the government. I think that before this amendment, which we are looking at, it would be good for decision-makers to at least get to know from their point of view these last four years. Make public the professional and cost plans of sports associations on the basis of which the government has decided on the size of state aid in recent years. Make public the professional and financial accounts submitted by the sports associations to EMMI. I also asked the government, together with MLSZ, to issue an official professional evaluation of the performance of football academies. Very significant resources are being invested in this. Help us to jointly review how many percent of the billions cast into sport by public funds have gone to develop recreational, recreational sport, develop parasports, develop student and university sports, and raise supplies, and how many percent have gone to top sports and the operational operation of professional associations. Make it possible to provide detailed statements on the total number of sports infrastructure developments from Tao resources. We also asked them to make it possible to determine the costs of the 2024 Olympic competition so far, and the planned costs, including the costs of communication campaigns. These are the ones I've listed, these are the ones I've asked for. I think until we see these things, it's very difficult to move on before the diagnosis is made, you can't start therapy. The thorough analysis of the situation may be known to you, it may be known to the government, but for us, who are now in a position to request support for a legislative amendment, so they ask us to cooperate in this, we do not know the background of this, so that we can do so with a calm conscience. I continue to ask the Secretary of State to help us find answers to these questions, so that we can make a decision that is obviously the best. I trust that the Hungarian government and the state body responsible for sport have full insight into this, that he is aware of these figures, which I have just raised as a question that he knows them. Therefore, before we begin to further develop sports life, we need to explore whether there are further unexplored corruption cases and professional errors. On a systemic basis, we can improve Hungarian sports life by diagnosing it, bravely and honestly facing the mistakes. I also asked the Prime Minister in my letter to give both opposition parties and media representatives an insight into the processes in sport life and to participate in the professional discussions planned with 16 priority sports. I received an answer from the Parliamentary Secretary of State of the EMMI, Bence of Retvári. His written reply was that opposition representatives would not be allowed to participate in these 16 priority sports workshops, because this would give sport development a political color, and therefore would not be able to help it. I see the exact opposite. What I can see is that he's currently being politicized, one-sidedly politicized in sports life. It has already been said from previous speakers: the leaders of the professional associations, who are former or current Fidesz politicians, have pushed out leaders who have obtained serious professional inexorable results in the past. So right now, we feel that the sport is being re-politicized. I think that, after a thorough and public investigation, an effective system development proposal can be developed and even incorporated into the law. On the other hand, I think that amending the law alone will not solve anything if we do not address the related moral issues. What am I thinking here? For example, whether there is currently a place for senior government politicians to be in different decision-making positions in Hungarian sports life, is it acceptable that Minister Balog, for example, Szilárd Németh or Máté Kocsis fideszes partner - member of the presidency Szilárd Németh - checks and asks for his work. Isn't there some kind of conflict of interest here? We should also focus on preventing what happened during the Olympics from happening in the future, the government at all times from using the results of our athletes as propaganda tools and, in particular, using them to make a hate campaign more effective. We should also talk about how we can put much more emphasis on the development of recreational recreation in both professional and financial terms before setting up a new sport management system. There is no guarantee in the proposed legislative amendment that anything will change in this area. We should talk in front of him about how we will create sports opportunities and sports communities for children from Borsod County, for example, instead of many stadiums built unnecessarily. We should also talk about how to prevent the cost of big sports events - water worlds or planned Olympics - organised by our country from escaping into the sky, and there must be legal and political consequences for overspending. I would ask the government, which calls for our support for the transformation of sport management, to answer these questions. I would also ask you not to use steam to encrypt the Tao resources, but to make Hungarian sports management and sports life transparent and thus truly developable. In return, I promise the Government and even Prime Minister Viktor Orbán that the LMP will support all sports policy ideas that focus on recreational sports, health preservation and the promotion of environmentally friendly and sporty lifestyles. The aim should be to create a professionally and financially transparent Hungarian sports life free of corruption, conflicts of interest and politicians, and therefore we would like to work together. I look forward to the answers to our questions - in the letter I sent - and I hope that we will receive answers, and that we will not only be able to get answers, but we would really like to set a program, an amendment of the law, a direction that can really change Hungarian sports policy, that can boost Hungarian sports life. Thank you for your attention. [[13.40]]
u2016-10-26-52	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. We now have further speeches from our representatives. First, I give the floor to Congressman Gergely Tapolczai, Fidesz.
u2016-10-26-53	[[He makes his comment with the help of a sign language interpreter.]] Thank you very much for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, With regard to the amendment of the sports law before us, allow me to look back a little bit. Everyone knows very well that Hungary's first Olympic champion was Alfred Hajós, but fewer people already know that Hungary's first European champion was Tibor Földváry, figure skater, he won the gold medal at the European Championship in 1895, and he was deaf himself. Alfred the Boat remembered him, wrote in his recollections, and praised his sporting activity. It is also worth pointing out that when we talk about the sport of the disabled, a lot of people think primarily of the paralympic movement Paralympics. The sport of the disabled is much more diverse than that. There is the special Olympics, there is the world game of organ transplants, the deaf-lympia and the leisure activities of people with other disabilities. It is also worth mentioning that there was a disability sport prior to the development of the Paralympic movement, especially in the deaf. In 1912 Hungary's first disabled sports club, the deaf sports club, was founded. Of course, before the Paralympic movement, there were very excellent athletes with disabilities who won gold in the Olympics; for example, Olivér Halassi gained two gold pieces in water balls in the '30s. Or Károly Takács, who excelled in sports shooting. He lost his right hand in a grenade explosion, and he switched to left hand, so he won two Olympic gold medals. Or I could mention Ildikó Hidden, who was told that he would not be able to achieve any results because of his hearing loss, and by comparison he gained two gold pieces in the Tokyo Olympics. So the sport of people with disabilities has always been, always will be, and will always have great results. This is very important, and also the organisations behind them, the organisational background and the support system. In light of this, it is worth mentioning that, prior to the system change, the sports office was the most well-known, perhaps, OTSH, directing sports life, providing support directly to sports associations of disabled people. In 1998 OTSH was replaced by the Ministry of Youth and Sport with an independent State Secretary in the field of sports for the disabled. In the same way, the disability-sports associations were directly supported until Fonesz, the National Sports Federation of Disabilities, was established in 2001. There, the Ministry gave the support to the Fonesz, and it was divided among itself, i.e. member organisations, based on a very well-designed sports point system. They worked with democratic principles and shared these funds themselves. That's how it worked for ten years, about ten years. As of 2012, support for disabled people's sport continued within the framework of the MOB as part of an independent sport group. In the previous speeches, we heard comparisons about the Olympic performance based on the benchmarks for the past four years. It is interesting to see this comparison in the field of sports for disabled people. At the Rio Paralympics, 43 players started, two thirds, 33 athletes scored points; one third, 15 athletes won medals. All we're talking about is one gold, eight silver and nine bronze medals. In the London Paralympics, two gold, six silver, six bronze medals were won. So we got four medals in Rio more than we did in London. We can talk about the third most effective performance of all time in Paralympic. In the same way, it is worth looking at the same thing in the case of deaflympics. In 2013, there was a deafly Lympia in Sofia, and next year it will be in Turkey. In 2013, deaf athletes were able to obtain three gold and one bronze; in 2009, two gold coins, three bronze medals, so one medal less, but one gold more. With this, in 2013 the Deaf Limpian performance has been the most effective performance in the gold medals since 1993 and the fourth most effective in terms of the number of medals. It is therefore possible to argue which system, in which organisational structure the system of sport support is best implemented, but the most important thing is that the aid really goes where it is intended and is actually used professionally. It seems to me that in the field of paralympics and other sports for disabled people, regardless of the background of the organisation, very serious professional work is being done and effective professional work is being done. I trust that we will continue to work effectively after the new sport law has been amended. I had the opportunity yesterday to attend a meeting between national sports associations representing disabled people and representatives of the MPB on the amendment. In particular, we have reviewed the practical arrangements, the process of carrying out the transfer and receipt, and the principles of the new MPB's statutes have been clarified, the timing of the time so that we can implement it in compliance with the statutory deadline. The representatives of the sports associations did not dispute or agree on the content of the amendment, but only made comments on the use of terms or tasks, the distribution of powers or the way in which they were implemented. I would like to pass this on in the form of a proposal, in the form of an amendment. In the field of sports for disabled people, it is the most important for the sports association for disabled people to retain their autonomy and to make their own decisions on the use of state and other subsidies. So far, they've been receiving this support from the MOB, and they're going to receive it through the MPB. I would like to note here that the name will also be interesting, because during the period before the MOB there was the Fones, which included national disability sports associations and sports, and the MPB as a public body was separate. Now there will be an MPB as a public body, and its members will be the Special Olympic Association, the Organization of Organ transplants, the Sports Association of the Hungarian Hearing Damaged. [[13.50]] Parasports don't equal disabled sports. The sport of the disabled is a much broader concept than literal parasports. It does not, of course, depend on this; it will not depend on how sports associations work; the important thing remains that the new MPB's statutes are drawn up in accordance with international regulations and that sports associations function and function accordingly. It is equally important that, in the spirit of the EU Disability Strategy 2020, we continue to strive to ensure that as many sports facilities as possible, sporting events are accessible and fully accessible; as many sporting events are organised as possible, so that disabled athletes can participate. Finally, a number of my opposition fellow Members raised the question as to why this change was taking place. If I want to be objective, everyone may have some presumptions, assumptions, justifications for the amendment of the sports law, that the Government of Hungary, by evaluating and reviewing the events, activities and professional work of the past four years, considered that a transformation was necessary. I ask my fellow Members to support this amendment. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-10-26-54	Thank you very much, Congressman. The next speaker is Mr Attila Mesterházy, on behalf of the Hungarian Socialist Party.
u2016-10-26-55	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Madam Secretary! I changed my speech a little bit when I listened to your comment, because it seems it's mandatory to tell you the eight-year anniversary, how terrible those damn eight years have been. I think it would have been a better start to what my fellow Member Hadházy was talking about, because indeed, Hungarian sport connects us, and it is no accident that politicians from all groups are involved in this debate, making positive comments. But if you guys haven't missed this eight-year period, let me make one or two comments that might relate to those eight years. The first was to know, Madam Secretary, that during that period there was a program for the development of sports facilities, called Sport XXI. This sports facility development concept would have covered a period of 15-20 years, so it was a strategic idea, within which it was specifically about how to develop sports facilities in Hungary - not only stadiums but also sports facilities in general. For this purpose, the then government would have allocated HUF 55 billion for the period 2004-2006, i.e. for two years, and this sport facility development programme had five pillars. Let me tell you these five pillars, because they seem to keep forgetting this. The first is the development of the Olympic Centres. The second is the completion of the stadium reconstruction program, or a little further development, because the goal of the then government was to have UEFA-licences stadium in Hungary; however much we spend on it, we are not very, very good today. The third pillar was the development and construction of municipal facilities, which meant a sports hall, an ice rink and a school. Here the idea was to adapt the development of facilities to the needs of the local community. The fourth is the development of sports facilities in municipalities under 2500. In many cases, this meant clearly sports field development, soccer field and locker room development. And the fifth is the gym, school-building program. So in Hungarian, there was a strategic idea that would have dealt with the problems of Hungarian facilities in the long term in terms of sport. I smiled at it because I heard the Prime Minister here once when we were attacking the stadium reconstruction program, that he defended the stadium reconstruction program on the basis of this and on the basis of the programme I announced at the time, that he was actually doing nothing but implementing the Masterházy programme, of course, in a funny way. Then I also suggested that it was about a little more than that, even if, of course, the details can be seen in the right direction today in terms of facility development. I would also like to draw the Secretary of State's attention to the fact that, in those eight years, there was an association operating grant directly. There were times when it reached hundreds of millions of forints before 2010, which was about the opportunity to apply for operating costs to Hungarian sports associations - not only those of the highest importance, but everyone, small and large - so in many cases it gave them a serious opportunity and a chance of survival to these small rural associations or even larger rural associations. And the third thing the Secretary of State mentioned, the great international events, is how successful this is, how much more there is now. I just wanted to put three separate questions on the table. I would like to ask that we are talking about a budget of HUF 100 billion in the water world now, while here in Parliament, when we discussed it for the first time, there was a demand of HUF 25 billion, so we need to consider whether we should consider this as a success, that we spend HUF 100 billion on an event against the previous HUF 25 billion, or that may not be such a great success story, except for the sports value, of course, because Hungarian fans will certainly be pleased with the Hungarian success. But now, back to today, I would like to start by saying that I think it is good news for Hungarian sports that there are more resources available that can be spent from such sources. I think it's certainly good news and it's also to be supported. The question is whether these resources are spent effectively and effectively. My personal answer and my conviction is that these resources are not being spent effectively and effectively in the Hungarian sports sector. So it would be worth arguing about this at some point that more resources are good, yes, we are happy about it, but in addition to that, we might need to reconsider the use of resources, and perhaps such a public sport management could take the initiative to rewrite priorities. It occurred to me, too, that what my good-looking fellow Member was talking about was that you have such a déjà vu feeling, because I was sitting here in the debate that my fellow Member talked about at least five years ago, and then, please, we listened to the same arguments, but the outcome was different. Then the sentence ended, that is why everything must go to the MOB; now we listen to the same sentences, and now the end is that that is why everything must be avoided from the MOB. Now, I get it, this is what happens in politics, but I just think that the real reasons have to be dealt with, and the magic word was this one-channel funding system. Please, in some respects there has not been or will not be a single channel financing system. That sounds very good, but I am convinced that such one-channel funding will certainly not be possible in daily practice. In English, what I see in relation to the amendment of the law is that there is a restoration of an earlier state, which, by the way, I think is the right direction. We also said that the MOB would not be able to perform these tasks, not because they have no good intentions, but because the MOB does not have the organisational capacity to cope with these sporting challenges on its own. Therefore, as I read the presentation, it was called the National Sports Association, which I understand is now called the National Competition Sports Association, yes, it is a huge change from the previous situation, but basically it seems that we are going back to the system that had been integrated in Hungarian sports for several years and was able to function more effectively, and I immediately add that it did not develop during our government, but it was a government-cycle operation. We just moved on to this, and maybe we've refined it in one or two places at the request of the sports organizations. But it's still a problem why there's no sports department. In 2010, Fidesz promised to restore the place and role of sport within the public administration. [[14.00]] The promise was that there would be a sports department again. I thought, as this proposal comes, that if there is already an Olympic application, the prestige of sport could be restored or its lobbying power could be restored within the Hungarian government by allowing a sports minister with a professional record, preferably, to sit there at government meetings. I have not seen either Minister Balog nor Minister Bence Rétvári and Secretary of State so highly sports-sensitive. I don't mean to offend them, but they probably have a lot of other topics in the Ministry that are more advanced on the priority list. [[Mrs. Loránt Hegedűs takes her place as notary.]] Allow me to say this from my own experience, it was quite different when I had to represent topics as the Secretary of State of a Ministry for Children, Youth and Sport, and it was different when it was Social, Family and Labour, and I don't know what it was called, even though I didn't know its name, even though I was Secretary of State of this Ministry, and I had to represent whatever it was that secretary of state, because these sports issues were lost somewhere among many very important topics. In Hungarian, it would also be good to fulfill the promise of Fidesz to have a high level of sports representation in the Hungarian government again. It can also be seen, or it is also a problem, that the restoration of this situation will succeed in an end, since national sports centres and various facilities development programmes, if I have understood the text of the law correctly, will continue to remain under the supervision of Minister Seszta. So, where a lot of money is spent, it remains with Minister Sestas, and it is not very much, beyond some professional supervision in sports, an insight and a say in these issues of the new, strengthened Secretary of State. I think it would be right for this to go back to being a sports secretary of state. It occurred to me, too, when I heard the comments, that this law could actually be called the lex Borkai law again. There was once a lex Borkai, when the law had to be amended, asking for a recess in one of the committees, in order not to exclude Mr Borkai from the House of Representatives, because it was such an amendment that his military background, or I don't know what his past almost got him out of the nominations. Then with some waiting and a quick modification, the fidesz majority solved this. At the time, we saw this happening because Mr Borkai has a very insider and a very good lobbying power. Now I see a process in the opposite direction, and now he has lost his influence and his relationship with Fides so much that right now, I'm sorry to put it this way, they're castrating the public body he runs, the Hungarian Olympic Committee. So basically now it is not the professional arguments, but a political expediency that determines this step, but from the point of view of the result, it can be indifferent. What I see is trying to sell failure as a success. Here the MOB, as I have just said, has also caused an organizational failure over the past period, or a sports-professional failure, as Mr Szilágyi said. We had four sports that could win an Olympic medal, and we had four other Olympic sports that scored in the Rio Olympics. This is 40 percent of all sports, if I remember correctly, who could score any points at all. As regards Olympic medals, gold, two athletes who have won several medals need to be highlighted. Moreover, they were the ones who did not prepare for the Olympics within the framework of MOB sports. So here, professionally, I'm sure there's a problem and a problem. I can't judge it, I can't do it, but it is noticeable that beyond pride, having achieved such excellent results, it is, after all, compared to the London Olympics or the former Olympics, that there is something to be done by the Secretary of State of Sports, I'm sure. For this reason, it would be good not only to consider the last five years as a political body, as has been said here, that the government has decided to analyse the I don't know how many years, but also to have sports mail examined. I'm sure an impact assessment would be necessary to see what the problem is. I think this change is important and good, because earlier, the Secretary of State for Sport, and here I am thinking not only of Mrs Secretary of State, but also of her predecessors, it was pretty much decided where her driver would take her, in which direction, in which city, in which event. Beyond that, he had very little say in Hungarian sports policy. We hope that this will turn around a little bit, and we will see greater professional control in the coming months and years. I would therefore like to make a few suggestions to the Secretary of State about what might be needed or what I would like to draw attention to. I've already said it, but I'd like to sum it up. First, don't forget the associations. I was president of the National Association of Sports Associations, as Mr Szilágyi said, and I saw that my lobbying force was not very strong during the time of the government, so I resigned. Tamás Deutsch took over this role, and I trust that he will be more successful in this, and he will be able to fight more for the associations. But I would also like to draw attention to the fact that they do not forget associations, do not forget successful associations in rural areas, and do not forget small associations. Therefore, not only large, otherwise successful associations in Budapest should receive priority and increasing support. Be a sports department again, I just told you that. It would not be wrong to have a sports committee in Parliament, because if we take ourselves seriously, it would be more difficult to put these issues on the agenda as part of the Committee on Culture. As I just said, let's have an impact assessment, or if I'm gonna say political slogan, a failure analysis professionally on what needs to be done differently. NSK and other facilities should be returned to your custody; and it would be really good if Fidesz politicians left the profession at the head of various sports associations. Because there is a sports union where politicians are also sitting in the chair, and I have no such problem with that, such as the kayak-kenu association, just let the profession do its job and manage the associations or the sports professional association to help. The next step is to strengthen the efforts of the sports diplomacy, Madam Secretary, because we have lost ground in a number of places, which, in fact, greatly restricts the success of Hungarian sports. And I wouldn't want to go any deeper in the Olympics because of politeness. I fully agree with my colleague Gergely Tapolczai, and thank you very much for recommending this to us. Indeed, the sport of the disabled is particularly successful in Hungary, so we should be proud not only of the paralympics, but, as you said, of the sports of the disabled. And indeed, in many cases, this has little attention and role to play in politics, so it would be very important indeed. And my last sentence, Mr President, thank you for your patience for giving me a few more seconds, which may be very important if we do not constantly drag the Hungarian sports system. You know, Madam Secretary, that sports results can be interpreted in four to eight years. If we constantly transform the system, it is only because of this lack of stability and lack of predictability that the professional work of many athletes can be a failure. The goal of the state would be to make as many successful athletes as possible. Thank you, Mr. President, for your patience.
u2016-10-26-56	Thank you very much, Congressman. The next speaker is Mr Nándor Gúr, MSZP.
u2016-10-26-57	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would just like to address four issues. One, not opened, because it has already been opened, but merely confirming that the transformation of the funding system that is taking place is not necessarily reprehensible, and it can even be said, where appropriate, that it has its purpose. Only the movement, the complexity that they do here during the six-year period of government, is incomprehensible in this respect. And obviously, if this kind of redeployment takes place, then, in order to say that it requires a kind of monitoring, I mean, in order not to make the story so hand controlled, I mean, the history of funding that the Traceability is virtually nullified, disappears. It can be seen that the role of the MOB in this regard is therefore being reduced, that of the State Secretary-General is somewhat increasing, but the role of the State Secretary really is not growing, as I see it, but rather the increase in resources in the hands of Minister Sesztak, which is dominant, which is decisive in this respect. I think that perhaps it is not necessarily appropriate, because Minister Seszta is quite close to Prime Minister Orbán, and so it is again the manual control and not the professional arguments and the professional interest that is shown in the first place. The other part of this is that if we look at Hungary's map and see where, in specific sports disciplines the various associations work and what their financing background is, my experience is that it is a rather distorted image, a torso that is exposed to us. [[14.10]] So the regional differences in funding and the results achieved, the results achieved on the basis of performances, are very different. It would also be worth looking at the evolution of its way, one; two: it would necessarily be worth drawing how the change is made. The other part of what is connected to the source is the controllability of the use of resources. I see that we are not absolutely moving forward in time in order to ensure that this control is as effective as possible, rather than in the scope of Parliament; or that the process of auditability, socialisation, in an ugly word, cannot prevail. I do not want to go into the details of the Tao subsidies, but if I said so, this would in itself lead to the opening of transparency and other issues. What I see as a good thing, what I think should be supported by you in the draft law, things related to the training of replacements and the emphasis on the importance of community recreation. However, I would like to point out that it is not the words that are relevant in this regard, but rather, in terms of factual realisations, i.e. resources, and in many other matters, to provide additional resources in this respect. My fellow Member, Attila Mesterházy, has already spoken about it in detail - as an example, I will split the matter into two - concerning the development and construction of stadiums and, say, gymnasiums, gymnasiums. I do not want to look into the events of the past six years, as you are well aware of the developments of the stadiums of Szolnok or Mezőkövesd or Kisvárda, but the stadium of MTK is included. If I look at the political forces behind these stadium developments, of course we will find matching names; from the end we will find Minister Seszták in Kisvárdán, Minister Tállai in Mezőkövesden, but there is also Tamás Deutsch behind the MTK, Sludge, interestingly, but not least Viktor Orbán. Therefore, it can be seen that the way these resources are installed and the way in which the stadium-building fever is built is very closely linked to the level of positions that the government members are sitting or will take, and through this the type and extent to which and the extent to which resources they obtain. Meanwhile, the development resources of the rural gymnasiums and gymnasiums that would be necessary for what is also written in this bill, i.e. in terms of re-education or recreation, well, they represent an incomparably smaller degree. I don't think that's okay. If there is more resources - and it is good to have more resources - then there has already been a mention in the headlines of whether this source can be used efficiently, on the one hand, and, on the other hand, reasonable, appropriate, thirdly, I would add that it can be checked. Now it looks like they're trying to eliminate control. So far, I have seen that, in terms of practical use, they did not follow the path that would have led to practicality by a far-reaching majority of Hungary. In terms of efficiency, too, I can support a multitude of question marks as to how effective, say, the use of resources attached to the stadium chairs is, or even if we say a few words about the stadium, then what changes have been made in terms of stadium development and attendance figures. Madam Secretary, it would be worth examining these links more carefully. I can help you if you need it, but I think you can do the same, and if you see this, if you have brought this together, then it is worth thinking about the implementation of further stadium development projects, or whether it is really true that in order to raise up replacements, it is necessary to develop, rebuild, or rebuild the gymnasiums, in order to strengthen mass sports. I'm more on this second line, I'd rather strengthen this second surface, and I think that would really bring more benefits in terms of re-education and recreational dust than a further continuation of the development of stadiums. I would like to say two more things briefly. One - if you do not consider it inappropriate, Madam Secretary - relates to the events of the last few weeks. If, and if, in terms of sport, it is possible to use more resources, this use of resources should take place in such a way that, for the next period, the Hungarian government intends to lend some HUF 12 billion to build a stadium in Kosovo, for which I understand you have also negotiated personally, so you will be able to establish helpful positions in this respect. According to my knowledge, the plans of this possible development, within the framework of which it will be a Hungarian contractor, who will be present there in relation to the end result. I have no problem with that, but I would like to ask you how many Hungarian companies have a reference in connection with the development of such a planned Groupama Arena, of the order of 25,000 people. According to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, there are many such Hungarian companies, and if that is true, will it be possible for potential applications to be available, let us say, not to become contractors closely linked to the Fidesz lunar yard, which will be able to make profit while providing the transfer, transfer and use of the Hungarian interest-free loan. I will be curious when we get there, by the way, to see who the company will be, whether I am wrong, or if I can now predict the three of them from which the Hungarian contractor concerned will be selected. I have raised this question only because I think that, if there is an opportunity to spend more on sport, it would probably be more fortunate and likely to be able to finance the replacements that you consider important and/or the activities that you have already mentioned today towards mass sports and recreational sport. On the whole, I would like to note that what can be formulated in the headlines adapted to sports policy financing, management and control technology over the last six years is about the fact that they are or are going to take roads that have been tangled up in a way that will, in effect, lead to the return of a state five to six years ago. I don't know how many more of these cannons they want to carry out in the next two years, or how many of these cannons will lead to finally finding a straight path. [[14.20]] And my last sentence is to encourage the Secretary of State to ensure that, if, and if, within the framework of the MOB, there is a decline in the use of these resources, it is indeed and in fact in the hands and in the direction of resources which really serve the real objectives of sport policy, and do not meet other political expectations. That is what I urge the Secretary of State to fight for, because the chair in which you are sitting should, in effect, serve this creed in the quotation mark. I trust you will create this. Mr. President, thank you very much. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy applauds.]]
u2016-10-26-58	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Congressman György Szilágyi in a 15-minute timeframe.
u2016-10-26-59	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. I see that my fellow Members do not have much willingness to stand up and apologize for the last five years, or to apologize for the sentences that they said in the general debate when we fought to ensure that this law is not passed when it is now being restored, but we have been accustomed to this. However, if I may, I would like to draw attention to some of the things that may be said once again that we are wrong, but perhaps they will take it up on it and just look at it from a sporting point of view, whether it is good suggestions or not. I would also like to say that even at the level of reference, the justification of the bill does not include the opinion of the MOB on the draft, so, if you will, the proposal is illegal, contrary to the sport law 39 and 40. It would therefore be good to take this into account at a later stage. A number of questions are also raised about the justification. The most important element of the bill is the dismembering, cutting and substantially centralising of the current MOB. As a reason for this important measure, the general justification for the proposal indicates the removal of the burden of the MOB. I would like to draw attention to the fact that the number of tasks to be carried out will not be less if it is distributed into more organisations. Indeed, the burden of the MOB will be reduced with the proposal, but other non-existent organisations, which otherwise existed five years ago, will increase their burden. It is a false and hypocritical argument to relieve the burden, as, together with the tasks to be removed, the departments who have performed these tasks so far are also separated from the MOB, so the reduction in the capacity of the MOB is also due to the fact that the current MOB memberships are transformed into new independent public bodies. If we do not reveal the real causes, the real problems that have led to any perceived or real failures or failures, then we cannot expect positive results from structural changes themselves. To date, the MOB has a significant role to play in allocating, controlling the use of sports grants, monitoring the use of sports funds, and the planned amendment significantly reduces these powers, and the allocation of funds is virtually centralised. If the government is otherwise dissatisfied with the work of the MOB or thinks that there are anomalies in its operation, then why does it not first consult the parties concerned, use its statutory control powers through the supervisory board, or if it sees serious irregularities, why not also turn to the legal guardian in accordance with the procedure laid down by law? Unfortunately, it is typical of Fidesz governance that laws are not respected, but rather changed, thus undermining the rule of law, destroying public confidence in public institutions. However, this will be an important question, because with another problem that I would like to raise, it will be a very important aspect of how Hungary is judged at the moment. If there really is a problem with operation and the system, why would the government want to create three more identical institutional structures? In fact, the solution contained in the proposal is not a solution to the problems of today's Hungarian sport; Hungarian sport does not have structural problems at the moment and Hungarian sport management, but should look for the reasons much deeper. The more institutional actors involved in the allocation of resources, the more opaque the system is, the more quasi-competitors compete for resources, the less chance they have of achieving professional aspects, especially when politicians decide on professional matters. If the policy continues to embrace sport at such a level, it will continue to be at this level in the life of sports associations and associations, then the very ideals that should be promoted and promoted at Community level, and which you proclaimed above, when this system was established, and the system that is now being established has been abolished five years ago. This should have been the first step, in any case, in order for everyone who might have been monitoring this debate to understand the difference between the 1 January 2012 and the current change. On 1 January 2012, there was a fundamental change in domestic sports life: instead of five so far, a single public body, the Hungarian Olympic Committee, took over the role of managing civil society. The amendment of the Sports Act was adopted by the Parliament on 5 December 2011 and the Hungarian Paralympic Committee, the National Sports Federation, the National Leisure Sports Association and the National Sport Association of Disabilities ceased to function as a public body. The MOB has taken over their previous tasks by continuing to operate as professional departments of the MOB, and its leaders have become Vice-Presidents of the Olympic Committee, and it has become the competence of the MOB to decide on the allocation of state aid in the light of the functioning and tasks of the professional departments, so it has added everything. What's changing now? Here's what's happening: according to the government's vision, the sections under the MOB are highlighted and made autonomous, creating a public body system. There are four public bodies: competition and sport, i.e. Olympic sports, non-Olympian sports, disabled people and student, student and leisure sports, and this is the only positive change in my opinion, which is plus compared to the system that has been changed - also a Deputy State Secretary for National Reinforcing Tasks, and the possibility of money distribution is returned to the State Secretariat. It is important that we say this so that we can see that there is no innovation here, that the old system that you have changed, that we have protested, that you have said that our objection is unprofessional. And I would have questions if Nándor Gúr had already brought up the Olympic Olympics here, because this is one of the points that I think is a huge mistake that they have made again: the time when this amendment of the law was brought before Parliament; precisely because the rule of law and the role of sport are now strongly monitored by the International Olympic Committee, they are watching every step we take. During such a debate, it is possible to say all of us, ourselves, to the International Olympic Committee, how much trouble Hungarian sports have at the moment, and to strengthen the doubt in the International Olympic Committee, whether Hungary is able to organise an Olympics; not exactly ten months before they will decide about it. Do you guys want to make an Olympics at all, or do you want to do that in words? 'Cause if they wanted to, this sports law amendment shouldn't have been brought in here in front of Parliament right now. If they are serious, it should not have been brought in here, because one of the most important aspects will be in September when the International Olympic Committee decides on the social support of the Olympics. Do you think that those who are listening to, say, this debate in Hungary, you think that those who will read the reports will come down to the fact that Hungary is able to organise the Olympics? People will be asked - not by your public opinion researchers, who are paid very well here in Hungary, but by the public opinion research company commissioned by the International Olympic Committee - and if Olympic support does not go above 60 percent, then we can forget all about it, that will be one of the main arguments. So you brought this in at the right time? Do you really want to throw an Olympics? Then, of course, we should talk about it, and that would be the end of what we want, what Jobbik wants. Firstly, we would very much like an appropriate level of sport representation in the government, so we would like sport to be represented in the government not at the level of the State Secretariat, but at the level of the Ministry, as strong as possible, if it is so important, you have highlighted the national strategy sector of sport. [[14.30]] We would also like it to be true if it had not been hidden in the structure of the Commission, but if there had been, there would have been a separate sports committee that could have dealt with the issues of sport, if you had already spent so much money on sport, because it is undisputed that you are spending a lot of money. Another question is whether or not so many stadiums need to be built. Then what else do we want? We want professional work to be carried out in professional sports associations and associations, professional work to be done there, and it would not be political driving. I'll give you examples of that. There is no need to love a sports manager, and I really don't want to flatter a secretary of state, but I think - I don't like him very much, by the way, and I might be bad for him now if I tell him - one of the best-functioning sports associations in Hungary today is the Swimming Federation. Because what does a professional sports association have to accomplish to say that it works well? And here, I say once again, let's make a reference to the fact that you love your person or you don't like him. The following: you should produce results. They're producing? They're producing. International competitions should be brought to Hungary. Do they bring international competitions to Hungary? They're coming. And to be present in the international organisation, the international organisation of the professional sports association, with sufficient weight. Are they present with sufficient weight? Yeah. That's how a professional sports association works. That's why Csaba Violin is really hurting me. That is why it pains me very much that such an authority of the wrestling alliance has been removed, coup d'état and replaced by Szilárd Németh, and then, in the Olympics, we drank the burden of wrestling, I am absolutely convinced. But we can talk about another example, the Paralympic Committee, because the Paralympic Committee, when a person with an adequate professional background was there - by the way, your man, so I can't be accused of praising anyone again - László Szabó has completely changed the operation of the Paralympic Committee, in my opinion, there is absolutely normal professional work going on since he is there, and we have no problem with the professional work they do in the Paralympic Committee. So what I am saying is that we should finally get back to the professional management that could help Hungarian sport. And what's important is that these resources will be distributed. Now the distribution of resources will be returned to the State Secretariat, and the question of how these resources will be allocated. We would like that, and that would also be Jobbik's proposal - I am sure that this will not be simple, Mrs Secretary of State will have to deal with a lot of everyone and all sorts of arguments - if it were a performance-based distribution system that clearly takes into account sports-related aspects. So it would not be the fact that the president of a sports association, whether he is a politician or not, is good with Viktor Orbán or not, whether he is good with this or not, that one thing would determine what results they can achieve and what sports goals they set, and whether these sports goals are really eligible, and whether they are actually spending the money for the sports trades that the Hungarian State is giving them, because they are public funds, let us not forget, and public funds should be checked normally. And here comes the last thing we want: a much more serious control, a much more serious control of the use of public funds. But that goes for tao money, too, since we talked about it here. I know that you have now kept it a secret, that it is not possible to look at the tao money normally, but I would like to ask the Secretary of State to check whether the money that is also public money - we can argue that you are not, or yes, that Viktor Orbán has also acknowledged that public money is being spent on what it is intended for, because it is out of the budget, which is public money, if it should be used to raise supplies, we should really use it to raise supplies. We are not sorry, so we are saying that sport should not be sorry, because what has been said here in general, how sport affects society, how it affects the health of society, health and everything else, it is all true, sport is a very important sector in our opinion, and must also be taken very seriously, supported, money must also be spent on it, not too little, but these funds must be used to achieve the goal we intended them for. So these would be our comments, these would be the points I wanted to tell you. Once again, we are pleased that there is a recovery after five years, because we have not supported this change, and we will now support the re-launch of a longer-term sports concept, for which I wish Mrs Secretary of State very much success, and I wish her much endurance. [[Dr. Savolt-Szabó Tünde: Thank you very much.]] I think you're gonna have enough problems with this whole thing, especially with the allocation of resources. Thank you very much.
u2016-10-26-60	Thank you, Congressman. I will ask if anyone else wishes to take the opportunity to speak. [[There's no signal.]] I don't see any contact. Dear Parliament, The general debate is closed. I give the floor to the rapporteur, Mrs Tünde Szabó, who wishes to respond to what was said in the debate. You have the floor, Madam Secretary.
u2016-10-26-61	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Dear Congressmen, ladies! I am pleased that during the debate on the amendment of the Sports Act, Act I of 2004, we have also heard a number of speeches in support of our government goals. The comments also confirm that we are on the right track in the course of the amendments, as the amendment of the Sports Act gives greater emphasis to the unity of support for competition and sport, recreational sport, student, student sport and disabled sports, as well as to the strengthening of the system of representation of non-Olympian sports, thereby creating a system of uniform public supervision in the field of re-education, in order to establish the success of future competitions. Allow me to respond briefly to your suggestions. Regarding the Tao, we have heard a number of comments about the subsidies. I would like to emphasise, and I do not want to mention the accounts here, but rather the visual team sport support system, by promoting the participation of young generations and encouraging sport life, will also increase the social base of recreational sport. View team sports are also of paramount importance for society, as they contribute, for example, to the development of healthy lifestyle conditions among growing generations by means of replacement training tasks and facility development grants, and to the creation of community interests and values, since not only competitions certified in visual team sports can use the facilities that are implemented through the corporate tax relief system, but, according to the law, at least 20% of the operating time should be issued under preferential conditions for which children, students can be accepted from the territory of other sports, and even the law explicitly encourages the supported organisations to do so, as this reduces the level of self-power required for the programme. In addition, at the beginning of next year, the NFM will launch a network of recreational sports parks, which will be followed up by recreational sports development programmes, which can be read in the news, as well as in today's media, in different sports disciplines. In addition, in the clearance of budgetary support and in this respect, the accounts submitted shall be fully examined in all cases during the verification of use. On this basis, the use report shall be examined and decided by the sponsor within 60 days of receipt of it on acceptance or refusal or replacement of the deficiency. Here, too, the supporter must comply with very strict rules, where financial and legal control is under very strict professional regulation, and this will certainly lead to even stronger control by the State Secretariat in the future. The fundamental reason for the amendment of the Sports Act - and we have heard from a lot of Members in the past - is that in the past few years there have been new public sports development programmes and systems, as well as the additional administrative tasks associated with them and the implementation of the one-way payment system, since we know very well that there were no sport promotion programmes for the 16 major sports disciplines before 2011, or there were no development programmes for the catching-up sports disciplines, or there were no high coaching status, there was no such high level of sports facility building, and, as we have listed, there were no support for priority associations. [[14.40]] I would like to say here - we have heard from Congressman Mesterházy that he wants sports associations to be supported. [[To intervene:]] He is not here now, but I also tell him and everyone that in a few days he will come out in an official form, that we will support the operation of the associations with a sports program, and here we are not thinking primarily of the metropolitan or the priority associations. So it was very important that I remember these. In addition, in addition to the continuous development of competition sports, the amendment of sports law places greater emphasis on leisure sports, student, student and university sports, and, as we have heard, on the area of people with disabilities and the representation of non-Olympian sports. Once again, I would like to thank the speakers and the Parliament for giving us these constructive comments, and I would like to ask that the amendment of Act I of 2004 on Sport, T/12459. Please support bill No 1 in the final vote. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-10-26-62	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary. Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Dear Parliament, We now have a general debate on the bill to amend certain laws on administrative bureaucracy until closure. Government referral T/12475. Number 2 is available on the Parliament's IT network. I would like to inform you that the proposal is being discussed as a minority item by the Parliament. First, I give the floor to Mr Zoltán Kovács, Secretary of State of the Prime Minister's Office, rapporteur of the item on the agenda, within a 30-minute time frame. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2016-10-26-63	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, It is not the first time that we are here on this subject before the Parliament, and I think that thanks to the efforts of the last few years, many innovations in the public administration are serving customers better, making them comfortable, simplifying cases and managing them more effectively. One element of this is electronic administration, which has been extended. This extension is not over yet, and we want to move forward in this area as much as possible. It is also government windows as integrated customer services in which more than a thousand types of cases can be launched or initiated for citizens, thus reducing the movement to different offices, that can be launched in one place for most cases. However, we can measure the effectiveness of procedures not only in terms of administrative deadlines or the number of cases that can be initiated electronically, but also in the context of a chain of procedures by public authorities. It has several links, and sometimes we have to break up these links and see where the points that do not facilitate efficient and customer-friendly administration are. This is why we asked citizens last year and again this year, almost half a million people last year and about a quarter million people this year have expressed their views on the rules of procedure that make their administration difficult, where it is necessary to simplify, remove or transform them, so with the exception of certain links, this often chain of administration should be shorter or even help the work of customers. This year, citizens were asked during the summer period, similar to last year's way. There was a choice, we offered a number of types of cases, but they themselves could make proposals, and, from the legislative point of view, customer and authority feedback shows the need for a comprehensive review of legislation. However, we have asked not only citizens, but also the administrators themselves, which are the types of cases that make their work difficult because of the complexity of the legislation, and therefore have to spend longer time dealing with the procedure. Citizens see bureaucracy as a concept in itself, but they see less in their daily lives, so in this bill we undertake, as before, to review procedures and take out the regulatory elements that are a burden for both customers and public authorities. There is no way to go through the amendments proposed in the bill as a whole, because of the time limit, although it is 30 minutes, and I would therefore prefer to draw the attention of this House from the bill to proposals of the highest public interest. One of these concerns the whole range of citizens, so that from the summer of next year, from 1 July, the citizen can make the announcement of his/her place of residence and residence at any district office. That wasn't the case before. People are mobile, the workplace doesn't coincide, the place of residence doesn't coincide, they go to school, it's not always in the place of residence, let's say, in a higher education institution or even in a secondary education institution. Now you can do it anywhere, even by extending the steering windows, even in traffic nodes, where appropriate in MÁV stations we have already handed over five such steering windows. The amendment also takes into account the needs for local administration and the customer's need to choose where it intends to fulfil this civic obligation. Mr President, Dear fellow Members, In many cases, bureaucracy is an obstacle to progress in this competition in the development of Hungary today and in the competitiveness comparison with neighbouring countries. In 2015 and 16 we have already brought two of these red tape reduction laws to Parliament. Here, the state's role in public authority has been rethought in more than 30 proceedings. As a follow-up to the developed concept, the bill allows, in the case of further professional or advisory activities based on the trust relationship between the client and the authority, indirectly between the citizen and the State, the possibility of starting or continuing the activity on the basis of an announcement that the strict authorisation requires. Of course, those conditions, i.e. material legislation, remain unchanged, so this will only help citizens from the procedural side, but will continue to meet the requirements of legal certainty. In order to speed up procedures not only by reducing time limits at a legislative level, but also by realising in day-to-day administration, the authorities will be directly entitled to deploy the administrators in the future. This will give the procedure an abbreviation of at least 15 days, where the secondment of a caretaker is required. The amendment concerns, not least, social services; this has been mentioned earlier by opposition colleagues, so we have taken action on this issue, here it reduces the burden of sending out the caseworkers, and it is clear that resources can be used elsewhere if capacity is released here. [[14.50]] On the basis of the bill, the review procedures for health harm and child care support and the special care fee will be simplified. In many cases, there is no longer a need, however, for official procedures to be completed regardless of medical examinations. A major reduction in the administrative burden for customers is the initiative in the proposal, which, in the case of contract-based land use subject to official approval, creates the possibility for land use registration to be carried out ex officio instead of the procedure for reporting in accordance with the rules in force, and does not have to go to the Land Office twice, and the Office can do so on the basis of its own database. In the case of real estate, investments, in many cases major renovations, as well as the pace of purchases faster than social demand and a key government target, the government proposal gained ground This is reflected in the current reduction in the duration of the housing savings bank payments. This is also important because, according to recent presentations, customers concluded significantly higher value and more contracts than last year at Hungarian housing savings banks as early as 2016. The bill allows me - and I am turning to ethnic advocates here - to practice the use of nationality names as widely as possible. With the change, parents can declare the child's name after the birth announcement, there is no need to carry out a subsequent procedure with the registry manager in order to register the appropriate first name for nationality. According to one of the amendments to reduce customer costs, where the withdrawal of the vehicle from the market is due to a lack of compulsory liability insurance as a result of incorrect or missed notification of the insurance undertaking, the insurance undertaking will be charged instead of the customer the cost of putting the vehicle back on the market. In particular, it is when the customer becomes aware that his vehicle is being withdrawn from the market while, by the way, a parallel procedure is being carried out and the premium is paid to the insurance undertaking, but the insurance company has not notified the competent authority of this fact and withdraws the vehicle while the customer has not failed, so the related costs will be charged to the insurance undertaking as proposed. The preparation of the legislation has taken into account the administrative burden on the Authority's side on several points, because so far there has been a view that we have reduced the burden primarily on the customer side, which is always a temporary increase in the administrative burden in the offices, and we have now tried to take into account the administrative burden in this proposal, such as the forest authorities will have much less work to do in the case of forest planting, forest renovation, and this does not reduce forest safety. The burden of the real estate authority is falling, and I've already talked about the relief of social services. Dear Parliament, Dear fellow Members, Looking back on recent times, I would like to draw the attention of fellow Members to the main achievements of cutting red tape since 2015. In 2015-16, 221 laws were amended or repealed and 73 were repealed. As a result of the amendments, customers' obligation to appear before public authorities has been reduced and more than 30 official authorisations have been transformed into notification procedures. There was a significant increase in the number of cases completed within 8 days, as well as the fee for 20 official procedures and company proceedings, as a result of a further amendment to 9 laws. We are now amending 45 laws with this bill, about one and a half thousand of the laws currently in force, so we have practically already touched 266 laws along with the current proposal in the spirit of these objectives. This has not been the case since the change of regime. Given that the practical experience of the period since the entry into force of the laws supports the expectations of the amendment, I therefore call on the honourable Parliament, the fellow Members, to support, as before, the objectives of cutting red tape by adopting the bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-10-26-64	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. First, I give the floor to Mr Vas Imre, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2016-10-26-65	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, On the basis of the conclusions drawn from the 250,000 opinions received in the 2016 public consultation and the proposals from district and metropolitan district offices, the T/12475, which included the amendment of 45 laws, was submitted as the third stage of bureaucracy reduction. Proposal for a Law amending certain laws on administrative bureaucracy. Taking into account practical experience, there are a number of amendments that are essentially aimed at reducing the burden on customers, but also indirectly reduce the burden on public authorities, while at the same time making it easier for people on both sides. The interest in general public administration reform can be achieved through the amendment of the Act on General Rules of Public Administration Procedure and Service and the adoption of the Law on Administrative Orders which will be adopted, as these laws regulate the general rules, but a significant reduction in the procedural burden can also be achieved by amending sectoral rules. I would like to highlight three of the proposals, which relate to the general rules. The automatic decision-making procedure will be introduced. In the event of legal conditions, the authority may decide either immediately or in a fully automated process without human intervention in one day. This form of decision without intervention may be used in cases where the judgment of the case is simple or fully automated. For example, road fines may be a case. As the Secretary of State has said, the authorities will be directly entitled to appoint a trustee in the future, thereby accelerating procedures and at the same time reducing the burden of guardianship. This can be explained by the fact that special skills acquired in guardianship management are not necessarily required for the secondment of the guardian, and accordingly, it is not appropriate to keep powers in guardianship. In view of the positive impact of electronic contacts on domestic legal assistance, the proposal also extends the exclusive use of the electronic route to communication between authorities and administrative authorities, thus speeding up the handling of the cases concerned so that they can only communicate with each other by electronic means or by electronic mail. The following four of the specific rules of procedure of the proposal at sectoral level are highlighted: the 1994 LIII on judicial enforcement is amended positively. A 30-day transitional period for the debtor to settle the debt or to conclude an agreement with the executioner without the withdrawal of the vehicle will be insured in the event of the seizure of the vehicle, i.e. in the event of the seizure of the vehicle. This is favourable to both the client and the authority. [[15.00]] One of the essential elements of the proposal is the health and child-care allowance and a special care fee, for which the health status previously established in the review of benefits should be considered to exist until the new test result or complex qualification is obtained. The amendment ensures the continued payment of the benefit to the client. A further substantial amendment is that, on the basis of an amendment to the Real Estate Register Act, the client does not need to be accompanied by a document in the event of the termination of the right to benefit, maintenance or annuity, or the right to use as a result of death, where the termination of these rights can undoubtedly be established from the data contained in the personal data and address register. These rights had previously been deleted by submitting a death certificate for the person concerned and a request had to be made. Finally, I would like to point out that as of 1 July 2017, the citizen's residence and place of residence can be declared at any district, metropolitan district office, thereby reducing the obligation to notify. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, All in all, therefore, the government is T/12475. The Fidesz faction supports the bill, so I ask you to support it. Thank you very much for your attention. [[It's a rare round of applause from the pro-government ranks.]] [[President Tamás Sneider, Vice-President of the National Assembly.]]
u2016-10-26-66	Welcome, fellow Members. The MSZP group indicated that two speakers presented the group's position. I give the floor first to Congressman Gergely Bárándy.
u2016-10-26-67	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, You were right to start by saying that it wasn't the first time we've been here on a subject like this, and I'm afraid it's not the last time. I agree with you on that. I'd just like to approach this from a little different perspective. One step at a time, one session at a time, you have managed to destroy the administration's system with these amendments, which are like this and similar. It is simply not possible to meet an administrative professional, be it at the bottom, at the top or in the middle of the system, who would not say the same thing, who would not say that there is total chaos in the administration today, who would not say that the situation has become chaotic, who would not say that it is pointless and that the legislation that hinders the process has succeeded, as I say again, in creating complete chaos in the system. This proposal acts in a broadly similar way, or tries to amend or correct the legislation that was otherwise wrong, some of which appeared to be a problem at the time, and some of which did not appear to be a problem, because, in the course of unthinkable legislation, the opposition was not able to properly review it, but I do not think that those who otherwise created these legislation could do so. In fact, under the aegis of administrative bureaucracy reduction, we are talking about a combination of government and district office ideas in this proposal, without any logic or consistency with other laws. Again, once again, this is nothing new with regard to legislation on the same subject in recent years. In two sentences, the general justification of the bill was resolved. This also shows that it is not a real legislation, but a bill that fills gaps. The proposal is a great reflection of domestic legislation, the laws of the law factory on assembly tape. Changing the messed-up legislation, lifting the conflict between laws, filling the flagrant legislative bridges with new legislation, and resolving the difficulties in applying the law is the backbone of this proposal. In many cases, they want to adapt to the Ket., which, Mr. Secretary of State, is ridiculous, given that we are living at a time when the Parliament is discussing the bill that is about the general administrative order and is replacing the Ket.; the proposal that is extremely pro-government is an almost disturbing factor for the client. The Ket is pointless. a substantial, almost almost novel amendment to be made at a time when soon the Ákr. Replaces the Ket. And it makes me smile that the Ket. The legal system consistency resulting from its previous amendments has still not been achieved, so the Ke will be adjusted in the form of a reduction in bureaucracy. a long time ago, the sectoral legislation has changed its rules. In this context, rather, we are proposing to start the professional work on adapting sectoral legislation to the administrative statute, because it will affect the benefit of the legal system, not to mention the need to rewrite a very extensive piece of legislation at the level of the Government Decree and Ministerial Decree. So, instead of a supplementary act, honourable Members, honourable members of the Government, it would be good for the government to really act. However, this proposal is clearly part of the category of supplementary action. One of the most serious problems with this proposal is that in many cases the task itself does not end, but is carried out in the future. This can hardly be interpreted as a reduction in bureaucracy, especially if another administrative or public body is to be the future end of the task. Let me give you an example. Let us say that I am talking about a change in public debts to be recovered as taxes, where, for example, in the future, the additional burden of metropolitan and county government offices and district offices is not on them, but on NAV. So this is not a big change, honourable Members. However, if I mention one more neural point or perhaps the most neural point in this area, this is the issue of irregular purchase of utility services. The involvement in deciding the dispute arising from the contractual relationship between the parties is excluded from the administrative authority's activities, but it is clear that the introduction of a dispute between service providers and consumers into non-court proceedings will reduce the burden on public administration and at the same time increase the burden on courts. I would like to ask the Secretary of State whether there has been any discussion in this, by the way, with the heads of the court. I would also like to ask whether, if such additional burdens are imposed again on the courts, thereby reducing the burden of public administration, then whether resources will be transferred from public administration to the court chapter, because I have neither heard nor read about this in the proposal. And you're supposed to have an attitude that if you put extra burdens somewhere, you'll also have the resources for that. Secretary of State, do you provide the courts with the resources for additional burdens? There is a proposal, and it is quite abundantly about public employment and social affairs; this is what my fellow Member, Mr Nándor Gúr, will be going to talk about after me. In conclusion, in the absence of time, however, I would like to say and to summarise that this proposal is not, of course, eligible, and will not be supported by the MSZP faction. It is completely unconventional, in fact, an idea fair, which has not yet been revised in terms of where it has decreased significantly in terms of public tasks, makes simplification among those involved. One of the most important problems for us and the biggest problem is that the proposal is not customer-friendly on many points. This can be called a bureaucracy reduction, but it was not created in a customer-friendly way, but on the contrary, it is anti-client. It's not good for the authorities, it's not good for the clients. So apart from the few positive things that it contains, it is certain in its unity that it cannot be supported even if amendments are adopted. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2016-10-26-68	Thank you. I now give the floor to notary Nándor Gúr. [[15.10]]
u2016-10-26-69	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'll pick up where my fellow Member left off. According to our values, cutting red tape does not necessarily mean firing people by tens of thousands or hundreds of thousands. They didn't even hit the numbers here, because they use different numbers from a few tens of thousands to hundreds of thousands. The reduction of bureaucracy for us means that, if necessary, the same number of staff, but much more entrepreneurial, much better service for citizens is taking place. This is a reduction in bureaucracy itself, not a reduction in the number of people you are thinking about in your process. You know, Secretary of State, there hasn't been much in the years of two thousand, I mean, the cost of operating bureaucracy. Various European studies, research and Kox studies, you know, have shown that around 6.5 per cent of GDP in Hungary, now around 9-10 per cent of bureaucracy, while in other EU countries it reached 1.5-2-2.5-3 per cent. Well, let's leave it to the details. Let's get into the issue of the bill. Social law changes at two points. One is 32/D. The other is 37/C. § 2, its repeal. It's basically about the homeless. If I really want to simplify it, it's about doing their job in their own district. That is an interesting wording, or the question itself needs to be clarified in this sense, whether that is the case. So far, there's been a designated area for homeless people to handle their cases, and now, if there's really an assignment to these districts, how and how it's going to happen. The homeless guy's homeless because he doesn't have a place to live. They're gonna drive you away from everything? Will this be about the attitude in this regard? In this respect, prevention should be strengthened, so that these situations of life cannot develop or, if they are already established, they should be given greater assistance in winding up. To do this, I think two or three conditions would be essential. One of them is obviously to ensure that the housing condition can be met under normal, safe conditions and that it can carry out some kind of work on the other side in order to provide the necessary cover for housing conditions. Looks like this government's been indisposed pretty intensely for six years. Technically, what we should do is get these people out of living on the streets. I don't think it's good for anyone, for them, who live their lives on the streets and for those who face it every day, and so and so, they may even want to help, but they can't find the right way to help. The other part, which I would like to address, is related to public employment. Technically, the story is accompanied by the introduction of new restrictions. Normally, I'd say three or four sentences for public employment. One is that I personally, but our faction also consider the institutional system of public employment to be necessary. The other is, of course, that we consider it necessary for these people to engage in value - building activities, not to be humiliated, and to be paid. Only these conditions do not otherwise meet what is today. Their problem is essentially due to the fact that trends in recent years have shown that people have been pushed out of care systems, remembering that they operate 3 months instead of 9 months of benefits, but now they also do not allow these people into public employment, or public employment, because they are linked to the format of termination of legal relationships. In this sense, they are trying to strengthen the process of becoming, so to speak, a close, growing, virtually cornered state of loyalty to the bread tax owner. I do not want to get political, that they will want to draw through this how 2018 will be formed from their side. We have seen this before, there have been referendums recently in Hungary. Well, it's about employment. With regard to employment, if the legal relationship is terminated by termination or termination of employment under immediate effect, the person concerned shall not be employed in public employment for a period of practically 3 months. This is absolutely not a forwarding story, because the history of termination or immediate termination cannot bring with it such shackles or bonds. Very simply translated, not even because there are many people who do not have the time to become eligible, even on a temporary basis, within 3 years there will be 360 days to qualify. If we do not have this and exclude these people from the possibility of public employment, we will face even sadder conditions. I want to say with one sentence that these people's vulnerability increases through this type of change. I've had it before. They've never been treated the same way before. I'll give you an example. In the case of public workers, for example, despite raising more children, even though they have a 30-year relationship prior to public employment, they are not used as a basis for calculating supplementary leave. They are practically all negative discrimination, but what they did was also negative discrimination, that they made a net salary of HUF 47,000 from their net salary of HUF 60 200 6 years ago, and now a net salary of HUF 52,000. With a calm spirit, I can say that they were not engaged in activities for their benefit. Your nearly two-thirds government has now taken one third of the purchasing power of these people's money. Well, these situations need to be changed, not against them, but for their benefit. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2016-10-26-70	I now give the floor to György Rubovszky, the lead speaker of the KDNP Group.
u2016-10-26-71	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Dear House, I see the question more positively than the people I speak before, with whom I simply cannot agree. I have one question, of course, but unfortunately, this institution does not have a question for the Member, but I would ask, in my heart, whether you have raised the question you have left out in that quarter of a million or half a million citizens' initiatives. All citizens had the opportunity to present proposals to reduce administrative bureaucracy. I wonder if you put me up to it or not. No, but that's not it. To me, general justification also explains the scope of the bill. The only thing I am missing from this general explanation is that there should have been a reference to the citizen's comments, then this story would be more round, as the Secretary of State said in his exposé. With all due respect, in addition to the spirit of this entire bill, there are some questions that I would like to address, which is then all, but not the cessation of public administration or the shake-up of the administration itself or the promotion of chaos, such as the words we have heard from my socialist fellow Members. For example, the construction law enforcement amendment. What is new in Hungarian law is that we do not need a building permit. [[15.20]] Maybe the reason I'm so early and so white is because I'm the poor citizen who built four times in his life. We've done all four-time-licensed jobs, and I've drunk all the shortcomings of the administrative procedure at the time, that I've taken the certificate to the building department from the various offices and departments of the then Council building in-house, and there were such complications. Well, it's a huge thing that, up to 300 square meters - not with this law, but earlier - construction is only subject to notification and not subject to authorisation. Yes, but only employees of the determining authorities, professionals, notice that there is an anomaly in the system that the conversion remains subject to a building permit, and this legislation dissolves it, and says that to the same extent the restructuring of the property does not require a building permit procedure, but is only subject to notification. Then I think it's an incredible help to the citizen, which I just mentioned, that different documents had to be obtained from other administrators of that authority. For example, in the case of a private passport issue, a moral certificate is not required, because the rapporteur is obliged to clarify it on his own initiative. Well, if it's not easier for the citizen, I don't know what it is. With all due respect, what I now live alone in a house as a widower, it is very complicated for me to do when reading various utility meters, when it is stated that it is a civic duty to be at home from 8:00 a.m. to 14:00 a.m. - and this is a rule that only one person will solve this. This is also an incredible relief. With all due respect, I say that what is written in the general explanation of this bill is literally true, it will bring great relief to citizens as well as to entrepreneurs and to the authorities themselves. I am only encouraging the State Secretary to continue this procedure, if you can, and try to simplify our procedures as long as possible. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-10-26-72	I now give the floor to Mrs Loránt Hegedűs, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group.
u2016-10-26-73	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, I must start with the concept of cutting red tape, because let's face it, Mr Secretary of State, that this concept has become quite burdensome and pregnant in recent times. So any bill that is endowed with the title of this is in itself taking on a quite serious package of problems. I would like to begin by saying that the government itself, the current government, announced the programme of building a good state after 2010, and that a separate department was now established at the University of Public Service, and that there is a special discipline for this question, and why not, good governance is a concept defined by the United Nations, which might even be possible in Hungary if we were not living in absurdity. This good state has been defined, among other things, as being the most appropriate service for the individual, the community and businesses. Here, I would like to focus on the service. And everything now has an index, so there is not only a BUX index in Hungary, but there is also a JÁX index, which is meant to measure the degree of the establishment of a good state. This JÁX index is about how effective, how effective, fair, transparent, accountable, consensus-oriented the Hungarian administration is. Unfortunately, we admit that we still have a lot to do on this issue, but assuming that this is likely to happen at some point, it would be expected that customers will receive quick, professional and efficient service. Of course, we must immediately add that, in addition to the legislation, we need administrators who are motivated, committed, receive fair wages, have a proportionate workload and are well-trained. On the other hand, today's Hungarian reality - let us say, Mr Secretary, that this is true - is that unfortunately the people working in the offices are unmotivated, burned out, underpaid and overloaded. This will be the case, and it will remain so until once and for all comprehensive wage arrangements are made in this sector. It will remain this way as long as we maintain it, or the government maintains that for eight years, the basic civil servants' salary has been frozen, and there is no change in the corresponding multipliers. Of course, there was a partial result on this issue, on the issue of government officials and state officials, but we know that this is still very little, since in this area it has affected a maximum of 78 thousand people compared to the fact that 860,000 people are currently employed in the public sector. Why is it important to emphasize this number separately? Because it was one of the government's state ministers who was very enthusiastic and generous about how many people actually work in the state sphere. He has made this number over a million, confusing the concept of civil servant with the concept of civil servant, and so on, so as not to mention any further details. Therefore, it is only for the record that according to statistics that you consider official and valid, today, in 2016, there are 78 thousand government officials and state officials working in Hungary, 34 thousand civil servants, 451 thousand civil servants, so it comes out in a total of 860,000, which is also interesting because this ratio is about 8.6 percent population-proportionally, which, in your opinion, compared to the Scandinavian countries that you consider as examples - we are talking about 14-16 percent of them - much less. So in Hungary, the number of employees in the public sector is much narrower than the number of workers in the so-called Scandinavian model. Not to mention the rent. If we go only to neighbouring Austria, there is six to eight times the salary of a municipal civil servant compared to those employed in Hungary. Turning to the bill before us, let us look at how effective the requirement - which is only one of the points of the good state index - applies in this set of proposals before us. It amends 45 laws, as the Secretary of State said, but it is only a partial amendment, and one section, maximum two, is amended in each law. And indeed, we have already changed hundreds of the relevant laws in this sense, but fundamental changes, systemic transformations and changes to order, which would make the system more transparent, we really do not have much experience; we have to say this. However, in order not to be unfair, it must be acknowledged that there are good examples in the bill before us, which is beyond discussion. For example, I'll say this: it's a matter of address records. This is a matter of assuming, from now on, that the address of the declared citizen is not real, on the basis of a statement from the host. By the way, why did this problem come up? How did we get to deal with this issue in such a concrete way? [[15.30]] The life-like situation has created this, that you have created quite a mess in this system by designing the district system and packing this task here and there, packing the address book and there. And yes, unfortunately, Mr Secretary of State, let us admit that it is self-critical to look the government in the mirror and admit that, unfortunately, there has been a very strong step backwards in this regard. Because indeed, the district office could not actually verify if the address announcements were not real, so the contribution of the host or owner was not real, and in many cases this caused a very big problem. On the contribution of my fellow Member Rubovszky, who is the Étv. He was pleased about his amendment and said how difficult it was in the Council system, and how good it is now. Well, let's just say it's the Étv. a law of 1997. The Council system is now, thank God, has not been in place for 26 years, and the law of the year, as well as the current law of construction, was established in such a way that before that a complete change of settlements was made, and after the change in the system, spatial planning and settlement planning were completely reformed. The Design Office has ceased, and a whole new science has been built on this issue. And it wasn't just for nothing. what is a construction process subject to a construction permit. By the fact that, at the time, and not by the Secretary of State, it was not by his secretary of state and not by his ministry, but by the sudden and unexpected amendment of the Étv, tabled by the Minister of Propaganda in December 2015, which was discussed by the House in an exceptionally urgent procedure, that turned the whole system upside down by removing the process of building efficiency from the system in respect of the planned constructions below 300 square metres. But it's ruined all the results of the 25 years before that by one stroke of a pen. So it's no coincidence that currently according to OTEK, a local construction code, let's say, can count 20 different coordinates on a planned building by a municipality. It's called community image protection. Now, in the meantime, you have noticed that bureaucracy cannot be reduced in this way, so it was the Prime Minister's Office that presented the Municipal Picture Act to try to re-establish order in some way. But it is difficult to call this a reduction in bureaucracy, because once there was a process of building that was, but at least it was, and it called for the requirements that were laid down in the regulation created by the community. This is what this new law is trying to do in some way to correct in the system. Well, that you are expanding this impossible situation even further, in a sense, by allowing the unauthorized procedure in the case of reconstruction and enlargement, in a sense, it comes from the original logic, but, believe me, the settlement image will not be helped. I therefore disagree with the hurrah-optimism of our fellow Member Rubovszky in this regard. I would like to mention one more thing because of the shortness of time, and this is public employment. One of our fellow Members has already mentioned this issue. I would not even like to go to the point, because basically we can agree with what is in the proposal, but, well, there would be another segment of public employment that would, let's say, call for a reduction in bureaucracy. Let me mention two of these things, Mr. Secretary. One is that, during the public employment relationship, the public employees have the opportunity to make an announcement to their employer about the self-employment of a short-term employment activity and a simplified employment relationship, stating that they are seeking unpaid leave for at least 3 days, but not more than 120 days. This is a short statement that you must make to your employer, and then your employer, the public employee, must accept this statement, cannot examine its reality. Let's face it, there is a pre-requisite in Hungary that it does not officially establish such other gainful activities by the relevant public employee. It's more of a black economy thing. Not to mention that the continuous change in the number of public employees included in the programme may prejudice the design and feasibility of the programme itself. Therefore, it would be much better if we returned to the system that if the public employee wants to leave the system for a shorter or longer period, i.e. 3 to 120 days, he should be obliged to present the employment contract or an employer's certificate, and on this basis he can be released by the public employee. This could also be a kind of bureaucracy reduction, I think, because it could make the system simpler, more transparent and more obvious. Let me mention one more thing, but this would affect the Public Procurement Act. In many cases, the support decision, in the case of a public employment programme, will take place only in February, at the end of February. Several programmes have only a few months of implementation, during which, if the procedure is necessary, procurement or public procurement may last for several months, which is a significant part of the programme, sometimes without substantial work, with preparatory work. In our experience, this is a major problem for public workers and municipalities. The duration of the public procurement procedure and re-opening procedure related to the implementation of the planned procurements cannot be planned on the basis of these legal requirements, which makes it almost impossible to carry out the tasks set out in the applications for the implementation of the programmes. It is therefore proposed and may be considered that the public procurement law will be amended to introduce a new category of public procurement in national procedures for public contracts, according to which the procedure can be carried out as quickly as possible. To sum up, Mr Secretary of State, I can say that our group is likely to abstain from this proposal, even because with the basic philosophy itself, that the system should be made more transparent, simpler, cheaper, together with more cost-effective, we can only see a fraction of this proposal. Thank you so much for listening. [[György Szilágyi applauds.]]
u2016-10-26-74	Ladies and gentlemen, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. It is now the first time that the minority advocate asked by the committee representing the nationalities will speak. I give the floor to Serbian ethnic advocate Alexov Lyubomir.
u2016-10-26-75	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Poštovani Predsednice, Poštovana Skupštino! Preamble 2011. Zakona iz CLXXIX. o pravima narodnosti Mađarska štiti narodnosti, obezbeđuje pravo na sačuvanje kulture, korišćenje maternjeg jezika, obrazovanje na maternjem jeziku, korišćenje imena na svom jeziku, kolektivno učešće u janom životu, potpomaže kulturnu autonomiu, garantuje pravo na samoupravljanje, Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, The 2011 CLXXIX on the rights of nationalities. According to the provisions of the preamble to the Act, Hungary protects national minorities, guarantees the care of their own culture, the use of their mother tongue, the right to use their own language, their collective participation in public life, strengthens their cultural autonomy, guarantees the right of their real communities to self-government and self-government. [[15.40]] It can already be seen in the introduction to the norm text that the right to use a name in its own language is a particularly important individual nationality right. The expression of identity, belonging to nationality, the existence of identity is decisive in the lives of people belonging to nationalities, the use of nationality names of children, grandchildren, great-grandsons, and registration of birth is a particularly cardinal issue for us. T/12475. Chapter 36 of the bill amending certain laws on administrative bureaucracy aims at amending Act I of 2010 on the civil status procedure, which concerns the issue of nationality names, thereby exercising the right of nationality. In connection with the use of the birth name, Act I of 2010 on the current registration procedure 46. § 2 of the Act provides for the use of the name of the person belonging to the nationality. The current text of the norm does not specify precisely who is entitled and obliged to turn to the national minority self-government on the question of whether a given nationality family name or first name can be registered. The amendment to the Act on the agenda is the 46th amendment currently in force. §. The decision of the national minority self-government concerned on the status of the nationality family name and the nationality first name not included in the nationality first name register shall be governed by the criteria set out in Article 4 (4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. With regard to the first name of nationality not included in the first name of nationality, the registry administrator or the registry body shall contact the relevant national minority self-government, which shall give its position within 30 days of the request. In order to remove the legal vacuum, the norm complements the regulation and specifies precisely who should be sent to the national minority self-government for a resolution to use the nationality first name not included in the nationality first name book. The aim of the amendment is to allow national minority rights, including the individual right to use nationality names, to be exercised as widely as possible and to reduce bureaucracy. As a result of the amendment, as the Secretary of State pointed out, parents can already state the child's name at the time of the birth announcement, there is no need to apply for a first-name nationality name, a family name in accordance with the rules of the nationality language, or the registration of the name in ethnic language. It should be pointed out that the legislation currently in force sought to establish an appropriate basis for the exercise of individual nationality rights in relation to nationality naming, but the current amendment proposal contains a specific provision on the applicant's person. I think it is important to say that, in practice, the problem is that the authorities are not prepared to accept applications for nationality names, the existing text is not sufficiently familiar with this, and in this respect they have difficulties in dealing with forms and the use of electronic registers, when the use of nationality names is made. In the effort to simplify the procedure, we nationalities hope that in the future the registration procedure for the use of nationality names will be significantly smoother. Annex 1 to Act I of 2010 on the Civil Registration Procedure should also be amended to the above amendment. The current Annex 1 (a) 4, 4.8 should also be supplemented and clarified, as the current section states that the mother and father of the nationality may declare that Article 46 (a) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 does not apply. § (1) (d) requires that the family and first name of the child and the first name of the child be registered in the given nationality language or in the given nationality language. The attempt to amend the above provision contains far more detailed and precise rules than the previous text of the standard, according to which:, The 2011 CLXXIX on the rights of nationalities. Article 11 Article 16 (1) (a), (b), (c), (d), (e), (e), (e), (e), (f), (f), (f), (f), (f), (f), (f), (f), (f), (f), (f), (f), (f), (f), (f) §2 and Annex 1 and Article 46 A declaration made pursuant to points (1) (a) and (d) of paragraph 1 on which of their children belongs to a recognised nationality, as well as the nationality first name or first names they wish to register for the child; the family name of the child is requested to be registered in accordance with the mother tongue rules of the given nationality; the child's name is also intended to be registered in the given nationality language or nationality language; the child's birth certificate, including the nationality language, is intended to be issued to the child. In the introductory part of paragraph 4.8 of Annex 1 to the bill amending certain laws concerning administrative bureaucracy, we believe that there is a wrong legislative reference, which needs to be improved. The reference is read as follows:. The 2011 CLXXIX on the rights of nationalities. Article 11 Article 16 (1) (a), (b), (c), (d), (e), (e), (e), (e), (f), (f), (f), (f), (f), (f), (f), (f), (f), (f), (f), (f), (f), (f), (f) §2 and Annex 1 and Article 46 Paragraph 1 (a) and (d). The National Rights Act 46. §2 does not have points (a) and (d) and, moreover, Article 46. § 2 contains a provision relating to the public media service provider. The legislator's intention is likely to be here under Act I of 2010 on the Civil Registration Procedure 46. §. (paragraph 1 (a) and (d) which, by virtue of its regulatory subject-matter, is relevant to the subject matter. It is absolutely necessary to adapt this. I would like to stress that the 2011 CLXXIX on the rights of nationalities. Article 11 § (1) and 16. § (1) to (3) states that the declaration of belonging to a nationality is the exclusive and inalienable right of the individual. A person belonging to a nationality has the right to use his/her family and first name in his/her mother tongue and to have his/her family and first name officially recognised. It can be seen from the above that the provisions of the national minority law and the law on civil status are in line with the provisions of the law on the use of nationality names and registration of birth certificates. In view of the fact that the bill amending certain laws concerning the reduction of administrative bureaucracy, T/12475, is in line with the aspirations of the law on the rights of nationalities and the expression of nationality identity and identity, the bill on the agenda is therefore proposed by the Committee of Hungarian Nationalities to the Parliament for adoption. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-10-26-76	Thank you. It is now possible to speak for two minutes. I give the floor to Congressman Gergely Bárándy.
u2016-10-26-77	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would just like to make a few comments on what has been said. One: Mr Rubovszky, who is unfortunately no longer here, I would say that I think that a Member should give an opinion here in the House and not on various government portals, which we do in every case. However, I agree with him that there could have been a general explanation for the comments made by citizens - at least twice as long as it is now. As far as the building permit procedure is concerned, because that's what you've been talking about, and I would like to note that I would like to know what the long-term outcome of this will be. I think that there will be a number of problems in the abolition of these. Finally, perhaps a little more on the problem of packages. Ladies and gentlemen, The fact is, you've been using this method many times, namely, that you want to group a subject around or post a bill on a subject, in which there is no doubt one or two positive provisions, but, let's say, of the 45 amended laws, these are just a few. [[15.50]] Otherwise, on the pretext of this, they would also like the House to adopt unacceptable rules which they would otherwise like to pass quietly through the House. In the best case, they do not cover new filth, but repair former filth or previous mistakes. That's the thing about the laws package, this package of laws. Dear Secretary of State, I would normally like to ask you to take part in the debate and not speak in the closing word. [[Dr. Zoltán Kovács: I told you!]] I'm just saying in advance, I'll take a different approach to your answer. One final point, ladies and gentlemen: I understand that chewing gum in the Chamber is not appropriate, and that is true of the box. Thank you very much.
u2016-10-26-78	Ladies and gentlemen, I'll ask if anyone wants to comment on the bill. [[No one's reporting.]] I don't see a candidate. The general debate is therefore closed. I will ask Mr Zoltán Kovács, State Secretary, if he wishes to reply. [[On Dr. Zoltán Kovács' signal:]] It says yes. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2016-10-26-79	Mr President, Thank you very much. Given that there was no debate, only the speeches were given, so I could not participate in the debate myself. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: It could have been!]] Although I have a habit of taking part in the parliamentary debate in general, even if I represent the government, and even if I sit among the benches as a representative. In line with the speeches, I think that Congressman Bárándy has lost his mind about the adjectives, or that he feels remorse. Because while you've been in government for eight years, there's been a state reform committee that hasn't done anything, nothing has happened to cut red tape, at least something's going on. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: Makes it a little worse.]] You can say it's not quite right. Of course, those who work can make mistakes. We don't claim that we invented the Philosopher's Stone and carry it in our pockets, but we think we should at least start something, try it. You didn't do anything, so I think that anything in this matter is inappropriate for us. And as for your comment on citizens, let me protect the 250,000 people who gave their opinions. You said that if we had written their opinion in the general explanation, it would have been twice as long. That was a picnic, honourable Member. Before that, he just said there's a brief general explanation. So 250,000 people's views on such words are unfair. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: I didn't say that in response to Rubovszky!]] As far as the rest of the debate is concerned, I would like to say that we are not the ones who say that it is okay and that it is good. The OECD gave its opinion on this and wrote a long study. The government has no influence on the transformation, either on the district office issue or on the reorganisation of the territorial administration. The only thing he said was that it was going a little fast and fast, and we should have gone through this a little longer. That was the excuse. By the way, in substance and in the transformation of the organization, he was very good, and this can be read. With regard to implementation, the Member said that he would move from one place to another. We believe that implementation will be transferred to the professional organisation, to the NAV, which is the responsibility of which they perform very well, as opposed to, say, local government or district office implementation. We believe that such recovery will be more effective in the interests of the applicant for implementation. I think, as a lawyer, you'll probably be pleased to hear that. As regards the judicial burden on irregular purchases, it has been agreed and does not require any transfer of funds, which is not, by the way, the subject of this. That's not the magnitude that would put a significant burden on the courts. In addition, I think that this is legal certainty for customers. It cannot be said that it is the State that does not side with the citizens, or is on the side of multinational companies and service providers, but is legal certainty, because it is decided by a court, it is his order. As far as Mr Nándor Gúr is concerned, he said that he must leave because of an urgent public task, although he would like to take part in the debate. I understand that. But what he actually told me earlier was that our bureaucracy cuts mean the firing of ten or 100,000 people. This is not the subject of the agenda, so to speak, and Nándor Gúr did not say anything new compared to the previous one, he said the same thing as in the debate of the previous law. As far as the relevant speech is concerned, so far one office could be visited in Budapest on the homeless issue, under the heading of Section IX. Circuit. And now all of them. It is not better for someone who has an office in this matter that the XXII can go instead of Ferencváros. District or Angelland? I think it's a good thing for the client, and I wouldn't take that out of this bill. I would also like to respond to Mrs Loránt Hegedűs's speech. Every time he tells me that civil servants are underpaid and that there are far fewer of them than we are talking about. There are more numbers flying through the air, but let's get one thing straight. We are always talking about the Prime Minister's Office, our Secretary of State or even the Minister's side, that today the state pays one million people in Hungary. This includes municipalities, state officials, civil servants, civil servants, state companies, atypical organisations. If we look at the staff of officials as a whole, we are there for the total number of employees, compared to 4 million 300 thousand, that they are employed by the state, a percentage point for public service workers, such as France or neighbouring Austria or Germany. We say that this needs to be reviewed, looked at and, where there are few, regrouped, where there is an excessive number, released from the public service system, indeed, by supporting their location in the competitive sphere, where there is a shortage. I think it is a particularly bad remark, honourable Member, that the staff of officials has been underpaid. Think about it. We have debated here with you, not once, not twice, in Parliament. Let's take a look. There is a debate on how and how, in the case of educators, teachers have received a 50% wage increase. There's the defense or the police. A career model, a significant wage increase for these two careers. The government officials now receive 16,000 extra wages and additional benefits for 35,000 people from 1 January. As for the health and social sphere, my colleague from Rétvári has told me several times recently what has happened there. So what the country's capacity to carry on in this case is, in line, a step forward and, in some professional order, a particularly high level of wage increases have been made. The transparency of how the powers have become clear, I think we have discussed in this House, honourable Member. In the territorial administration, as well as in Germany, to say a benchmark, a significant part of the official affairs are taking place. We trained him the same way. In addition, by reaching citizens, it is not only the district where the administration takes place in this respect, but by extending the electronic administration, the adjutants in the joint mayor's office are handling public tasks. As far as the document office service, as far as authority powers are concerned, is carried out by the same people who have so far only been seated in the local government in the corridor on the right, now they have crossed the corridor on the left and are carrying out the same task as a district office worker. So I don't think they've forgotten this profession in a year, or since 13 now, in three years. [[16.00]] There was a debate about the 300-square-foot rule. Many of us have built in this House, my fellow Member Rubovszky, four times. This led to the period of socialism and to the construction period after the change of regime. Don't tell me that if up to 300 square meters - that's a pretty big house - you don't have to go into the office, and you don't have to ask permission to wait your turn for the administration to make it worse! That's better. And this law does that, so to speak, it legitimizes the rooftop constructions, because they should have been announced so far. You don't have to report it now. One thing has not changed: the financial rules remain the same. So, statically, that house has to stand the same. That's why we're in the design business. As for the cityscape, you were deputy mayor, congresswoman, and I was mayor. In the local construction regulations, everything can be controlled city-wide until the last angle. The height of the ledge, the ceiling, the colors. If the municipality wants it. If the municipality doesn't want it, there may be problems, but it all depends on the municipality. I think it's Kbt. It is on the agenda. What you want to propose in public employment in simplification or expediency, I think, is Kbt. It makes sense to raise, discuss, go through with it, or, in particular, to consult the Ministry of Interior with the professional manager responsible for public employment. This also helps with the work of the office. I suggest you consider this aspect. We were talking about the birth certificates. The ethnic advocate spoke about the birth certificate and the registration of the names. In this respect, we are simplifying this proposal. We believe that your life will be simpler in the process of dealing with nationality names. There is another issue of financial legislation, which is obviously subject to debate. To say that the leaders of the civil registers are not sufficiently prepared, I cannot judge this, I have been to the registrar for a long time, but we have made progress in the fact that there is an electronic register in Hungary today with jurisdiction throughout the country. It is possible that an improvement is needed in order for the electronic register to know the terms on which the advocate spoke. Let me protect the civil servants, though. Experienced, good professionals in my opinion. By the way, we have said that we are taking over from local authorities to district offices to ensure a uniform standard of professional management. However, the municipalities explicitly insisted during the negotiations that the registry should remain with the municipalities, as this is an important part of the local identity awareness of who is registering where, and the rest. We could carry out this task, and we made a proposal. I don't think that's gonna happen in this cycle anymore. Ladies and gentlemen, I think that we have done everything we can to prepare the law, both in the preparation of the previous law and in the current one. Quarter of a million people gave their opinions. Think about it. Yesterday we debated in the House that we did not accept Zoltán Gőgös and Zoltán Késző's proposal for a referendum. Well, they couldn't get 200,000 signatures! [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy:]] Here, a quarter of a million people have proposed cutting red tape. Now, from the point of view of the fact that only a quarter of a million people have given their opinions, while they can't even raise 200,000 in a referendum... [[Anita Herring: That's not true! Dr. Gergely Bárándy: We've collected two hundred and forty thousand!]] Maybe it had 15,000 doubles in it, but it could have been 40,000. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: He's been lured away by NTI, that's the problem! It was the same.]] But it is closed, and we will discuss this separately, honourable Member, because it is not on the agenda. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: I'd be happy to answer.]] I'd like to answer a few more small points. Losing the property card. The system's complicated today. All you have to do is go to the police, to the NAV, to OEP. The police will pass this on. You don't have to go from office to office. This is a major simplification. The obligation to notify simplifies the previous authorisation procedure for citizens. I believe that the notification will also become simpler in the coming period. I think that with this law we want to do good, we want to help citizens and the authorities. We welcome and consider all relevant criticisms, but overall, I think that this is a further step forward than ever, helping the work of public authorities and citizens. That's why I'm asking you to support the bill. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2016-10-26-80	Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Next up is the 2011 LXXXV on the Environmental Product Award. General discussion of the bill amending the law until closure. The government referral T/12367. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr Zsolt V. Németh, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Agriculture, author of the item on the agenda.
u2016-10-26-81	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, The government is T/12367. The 2011 Environmental Product Award LXXXV was submitted by letter number. a bill amending the law before the Parliament. The previous amendment to the 2015 Environmental Product Charges Regulation focused on simplifications and administrative mitigation measures along the lines of the enforcement experience. As a result of the amendment that entered into force on 1 January 2016, the fulfilment of the obligations has become simpler for approximately 1500 farmers. Like last year, the legislator's intention remains to develop a simplified, transparent set of rules. In the context of the regulation, feedback from the law enforcement authorities has shown the need for simplification and further reduction of administrative burden, in particular in the case of individual waste management voters and car manufacturers and importers. The purpose of the legislative amendment proposal submitted to the Honourable Parliament is therefore to facilitate the fulfilment of the obligations of those concerned. The amendment includes provisions for regulatory interpretation, administrative reduction and enforcement of environmental objectives. Dear Parliament, The detailed content of the legislative amendment proposal is as follows. First: extension of the possibility to pay a car transfer to small commercial vehicles and buses. Secondly, encouraging preparation for reuse and re-use. Third round: further simplification of the performance of individual waste management. Finally, it includes measures to remove legal gaps, reduce administrative burden, clarify and simplify the interpretation of the parties' rights. In detail, from 1 January 2016 we introduced a simplified flat-rate payment option for motorcycles and cars for motor vehicles. The vehicle does not fall within the scope of the product fee regulation, but it concerns a number of product groups which are part of the vehicle. This includes tyre, battery, lubrication oil and electrical, electronic equipment. Data subjects may simply determine the amount of the product charge to be paid by multiplying the flat rate by the number of vehicles issued. However, the administrative burden of importing companies not only for cars and motorcycles but also for commercial vehicles and buses would in fact be reduced substantially if the possibility of paying flat rates also became applicable to these vehicles. [[16.10]] In the absence of this, however, the administrative burden for those concerned may be double, as the way in which the product fee obligation is met varies for different vehicles. The solution is included in the bill, with the adoption of which from 1 January 2017 it will be possible to apply simplified rules to manufacturers and importers of small commercial vehicles and buses. According to the bill, no product charges are charged for re-use products produced during preparation or re-use preparation. According to the provision, the price should be paid only for the components and accessories which are newly incorporated in the product. Thus, product fee regulation will facilitate the domestic uptake of companies carrying out such environmentally and waste management activities, as well as the availability of traffic data related to the activity. The price of the product to be paid to the individual waste management voters depends on their waste recovery performance for the year in question. The waste management performance shall be calculated on the basis of the emissions for the year under the current legislation. In view of the fact that the annual emissions become known only after the year, it is difficult to estimate the quantity of waste generated by the product subject to a charge to be used to achieve the desired recovery performance by the farmers concerned. According to the proposal, farmers who have chosen individual waste treatment prior to the reference year will have their emissions in the previous year on the basis of the calculation. Otherwise, the emissions for the year shall be taken into account in the calculation of the product charge, in accordance with the rules in force. In addition, if the bill is adopted, the collection of waste generated from products subject to product charges may be collected by individual waste managers not only from end-users. The comments received from the law enforcement authorities and from certain farmers concerned and requests for information suggested that certain points in the Product Fee Act were not clear, which could create legal uncertainty among the debtors. In addition, some detailed rules need to be changed as a result of organisational changes in waste management. The definition of packaging and wage production is clarified. Clarifications to assist in the interpretation of the law settle the number of participants in the three-party economic transaction, in the case of a declaration on advertising paper, and specify the provisions on certain cases of takeover. In the case of biodegradable waste bags and separate waste bags, a subtitle display of at least 20% on both sides of the product will be removed. At present, the products are excluded from the scope of the Product Charges Act if the appropriate inscription is indicated, but in many cases subtitles are a problem for farmers. According to the amending proposal, the biologically biodegradable bag of fully renewable raw materials and the separate waste collection bag will be subject to the Product Charges Act as of 1 January 2017, but there will be no need to label the products and no need to pay a product fee. From 1900 HUF/kilogram to 57 HUF/kilogram, the price to be paid for flexible plastic cooler bags or cooler bags is reduced as suggested. The use of these products does not imply a lack of environmentally friendly thinking by the purchaser, and consumers are basically buying the product for food safety reasons. Although there is a lasting alternative to these products, they are not always available in the commercial units, and they are significantly above the price of the product in question, which is also not low, between HUF 500 and 700 per piece. The provisions that have become out of regulation will be deleted. The Product Charges Committee has not been established since the entry into force of the Product Charges Act on 1 January 2012 and due to the organisational restructuring that has been carried out since then, it is unjustified to establish and maintain a civil inspection organisation. The resources required by the National Tax and Customs Office as a budgetary body to carry out its tasks are provided under the Budget Act and the provision that 5 per cent of the product fee revenue, but not more than 3 billion forints, will be used by the National Tax and Customs Office for the performance of its tasks in relation to products subject to a product fee. According to the Government's decision, on 1 April 2016 the National Waste Management Coordinator and Asset Management Ltd. It's started to work. As a result, the resources needed to pay the direct costs incurred by waste management service providers to public service providers were also allocated to the new organisation. As a result, the public waste management organisation does not have to plan during 2017 with the support of public service providers, which requires the introduction of a limitation of responsibilities through product fee regulation and repeal of the relevant provisions. Dear Parliament, I ask that, on the basis of the reasons given, the proposed amendment be discussed and then adopted. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2016-10-26-82	Thank you. Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. First, I give the floor to János Pócs, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2016-10-26-83	Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Secretary. The 2011 Environmental Product Award LXXXV. T/12367. He submitted it to the National Assembly in the number two. The amendment is intended to reduce administration and implement environmental objectives. It expands the possibility to pay a flat fee for motor vehicles, facilitates compliance with the obligation of the individual waste manager and includes clarification provisions to assist in the interpretation of the law. Dear House, From 1 January 2016, a simplified flat-rate payment option for motor vehicles will be introduced, which will reduce the administrative burden of nearly 1200 farmers, vehicle manufacturers and distributors. The scope of the product fee regulation concerns a number of product groups that are part of the motor vehicles. This includes tyre, battery, lubrication oil, electrical and electronic equipment. In the case of an average compact passenger car, the product fee to be paid for products subject to a product fee to be installed in the vehicle is only around HUF 5 thousand on average. Compared to the traffic price of the vehicle, this accounts for around 0.2 per cent of the consumer price, but in view of the many parts subject to product charges, it is a heavy administration that has to be prepared separately by material flow and declared to the tax authority. The problem identified by the industry has so far been addressed by the car-passing fee option. The flat-rate charge is that the unit fee categories adapted to the actual product fee of the components subject to the above-mentioned product fee will be established, which will be paid as a flat-rate flat rate by the vendor when the vehicle is first placed on the market, used for its own use or when it is placed on the market without separate accounts and documentation. The flat-rate fee is due to the rounding of the sum of the average weight of the parts and accessories in each vehicle, multiplied by a collective charge, to a thousand forints. [[16.20]] However, the administrative burden of importing companies not only for cars and motorcycles, but also for small commercial vehicles and buses, would in fact be reduced substantially if the possibility of paying flat rates also became applicable to these vehicles. In the absence of this, however, the administrative burden for those concerned may be double, as the way in which the product fee obligation is met varies for different vehicles. It is estimated that the number of small commercial vehicles placed on the market annually in Hungary is approximately 17 thousand, and the number of new buses is 550. The solution is T/12367. It is included in the legislative proposal No 1 to open the possibility of applying simplified rules to manufacturers and importers of small commercial vehicles and buses as from 1 January 2017. This will affect nearly 31 farmers in the simplification process. The periodical data from the introduction of the motor vehicle transfer on 1 January 2016 show that the budgetary revenue was not significantly affected. The slight increase in budget revenue is caused by an upward rounding of the average mass of the components and components of the vehicle subject to a product charge. The data reflect that on this basis the standard rates for 2015 have been established accordingly. On this basis, the extension of the car handmaiden to buses and small commercial vehicles will also not have a distorting effect on budgetary revenues. Ladies and gentlemen, The product fee shall be liable to perform the product fee in a collective manner, as a candidate for individual waste management or by paying a flat rate at its own discretion. The price of the product to be paid to the individual waste management voters depends on their waste recovery performance for the year in question. At present, individual waste management choices should be based on emissions for the year in the planning of waste management performance. The annual emissions become known only after the year and therefore the farmers concerned have difficulties in assessing the quantity of waste generated from the product subject to the product charge to be recovered in order to achieve the desired recovery performance. This is particularly true for products whose volume of distribution is seasonally fluctuating, such as tyres. It is proposed that farmers who have chosen individual waste management prior to the reference year should be the basis for the calculation of their emissions for the previous year. Otherwise, the emissions for the year shall be taken into account in accordance with the rules in force. It is necessary to examine the provisions of this provision separately per flow of products and materials. Furthermore, it is proposed that the collection of waste generated from products subject to product charges may be collected by individual waste managers not only from end-users in the event of the adoption of the bill. In 2016, the number of persons obliged to choose individual waste management is 66, which represents a 13 percent reduction compared to the 2014 data compared to 76 individual suppliers. By facilitating compliance with the obligation as requested by the farmers concerned, it is expected that a higher number of farmers will choose this way of fulfilling the product fee obligation. Ladies and gentlemen, It is proposed not to pay a product fee for products which are subject to a product charge when prepared for reuse or prepared for re-use. Only the newly incorporated parts and accessories of the product should be charged for the price of the product, thus the product fee regulation will facilitate the domestic distribution of such undertakings, which are environmentally and waste-friendly, and the traffic data related to the activity will be available. Ladies and gentlemen, As the Secretary of State said, the price of the flexible plastic cooler and cooler is reduced from HUF 1900 per kilogram to HUF 57 per kilogram. The use of these products does not imply a lack of environmentally friendly thinking for consumers, and consumers essentially buy these products for food safety reasons. Although there is a lasting alternative to these, they are not always available in the commercial units or are significantly higher than the price of the product in question at HUF 500-700/piece. However, these bags are not intended for single use; they are not typical of becoming waste immediately. Dear House, In the case of biodegradable waste bags and separate waste bags, a subtitle display with a minimum of 20 per cent on both sides of the product will be removed. Where appropriate, the products did not fall under the 2011 Environmental Product Fee LXXXV. It is subject to law, but in many cases it is a problem for farmers to sign up. It is proposed that Ktdt is a fully renewable material, biodegradable and separate waste collection bag. It shall be subject to the relevant provisions from 1 January 2017 and shall not be labelled, nor shall the product fee be paid. In this way, however, the traffic data of the products and changes in customer habits are easily traceable. Ladies and gentlemen, The definition of packaging and wage production is clarified. The Ktdt. the definition of the packaging product covered by it is not included in the interpretation provisions, but in the list of products subject to a product charge, Ktdt. 1. Paragraph 3 (b). The amending provision puts the definition in a set of interpretation provisions. Clarifications to assist in the interpretation of the law settle the number of participants in the three-party economic transaction, in the case of a declaration on advertising paper, in the case of export transfers, the quantity of product subject to a product charge to be sold abroad. All these are only technical clarifications. This appropriation is intended to cover commitments remaining to be settled from previous years in accordance with Article 21 of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 11 December 2013 laying down general provisions on the European Regional Development Fund, the European Social Fund, the European Social Fund, the European Social Fund, the European Social Fund, the This amendment also allows the customer to choose to accept the product fee obligation. In response to the problem of interpretation in the case of packaging material in the course of the takeover, the proposed amendment states that the transfer does not cover the packaging of the packaging product, but also provides for the possibility of self-use of the packaging covered by the transfer for the purpose of re-sale. Dear House, The provisions of the Ktdt. have been deleted. The product fee committee is Ktdt. It has not been established since the entry into force of 1 January 2012 and due to the organisational restructuring that has taken place since then, it is unjustified to set up and maintain an NGO. The National Tax and Customs Office, as a budgetary body, shall have the resources necessary to carry out its duties under the Finance Act. Product fee revenues are part of the central budget, which is used by Ktdt. can't regulate it. Therefore, delete from Ktdt the provision that 5 per cent of product fee revenues, but not more than HUF 3 billion, are used to carry out NAV's tasks in relation to products subject to product charges. [[16.30]] According to the Government's decision, on 1 April 2016 the National Waste Management Coordinator and Asset Management Ltd. It's starting to work. As a result, the payment of direct costs incurred by waste management service providers to public service providers and the necessary resources are also provided by NHKV Zrt. shall be assigned to it. As a result, the public waste management organisation does not have to plan during 2017 with the further support of public service providers, which requires a redirection of the limitation of the tasks in Ktdt and repeals the relevant provisions. Ladies and gentlemen, Please support T/12367. The adoption of the legislative proposal for administrative reduction and implementation of environmental objectives. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2016-10-26-84	I now give the floor to Anita Heringes, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group.
u2016-10-26-85	Thank you very much for the floor. Thank you very much to our fellow Member, János Pócs, for emphasizing the explanatory statement by the Secretary of State and clarifying the opinion expressed by the Secretary of State. When we read in the explanatory statement that NHKV started operating on 1 April, this sentence is always in your explanatory statement, and I always try to disprove it for you, because I do not think it started its operation on 1 April, since its main task would have been to issue invoices, to collect waste transfer charges and return it to municipal-owned non-profit companies. These data, which should have been posted, should have been collected, should have created a software that could do the billing, can do the printing of addresses on the envelope, and can arrange the posting. Now, you didn't manage to do all that. In the fact that you started working on April 1st, you are right that you rented an office for millions of forints a month, you pay good salaries to your employees and rent yourself high-end cars. If this is how the NHKV works, then, yes, they are right to start operating on 1 April. If you look at what it was supposed to do, then I think it hasn't started its operation, because now, at the end of October, the first invoices it issued, which are the invoices for the second quarter of garbage delivery, I think with a six-month delay, this company didn't work, no matter how we look at it. Then you will be given another task here, because since its entry into force in 2012, the product fee should have been set up by a product fee committee that has not been established since then, and then this task, which should have been done, will now be given to the NHKV, which we read in the explanatory memorandum that it has been operational since 1 April. It's really good if he's gonna take care of this, because then I'm sure it's gonna work very smoothly. The whole surreal situation is that there will be no organisation in domestic waste management to carry out and supervise planning in a system that should provide nearly 4.2 million households. The MSZP did not support the amendment to the 2011 product fee name of Zoltán Illés either, because it resulted in a regulation that is so bad and is too administrative for businesses, which could only be a whole new law to address its problems. The main objective of the environmental product fee introduced in Hungary in 1995 was to create financial resources to stimulate activities aimed at the production, distribution and use of different products, the prevention, reduction of environmental pollution or damage, and the cost-effective management of natural resources. All over Europe, these revenues mainly finance modern waste management, prevention and recycling programmes. Unfortunately, this is not the case in Hungary. In addition to the fact that the government taxes the necessary solar collectors, wind power cells and soap in the domestic energy system, the shampoo, which is a typical case of such products, now confirms the intention of collecting funds by declaring that product revenue is part of the central budget and that its use cannot be regulated by this law. For everyone's understanding, this amount will be included in the central budget, and from this point on, it will disappear, melt down, and from here on, it will be a stadium, which, I think, is not a good solution, the European example should also be followed, and good solutions should be sought. I think that there is no shame in learning from the other Member States of the European Union in this area. The collection of funds illustrates and demonstrates that even a quarter of the HUF 63 billion environmental product fee revenue planned for 2016 will not be used by this government to support the domestic waste management and environmental protection system. There are no prevention and recycling programmes, there is a constant reduction in funding for environmental civil society organisations, and now planning is also discontinued. This is quite amazing at a time when the waste management system, which is facing huge problems across the country, is hit not only by the reduction of costs, by the depositing levy, but also by nationalisation. In hundreds of Hungarian settlements, disaster management now carries out waste disposal, and the losses now occur in the municipalities from Nyíregyháza to Mosonmagyaróvár. We really think that it is a malfunctioning and unsustainable system where we have to appoint a provider for disaster management, because the previous provider, as I have repeatedly indicated to you, is in many cases a municipal-owned nonprofit company, runs by people who want to do well in this company, they want to create a system that is sustainable, which is good for the population. But there are mayors sitting in these companies, where, I think, the most important thing for a mayor is that this company works in a way that pleases the population. That's why we don't fully understand why you want these companies to roll over. And of course, this is when they say that there were foreign-owned companies among them, but let me say quietly that there are a lot of local government non-profit companies that this government has pushed into the same impossible situation with this waste management system. The MSZP can agree with certain objectives of the proposal, i.e. the creation of an easy-to-read and simpler legislation. However, the Group will therefore not support this proposal overall, as the Orbán government and the Ministry of Agriculture's environmental product tariff system do not actually serve the original objectives of the law. In fact, the Orbán government's product charging system is a simple, unreasonable collection of money that is absorbed by the central budget, rather than funding waste management, prevention and recycling programmes, eliminating planning and transferring the task to the NHKV, which has not yet been able to properly carry out its work. It declares that the use of product fee revenues cannot be decided by the Product Fee Act. This proposal was also tabled by a minister whose various laws have already been declared unconstitutional by the Constitutional Court. I think that waste management really is one of the systems that should be re-tapped, but by creating a new law together with the profession, the mayors, the leaders of local government-owned companies who want to do this management programme and this management plan well. Let's create a law that's sustainable, works well, and we don't have to watch the public get a check on the quarterly waste transfer fee or get a check on whether they're gonna have to put that amount aside, even though they're not gonna be able to put it away, and now they're gonna get quarterly checks every month, and they're gonna be able to put them on the bottom of their account, and who knows when they're gonna be able to deposit it. The problem with that is that they're three-quarters of a year's worth of cheques, even if you're giving us an opportunity to pay in installments. We have said this several times that there is only one solution. If, by the way, the company created by the government failed to send out these checks for six months, then we think that someone should take responsibility for this, or the company manager, because they couldn't run this company well, or the government, by the way. We think that the real gesture to the population would be that not only when the resident makes a mistake in any way, he would otherwise receive a penalty tax on everything, but also the government would assume responsibility if he made a mistake, and if the company he set up and supervised doesn't work well, then let go of this garbage transfer fee, which couldn't be mailed in time. [[16.40]] 'Cause it doesn't help to pay the installments, it doesn't help, it's just that if the public can finally earn enough to make a living, and you don't have to think about where to put the checks. Believe me, I've told you this a lot, most of the rural population would be very happy to pay all the checks that come to their rent, but at the moment, unfortunately, most of them don't earn enough to hide these checks in the drawer, and only when they're getting some income. For as long as, years ago, during the first cycle of their government, these people, the majority of the rural population, said that they had run out of wages on the 20th and the 25th, today on the 10th and 15th of the people in the public works program, they no longer know where to reach and where to put their checks, and when to draw them out, and when to pay for them. Obviously, the first is the purchase of food and the care of the child, and unfortunately, the check can only come after it. I wish to all my fellow Members that this overwhelming feeling should never touch you, and I wish that the entire Hungarian population would not have to experience this distress every month. Thank you.
u2016-10-26-86	I now give the floor to Lajos Kepli, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group.
u2016-10-26-87	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, We have listened to the justification of the bill before us in quite detail, perhaps in too detail, from both the national secretary of state and the Fidesz lead speaker, and I would not like to go into the details now, not even because I do not wish to hold back a very small number of my fellow Members at this slowly-slowly late hour, nor do I wish to mention the shortcomings of the waste management system, because there is enough forums to talk about it in Parliament. It cannot, of course, be emphasized enough that this is a non-functioning system, but allow me to talk about the product charging system itself in these few minutes, which I intend to speak about. Basically, the environmental product fee has been present for quite a long time between the Hungarian environmental charges and, at the time when it was established, it was actually created with the aim of helping the objectives of waste management to meet the objectives of this revenue, the environmental sector or the waste management sector within it. And it slowly became a completely ordinary tax, like other taxes, because as we approach the possibility of increasing the possibility of flat-rate payment in the form of a reduction in bureaucracy, of course, it begins to take on the characteristics of a tax, especially if the revenue does not flow into a separate register and does not help to meet the target system of waste management, but rather an income from the central budget of many. Of course, the central budget is never enough of revenue, especially in the form of such expenditure, which we are experiencing in the work of the current government, but nevertheless we see that there would be plenty of room for this revenue group in the waste management sector, and there is plenty of material flows in the system that have not been managed, treated, exploited or properly managed, and, above all, the recovery and recovery of product flows that are subject to product charges in the population, which I am thinking of in the first place. So there would be plenty more to develop this system. Of course, the product charging system itself is, of course, the power of the current government to correct and correct it, to improve it by a fundamentally inadequate system - this is also true of the total waste management and product fee regulation - but as long as we see that there are functional types in other countries, where there are real visible results in the management of waste streams, in terms of an increase in waste recovery rates, we hear that, for example, in Hungary, at the meeting of the National Sustainable Development Council in the morning, the State Secretary said that the very high recycling rates expected by the European Union for 2030 are not specifically understood by the government at the moment, how we will achieve them, because, compared to the current state, they expect such high recycling rates in terms of the transition to the circular economy from the European Commission. Indeed, this does not solve problems if an objective is set to recycle every stream of matter at 100%. On the one hand, it is impossible, and on the other hand, this alone does not solve the problems, because this so-called end-of-pipe solution, so we are doing something with the pollution that already exists, we are trying to have an impact on the extent to which it is utilized, but, of course, it also requires new energy. So prevention is always the best option. There is still very, very little room for prevention in the Hungarian waste management system, and the product fee could basically serve this purpose, but we do not see that, as a result of the product fee, those streams of materials... - so if there were alternatives to what the product subject to the product fee could be replaced by, say, that the manufacturer or distributor would not actually be regarded as an income by the state, but as an incentive to use other materials, for example, other raw materials, for example, by a manufacturer, or by a distributor with which these basically or dangerous or after becoming a waste, we avoid these material streams that cause problems, this would be the ultimate goal. This was also mentioned at the Sustainable Development Council this morning, that despite any recycling rate for plastic waste, for example, at global level, the oceans are now slowly filling with plastic waste islands, most waste goes into the oceans and swims there forming huge islands. So the problem has not been solved. Obviously, this is not Hungary's job, and it is not the issue of product-charged regulation, to resolve this, and I am just saying this because product-charged regulation alone, and obviously increasing recycling to an infinite extent, is not the solution. Of course, there must be a change of perspective. We are at the moment saying that for administrative reasons, for reasons of bureaucracy, for practical reasons, the government is now trying to change this product fee bill. I think that Jobbik's final position in the vote - by the way, perhaps it would be best for us to keep our attitude to this kind of behaviour, since the government itself, as we have said, determines its waste policy, its environmental product fee policy, but the reduction in bureaucracy or perhaps the extension of the possibility of flat-rate payment, thus simplifying the situation of businesses, should be supported in this respect. I cannot confirm that the product price will reach its goal, that it will happen that the purpose for which the legislation is created will be met. But the amendment itself can make it easier for people. Only this does not relate to the purpose of the Product Charges Act. So, along with this dilemma, I would like to define Jobbik's position best between a vote in favour and a abstention, and this will obviously be determined either in the later part of the debate or in the light of future developments until the final vote. I do not wish to upset my fellow Members with these questions any longer; of course, we could talk about them until tomorrow morning, but I would say to Mr Secretary of State, thanking you for the very detailed introduction and presentation that we will work out our position for the rest of the debate. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2016-10-26-88	Thank you for your speech. This brings us to the end of the keynote speeches. I will ask my fellow Members if anyone else would like to comment on the item on the agenda. [[There's no signal.]] I don't see a candidate. The general debate is therefore closed. I'll ask the Secretary of State if he'd like to comment as a closing point. [[On the mark of Zsolt V. Németh:]] It says yes. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary. [[16.50]]
u2016-10-26-89	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, I thank my fellow Member, János Pócs, for his thoughts on the bill. Before answering the thoughts of my fellow Members, Anita Heringes and Lajos Kepli, let me generally say a few words about the waste generated in Hungary. The amount of waste varies from 15.7 million tonnes to 17 million tonnes; otherwise, it has decreased. If we have any results, it is a significant result that the amount of waste generated has decreased from 2013 to 2014. What Congresswoman Anita Heringes is always talking about is about 21 percent of this, residential communal waste. We don't want to deal with that right now. This is indeed a significant segment, which is what people often encounter in everyday life, but in addition, four fifths are not household waste, but construction waste, industrial waste, and agricultural waste are also a significant part of it. Thus, NHKV Zrt. The current law does not affect its operation, nor does it specifically concern the fact that the amount already spent on the operation of public services is not required to be provided to the organisation which is responsible for the management of waste, because it is NHKV Zrt. Its role is to be taken into account. So the law doesn't care about that right now. So, by the way, NHKV Zrt. It does not take over the task of any organisation, nor the task of the product fee committee, all the more so, because - I would like to stress it once again - Zrt. it deals only with a limited range of waste, its 21%, the public service. What do we use the product fee for? This came up both with Congresswoman Anita Heringes and with Congressman Lajos Kepli. Let me say a number pair: while we spent some HUF 2300 billion on environmental protection and nature protection in the previous EU cycle, half a billion more will be spent in this area, there will be HUF 2800 billion in this seven-year EU programming period. In fact, if we take the greening of agriculture and why wouldn't we put it here, it's about 3250 billion. One part of this, the most direct part of a 100 billionaire, helps waste management itself. The product fee you have mentioned, the forty-some billion of which we directly spend between ten and a few billion, cannot be said to fund the whole other area, since domestic co-financing within this 2800 billion or even in a narrower sense within 100 billion is far greater than the product fee. So let's just say that this is going to turn, of course, within the budget. Mr Lajos Kepli rightly outlined the task of the product fee. This is true, but not only this, i.e. not only recycling waste, but also encouraging manufacturers to better manage natural resources and, as you mentioned, to divert purchasing habits to lower environmental risk products. This happened, by the way. Let me mention two cases. One is the circle of plastic flowers, for which we have not only imposed aesthetic charges, but also specifically because they are made of materials that are unenforceable afterwards. So there's the final phase, because it's exposed to a lot of heat and cold, so that plastic can't be recycled. And we have knowledge that the use of plastic flowers has been significantly reduced. On the day of the coming dead, I think we'll be able to see this very spectacularly. The other is the use of the ultra-thinest, thinnest plastic bag, more specifically, of medium-sized ones, the product price of which has been introduced before the majority of EU states. The obligation to introduce it is now being introduced into EU legislation, we cannot give the plastic bag for free; some people regulate it this way, and some people completely block it, such as the French, but the effect of introducing this product fee is that Hungary is already able to meet the European Union's expectations. So this year, not in the coming years. So, indeed, the product fee has an impact on a number of areas that the Member has raised as a wish. All in all, I would like to thank my fellow Members for not questioning the fact that this proposed bill causes administrative burdens to operators, manufacturers and partners in waste management, and every provision makes their lives easier. That is why I am asking you to continue to support the bill after the Commission debate. Thank you for your attention.
u2016-10-26-90	Thank you. The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. There is now a general debate on the draft law amending certain laws in the context of the prevention and management of the introduction or introduction and spread of invasive alien species until closure. The government referral is T/12590. Number 2 is available on the Parliament's IT network. I declare that the presentation will be discussed as an EU item on the agenda by the Parliament. First, I give the floor to State Secretary Zsolt V. Németh, State Secretary of the Ministry of Agriculture.
u2016-10-26-91	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, He presented a legislative amendment package to the Parliament following extensive discussions on the field of agriculture, involving all relevant areas of expertise, which affect a wide range of society. This is about invasive alien species, i.e. the coordinated management of organisations coming from territories outside our country at EU, regional and Member State level, which we intend to regulate at legal level. In many cases, we cannot even imagine how these species will influence our daily lives. It is no coincidence that all the nature conservation agreements on biodiversity and nature have ringed the alarm bell about the dangers of invasive species. The draft is the first and most important element in the domestic implementation of the Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council on the prevention and management of the introduction or spread of invasive alien species, on which the provisions in support of effective action against invasive species will be incorporated into sectoral legislation on the basis of this legal mandate. The creation of an EU regulation was inspired by efforts to identify the loss of biodiversity in the natural environment. The biodiversity conservation strategy for 2020 is also dedicated to the management of invasive species. There are now 12,000 alien species in the European Union, 10-15 percent of which have invasive properties. Ladies and gentlemen. However, we are talking not only about the risk of our species disappearing, but also about 12 billion euros of economic damage every year by uninvited visitors in the European Union. In order to implement and transpose the Community Regulation, this bill amends sectoral laws, by number six, relating to the prevention and management of the introduction or introduction and spread of invasive alien species. These are laws on the protection of nature, forest and forest protection, wildlife protection, wildlife management and hunting, fish management and the protection of fish, plant protection and food chain monitoring. [[17.00]] This list also shows the nature and importance of the issue beyond certain sectors. The bill contains provisions that complement and complete the existing legislative elements. It establishes a framework for domestic procedures for invasive alien species which pose a threat to the Union under the EU Regulation, the necessary regulatory system for this purpose, the legal basis for sanctioning possibilities and the provisions authorising the creation of lower-level legislation. The bill regulates, in accordance with the polluter-pays principle, the reimbursement of the costs of the measures necessary to eliminate the harmful effects of invasive alien species and the payment of recovery costs. The bill provides for the appropriate restoration of ecological systems damaged by invasive species, requires ownership, real estate users or state obligations, and provides for the elimination of the damage caused by the infringement. The costs of public and public protection against the invasive alien species shall be covered by a chapter-based appropriation set out in the central budget for this purpose. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that a number of people have followed up on the process of negotiating on this subject at European level and have been informed that 37 species are currently included in the list for which the strictest restrictions must be observed in all Member States. The introduction, keeping, breeding, cultivation, transport, placing on the market, use and, of course, release of the listed animals and plants into the Union shall be prohibited. This list will continue to change in the future, in particular to expand. EU action is of particular importance for species that have a significant negative impact on biodiversity and have not yet crossed the Union's borders and are in the initial phase of their invasion. An additional condition for listing is that it effectively facilitates the control of the relevant invasive species, and that action at EU level has a positive impact on the control of the Member States alone. In all cases, social and economic impacts should also be examined in the inclusion of a species. Consequently, due to the social and economic interests of Hungary, the white acacia, Honourable Parliament, was not included on the list. What we also need to talk about within these walls, and what has shuddered in the media, we have even received several political attacks on why the undisputed alien invasion and the huge public health problem in our country has not been included in the EU list. The fact is that, according to the risk analysis adopted by the European Commission, and now pay attention, I quote literally:. There is no study with clear evidence of the negative impact of ragweed on biodiversity in Europe. Therefore, the species was not included in the list on which the Member States could vote. At the same time, I reassure everyone that our plant protection sector and authorities are always taking action against the grass under our relevant national legislation, regardless of whether the species is not on the list. This will be the case even if it is up there in the future. I note that even before EU legislation came into force, our national legislation strictly regulated this issue. Contrary to the species mentioned above, for example, the species of fish from the East, amurgeb, which, with its mass growth and expansion, resulted in the massive decline in the populations of lápics that live only in our country, and the disappearance of many deadlands. It also contains indicator cancer from North America, which causes the destruction of native crabs by spreading the plague. A good example is also the jewel turtle that many have kept and then got tired and thrown out, which is a threat to indigenous swamp turtles. These few examples illustrate that species on the list pose a direct, specific threat to our natural heritage in line with the purpose of the EU Regulation. In addition to invasive alien species, which pose a risk to the Union, domestic legislation should also address species which cause only national and neighbouring countries common problems. Since the geographical situation of our country is so special that it has been adopted as a separate geographical region, Pannonian biogeographical region, our indigenous natural resources living here deserve special attention. This means not only that these values cannot be replaced from elsewhere in the event of their disappearance, but also that, in comparison with other countries, we may have other weight in relation to certain risks, including the spread of invasive alien species, which may require further action. Let us not forget that the southern borders of our country are also the southern borders of the Union, increasing our responsibility. In addition to legal action, broad, credible, comprehensive information on which we want to place a great deal of emphasis is very important and a pledge of action against invasive alien species. Conscious behaviour and active involvement of the population are essential for successful action against new and emerging species from distant continents. The legislative change package that is now being presented to you is an important milestone in addressing this serious issue. Dear Parliament, The proposal does not intend to transform the well-functioning framework of existing national legislation, but at the same time takes the step at a legislative level to ensure that legislation implementing the management of invasive alien species is in line. This is inevitable for effective and effective protection against invasive alien species arriving on more and more channels. I therefore ask the Honourable Parliament to support and adopt the legislative package. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2016-10-26-92	Ladies and gentlemen, Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. I give the floor to János Pócs, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2016-10-26-93	Mr President, Dear Parliament, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, Invasion or invading organisms can cause significant damage to the ecosystem. These damage goes beyond conservation issues in the narrow sense. There are three basic types of damage. One: environmental, ecological damage, such as genetic pollution, when some introduced, introduced species can pair up and produce reproductive offspring with native, related species, so that the original genetic material is diluted and disappears. Two: economic damage, as not all deliberately planted crops produce the expected results, but their eradication and restoration is extremely costly. Three: social and health damage, i.e. the problem of alien microorganisms and pathogens coming along with the species. According to some experts, large epidemics can be associated almost without exception with the introduction and spread of alien species. As Minister of State has said, our country is part of the Pannonian biogeographical region, which has outstanding wealth and biodiversity in Europe. Therefore, the protection of natural heritage must be given particular attention, since invasion species can cause irreversible and extremely great damage to our increasingly valued natural values. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, Hungary joined the Convention on Biological Diversity by the publication of the 1995 Act, under which a national strategy for the conservation and sustainable exploitation of biodiversity should be developed. [[17.10]] Following the national strategy that expires in 2014, the Parliament adopted in 2015 the document entitled "The National Strategy for the Conservation of Biological Diversity 2015-2020, 28/2015. Parliamentary resolution. The main areas of the strategy include the fight against invasive alien species. The 1996 Nature Protection Act concerns a number of issues related to non-indigenous species, such as definitions and introduction of non-indigenous species, which still lack certain regulatory details. 269/2007 on Natura 2000 grasslands. a government decree defines the concept of invasive and non-alien plant species and contains a list of plants with soft and woody stalks and non-alien plants in Natura 2000 areas, with 9 wooded plants with 7 soft stems. 346/2008 on the protection of wooded plants The Annex to the Government Decree contains a list of wooded plants of invasive species in the country. The MÉTA program launched in 2003 - Map of the Living Sites of Hungary - has the general aim of assessing the natural vegetation heritage of Hungary and its scientific evaluation. The preservation of our vegetation heritage is threatened by several factors, one of which is the most serious threat to invasive species, about 21 percent. Ladies and gentlemen, T/12590. The purpose of the bill is to make the introduction, introduction, spread and management of invasive alien species more effective in accordance with the relevant EU regulation and to take the necessary measures by the government. The proposal amends the following laws in order to implement Regulation (EU) No 1143/2014 of the European Parliament and of the Council. LIII of 1996 on the protection of nature Act of 2003 on the recognition by the State of plant varieties and the production and placing on the market of propagating material; Act of 2008 on the food chain and its official supervision; Law of 2009 on forest, forest protection and forestry; and Act of 2013 on fish management and the protection of fish. Regulation (EU) No 1143/2014 requires Member States to take the necessary measures to prevent, minimise or mitigate the deliberate introduction and unintended introduction of alien species and the adverse effects on biodiversity caused by their spread. In particular, early detection, rapid eradication and prevention standards should be prioritised. It encourages cooperation at regional and Member State level. It is necessary to establish a system of authorisation, exemption and approval procedures for invasive alien species which pose a threat to the Union and to establish the necessary official system. It is also necessary to provide the legal basis for the possibility of sanctioning, as well as the provisions authorising the creation of lower-level legislation. Ladies and gentlemen, Please support the T/12590. The adoption of a proposal, which takes action at a legislative level to ensure that legislation implementing the management of invasive alien species is in line. This is certainly necessary for effective effective protection against invasive alien species arriving on more and more channels. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-10-26-94	Thank you. I now give the floor to Anita Heringes, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group.
u2016-10-26-95	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear fellow Members, Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Maintaining biodiversity, I think, is indeed an important interest for Hungary, and this is an interest that is important for all of us regardless of party standing. Most of what we read in this amendment is a legislative harmonisation measure. I agree that the law and the regulation that they have created are basically in the right direction regarding the grass - which we all know is a highly invasive plant. However, neither the means nor the professional opportunities are created, and the main problem is the problem of control. The fact that we know, and even though there is an appropriate indication of where there is grass, in which areas there is grass, which in agricultural areas, which is a grass in municipal areas, the announcement takes place, and then in the system the task is blocked by regulation, and what should be done is not done. Therefore, millions of people in Hungary today suffer from allergic reactions caused by ragweed. Actually, enforcing the rules would be our top priority. Of course, it is not Parliament's job to comply with the rules, but we must establish the rules so that professionals and local authorities can take the appropriate steps and take appropriate action in areas where otherwise contaminated areas are found. Most importantly, as we know, prevention, because obviously in the case of an already grown plant and in an area where there are already grown agricultural plants, this task is much more difficult. We must therefore help people working in agriculture to prevent it. After being co-chair of the paragliding wheel table, I get a lot of letters and e-mails for this area, and very, very many professionals were outraged when they read that the government supported paragliding. 'Cause they've told you many times that you don't have to try to do these reconnaissances with helicopters and parachutes, but with feet, and you have to see where they are, because most of the time the helicopter didn't seem to be able to tell you where there's a coherent parlagweed area. Therefore, they still support that yes, you have to go out into the field, you have to go out into the area, and you have to see where such areas are, you have to make the announcement, and then because of the regulation, you have to go through this process to prevent them from becoming as big as possible. And another question that I'm bringing from my own constituency, and a lot of families came to me about this case. We need to find that regulation - acacia as a plant is important for beekeepers, and I think it is important for everyone to have the best acacia sauce. However, we also need to find and regulate where to install acacia and where to plant acacia forest. After all, in my constituency, the acacia was planted in a closed garden, which is why the small area of many families has become so impossible, and their vineyards cannot be cultivated properly, because the acacia next door is suppressing the vineyard. Therefore, we need to find a regulation where we can tell where he is and where he can't be acacia. Because right now, they don't know the answer to this problem at this local level. It had a municipal decree, but after the acacia was there before it, as the decree would have been, therefore, neither the court, the municipality, nor anyone know the solution to it now. [[17.20]] Therefore, I ask that we find the solution to this, too, that the people who would like to cultivate their little vineyard on the weekend should not have any problem with the fact that if they have one acacia, it will suppress their little hobby, their little grape. So I'm gonna ask Mr. Secretary of State to find a good solution in this. Thank you very much.
u2016-10-26-96	Thank you. I now give the floor to Lajos Kepli, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group.
u2016-10-26-97	Thank you very much, Mr President, perhaps as the last speaker of today, I will not be taking up much of your time. I could do it by saying the Jobbiks are in favour of the proposal, but let me add a sentence to it, since we've talked about the grass more than once. I am surprised myself that this European position is so to say that grass is not a threat to the loss of biodiversity, which is why it has not been included in this list. To the best of our knowledge, the allergy caused by ragweed is primarily a health problem, obviously not a question concerning biodiversity and species diversity, but an important threat to Hungarian people from the point of view of health and allergy, and, of course, everything must be done about it, not necessarily within the framework of this law. It is necessary to take action against ragweed by any means, and especially by means of prevention, which has already been mentioned here, and, of course, against the spread of all invasive species. To do so, we will continue to grant any legal assistance that is relevant to Parliament, as I do not think there has been a problem with that. So I'm gonna finish with what I started by saying that Jobbik supports the proposal. Thank you very much.
u2016-10-26-98	Thank you. We have reached the end of the speaker's speeches, so I would like to ask if anyone else would like to comment on the item on the agenda. [[No signal.]] I don't see a candidate, so I'll give the floor to Mr. Secretary.
u2016-10-26-99	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, I thank you for the supporting contributions that support the legislation and the bill, because I believe that all Members agree that this is not only necessary because of the obligation to harmonise legislation, but that we are faced with real threats if we do not create a barrier to invasive alien species by means of hard legislation. Congresswoman Anita Heringes mentioned two plants, none of them falling within the scope of the law, but, as we discussed, the problem is still important. The reason why the grass is not, as Congressman Lajos Kepli has rightly emphasised, is because it is not a threat to biodiversity, and that is what this legislation is about. In addition to all these, I appreciate the efforts that the Hungarian public authorities have shown for years, or, if you will, for decades against the spread of ragweed. I do not know if it is possible to speak as a private person here in this House, but I also read the opinions that regard this struggle as almost hopeless and try to approach it from a completely different point of view, that we should be more concerned with our health, strengthening our immune system, because the reactions that arise with increasing sensitivity are indeed related to the weakness of the immune system. So they're trying to handle this from another side. In addition to this, I believe that the forms of protection that are displayed either by the Ministry of Agriculture or by other bodies have been selected on the basis of a thorough professional consideration, so helicopter reconnaissance seems more effective than doing the same on foot or from a motor vehicle, because it is simply impossible to look at a board from the edge of the board. With regard to acacia, I am pleased that you did not object to this provision. Acacia has its place in a large part of the country, for example, in the Great Plain, this is also a very important economic interest, or there is also economic interest in it elsewhere, but, of course, it cannot be allowed to be installed everywhere, and we are also blocking it. There are programs, even in the area of our national parks, that as an alien species, whether or not listed on this list, it is removed from forests made up of our native trees. So I think it's perfectly all right; and it doesn't have a place in the closed gardens, and I totally agree with that, but I understand that there is every legislative possibility to stop it, and there is a forestry authority who can do so. So if there is a planting of forests in a closed garden, it cannot do so without the authority, and I suggest that you contact this department of the Government Office; I know of such a case, where it has been done effectively. By the way, this is where I mention that the Ministry of Agriculture specializes in the revitalization and revitalization of closed gardens, as there are 200,000 hectares of closed gardens in the country, and half of it is uncared. In 50 places in the country, we support a program where local governments are given the opportunity to purchase such orphaned, whether acacia-grown old orchards or vineyards, to combine undivided common-owned areas and small parts of the land, to preserve the fruit varieties or grape varieties of the ancient Hungarian landscape and to install the same ones. I am convinced that in the coming years this must be put even more emphasis on, because we have been given the activity that is carried out either in gardens, mead gardens and other orchards near large cities, or in ancient vineyards and fruit gardens and vineyards. It plays a very important role even in rural development, as an activity complementing income, this activity plays a very important role in terms of landscape protection, as it is an integral part of the Hungarian landscape. At the same time, in biodiversity, in preserving biodiversity, in maintaining the diversity and richness of the fruit and landscapes, we also protect a particular culture. So we're dealing with this area, and as I said, we've got nearly half a hundred sample programs in this country. I suggest that you encourage the complainants to turn to the authority in the event that acacia or pine is planted in a place where there is no place for it, because they cannot do so without changing the farming line there. Returning to the legislative proposal in a narrower sense, I thank all of you for your opinions, for your support, and I would ask you to do the same at the committee meeting when the legislation is finalized. Thank you very much.
u2016-10-26-100	Thank you. The general debate is closed. The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. This brings us to the end of the discussion of our agendas today, and I thank you for your work. The Parliament will resume its meeting next week at 11 a.m. on Wednesday. Meeting day's closed. [[Meeting ended at 5:29 p.m.]]
