u2016-02-15-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] Ladies and gentlemen, Welcome to the first plenary session of the year. The first day of the spring session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that you will be able to assist me in the chair of this meeting, Mr Lajos Szűcs and Mr Dezső Szűcs. Welcome to our guests and to all those who monitor our work. Dear House, It is the sad duty of the chairman, from time to time, to inform the honourable Members who have passed away from our fellow Members or former fellow Members. I regret to announce that I have to report this sad news to you about four of our former fellow Members in recent years. From 1994 until 1998 István Komáromi was the parliamentary representative of the 4th single mandate district of the county of Bács-Kiskun in the colours of the MSZP. He worked in the Standing Committee on Agriculture, in particular in the sub-committee on water supply problems in lowland areas. The Hungarian group of the IPU participated in the work of Dutch, Romanian and American friendly departments. He was deputy mayor of Kunszentmiklós from 1990 to 1994. István Komáromi was 72 years old. József Rimóczi was a representative of the MSZP faction between 1994 and 1998. He has obtained his mandate from the regional list of Hajdú-Bihar county. He worked in the Committee on Foreign Affairs, and he was a member of a number of friendly sections of the Hungarian Group of the IPU. He participated in the activities of the Youth and Modernisation Task Force in his party. He was a founding member of the National Association of Students' Local Governments. He passed away in the 49th year of his life. Zoltán Speidl was the first freely elected parliamentary representative of the 1st single mandate district of the county of Nógrád from 1990 to 1994 in the colours of the MDF. He was a member of the Committee on Human Rights, Minority and Religious Affairs, the Sub-Committee on the Preparation of Minority Draft Law and the Cultural Committee. He was president of the Portuguese Friendship Department of the Hungarian Group of the Interparlamental Union and member of several other departments. In addition to the work of Zoltán Speidl, he worked as a journalist and was a teacher at Pázmány Péter Catholic University. He died in the 72nd year of his life. Lajos Koleszár was a representative of the MSZP faction from 1994 to 2002. In his first term, Borsod-Abaúj-Zemplén county obtained his mandate from the county's regional list in the 2nd single constituencies of the county. He was a member of the social and health committee. In addition to his representative work, he was the medical director of Semmelweis Ignác Hospital of the City Council of Miskolc. Lajos Koleszár died at 67. I would ask you to pay tribute to the memory of our fellow Members who have died in silence. [[The people in this room pay tribute to the memory of the deceased.]] Thank you. Dear Parliament, Prime Minister Viktor Orbán has applied for a speech before the agenda today. I give the floor to the Prime Minister.
u2016-02-15-1	Your Honour, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, I asked for the floor because the last week starting on 15 December was the week of the Parliament meeting, and it was slowly - or has passed - two months ago, so it is right for me to inform Members and ladies on behalf of the Government on the most important issues, especially those that required decisions between the two meetings. I will therefore briefly inform you about the year-end economic closure, the launch of the 2016 budget year, some of the major decisions taken between the two meetings and the processes of newer migration, including its international aspects, in particular Hungary's self-defense activities. Mr President, Dear House, The 2015 budget year ended at the end of the year. The budget deficit was 2 percent minus 2 percent. This is a good achievement, and I congratulate the Minister of Finance, especially given that in 2009, the Hungarian budget deficit was more than twice as large, 4.6 - minus 4.6 - percent. Any European country would be satisfied with such an improvement. However, I suggest that we Hungarians should not be satisfied with it, because it is true that the deficit has fallen in proportion to economic performance, i.e. in proportion to GDP, but is still growing nominally, i.e. in absolute terms. In order to stop nominal growth, we will need, sooner or later, a budget called a zero budget, a budget in which we do not spend more than we produce or produce as much as we have spent. If the aim is to reduce debt, i.e. public debt, then the annual budget should not end in a negative range. Ladies and Gentlemen, With regard to public debt, we managed to squeeze it below 76 per cent by the end of 2015, which was 84 per cent in mid-2010. The reduction of public debt is a special feat in the European Union, given that it is the most growing in other countries. The reduction of public debt is a result that needs to be appreciated and continued. Moreover, it is a matter of honor, because the issue of public debt is about how much debt we leave for future generations, that is, how much debt our children and grandchildren will have on their shoulders when we leave. It's political, but it's also a matter of honor. As regards unemployment: unemployment was 11.5 percent in spring 2010, no wonder that the situation was desperate in Hungary. [[13.10]] The marketing year ended at the end of 2015 shows an unemployment rate of 6.2 per cent. This is also valuable because behind this figure lies the reality that in the last 25 years, as many people have never worked in Hungary as last year: 4 million 200 thousand people. This is the key issue of economic policy, the basis for everything: if there is work, there is everything; if there is no work, there is nothing. [[Intercom from Jobbik's benches, who said that?]] The tools for job creation, without exception, have been put in motion by the government in recent years, such as tax cuts, bureaucracy cuts and special forms of employment, especially with regard to Start work. The closing of the year 15 is also due to the fact that economic growth was 2.9 per cent based on end-2015 data, and the last quarter growth was 3.2 per cent. This means that with this result we are at the forefront of the European Union: Hungary has achieved well above the European Union's average of economic growth. All in all, I can tell you that in 2010 we tried to lead Hungary out of financial bankruptcy, leading our country out of debt slavery. Data show that this has been successful, the chosen tool was good, Hungary has been renewed, Hungarian reforms are working, and now we can set a new goal for 2016 and this is the structure of the civil arrangement. If we add to all this, ladies and gentlemen, that the external trade balance has shown a surplus of EUR 8.1 billion, which, if I look at the figures well, is a record of economic history in Hungary's history, we can also say that the structure of civil settlement has a stable financial basis. If I add that the value of foreign investments was between EUR 5 and EUR 6 billion in 2015, I think it was closer to 6 billion, then we also have reason to be optimistic. From 1990 to today, I remember that EUR 80 billion of foreign capital had arrived in Hungary, and only 5-6 billion in the last year. As far as the launch of the 16th budget is concerned, you may recall that in the budgetary debate we said that the budget is intended to allow everyone to take a step forward. There have been discussions, perhaps the ladies and gentlemen of Congress, about whether it is right to adopt the next year's budget on 1 July, whether it is possible to plan with sufficient precision for six months in advance. For now, we see, based on the numbers of the first month of this year, that this is a viable design method. The aim of the 16th budget is therefore to make sure that everyone can take a step forward. We use three tools to do this: tax cuts, home creation and strengthening families. As regards the tax reduction, we reduced personal income tax by 1 percent from 1 January 16. For 4.2 to 4.3 million people, this means that more money is left in their pockets. On average, we can talk about approximately 30,000 forints a year. We've also made a tax reduction, confessed experimentally. There are always big debates around VAT cuts: whether it hits and, if so, what a hole in the budget. We decided to reduce the VAT on domestic pig meat from 27 per cent from 1 January to 5 per cent, and then at the end of the first quarter - perhaps rather at the end of the semester - we will see how this affected the budget. In any case, we also reduced the VAT on new apartments from 27 percent to 5 percent. We are counting that our budget, our budget for the year 16 will be able to handle this. As far as strengthening families is concerned, we have extended the family tax allowance from 1 January 16, which means that the tax allowance for families with two children will double between 2016 and 2019, i.e. in 16 to HUF 12 500 compared to HUF 10,000 in the year. I would like to inform the House that the minimum wage negotiations have been successful, employers and employees have agreed: the minimum wage was set at HUF 111 thousand and the guaranteed minimum wage is HUF 129 thousand. If I count that the minimum wage increase, plus that there is no inflation, and I add the consequence of the reduction in GDP, then, overall, we can see a 5% increase in real value in the rise in the minimum wage; and since 2002 there has been no precedent in Hungary for a 5% increase in the minimum wage in real terms. I would like to congratulate employers and workers on these; they have concluded this agreement. I will also inform the government that there have been wage increases in occupations within the competence of the government. A wage increase is an area where we can never be satisfied, and no one will be satisfied with it, nor the one who receives it, nor the one who gives it. There are mathematical reasons for this, because there is no number that can't say one more, so there will always be cause for discontent. However, about the rate of wage increases, I can tell you that we have gone to the limit of the burden-bearing capacity of the Hungarian economy in terms of wage increases. This means that after 30 percent wage increase for armed and law enforcement workers in 2015 there will be a 5% wage increase in 2016 and the following years. There is a 15% increase in higher education, and in the case of teachers we have raised every year since 2013. They were the first beneficiaries of the wage increase, not only for economic reasons, but also for moral and trust reasons, because all of us Hungarian people trust teachers in general, which is why we dare to trust them with what is most important in our lives, our children. We are also in favour of the current negotiations and will seek agreement with them. [[13.20]] In January 2016, we spent 12.8 billion forints on the mobile wages of health care professionals and doctors, with 151,000 forints extra funding for qualified young doctors, while GPs will receive it this year, raising the increase from last year. As of 1 July 2016, if we can proceed as planned, we will also have the State officials' faculty in place, and we will be able to carry out a 30 per cent wage increase from the district offices every year from July, with an additional 5 per cent from the following years. They appear as a wage increase, but I would like to inform you that they are, in fact, the strengthening of families in the perception of the government. I would like to make it clear that, in addition to the performance of the Hungarian economy today, this is the extent of the wage increase that can be taken on board. As far as home creation is concerned, this is both a family support and a step towards economic growth. Four elements have been identified by the government. In recent weeks, we have made several relevant decisions. In order to create a home, we reduce the VAT to 5 percent, and the family home-building discount, which is known as CSOK, has been precisely defined and increased in two new regulations. We would like to launch the national home-building community next to the housing register - we still need professional discussions here - and we have also started simplifying construction procedures. We hope that this will soon make you feel the effect. In creating a home, the Hungarian government's position is that it should be supported so that Hungarian families can get their own apartments. I would like the issue of home creation to become a national issue here in Parliament. Although there have been debates here in Parliament and in public life in general, in the last five years we have managed to make a number of issues national, such as support for families with children, job creation or reduction of wages. I would like the support of the home creation system to join this line. Just to see how far we are behind: four times today in Poland, and three times as many new apartments in the Czech Republic as in Hungary. Overall, ladies and gentlemen, I can say that 2015 was a successful year and that the basis for the economic success of 2016 was laid. The most serious challenge of 2016 will not be of an economic nature, but of a security nature. And here we are on the migrant issue. Ladies and Gentlemen, Your Honour, Mr. President. Remember, Hungary was under siege of migrants in 2015, thousands of people crossed the border illegally every day. Confusion, commotion, crimes, acts of terrorism, fear; this is what the newer era of migration has brought to Europe. I would like to report to this House that Hungary has managed to settle the ranks in time and to protect the country. The government acted, Parliament created the necessary laws. I would like to thank all the Members of this House with all due respect that, over the last year, the laws that were necessary and even essential for defence have been voted in order and I ask Members, regardless of party standing, to consider and support further amendments to the law necessary to protect Hungary and to combat terrorism. We have to thank the police, the soldiers, the TEK, the Counter-Terrorism Centre, and thank our V4 partners, because, while Europe has been grinding its language in Hungary, Slovakia, the Czech Republic and Poland have joined Hungary and made it clear that protecting the Hungarian southern border is not a Hungarian domestic matter, but is in the interest of Central Europe and even of Europe as a whole. We thank our regional allies and friends for their support. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] Ladies and Gentlemen, As a result, I can say that Hungary is one of the most stable countries in Europe today. Perhaps it is also worth saying a few words about European public opinion. I see that, first of all, the European public has successfully kicked the censorship off of you. Good performance, congratulations. It turns out that there are far more people in the European public opinion who agree with us than there are against Hungarian border protection policy. Hungary's position today is the position of the majority of Europeans, and Europeans do not understand why their government does not do the same thing as Hungarians. Mr President, Dear House, What's waiting for us? In this respect, I can tell you that the European Commission's Directorate-General for Humanitarian Aid and Civil Protection and the United Nations regularly publish data that can predict the pressure we will be under on migration next year. This means that in all 33 countries worldwide, 19.5 million refugees and 38.2 million internal refugees are recorded globally. It's all 60 million people. Now I'm just going to give you the numbers of internal refugees. In Iraq, the number of internal refugees - so those who can start at any time because they are already on the run - is 3.2 million. The number of internal refugees in Syria is 6.5 million, in Libya 435 thousand, in the Sahel 2.5 million, in Nigeria 2 million 100 thousand, in Sudan 2 million 550 thousand, in South Sudan 1 million 700 thousand, in the Democratic Republic of Congo 3 million, in Pakistan 1 million 610,000, in Afghanistan 1 million. These are areas where there are already millions of people in what is known as an internal escape state who can come to the conclusion at any time, especially if smugglers are looking for them with offers - that they are trying to move towards Europe rather than trying to escape internally. It is therefore clear that the global situation predicts that the migration pressure in Hungary will increase in 2016. Meanwhile, Europe is defenceless and weak. The Brussels policy of dealing with the migrant crisis has obviously failed, not only in the eyes of Hungarian citizens but also in the eyes of European public opinion. There is even worse news: the European Union and Brussels lack not only the ability, but also the will to defend themselves. The situation is now that at the end of the week, there will be a European Union summit in Brussels, and I can say to you first of all that Brussels intends to continue to let illegal migrants into the territory of the European Union and even to bring illegal migrants into the territory of the European Union. Allowing him in, transporting him in, and then by binding force, is a mandatory distribution - a crisis management plan in Brussels. This plan is not accepted by the Hungarian Government. The Hungarian government opposes this plan and resists its implementation. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] The Hungarian government starts from a very simple position, the most important thing for us is that we can protect the safety of Hungarian people, and we believe that it is our duty to prevent them from forcing us to do things that we Hungarians do not want to live with. To this end, we mobilized Hungarian society. The determination of the government is extremely important, perhaps even worthy of recognition, but in itself it will not be enough, it has been under pressure so far, and it will put pressure on us the following year on the adoption of a compulsory quota. Hungarian society must therefore be mobilised. We collected signatures, with the signature of 1 million 800 thousand people, he called on the government to continue the policy of rejecting the compulsory resettlement quota. Ladies and Gentlemen, I would like this issue to be in favour of the national issues mentioned earlier. I would like to ask this House with all due respect, not to look at this issue through party policy glasses, but to try to establish a national position. Protecting Hungary against the compulsory resettlement quota should be a national matter. This brief description, ladies and gentlemen, is the summation of the need for diplomatic, legal and political protection in Brussels in 2016 and the need for military and police protection at our southern borders, and I have therefore ordered the strengthening of the technical border lock and the production of the capacity to build another border seal. Ladies and Gentlemen, The main task of 2016 is to preserve the safety of Hungarian people, families and settlements. [[13.30]] Brussels must abide by the laws and respect the will of the nations. If we can achieve this in 2016, we will also be able to call the year 16 effective. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-02-15-2	Dear House, The political groups will now respond. After Prime Minister's speech has exceeded 20 minutes, every faction has 8 minutes. No one's checked in yet. András Schiffer, please.
u2016-02-15-3	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Mr. Prime Minister, Firstly, it is quite clear from the developments over the past six months that Berlin, Brussels, has failed to deal with the migration crisis. The situation, however, is that what happened at the gates of Europe last year may well be a sign of a much more serious pressure. According to Gallup's survey, over 400 million people will be on the road in the coming years. Obviously, Wilkommenskultur's policy is failing in this regard, but it is also certain that such a crowd cannot be stopped by fences alone. Therefore, we also need to look at how such a situation could have developed. Face the fact that this global world order is in crisis, which causes extreme global imbalances and is caused by unregulated arms trafficking. The reason is that global large companies are skimming the cheap workforce from the end, and there should be no mistake, and this is what is affecting Hungary. It is responsible for free trade that the central countries, global large companies, can rob the natural resources of poorer countries without inhibition. When we talk about this, it should also be said that the Hungarian government's policy does not defend itself on at least four points, but actually strengthens these global trends and strengthens the pressure of global exploitation in Hungary. What's this about? I am thinking, on the one hand, that Hungary should definitely and clearly say no to the plan for a free trade agreement between Europe and America. I am thinking that Parliament must immediately accept the proposals of the LMP on the scrapping of offshore knights, because the former, the Free Trade Agreement, is nothing more than a powerful weapon in the hands of global exploitation. When talking about the offshore knights, consider that two and a half times the Hungarian government debt has been pumped out of Hungary in the last 25 years. Today, there is no money for social pay or health pay because this money is being stolen. Thirdly, you will fit into the crisis, the global processes that cause the immigration crisis, when you conclude strategic partnership agreements, when the Hungarian government joins, and not only you, but also your predecessors are already in the downward wage competition. And then we have three things to talk about. On the one hand, you have concluded strategic partnership agreements, for example, with assembly plants, I mean Mercedes. [[Deterioration in the pro-government benches.]] For example, those who spent the last year on their 20 billion profit as it is have been pumped out of Hungary. Thanks to the strategic partnership agreements, the Hungarian government gives the multinationals nine times as much money to create a job as a Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprise, so that the assembly company, which is established here, will then use the Hungarian workforce for a fifth of the German labour wage and sevenths. It is quite clear that this policy makes Hungarian workers a servant of global large companies, German large companies. For example, when you, supported by János Kóka in Saudi Arabia, bargain for the wages of the Hungarian workers, you are condemning millions of Hungarians to slavery. Mr. Prime Minister, The policy of the past years has led to an increase in the proportion of vehicle production within the Hungarian economic structure, and the share of those sectors, I am thinking of the food industry, the electronics industry, which base itself on knowledge capital and the natural characteristics of Hungary, has fallen. He set Hungary on a course where Hungary competes with cheap wages, competes with cheap wages and increasing subsidies for multinationals, while the skills of the Hungarian workforce are constantly deteriorating. In terms of cheap wages, as opposed to what you claim, we should also face the fact that in Hungary two thirds of Hungarian workers earn below the average wage. You, here in Parliament, have repeatedly defended public workers against us. Prime Minister! If you really value the work of public workers, where is the public wage increase in 2016? Prime Minister! For the eighth year, the civil servant payroll has been frozen. When are they gonna do that? Prime Minister! He sang all kinds of eulogies with comparative data in Eastern Central Europe, compared to this, while the system-changer elite lied to Hungarian people that in a few years Hungarian wages would start towards the European average, Hungarian wages are 15-20 percent behind Eastern Central European wages. Prime Minister! The basis for a developing economy is how much the government invests in knowledge. Other countries have increased their share of education and research and development in terms of GDP in the years of the economic crisis. This is not what happened in Hungary. It didn't happen after 2010, under your administration, but it didn't happen in the previous years. The situation is that over the last ten years, the share of education in terms of GDP has decreased by 30 percent, and the budget rate for R &amp; D is stagnating. Stagnál, Minister Lazarus, stagnant: 1,83 percent, and about ten years ago that was it. The European average is 2 percent and 4-5 percent in prosperous countries. Prime Minister! The result of this will be that the policy that constantly pulls money out of knowledge, education, the policy that constantly and artificially condemns Hungarian workers to slavery, pushes down wages, competes with depressed wages and, by giving extra subsidies to multinationals with funds extracted from education and health care, the policy drives young people from Hungary who otherwise want to expand their talents. So Hungary, the promoter of Hungarian politics, is also part of the global process leading to an increase in global imbalances. Therefore, it must be decided, Prime Minister, that in the coming years we really want to compete with cheap wages or with increasing knowledge capital. The question is whether Hungary will be a assembly country or a renewable country. And you know, if you give me any reason to hope, it's exactly what happened on Saturday. For 25 years, the system-changer elite and the various local feudal groups co-organized with it and the foreign capital that settled in used it to ensure that there was no solidarity in Hungary. In this country, everything could be done, even during the free robbery called privatisation, because the elite of power knew precisely that the various occupational groups would never get together. Saturday was a turnaround. We can see that various professions are able to join forces, and this may be a resistance to the fact that Hungary will not be a country of ultimate assembly, with increasing poverty and depressed wages. Thank you very much. [[A rare applause in the ranks of the opposition.]]
u2016-02-15-4	It is now up to the leader of the Jobbik Group, Mr Gábor Vona.
u2016-02-15-5	Mr. Prime Minister, Mr President, Dear Parliament, Thank you very much, Prime Minister, for your report. I think it is now obvious what will be the issues that will dominate the political and public debates of the spring session. Think of the issue of corruption, of health care or of education. It is no coincidence that Jobbik has decided to launch a genuine national consultation on these three issues, the essence of which is to first hear the opinions and views of the profession, the representatives of interest groups, civil society organisations, which are the issues that they think Hungarian society might be most interested in. And once we're done with this, we'd like to turn directly to Hungarian citizens in the context of a genuine national consultation. By the way, if we look at these areas, because, in a sense, Prime Minister here has said a kind of success propaganda on health and education, it is worth considering the health situation. After all, Prime Minister, if I remember correctly, he said that this is what is fair or fair in terms of the Hungarian economy today. [[13.40]] But if we look at how much Hungary spends on health in proportion to GDP, we see that we are not only below the European average, but also below the share of GDP for health in a regional comparison. This fell to less than 5%; if we look at the Czech Republic or Poland, they will spend more than 6.5 percent on health care. So we are talking about, at the moment, spending little on health and other areas, as is our potential economic performance. There is the unqualified state of health institutions, there is the emigration of health care workers, there is the tragic situation of paramedics, which we talk very little about, or there is also the question of the drug lobby, which is almost time to decide whether a certain part of it - of course respect for the exception, but a certain part - belongs to health care or disease. The other is education, and there are also serious wage problems and wage tensions, and Mr Schiffer has already referred to protests and protests on Saturday. The system of vocational training, which you promised to make serious changes to, is almost kept together by the Holy Spirit. With regard to the operation of the KLIK, you too were forced to continue a long way back, since so far you could hardly touch the KLIK, and now you are willing to admit that there are serious problems with the KLIK. There is the overload of students in schools, and let me say another problem that we deal with very little, and this is school violence in schools, especially in schools in eastern Hungary, most of which, unfortunately, remain visible. On the issue of corruption, Prime Minister, it would also be worth addressing this issue better, even because it irritates more and more people in Hungarian society with the suspicion of corruption in your immediate environment. When I last suggested this to you, you called Jobbik a party of criminals. It is worth being more careful with such things, Prime Minister, because the last week's harvest is the case of the National Roma Municipality, from which their own ministry now claims 1.2 billion forints back, a dunaújváros concrete banging or casting into concrete and a murder case, which may also have Fidesz-related strings and a fidelitas mass brawl. So I continue to recommend to the Prime Minister that we set up the two committees of inquiry that could clarify this issue. One should be led by the Fidesz or KDNP person appointed by the Prime Minister, to examine Jobbik's corruption cases or the criminals around Jobbik, if any, and the other, to lead us, with your permission, Prime Minister, and to examine the corruption issues in your immediate environment. So much for these three issues, and for the rest of the time, I would like to talk about migration and terrorism, with your permission. Indeed, it is a very important and very serious issue, and what I would like to say first of all is that Jobbik will support all measures that have been taken so far, now and in the future, and will be treated as a constructive opposition that strengthens Hungary's security and protects the country from quota, terrorism and migration. But all of our constructivity is worth something if not only the opposition is constructive or we see the constructive opposition party Jobbik, but also the government's constructivity, which, unfortunately, we do not see with regard to their proposal to amend the basic law, Prime Minister. We in this form will not be able to support this initiative. We support the amendment of the Fundamental Law, we also support Hungary doing everything possible to prepare against terrorism, we also support the possibility of the immediate use of defence, but there are points in this fundamental law amendment that we cannot support, Prime Minister, and it would be advisable for my fellow Members in Fideszes-KDNP to see that today people in Hungary are fundamentally and very afraid of two things; one is migration and terrorism. Unfortunately, the Hungarian people have every right to be afraid of this. But there is another thing that, on your proposal, is also rightly feared, and this is the return of party time. You are trying to alleviate one fear with this proposal, namely the fear of terrorism, while confirming the fears of the other matter, the return of the party state, Prime Minister. And we may be involved in this debate, of course, but the experience of the last six years shows us that if you have received some kind of power, you have acquired it, you have not used it in general, you have abused it. So perhaps the fear of Hungarian people in this direction is justified. But even so, I can still say that we are constructive. Remember the fence case, we supported the fence case. Remember, the two-thirds majority of the government was provided by Jobbik in order to guide the military to the borders. Let us remember that with regard to quota, from the very beginning we have said that we support every measure taken by the government against the introduction of quotas. So we do not need to prove how we stand on these questions. And we're constructive right now. We are still constructive, because we did not stand up from the negotiating table, Prime Minister, we did not say that if someone refuses to accept our proposal 100%, it is a terrorist friend. We didn't say that, Prime Minister. That's what your representatives keep saying. And not only your attitude towards this issue, but also our proposal. What's the Jobbik's suggestion? The essence of Jobbik's proposal is that there should be a three-day grace period that allows the government to take the necessary measures, allows them to oppose terror, to disclose the terrorist threat and, after the expiry of the three days, the Parliament has to meet and decide whether or not it is justified to maintain this condition. I think this is a very rational, very sober and very realistic proposal, and although we have sent our proposals on this matter to the Ministry of Defence, as a proposer, we have not yet received an answer to what is wrong with the three days. If Hungary is in such a situation, then every Member of Parliament must be able to come here from the other side of the world and the Hungarian Parliament can meet and decide whether a terrorist situation is necessary. And you are wrong, Prime Minister, that you are asking for a mandate that exists in other European countries, because such a mandate as your proposal does not exist anywhere else in Europe for the government. Think about it if Ferenc Gyurcsány had such an opportunity in 2006 as you would like to put into the Fundamental Law. Basically, what you are proposing would be a step from Hungary to North Korea, what the left is proposing, taking more steps towards Cologne, where women are being raped and abused. We say that Hungary should stay where it is and try to find a safe, consensual solution. I therefore ask once again, Prime Minister, that, despite all our internal political debates, we sit back at the negotiating table on this issue, everyone is afraid for their country, everyone is afraid for this country, everyone is afraid for their families. Let us not accuse anyone that Hungary's safety is not important to him. I believe everyone is important to him. Let's go back to the negotiating table and find a consensus, clear solution that guarantees the security of Hungary, but in people it also alleviates fears about the return of the party state, the excessive arrogance of power. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2016-02-15-6	Now it's time for Péter Harrach, on behalf of the Christian Democratic People's Party. Here you go.
u2016-02-15-7	Mr President, Prime Minister! Dear fellow Members, Two important issues have been raised in the Prime Minister's speech before the agenda, which I would like to highlight, and which, in my view, would be the two defining themes of the 16 - a negative and a positive one; a negative one is obviously the migrant flow, and a positive support for family home creation. Perhaps about the latter, let me say that there is a threefold goal of this clearly: support for families, home-building, increasing childishness and economic recovery. The demographic situation in Hungary is the number one national issue. Obviously, only government measures can change that, but not without it. So, as the primary goal of home creation for young people founding families, it deserves support, and this is a brave move that has not been taken in this area since the change of regime. The second issue is that the issue of migrants raises two serious problems. One is the situation in the Middle East and the other is the situation in Europe. But before I tell you that, allow me a metaphor. The Oriental man has a special opinion about the home, as well as about the guest and the intruder. The guest deserves respect, opens his door, food, drink, and if he has to, he provides accommodation, because the guest knows what the master knows, that he deserves respect for the other. The guest respects the host, does not want to change the rules of the house, and is happy to accept what he receives. The intruder, on the other hand, wants to replace the farmer, take the home they're trying to close first. At the same time, hospitality and self-defense appear in this Oriental man. I believe that this gives us a good example when protecting the home of our families, our nations and Europe. Of course, this will not eliminate the mandatory hospitality that we Hungarians have always practiced. [[13.50]] Perhaps I should say a few words about refugees and the situation in the Middle East. On 4 February 16, in Strasbourg, the European Parliament adopted the mass murders, crimes as genocidium, the declaration thereof, and asked the Member States to provide support and protection, including military protection and support, to the threatened ethnic groups concerned, in accordance with international law. This statement emphasizes that genocide is taking place against Christians in the Middle East and other religious and ethnic minorities. Unfortunately, the West has been idly watching these events for a long time. I would just mention two figures about the persecution of Christians in the Middle East: in 15 and above 2400 churches, bombing and arson against institutions in the last year; many people were persecuted, executed, and many, more than 7,000 were executed solely because of their Christian faith. These are figures that are shocking to us, unfortunately, the events of everyday life. That's what we're gonna do. And we must also say that, for the sake of the persecuted, order must be established in the issuing countries, in the cities and villages of the Middle East. But there's also a problem in Europe. Here, however, order should be made in the heads, as there are many - and especially Western European politicians - who confuse refugees and economic immigrants and do not know what self-defense is to protect their own homes, their nations and the homes of Europe. I believe that everything that Hungary has done and plans to do in the future is an example for Europe, for the continent whose borders must be protected, but for those countries which, in turn, must help those who are persecuted locally. We have this double obligation, and that is what I believe Hungary has done so far. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2016-02-15-8	It is now up to the head of the MSZP Group, Member József Tobias. Here you go.
u2016-02-15-9	Thank you for the floor. Mr. President. Dear House, Mr. Prime Minister, That's enough! - it was chanted on Saturday at Kossuth Square, where tens of thousands of people gathered. Many tens of thousands of our countrymen have protested for the future. The Hungarian reality represented itself last Saturday with uplifting power, decent people said that there is nothing where public education has been destroyed; where health care has been destroyed and the institutional system is collapsing, there is nothing; where poverty is raging, there is nothing. The unparalleled solidarity of the people has shown that students, teachers, parents, interest representatives and civil society organisations have made their demands together. These demands are justified; these demands are not about their own salaries, however much government propaganda tries to set this up - although, I note, there would be nothing wrong with doing so - but they protested because, as a result of your irresponsible governance, in Hungary, there have been billions and hundreds of billions of funds lost in health, education and social affairs in recent years. Let me give you some numbers, Prime Minister. They provide 85 thousand forints less resources for the education of a primary school child. They spend 195 thousand forints less on a high school education. And they spend 212 thousand forints less on a university student's education. You're taking away the future from our children. In Hungary, we spend the least of our total national income on education in the region. Teachers and students formulated their professional requirements in 25 points. A debate day on the future of education will be presented today. I trust that the 25 points that have been formulated by teachers and students, which they are not even willing to discuss in this House, as this has been the fundamental problem in recent years... Prime Minister, you can't put the world in jeopardy. I know you would do anything for him, but we would like to say to you that if a teacher does not get back his professional competence, autonomy, institutional management, if the burden of a student today is not about how he can be a happy child so that he can improve for the future, but how you expect him to be, then Hungary will not build a successful one. Prime Minister, I would like to warn you that speaking is not a negotiation, and the negotiation alone is not an agreement. Financial and legal guarantees are necessary for whatever they are talking about to have a government guarantee and a parliamentary guarantee. Today, the crowd that represents millions of people in Hungary today who cannot join, because they are not in a position of life to decide to come up on a rainy day and put faith in the change, I would also like to say on behalf of those who are responsible governments that can only regain credit and trust with guarantees. Prime Minister spoke about the refugee issue. The truth is, they've been on the same track here for the past year and a half: more communication, more national consultation, and now it's real. But I would like to say that it is your responsibility to solve the refugee problem by ensuring the safety of Hungarian citizens at home and the free movement and employment of Hungarian citizens in the EU at the same time. Because this value has been created and 89, and this value has been left to you by the previous governments, so that you and the opposition at that time did nothing to support the governments at that time in defending these values. I would like to ask the Prime Minister to stop lying about the opposition's policy. [[An uproar in the pro-government benches.]] Stop decoying and stop your PR communication. Prime Minister, I know you're a lawyer, but don't be a lawyer - you're a Prime Minister, act! If there are no two-thirds, then there is enough proposal from the opposition to choose from it. But the responsibility is yours. You've also said a lot about security, Prime Minister. In fact and truly, there is an increasing need for a safety experience in Hungary, for the safety of everyday life, for the experience of Hungarian people fleeing from extreme poverty and workers' poverty, so that there is a positive charge that no one slips down. How many times have they told us in the walls of this House that no one will be left on the side of the road! You can stroke your finance minister, Prime Minister, because the numbers may be right for you, and the reality is that millions of people today are living in poverty in Hungary; that those who have gone out into the street today have given hope not only for themselves, but also for others, that the country can be controlled differently - by good governance - in a different way. If you wanted to protect the Hungarian people, you should not start by saying that the President of the Central Bank has security now. Yeah, you can buy it. The security of Hungarians cannot be bought. They expect the Hungarian state to provide them with security of life, social security and security of the rule of law. You didn't say anything about all this, Prime Minister. And the Hungarian reality, Prime Minister. A year ago, I said in the walls of this House that they are building up so much social tension that the government is careful, because sometimes the public will does not bend, but breaks. From this warning, you have not accepted anything for the past year and a half, perhaps driven by powerlessness. The day before yesterday, when I stood in the square with tens of thousands of people and was responsible, in his mood a noble debate on the future [[Dr. Répássy Robert's intervention. The president's ringing the bell.]] statements I heard, then a lot of times I hit my head with a historical sentence [[Intercoms from the pro-government benches: My head?]] I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. The people want more, now give it to him! I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. [[Moore in the pro-government benches.]] [[14.00]] I propose that the Prime Minister take this advice. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] And the warning that's more than good intentions. Accept and change styles, negotiate in substance, because I demand much more respect for those who are concerned about the future of Hungary; because the people can create a nation, Prime Minister, the country, said Illyés. And, Mr President, as President of the Hungarian Socialist Party, for the rest of my parliamentary time, I salute the demonstrators with silent silence. [[Representatives of MSZP as well as Dr. Ágnes Vadai, László Varju, Dr. Lajos Oláh and Péter Kónya stand up. Intruder from Fidesz: It wasn't much of a bang! The president's ringing the bell. At the end of the timeframe, representatives of the MSZP and the remaining four representatives shall sit down.]] Thank you, Mr. President. [[Noise. István Szilárd Németh's intervention.]]
u2016-02-15-10	Calm down, please. I did not speak to Szilárd Németh, either. Lajos Kósa is next.
u2016-02-15-11	Mr. President. Dear House, Listening to my fellow Member, Tobiah, I immediately thought of the pity that the noble call to stop lying immediately would not be interpreted as referring to you. If you would interpret it, then you would know precisely that your ability to walk among protesters in peace and in peace is rather a reflection of the incredible attitude of Hungarian voters to your political role. I mean, it wasn't that long ago when you said what? Where healthcare, education, where poverty rages, there's nothing. Well, my dear fellow Faction Leader. At the time when the country was handed over in 2010, hundreds of schools were terminated during their own cycle, 13 months of public service workers' salaries were hijacked [[An uproar in the ranks of the MSZP. Zoltán Grimlock: How much was the euro?]] The opportunity to create homes for families has been removed. You ended it in 2009, introducing the property tax, by the way. [[Interviews from the ranks of the MSZP.]] Leaving the state bankrupt, everything was really shattered, and in 2010 real wages in the country had been steadily falling for many long years. [[Interview from Fidesz: Inflation!]] And by the way, when the 13th month's wage was taken from everyone, pensioners took away the 13th month's pension. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: Why didn't you give it back?]] Then this policy was supported by you and all your fellow Members. So every time you're talking about the wages of civil servants, the first sentence should be that if you really wanted to break up with the ongoing lies that nice workers, we would like to apologize to you again, again and again, we should not have taken away the 13th month's wages, we should not have taken away the 13th month's pension, we should have kept the home creation program for families. [[Why didn't you give it back?]] We shouldn't have introduced the housing tax, we shouldn't have served the IMF to get more money out of the country than any government has before you. He shouldn't have grabbed more than $13 billion at the last minute to save the otherwise worthless socialist government that destroyed the country. [[Intruder from Fidesz: That's right!]] Therefore, we should keep apologizing to you, then perhaps what you're talking about should stop lying. Not to mention that you know that real wages have been growing in the Hungarian economy for years. Of course, we are not at the level of Austria - although if you had governed Austria for ten years, Austria would not be here where it is now, because you cannot simply survive it. [[Defiance.]] - and we are not at Bavaria's level, but in addition to the ever increasing real wage, they add that the Hungarian people received a month's income by reducing their overhead costs. That's what you're counting on. With the family support system, the child support system, the income position of the Hungarian people is a hundred times better than it was under your governance, and under your governance, there was a fast-paced inflation in everyday life. And you're talking about security? Well, during your reign, you couldn't go out to celebrate the 1956 revolution, the 50th anniversary without getting your eyes blown off. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai and Agnes Kunhalmi: Na, na, na! The opposition's uprising.]] He wouldn't have been beaten by the cops who were then decorated. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] I think we should approach the world a little more nuanced, I'm sure we could do better, but frankly, I don't expect that from you at all. The first hope will come if you do not follow each of your speeches with such caution, but turn your head silently to the Hungarian electorate and thank you for being able to go out on the street in this country at all without being insulted by what the Hungarian government has done in this country with your leadership and support. [[Dr. László Varga: Let's stop for that. József Tobias: Mr. President! Is that okay?]] Mr. President. Dear House, I have listened with great attention, I must confess, to the contributions of my fellow Member Schiffer, my fellow group leader, and, by the way, I have enjoyed it very much, because the kind of romantic, anti-capitalist attitude that can always be found in your speech is a very important position, with which, of course, you can argue. I'd like to draw attention to a few little things. As a Stereotype, the Hungarian government does not do everything in order to give children access to useful and competitive knowledge in education that they can compete with countries with the most advanced economies. However, at the same time, he never says that everyone is nice, so let's not sit down to the fact that in Hungary, in Hungarian public education, primary schoolers are much more overwhelmed than in OECD countries, because the reality - and you should support your contribution - is that while in Hungary, during public education, a student in primary school spends 6100 hours in total, the OECD average is 685 hours. [[Agnes Kunhalmi: They can't read!]] So the thing is, if you're consistent, you're not getting involved, like you just did, in that competition where the students are overwhelmed. Maybe we're burdening them badly. [[Agnes Kunhalmi: That's right!]] The teaching material that they learn in Hungarian schools may not be appropriate, but the children of OECD countries in particular are better burdened in the public education system. I think that when you talk about debt slavery and wage slavery, you forget that it was the Orbán government that constantly and consistently, even during the first Orbán government, which, by continuing to increase the minimum wage - which, by the way, cut out the guarantee for the Chambers, they said that it was not possible to manage this - that pressure was put on Hungary to keep the wage level rising; this policy is still in place. We would, of course, like to go further on a much larger scale, but the realities - in the sense that the performance of the economy must be taken into account - must not be cut off in any way. And let me say that what you are saying is that the Hungarian government only supports assembly in the country: I am sorry, that is not true at all, because there are countless government programmes that support precisely the industry and service that produces the highest added value. [[Ágnes Kunhalmi: For example, metal cap production!]] And in this sense, very serious efforts must be made to ensure that we can compete in the Hungarian economy with our spirit, our intellect. Dear House, I would just like to say one thing to Congressman Vona: until the biggest political scandal and corruption case ever, in the case of Mr KáGéBéla, who is also supported by MEP Vona, they do not clear themselves [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] they have no legal basis to talk about corruption. [[Foreword of Novak: What should we expect? To pour concrete? Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-02-15-12	At the end of the answers of the political groups, I give the Prime Minister the floor in return.
u2016-02-15-13	Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, A lot has been said. If you'll allow me, I wouldn't answer everything, but I would like to add a few points to the most important questions. Firstly, I would like to thank the Christian Democratic People's Party for its position to support the government in addressing demographic challenges, i.e., to speak Hungarian, population decline not by immigration or other cunning, by artificial means, but by strengthening family support systems and increasing the opportunities for childbearing. [[14.10]] I consider this an important question, probably the most important question for the next 15 years. We ourselves do not know the exact answer whether we will succeed, that is to say, whether we will have targeted or desired results, but the Hungarian government is at this moment on the basis of the intellectual principle that we must try to stop population loss by modernising the family support system. And we hope that in Hungary - not in the government, but in Hungary - the Hungarian people [[Intercom from the benches of the MSZP.]] there is sufficient strength, desire for life, love for life and determination that this population loss, which will have tragic consequences without any changes, will be able to stop it. The current government does not allow it, and I personally do not give in to any temptation to copy Western European patterns, that is, to allow migrants in, to bring people from the outside in order not to collapse our economic system. This concept is rejected. Again, I'm not in it. [[Agnes Kunhalmi: Bring those who have left home!]] I am sure there is no guarantee that the attempt to stop population loss by modernising and extending the family support system will work, but until there is evidence to the contrary, this policy must continue, and I thank the Christian Democratic People's Party for their support on this issue. As regards the world class fight, which was reported by my fellow Member Schiffer [[Deterioration in the benches of the governing parties.]] I understand, I quote, that the global world order crisis has also contributed, perhaps even contributed to the current migrant situation in the first place. And it also seems to be a logical conclusion that, if that is the reason, this reason should be removed and there would be no migrant crisis. And that is true, only the timelines: the migrants have kicked the door at us for the last year, they come every day; the remedy of the global world order crisis is waiting for you. So what you have recommended as a remedy in your contribution to the migrant crisis should not be taken into consideration by the Hungarian people. Making the global world order fair is an important aspect, but it is not in any context with the need to protect the security of Hungarian people here and now. As far as free trade is concerned, I do not want to reproduce debates that Members of this House have heard several times. There is a difference in principle as regards the principle of free trade. Obviously, my fellow Member Schiffer and his party consider free trade to be a bad thing in principle. [[Dr. András Schiffer nods.]] Our position is different. Our position is that there is good free trade and there is poorly regulated free trade. I would like to remind everyone that Hungary is a country of 10 million people here and now. If we don't have exports, we can't maintain our current standard of living; let alone increase, we can't keep up with the current one. If we produce 10 million consumers, or 10 million Hungarians, we cannot maintain and produce the standard of living that we live in today. [[Intercom from the benches of the MSZP.]] Therefore, I believe that a country which is subject to export orientation and forced export orientation should not in principle be opposed to free trade. The question should always be whether or not specific free trade legislation is in our interest. Free trade can be well regulated. Free trade is like a mosquito net: what we need comes in, what we don't have, stays out... [[Dr. András Schiffer: Rockets...]] That is why the intellectual work of many years should be invested in free trade negotiations. We need to keep negotiating, that's what we're doing. Now, as far as the specific free trade agreement between Europe and America is concerned, there are issues that can be discussed, in which we believe that there may be room for manoeuvre and that we can achieve results, and there are dangers that exclude the conclusion of such an agreement. Among the grounds for exclusion, I am now quoting only one, and that is that I believe that a country the size of Hungary cannot give up the right to settle its disputes within the borders of the state in front of its own courts. Because in the event that disputes between large international companies and the Hungarian state must be settled not in Hungary, but in the chosen courts around the world, then our chances of fair judgment will be less than if we maintain the current system. There is therefore nothing to discuss on this issue. The Hungarian Government does not wish to ratify a free trade agreement with anyone, not only the United States, but no one - the agreement with the Canadians will therefore be stopped - so it cannot approve which contains such elements. [[Dr. András Schiffer:]] In which chapter, by the way, which quotas, how to operate in free trade, I think these are issues that can be discussed. I would like to point out that since Hungarian exports are one of the most successful exports in the world, the most successful export performance of the country's population, who speaks against free trade, is giving up Hungary's export opportunities and, therefore, I think it condemns Hungarian people to poverty. We are not in a position to support this. [[Applause from the benches of the governing parties.]] On the question of foreign investors, I hear comments here several times that would lead me to conclude that the good thing is that foreign investors do not come to Hungary. I would like to point out that after 40 years of communism in Hungary, [[Dr. András Schiffer:]] and it was not possible to raise capital, therefore, although I would also like to see private capital accumulated in Hungary over the last hundred years, covering the Hungarian economic needs so that there will be no room for foreign investors here - I would be the happiest, but unfortunately the situation is not so! The situation is that we need foreign investments at the level of Hungary's capital supply today. [[Dr. András Schiffer: Twenty-five years have passed!]] In addition, I think it is also important to mention the perhaps complex relationship compared to the level of parliamentary debates here that the production capacities that come here, which you call assembly, will bring research capacities one by one, if they are successful. There is a reason why the Hungarian state has brought regulations and all kinds of benefits to research engineers in the framework of the action plan for the protection of the workplace in order to provide research engineers in Hungary with research, high-quality works and challenges that reach the highest level of technology. [[Dr. András Schiffer: German engineers only, not Hungarians!]] So I'd rather support foreign investors. Moreover, the claim that foreigners would somehow be closer to the heart of economic decision-makers than domestic ones is a doubtful claim because in the seven years ahead, 60% of economic development resources will be allocated to small and medium-sized enterprises. The opposite is the problem for us, that we already have large Hungarian, regionally competitive companies, which we cannot support from this, because we will give this support to small and medium-sized enterprises. This is why the Minister of Economic Affairs had to develop a specific form of support, which is not contrary to EU rules, but targets larger Hungarian companies than small and medium-sized enterprises. The claim that anyone in this House would support the policy of cheap wages is a mistake, I have never heard such a comment. [[Intercoms from the benches of the MSZP. Dr. András Schiffer: In the summer of 2010...]] On the other hand, I can say that every newscast in Hungary is about wage increases in both the private sector and the public sector. If the government were to pursue a policy of wage cuts or cheap wages, wages would not increase but decrease. I repeat once again: not the Hungarian government, but entrepreneurs, so employers and employees agreed on a minimum wage increase of 5% in real terms, which has not been the case since 2002. How can a policy of cheap wages be discussed at a time when market players have agreed on the highest minimum wage for the last 14 years? Clearly, the world doesn't go this way. [[Dr. András Schiffer: How much is the net?]] The world doesn't go this way! The world is going that way, the Hungarian world is going to want to raise wages both in the public sector and in the private sector. [[Nándor Gúr: For five years... what are you talking about?]] Ladies and Gentlemen, I am pleased to report that our fellow Member Schiffer will like the year 2016 because this will be the year for research and development - with the help of Commissioner Pálinkás - that there will be significant resources, so that the expectations of research, if any, can be met by opposition, will be met. The claim you made, and others regularly recall, that we did not spend more on education in successive years, but less, I am obliged to consider it frivolous. [[Interview from the benches of the MSZP: Why?]] Because the thing is, every year, every year, the government spends more on both health and education. [[Intercoms from the benches of the MSZP.]] [[14.20]] That's what you can argue about. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: You can see it.]] and I think it is a sensible debate whether its internal proportions, its internal structure is optimal, good or not, but that overall the sector is itself [[Moore from the ranks of the MSZP. Ágnes Kunhalmi: Overall!]] But the fact that the sector itself received more each year overall does not make sense to argue because the figures are clear in this respect. [[Moors and interruptions from the ranks of the MSZP.]] If they refuse...
u2016-02-15-14	I would ask the members of the MSZP Group to listen to the Prime Minister. You've already got the floor, and you've taken it. Thank you very much.
u2016-02-15-15	And if we refuse to accept the facts as facts and disagree with them, how are we going to talk meaningfully about the conclusions? [[Agnes Kunhalmi: This is not a goal!]] Well, my honourable fellow Member Vona, who said that vocational training is now held together by the Holy Spirit, it would be good if that were true, because if the Holy Spirit held it together, then we would not have a lot of problems here. After all, who are we compared to the Holy Spirit? [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: We'd be better off!]] However, I would like to point out that we are also mobilising human support forces, and that, if you wish to do so during the parliamentary debate, Minister Mihály Varga, who is responsible for vocational training, will be at your disposal. I must also respond in a bad mood, but I must also respond to the comment on the return of party states. We belong to groups of different ages, and we have different experiences. On this page they sit mostly [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: Young Democrats!]] who have personal experience of party time, even from there [[Moore in the ranks of the MSZP.]] they have personal experience that the reason why we're in politics [[Uproar and clarity in the ranks of the MSZP.]] So we can send the Russians home. [[Agnes Kunhalmi: You called him back! I'm sitting right there!]] The one-party system can be abolished, and the Hungarian people can finally live in independence and freedom. Anyone who claims that the world that is in Hungary shows any relation to what we have entered politics for overthrowing, and we have made a change of regime, I think he doesn't know reality or because he wasn't alive then, or because he was alive, but he forgot. Ladies and gentlemen, therefore, the return of party time is not a threat. [[Moors and interruptions in the ranks of the MSZP.]]
u2016-02-15-16	Once again, I would ask the representatives of the opposition to remain silent. If you can't handle it, go to the hallway. [[Applause in the pro-government benches. Agnes Kunhalmi: Yes, Mr President. Interviews from the lines of the MSZP: We can't and won't!]]
u2016-02-15-17	As regards corruption and abuse of power, here is what I would like to say. I have heard from your representatives, through long parliamentary meetings, that if a Member takes a salary from several places, it is a political crime. [[Novak Előd: That's not what we said!]] Now that you've started to govern [[There's a grumble from Jobbik's ranks.]] Now that you've started to govern, for example, Ozd, where the mayor pays from four to five places. [[Dóra Dúró: It's not true! That's not true!]] It's worth rethinking. I just want to say to you that now that you're in government, it's worth seeing how you're doing it. There, serious experience of abuse of power can be gained. Ladies and Gentlemen, Then allow me to say a few words about the issue of terrorist threats. I can tell you that terrorists do not make decisions by four fifths, and I see that some European countries take this fairly seriously. Here is a list of the countries that made it possible to use the force for anti-terrorist police tasks. I mention only two countries separately, where the army is not only used in such cases, but in recent weeks a constitution has also been amended for this purpose, in the affected France, but also in our neighbour Slovakia. I think that there is a sensible way to talk about this issue, and please accept the government's demand that, in the event of a terrorist threat, the army can be used for police work in order to protect the country. [[Dóra Dúró: It's not that!]] Ladies and Gentlemen, Your Honour, Mr. President. Finally, I would also like to reply to the head of the MSZP faction that talking about the education system and health care as MSZP is not an easy task. I understand that, because in 2010, the municipal system that maintains health and education went bankrupt. Now I don't see the point in discussing whether the schools and hospitals were bankrupt because they were, because if the maintenance goes bankrupt, then the reserved ones are also bankrupt. That's a shame to argue. If the local government that maintains schools, education and hospitals is in such a state of bankruptcy that they need to be dealt with by 1200 billion, then obviously both schools and hospitals are in financial bankruptcy. I think this is a debate that will not bring us any closer to responding to the future challenges facing education. I agree with the head of the MSZP faction that it would be better for people working in education and health care to make more money. There is no debate in this political community today. The question is not whether what we have is much or enough, but I would like us to underline the fact that we can appreciate where we have come from and plan to get from here, so that these facts, which are actually related to wages, are not disputed. I have the data here that clearly shows that, let's say, a primary school teacher in 2010, on average - I accept that the average is always something artificial, but perhaps on average it says something - he earned HUF 2 456 040 a year. This will look like you're looking for HUF 3 627 403 in 2016 after the recent increases. [[Zoltán Grimlock: No one gets that much!]] This means that an average primary school teacher will earn 1 052 086 HUF more this year than in 2010. I agree it's not much, it'd be nice if you made twice as much. But the effort that Hungarian society has made to establish the financial basis for educators' wages is not called into question. I believe that you are constantly making the mistake of believing that you are attacking the government, but in fact you are questioning the performance of the people. That today a high school teacher can earn HUF 1 052 086 more than before in Hungary. [[Interviews from the ranks of the MSZP: Tale!]] that was only possible because 10 million people in this country and exactly 4 million 200 thousand people did their job honestly every day. They're questioning their work. It's not the result of the government. Or similarly compared to the primary school teacher, a high school teacher earned HUF 2 865 888 in 2010, today the same high school teacher earns HUF 768 849 a year, or HUF 3 758 319. That's a 27 percent raise! In elementary school it's 40, in high school it's 27! It may be said that this is not enough, I will not argue this because they are making more money in Austria, but we have made a path, and I think that questioning this is not fair to Hungarian society. [[Agnes Kunhalmi: Fathers protested, not teachers!]] Ladies and Gentlemen, As far as the demands are concerned, since you know that the current government is a fan of open government, I therefore support the roundtable negotiations, I wish that the negotiations will be effective and concluded with agreement. However, I must say - because I do not want to sell a bag cat - that if I look at the 25-point claim I have calculated with the Treasury, there is an 18-percent wage increase demand. I don't know much about that, and I don't dispute that teachers want to raise their wages again after 40 percent and 27 percent. I understand that, I just want to say that at this very moment, that is simply not possible. We therefore ask you to wait for us to run through the police's wage increases, the health pay increases, the government's employees, and do not put the government under wage pressure at the moment, because we cannot comply with this at this moment, no matter how powerful we are. Ladies and Gentlemen, As for the speech of the MSZP in favour of teachers, I would just like to say that, without opening unnecessary party disputes, it is instructive, however, that when any dissatisfaction movement is logically formed against the government from the nature of democracy, they start by saying that they do not ask for you. That means something after all. They're separated from you first. They do not want to be on a platform with today's opposition parties, especially with the MSZP. [[Agnes Kunhalmi: Only for you!]] That's how all opposition movements start. I don't think so, I think it's more of a judgmental work that you've done in the government in eight years. [[Nándor Gúr: Don't talk about your fantasies.]] Finally [[Moore from the ranks of the MSZP.]] Finally, just to answer directly to my fellow Member, no doubt the government and I personally suffer some mistakes, but I have never been blamed for not taking responsibility for any decision. [[14.30]] So, thank you for the push, and I can tell you one thing for sure, my honourable fellow Member: however, the government and the Prime Minister, personally, will take responsibility for our decisions, both now and in the future. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-02-15-18	Dear Parliament, We are now taking the floor before the announced agenda. [[Move.]] I'll wait for the room noise and the movement to slow down a bit, and I'll ask everyone to leave the meeting room as soon as possible and quietly as possible if they're busy elsewhere. First, I give the floor to Mrs Dóra Dúró, on behalf of Jobbik. Here you go.
u2016-02-15-19	Mr President, Dear Parliament, Unspeakable teachers had a problem on Saturday at Kossuth Square - a brief summary of the government attitude that their various politicians have expressed in the media regarding the protest demonstration on Saturday. In fact, the scandal in education has been caused by the governance of the last five years, by the fact that fundamental changes have been made throughout the system, without asking the organisations who represent the teachers, asking the schools and their leaders how they feel about these issues. Now they're talking about the establishment of a public education round table, but I'm asking you, where has such a round table been in the last five years, why didn't you think about how before you set up the KLIK before nationalising the textbook market, before you introduce NAT or the rating system to teachers, you should ask teachers and relevant organisations what they say about it. Why do they wear cloaks in education after rain? The result: virtually an inoperative system, KLIK has daily problems, now practically no chalk, let alone Ibiza, because it is only for government free consultants, and Lajos Kósa can also say that teachers are divided. With respect, to this day, more than 800 institutions and more than 20,000 individuals have joined the protest letter of Herman Ottó High School, threatening institutional leaders and teachers in KLIK with the loss of their jobs in order to join this petition. How could this happen? How could it be that, yes, they threaten teachers by losing their jobs, citing party time, because they have the courage to protest on a professional basis, to express their opinion? There are no normal textbooks in schools anymore, and teachers are starting to evaluate the calorific value of the school. [[Defiance in the ranks of MSZP and Jobbik.]] KLIK did not even pay the bills, and in Gyöngyöstarján that shame had to be lived in the 21st century. In Hungary, the public maintainer had to turn off the heating and therefore the children could not go to school. Obviously, all of this cannot be a reason for teachers to go out on the street, obviously the only thing leading them is the trouble, and if that is the government's attitude, unfortunately, we cannot expect results from protests. And of course, it is not realistic that teachers want to improve their own working conditions, because it is not primarily about wage claims, it is about improving working conditions, so that teachers do not have to get into an unworthy situation every day in schools. Of course, if it's realistic for you that Árpád Habony, who works for free, is a fan of the XVIII. For painting in the first century, or as a gas mechanic, Lőrinc Mészáros can be a decent billionaire in Hungary, or Andy Vajna is obviously granted a market-based loan by a state bank to buy television for himself or for the government, so it is obviously not realistic in your political culture that teachers stand up for themselves. It's a XX. This is what the 21st century political culture that you represent is up against. The political culture of the 20th century, represented by Jobbik and LMP, and, by the way, speakers and demonstrators from other professions who joined educators at the protest on Saturday. Health care workers also stood up for teachers, even though you are trying to harass the whole society against teachers, this tactic will no longer work, the principle of "divided and dominated" has expired. Jobbik will launch a genuine national consultation on health, education and corruption in 2016, because these are the three areas in which we need to implement governance from the opposition and we cannot wait until 2018. The year 2016 will be about us finding professional organisations first, developing with them the issues that we will be addressing people, and this is the political culture that you should have taken on in the last five years, and you should have acted in this spirit. Governance should be to make decisions for the benefit of the people, not against the people. This is how we will govern Hungary. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-02-15-20	I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Here you go.
u2016-02-15-21	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, I think that if Jobbik continues this way, it is still further away, perhaps it is not possible to predict when Jobbik faces such responsibility, but let me say that when you have prepared and written some thoughts about public education, education, I would like to quote one or two of these parts to you when you now give this sermon, which, of course, involved everything else, not only the questions of education, but also about health organizations. He said the medical staff joined, only the Hungarian Medical Association didn't join, the working chamber didn't and the pharmacy chamber didn't. But anyway, there was, I think, a movement led by a Facebook group and a nurse in black, which joined, just don't confuse what it means, that health care has joined and what it means to be joined by some health organizations or the leader of that group. An important part of your 2010 programme was also the reference to the kind of state reservation that is now being implemented in practice by the Klebelsberg Institutional Maintenance Centre. Obviously, I do not mean to say that the operation of the KLIK, as it is, would be good from the inside, because we also think that much needs to be improved, but the fact that the state reserve should appear in the system of public education is also a very important part of Jobbik's programme, because it has an important task in terms of catching up. There were two types of municipalities in the period prior to 2010, one was creditworthy and the other was not creditworthy. The municipality that was not creditworthy was forced to close its schools - in 381 places of responsibility because there was not enough money in the education system, in the system of public education - and there was a municipality that was creditworthy, which issued a bond, which took out a loan, and maintained its school from these loans, which had to be paid by the state after 2010, to more than a thousand billion dollars, whether we are talking about an educational institution, a social institution or a health institution. So there was a unsustainable system, and many said that there was a very large need for change here, and that the state's reservation in your programme, too, was precisely the reason why it appeared as a supportive and supportive solution to the system of public education. [[Dóra Dúró: Helper! That's right!]] Speaking of textbooks, Congresswoman, I would like to quote chapter 5.1.1 of Jobbik's programme: the textbook is a public treasure for which there is no profit interest, so we take the National Book Publisher into state ownership. So Jobbik said the same thing. [[Agnes Kunhalmi: You are doing Jobbik's program!]] what you are criticizing now is the need to restore in the textbook system what we saw as a practice in Hungary before the privatisation of Gyurcsány, when the state took part in the publishing of textbooks, and in other countries it works very well, very good practice. Quite simply, the privatization wave that took place in Hungary in the time of the Gyurcsány government threw away such companies, which are important for the future of the community, even textbook publishing companies, instead of being able to produce state-owned textbooks of the highest quality possible in the interests of the nation. [[Dóra Dúró: You pushed the bike over!]] And when you're attacking or attacking this textbook system from a liberal or left-wing MSZP side, let's not forget what the risk is. For example, if I only looked at last year, you would draw 15 billion forints from the pockets of Hungarian families, since the state and the families paid 15 billion forints less when the textbook market was no longer a market profit when the books were produced for non-market profits. [[Agnes Kunhalmi: They can't read!]] [[14.40]] Let me completely reject your allegations of intimidation, Congresswoman. When the first accusations of this kind were made, they were also anonymous and the ones after them unnamed. [[Dóra Dúró: I know a name!]] at that moment, the Klebelsberg Institutional Support Centre issued a communication that it would not tolerate or accept anything like this. [[Dóra Dúró: Did anything happen?]] Obviously, at every trial, we have confirmed that ourselves. Besides, it's a public list, and they said that whoever gets out, who gets threatened, is afraid to say it, but it's a list of names posted on the public internet, and he's making his name public himself, which is why I don't understand why people who put their own names on the Internet next to a petition can't make these accusations public. Everyone in Hungary is free to do so today. On Saturday, everyone was able to demonstrate safely, there was nothing to fear. We can recall a short ten years ago, on 23 October 2006, when this constitutional fundamental right was not so guaranteed in Hungary, when one could not think that if he went out and remembered peacefully or demonstrated peacefully, it would not end with tear gas or sword-swording. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2016-02-15-22	István Ikotity, member of the LMP, applied for a pre-meeting speech with the title 'Bicycle and umbrella for education'. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-02-15-23	Thank you for the floor. Dear Parliament, Bicycles and umbrellas became symbols of education. The bike symbolizes that the government is left alone when it thinks that there are only minor errors in education, but the direction is basically good. Contrary to what the competent minister said, the bike was not pushed over, but in the worst possible direction, without steering or brake, hovering over the edge of the abyss. And the umbrellas indicate that the government's failure caused all those involved in education to act together, which we saw on Saturday in the pouring rain at Kossuth Square. Unfortunately, however, the government still does not seem to understand the seriousness of the situation, but still does not realize that it is left alone with teachers, students and parents, that is to say, to all those for whom education is not the design direction of a central office, but education, education and the future. Astoundingly, Viktor Orbán said at the meeting of the Fidesz Lillafüred faction that KLIK can only be touched after the 2018 election. This proves that the government still doesn't care about education, doesn't want to solve its own problem, just put it off and make it invisible. A bureaucratic monstrum like the KLIK, obviously cannot be eliminated from one moment to the next, but give this failure another two years, this is not an answer to teachers, nor is it an answer to students or their parents. Trust me, it's wrong, it's completely wrong. It's not an answer if you just keep moving forward, it's not an answer if you stop. There is only one answer to this: if the issue of Hungarian education takes a new direction. The former system, which was excessively liberalised, was passed on to the other side of the horse. We need to find the middle ground. Dear Parliament, Pain relief, demonstration instead of treatment, it must be unpleasant for you, but the long-awaited, long-awaited actions of the educational actors are needed. The first such step is that instead of threats to teachers, they start meaningful negotiations. Threatening teachers is cowardly and outrageous. The LMP has launched legal aid to protect anyone who wants to give their opinion. If the government really wanted to negotiate, it wouldn't even try to discredit the teachers, so it wouldn't even bother to accuse who's behind the teachers, because it's clear who they are: the students, their parents and the local communities that were deprived of their schools by insane centralization. Instead of the round table convened by the government, without the stakeholders, the public education policy council must be restored, where all the actors in education can really participate in the policy-making process, and everyone can hear their voices. The aim is not only to alleviate the crisis, but also to ensure the normal functioning of the education system. However, these are only short-term immediate but absolutely necessary steps. Then we have to go in the new direction. In ten years, you and the previous governments have reduced educational resources by 30 percent and nearly a third, from 5.7 percent in 2003 to 3.9 percent in 2013. This needs to be replaced, and we're still just stepping on the rock, and others are way ahead of this. It is necessary to give back to the actors in education their say in education. You can't control the system from Salay Street in one hand. Whichever municipality asks and is able to maintain and operate with appropriate public resources can get their schools back. The directors can be elected by the local community and the directors will be given their employer rights back. Teachers should be given a freer hand in choosing textbooks and teaching methods. Every class, every child is different, we don't raise nerds. The career model must be corrected, the burden of teachers reduced. We're gonna have to reschedule the basics. CHAPTER XXI 100th century knowledge is not about filling students' minds with a funnel of lexical knowledge. It's now in everyone's pockets, on the Internet, on their cell phones. It is necessary to teach students how to use information that can be obtained from anywhere, how to put the details together into a big picture, and to restore the obligation to study until the age of 18, because we do not want tens of thousands of 16-year-olds working as public workers. Ladies and gentlemen, Please thank the protesting teachers, students and their parents for the warning. They stood up for knowledge to be the basis of the future Hungary, so that the pursuit of right, creativity and dedication should be at the heart of education. I'm asking you to join the cause of education. Thank you for your attention.
u2016-02-15-24	Once again, Bencé Rétvári has the floor. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2016-02-15-25	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, What do you think is a failure, honourable Member? If you look at the amounts spent on education every year in the budget, if you look at how much we spend on teachers' wages from 2013 onwards, you will receive constantly rising amounts from year to year. In 2013, we spent HUF 32 billion more on teachers and teachers' salaries than we did the year before. The next year was the biggest one, in 2014, because at that time the amount we spent on education, the wages of teachers, increased by HUF 120 billion. In the following year, 38 billion, and 34 billion this year, are the additional amounts that we spend on covering the teachers' wages for the teacher's career compared to the previous year. This was nearly 200 billion forints in our first five years, and this year comes the 34 billion forints that we can offer as a plus to all teachers. Is that what you call failure? Is that what you call a misdirection? That the government started the system of careers for the first time in educators? And this greater expected achievement was indeed rewarded by a larger amount, with a higher salary, which the teachers, I think, have all enjoyed. Or do you consider it a failure, Congressman, that on September 1st last year, everyone in the first three grades received free textbooks? From 1 September next year, and from 2016 the entire lower school will now receive a textbook free of charge? Because we said that access to knowledge in a family should not be a financial problem, that it could not be difficult for someone in the family to manage it, so we basically made free textbooks part of family support, as we made the system of extended catering part of family support. You know that 318 of the smallest children are entitled to it free of charge, but among the larger are 250 thousand, who are free of charge and about half of them, who have preferential access to healthy food during the day several times. This is also a very important achievement, which you cannot call a failure. But what is your opinion of the teaching career, honourable Member? Five years ago, 980 people applied to be teachers. Now in the last interview period, 1480. One and a half times as many people are applying to be teachers now as they were five years ago. Because now this track has much more appeal, much more prestige - not us, but the admissions say. We remember the terrifying news when they said that we were training one or two physics teachers a year in Hungary alone. Compared to this, either with the pedagogical career or the Klebelsberg scholarship, we have now managed to increase the number of teachers' applicants by one and a half times in five years, which disproves exactly what you say, honourable Member. If this were a failing area, there would be no increase in salaries, no free access to textbooks and meals, no increase of one and a half times the number of people who want to be teachers. They could choose someone else, they could go to a major like that, but they don't choose it, but they see that there is a perspective in teaching, there is a perspective in the pedagogical future, and a half as many people at 18 are going to be teachers as they were five years ago. [[14.50]] If you think it's right, Your Honour, the conditions of ten years ago, then I think you're very wrong. In both material and substantive terms, there was a major problem in the system of public education. I think that's what the LMP admitted then. That is why a complex change was needed. We have basically touched the entire public education system so that it does not generate profits, it is not underfunded, but that we try to create the conditions for decent operation for everyone who works in public education. And I think it is also very important that a few weeks ago we convened the round table of public education with all the relevant participants, all the sides involved in public education, because it is not simply a ministry and the case of one, two or three trade unions about what will become of the system of public education. It's much wider than that! That's why we called in the parents' organizations, that's why we called in the student organizations. And it is also very important to get feedback on how well those who get out will stand up to their place with the knowledge they acquire. Because many people say that not only was it the terrifying number, which was true in 2010, that 23 percent left the system of public education without qualifications or qualifications, but the problem is that most of these were not aware of basic skills - writing, reading, counting - and I am not saying this, but the employers' representatives said on the round table of public education who were there. Because they can give feedback on the results of the public education system. And equally important, there are the academics, the Academy of Sciences and the Education Committee of the Academy of Arts; therefore, it is important that we have invited experts from the OECD to compare the burden in Hungary compared to other countries, the degree of freedom of teachers, and how our system of public education works. This gives us the opportunity to talk sober and calm about the state of public education. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-02-15-26	The next speech before the agenda will be given by Mr István Tukacs, MSZP Member, with the title of "fire extinguishing" in words. Congressman's got the floor.
u2016-02-15-27	Thank you, Mr. President. If you can believe the news, then Secretary of State Ónodi-Szűcs, who is in charge of health care matters, informed the Fidesz fraction of his plans at the meeting of the Lillafüred Group of Fidesz. It's a comfortable situation. Mr. Secretary of State because he doesn't have to answer uncomfortable questions in the friendly fire, and the Fidesz faction because he gets his illusion that at least there's not as much trouble as the profession talks about health care. However, if the Secretary of State were also talking to the actors in the health care sector, he would find that there is an unusually high degree of agreement between them on how to remedy the problems now. But we'll talk about this a little later. Because Mr. Secretary of State talks about news, and sometimes you make news. We are told that the SAO's secret report indicates that two thirds of hospitals do not comply with the supply conditions. The Secretary of State said that, on the one hand, the conditions were bad and, on the other, he asked why the doctors were assisting in this situation. Well, I suppose, Mr. Secretary of State, it's because they took an oath and made it to heal. We are told that the head of the National Rescue Service talks about the fact that a 15-minute exit period cannot be guaranteed, and we do not have to. Well, that wouldn't surprise me so much if we hadn't talked about this in November with Secretary of State Rétvári, and he didn't want to convince me that 15 minutes is important to us. We hear that the accounting of salaries is a huge problem for current government agencies; they are not able to calculate well. Those who receive more may even be a little happy; but those who do not receive more, but much less, what do they say to their family? We're told that in the matter of general medical funding, the Secretary of State of Rétvári blew a lot into the flour zero because he was talking about something the government doesn't want. I think it was just another communication disturbance, but it definitely indicates the stage in which the government is speaking. We hear Secretary of State wants a chancellor for the head of hospitals. So who's organizing sick roads and care now? The OEP? The state health and care services? Or the Chancellor? We hear that there will be wage development, while Mr Secretary of State forgets to tell the press that this is not wage development, but the start of payment of a legitimate claim so far, which is due for overtime. And of course, we also hear that those specialists who had hoped for the government's promise - which he repeated even in December that they would receive a net minimum wage of 270,000 - were amazed at their payment paperwork, and you have done this with one simple sentence today: we did not say that. Secretary of State, they told me. They told me! Either they didn't open up all the details of the truth, or the situation that a doctor colleague said to the public was simply lying to our faces. We hear doctors have to be replaced by qualified nurses. The folk language immediately improved this, because the gold-plated host course is modeled in gold-plated medical trainings, or is contemplating whether it will be a OKJ course for appendectomy. Mr. Secretary. The problem isn't that you're trying to take the burden off the doctors' shoulders. It's that these doctors aren't here. They're gone. They should be kept at home. What I'm not saying is that the elimination of chronic internal classes, the so-called shelters, will be made public by the cynical argument that they do not serve a healing work. Mr. Secretary, have you ever considered that these people are both old and sick at the same time? And they need a doctor to make it easier for them to have the very little time left to live? The fact that there is no hot water in Eger at Markhot Ferenc Hospital, and cold water, and neither, is a kind of foam on the cake, a sign of health conditions. Mr. Secretary. The great consensus in the profession has developed around: you need a raise, you need money in health care, 400-600 billion. We don't tell you if you don't want to believe us, if the Prime Minister doesn't want to believe us, believe the business. Believe all those who are involved in health care. I can't do this anymore! If they don't get a decent raise, they don't feel appreciated, and they can't be called into battle for a good health system for these people. Thank you for the floor, Mr President.
u2016-02-15-28	Once again, Mr. Secretary of State has the floor. Here you go.
u2016-02-15-29	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Dear House, It is a bit strange to hear more wages and more money from the representatives of the Hungarian Socialist Party. You would have asked patients for more money because they demanded a visitation fee, but they wouldn't have given doctors more money, because they also took a month's wages from public employees who worked in health care. So you are now demanding more money very loudly, but during your administration, you have done exactly the opposite, which they had, rather, spent on hospital safes. The withdrawal that took place during that period is almost identical to what you're saying now, what you mentioned as a sum. Perhaps part of his remorse is that he lacks the money from healthcare that socialist governments have actually withdrawn in eight years. What the Fidesz-KDNP government has been trying to give in part in recent years to its potential in terms of economic performance was an initial step for both doctors and nurses. There are certain parts of this which were implemented in 2012-13, some parts that started in 2015 and continue this year, or continue to be raised, as in the case of general practitioners. These are the programmes that slightly alleviate the very difficult situation, the near-fall-out situation that occurred in 2010. Or while we're talking about Eger, Heves County, let me not bring the problem of HospInvest here, when those hospitals were actually taken beyond the limits of your ability to function. On the other hand, the Fidesz-KDNP government was able to make improvements in health care worth HUF 500 billion mainly in rural areas. There is also an increasing interest in rural hospitals; you know that certain KFTs would now like to operate one or two departments in rural hospitals, because we have finally managed to equip them with quality machines, create a condition in the fullness or parts of many rural hospitals that are really good and acceptable for all of us. This also guarantees a decent working environment for doctors, since in addition to pay and advancement, it is also important to use decent tools in a decent working environment. It was 104 billion forints, which we pushed with a 40 billion forint CT-MRI X-ray contest last July to ensure the safety of patient care. The basic supply is important for the government from the first years, so we secured an extra HUF 10 billion, and this year we provided another HUF 10 billion. This means 130 thousand forints a month per general practitioner, the total amount of which could be used freely by doctors last year. In the case of another HUF 10 billion, we aim primarily to help them cover the wages of the assistants working there. [[15.00]] In 2012-13, there was a two-year period, with an average increase of 27 percent in healthcare workers' wages. We know that they deserve a higher wage, but at the same time, I think we can be proud of the fact that we have managed to guarantee it from the growing performance of the economy. Not out of credit, not out of loans, not from IMF money, not from World Bank money, but from the money produced here in Hungary, we were able to make this first pay increase phase. This was followed in the second half of last year by what we can continue this year for HUF 12.8 billion, so that as much as we could raise the basic wage there, now we were able to increase the fees for the various allowances: shift allowances and overtime allowances to the same extent as in the case of the basic wage in 2012-13. This means releasing moving wages, frozen mobile wages. This means the most extra income for, say, 18,000 doctors and over 40,000 nurses who work near the sickbed, even on several shifts, since they are the ones who can benefit most from these allowances. We hope that by adjusting the mobile pay elements to the basic wage in recent months, the workers have seen the HUF 5-15 thousand they received in the second half of last year, and this year the budget law guarantees all year round, or the doctors have seen the HUF 20-25 thousand that comes from this HUF 12.8 billion. Also, I think it was an important element in halting, slowing down and preventing the movement of doctors abroad that we launched the residency support programme. After all, it's a young doctor who, out of college, is the most mobile, who would be able to work abroad if necessary. Those who have already been removed from the residency program have received their young specialists and their first exam after 1 September, and we can guarantee them an additional HUF 151 thousand if they continue to work here in Hungary. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-02-15-30	Ladies and gentlemen, I now give the floor for a change to Congressman Bence Rétvári, who will address his position before the agenda on behalf of the Christian Democratic People's Party with the title "Worldly Problems, World Meeting." [[Dr. Bence Rétvári is going to replace his representatives.]] Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-02-15-31	Thank you very much for your patience. Mr President, Dear House, I believe that for everyone, whether believing or not, Catholic or Orthodox, or Protestant, the meeting of the head of the Eastern and Western Church, Pope Ferenc and Patriarch Kirill, Patriarch of Moscow and Russia was one of the biggest events of the past week, since it was an event of church history that was probably long awaited on the Catholic and Orthodox sides. He indicated the approach that would reduce the distance between a believer and a believer, since in their case openness to God is more important than the dogmatic, religious, or religious elements that separate them. I think this kind of unity can be exemplary for everyone. [[Dr. János Latorcai, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]] At the same time, church leaders not only dealt with church affairs, but also considered it important to record in 30 points in a joint declaration what they consider important in the whole world, on an eco-menic basis, as leaders of Eastern and Western Christianity, beyond the Catholic-orthodox approach. One of the first points was precisely to protect the values of Christian Europe. Today, in many places, especially in Brussels, even saying that it is a Christian Europe, it is starting to pull over, many people think it is Avítt. However, in Europe, all the values that we assume as the rule of law, we assume as human dignity, we assume as equality, as legal equality, we assume as respect, they are all Christian roots, whether we can talk about equality between men and women or respect the dignity of another person. It is very important that church leaders have drawn attention to the Christian persecution that primarily takes place in Asia or Africa. Sadly, few people know - and unfortunately we have to deal with such numbers - how many people suffer persecution because of their religion, religion, and even less know that five Christians in the world who have been persecuted because of their religion are four Christians. Out of five people who are murdered in the world because of their faith, four Christians. And if we do the math, what we're seeing is that, unfortunately, every 5 to 10 minutes, there's a victim of this Christian persecution all over the world. Here, whether it's Latin or Orthodox, I think there's no difference in the threat. The importance of religious freedom is also important, since in the secularized world, many people view the image of worldview neutrality as if it meant a stately authorized anti-religionism. No, this means religious patience in giving everyone the opportunity to practice religion and the possibility of expressing it. Life protection was an important element. Now that people's lives can often become the object of business, it is important to guarantee a decent life for everyone from natural conception to natural death. Church leaders also confirmed the importance of the family. I believe that within the walls of this House over the last five years, we have said a lot about decisions that strengthen families. The definition of natural marriage was also repeatedly considered important; and enlightenment is considered to be a very dangerous way for the world. It was also a very important step on the part of the two church leaders in neighbouring countries to call on the Orthodox and Greek Catholic churches in Ukraine to cooperate in the conflict and to ensure their support for their approach. Perhaps many, many world political forces and world political factors are trying to use this apparent religious conflict to achieve their geopolitical goals. The two church leaders have made it clear that religious differences cannot be made a plaything of politics and take advantage of the religious diversity of a country in order to arouse internal tensions or to gain power in this way. What is extremely important for Hungary here in Europe is the fight against extreme Islamist terrorism. What we see, what is being done to our Christian brothers in certain Arab Muslim countries is an entire global problem: the spread of terrorism. After all, what Christians get there is very afraid that it is an increasing security risk in Europe as well. After September 11, after the terrorist attack there in the United States, your patriotic law was adopted and tried to protect people's safety in new ways. After the assassination in Paris, London, or Madrid, when we see that life - style is at risk in Europe, we do not have everyday life determined by the feeling of fear. This is why it is important to have new, even constitutionally built guarantees of security in Hungary, and there should be no obstacle to previous data protection or military rules. We hope that the opposition parties of the Hungarian Parliament will recognise this. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-02-15-32	Thank you very much, Congressman. I would like to welcome my fellow Members. We will continue our work, on behalf of the Government, Secretary of State István Mikola will respond to what has been said. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2016-02-15-33	Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Dear Parliament, Everything has been said on this issue, and I really cannot add much, because the press information and some leaked confidential news confirm these words from Congressman Bence Rétvári. I would like to highlight a few things that really give this meeting a world-historic significance. Because the encounter between Pope Francis and Kirill, the Patriarch of all Russia last Friday, is truly of world political importance. Not to mention that it gives a great deal of impetus to the spirit of the Ecumenian, its spread. The meeting is only an overture, but an overture of global political value. We'll be curious about the consequences. It should be remembered that the meeting has been prepared for 20 years, and Hungary was also involved in this preparation, since on 6-7 September 1996 the Pannonhalmi Abbey would have been the second. Pope John Paul and Pope John Paul II The scene of the great encounter of Patriarch Alexi. Why this has not been achieved, I would not like to mention its detailed reasons now, but in any case Hungary and the Members of Parliament who have just sat here played a role in the preparation. I would like to stress that the main idea of the meeting was to return to the Christian roots of the European continent. This is where the representatives of the two church leaders, the billionaire churches, see the real importance of meeting, in drawing attention to this. [[15.10]] They consider it important to protect human life, the importance of family and communities. They also talked about the responsibility of man, emphasising the responsibility of man as the only such actor in the living world, the responsibility of man in himself, in the living world, so responsible for himself, is about his role. Man is responsible for himself, for the other man and for his communities. From a global political point of view, the head of churches drew attention to peace - and this is already a little linked to foreign policy - in Eastern Ukraine, calling these regions in crisis situations, in the Middle East and especially in Syria. It was painfully mentioned that in these crisis regions 4,000 Christians were killed in 2015 and over the past year 7,000-7200 Christians were killed during the wars, not to mention the Yazidiks and other denominations, which also fled and lost their lives in dire circumstances. We're brothers. Everything's gonna be easier from now on. 'The joint statement at the end of the meeting,' said the joint statement. Let us hope that this is indeed the case. Just to emphasize, once again, this meeting was an overture, a reunion between the leaders of the two-billion-dollar world church. We are also looking forward to the further consequences, which also carry content that is obviously decisive for world peace, for Europe. Thank you very much, Mr President, for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-02-15-34	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Mr Lajos Kósa, leader of the Fidesz Group, asked for a pre-meeting speech on the migration crisis in Europe. Here you go, Mr. Group Leader.
u2016-02-15-35	Mr. President. Dear House, Today, it is an undisputed fact that the wave of migration flooding Europe is extremely serious security, a threat to terrorism, but unfortunately it is not only the big assassinations that need to be thought of, but also the security of everyday life where migration is more present than a certain size, and the safety of everyday life is also lost. In this context, many countries in Europe have responded to various legislative proposals from Belgium to Italy and from Slovakia to Bulgaria, both because of the threat of terrorism and the weakening of security. These debates are of different sizes. The characteristic of these debates is that opinions on fundamental human rights are raised everywhere, namely that in the event of a crisis caused by a terrorist threat, the government's actions may, where appropriate, be detrimental to the exercise of certain fundamental rights. That is why, in most places, they are trying to change the law to create the guarantee conditions for governments to act with sufficient authority to ensure the safety of people. The Government of Hungary also turned to the Hungarian political public, under the leadership of the Ministry of Defence, at a five-party meeting, the Hungarian government presented the idea of changing the basic law, which, overall, if we look at the examples of the various European and United States, we say that it is located roughly in the middle field. In Belgium, for example, an amendment is tabled in which, in the specific situation of the introduction of the terrorist threat, Parliament should not be given any authority to the government, but more are experimenting with similar solutions, such as Denmark or France. And it can be said that it is perfectly natural for governments and legislators in a democracy to think about how they are trying to balance the implementation of the basic laws and the requirement for the safety of people. One thing is certain, in most places after very serious debates, but they come up with a solution. Belgium, France, Germany, Italy, Denmark, these countries which have carried out these debates more or less successfully, and the opposition politicians there have understood that, on the one hand, the safety of people is an extremely important value, and, on the other hand, if they do not help the government guarantee the safety of people in some way and do not assign legal frameworks and guarantee elements to this, then everyone will suffer worse, because, on the other hand, governments will be forced when it happens - God will not give it! - a bloodbath, some kind of emergency, they're forced to take action, because otherwise it's demanded by the political public and the people, but it's true that without the guarantee framework that the various laws have otherwise worked out in connection with these debates. So the worst solution that exists, dear Parliament and kind opposition, is that, if we see that there is a threat of terrorism, no one can argue this today - although even last summer some representatives of the MSZP said that there is no migration crisis, this is a kind of distraction action of the Fidesz, but if we see that there is no responsibility today for the other attacks in Paris, London, no one can say that - the aspect that the opposition represents is that the framework is defined and guaranteed elements are present, that if we cannot agree on some constitutional conditions here, along these lines, then the right of people to security and their sense of security are inevitably damaged at the same time, and the institutional system or conditionality of democratic rights is weakened. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: You voted today!]] Therefore, the solution that the Hungarian opposition has chosen in this respect is the worst that exists, because there is no way to achieve a worse situation. Almost every country in Europe has seen this now. We very much hope that the Hungarian opposition will not prevent it [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] that we can guarantee the safety of Hungarian people at home. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: Then why didn't you vote for Btk? Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-02-15-36	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. István Simicskó, Minister for Defence, responds to Mr Fraction Manager's speech before the agenda. Here you go, Minister.
u2016-02-15-37	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Chief of Staff, Indeed, the greatest challenge of our time here in Europe is migration, and the different security risks of this migration must be adequately addressed within the framework of necessity and proportionality, but at the same time extremely effectively. Obviously, we all see, especially after Paris, after acts of terrorism, what dangers there are in immigration, what dangers the migration process brings with it. Of course, this has not only terrorist-type dangers, but also cultural and even civilizational dangers, and we also know that the history of humanity is the history of civilizations, because we can also face a conflict of values, norms, institutions and different thinking if this process does not stop if we do not stop it. Civilization is the broadest cultural entity, the highest cultural grouping of people. Huntington puts it as the greatest, the greatest, the most, the most, the most, the most, the most, the most, the most, the most, the most, the most, the most, the most, the most, the most, the most, the most, the most cultural, the most, the most, the most, the most, the most, the most, the most, the most, the most, the most, the But back to the specific security risks that we had to face, we Hungarians obviously have an interest in what Mr Schiffer talked about, the world order to make this work, but we must strive to ensure that Hungary's protection, in particular the security of Hungarian people, is as effective as possible, in addition to the global approach. This is our aim to ensure that the safety of Hungarian people can be guaranteed as widely as possible, and we would also like to present this responsible attitude in the coming period. Obviously, security has a price, security is a baseline that we need to guarantee, and we need to do this with the right, well-trained bodies. The question of what freedoms can be limited in guaranteeing security is unwarranted because it is a fundamental issue in a constitutional rule of law. We have had sensible debates on this, and I believe that no one can think, let us say, that the limitation of some 30 freedoms applicable to the declaration of a state of emergency can be justified in other cases. So let's say that the government does not want to impose a gold supply obligation if the country is being attacked or if it does not want to use the military improvisation court, because obviously there is no need for such measures, but there is a need to take a number of measures that we would like to achieve and allow by amending the Constitution. [[15.20]] It is necessary that the bodies prepared for this can react promptly and quickly, in order to guarantee the safety of Hungarian people. We are all aware of the powers contained in the special rule of law. We know that, in addition to the state of emergency, the state of emergency, the preventive defense situation and the unexpected armed burglary, there are special cases of unexpected attack in our constitution today. What we want to achieve now is that in the event of a terrorist attack - indeed, as the Slovaks have done, as France, Belgium or Denmark have done - we can take the necessary measures. After all, the government must not bind its margins in such a case, it must not bind its hands, but it must be possible, in addition to the police, to guarantee the security of the country and to act against terrorists by the various forces of the Hungarian Defence Forces and by the forces prepared for this. I am sure that when the Hungarian Parliament voted in favour of the necessary amendments, which meant the participation and assistance of the defence, whether in the elimination of the red sludge disaster or in the flood defense, no one thought that if the government announced the emergency, the government would like to receive some kind of full power and introduce some kind of military dictatorship, but the aim of this regulation is also to ensure the safety of Hungarian people. We would like to create this with a new, clear legislative environment, with which, even in the event of terrorist attacks, even in the case of a specific sense of the terrorist threat, the forces of the Hungarian Defence Forces can help our police officers to keep the Hungarian people and Hungarian families as safe as possible in the next period. That is his purpose, and I thank Mr Group Leader very much for bringing this up today in Parliament, because we really must serve the safety of everyday life, and we will ask for Parliament's approval and supporting decision to do so. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-02-15-38	Thank you very much, Minister. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches before the agenda. Before we go any further, I would like to ask my fellow Members to take their seats, to check that their cards have been properly placed in the voting machines. Now, I would like to ask Mr Dezső, Commissioner, to present further speeches that are not on the agenda.
u2016-02-15-39	Dear Parliament, László Varju, independent; Sebestyén Vágó, Jobbik; Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, MSZP; Előd Novák, Jobbik; György László Lukács, Jobbik; R. Benedek Sallai, LMP; Dániel Z. Karpát, Jobbik. On the day before the agenda tomorrow, the following representatives came forward: István Ikotity, LMP; Bertalan Tóth, MSZP; László György Lukács, Jobbik; Mátyás Firtl, KDNP; Gabriella Selmeczi, Fidesz. Mr Ander Balázs, Jobbik; Lajos Kepli, Jobbik; Előd Novák, Jobbik; R. Benedek Sallai, LMP; Dániel Kárpát Z, Jobbik.
u2016-02-15-40	Thank you very much, Mr. Notary. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind you that from 199 Members of Parliament, all Members and Spokespersons have published their declarations of property and their relatives within the deadline. Declarations of property are public in the case of Members and Spokespersons and can be viewed on the National Assembly's website. I declare that all Members of Parliament and advocates can exercise their rights. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that there was no consensus at last week's meeting of the House Committee on the proposed working schedule of the 2016 Spring Session of the Parliament. Therefore, Parliamentary Act 13. Pursuant to paragraph 6 of Section 6 of the Act, the Parliament shall decide on the working order. The working arrangements have already been made available to my fellow Members from the website. As there is a vote, I would like once again to ask my fellow Members who have just arrived to take their seats to check that their cards have been properly placed in the voting machines. [[For signal:]] Congressman President Novak has already applied for this? [[Novak Foreman nodds.]] Yes, thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that Parliamentary Act 13. In accordance with Article 7 of the Rules of Procedure, one representative per group of Members and the first independent representative to be heard shall be entitled to a maximum of three minutes' contributions after the question under discussion has been presented. I'll ask if anyone wants to take the opportunity to speak. [[For signal:]] The first independent Member shall be entitled to a maximum of three minutes' contributions by one Member per group of Members and the first independent Member, following the presentation of the question under discussion. I'll ask if anyone wants to take the opportunity to speak. (To be indicated:) Yes, I would first like to give the floor to Mr President Novak of the Jobbik Group, for a period of three minutes.
u2016-02-15-41	Thank you for the floor. Dear Parliament, It is unacceptable for Jobbik to have a two-week working schedule in which voting on Tuesdays can be held in half an hour by a block vote once every two weeks, and then the long weekend begins for Members; perhaps with only so much difference as before, that they are no longer rushing to mayor's duties, but perhaps straight to Ibiza. [[Noise, uproar in the ranks of the governing parties.]] For Jobbik, this is unacceptable; it is that the debates have been empty and, in practice, Members are no longer following those debates. [[Constant noise in the ranks of the governing parties. The president's ringing the bell.]] Why would they be present if the parliamentary mediation of these debates was stopped? In fact, since our last sitting, Parliament's TV has been shut down, after they made it impossible to do so, they have made it impossible for the debates to be empty; and last year they stopped broadcasting the Parliament's meetings on public television, they only switched to live by mistake, rather their newscasts summarize the essence, i.e. the least unpleasant parts for Fidesz. [[Continued noise and interruptions in the ranks of the governing parties.]] Although M1 has become a news channel, it has grown since it became a goodHírTV, from 15 March last year more time has been open to politics, but only censored. Under László Fat, the dignity of the Parliament has sunk here. Of course, it is not an individual practice, such as XI. In the district, too, the municipal television stopped broadcasting its board meetings during this cycle, while in the NewBuda newspaper, which was held from HUF 200 million per year, there was no other advertisement than Fidesz, but Fidesz. And Congressman Simicskó on the right, Congressman Simicskó on the left. [[Defiance and interrogation from the ranks of the ruling parties.]] We can watch, admire Congressman's thick complexion in the municipal paper. [[Noise, clarity, interruptions and applause in the ranks of the governing parties. The president's ringing the bell.]] Well, now that the Parliamentary Assembly has finally become a full-time job following Jobbik's demand since the 2014 municipal elections, yes, by eliminating the most common forms of political job accumulation, it is expected that Members will also visit their workplace in the second half of the week. [[Uproar, interrogations from the ranks of Fidesz.]] and do not empty the debates, do not make it impossible. [[Noise, interrogations from the Fidesz ranks. The president's ringing the bell.]] Therefore, Jobbik does not support sitting every two weeks, the fact that MEPs only come in once every two weeks, let us say once on Monday, and the next morning, on Tuesday morning, half an hour of block voting, when it is not possible to have a substantive debate and comment in one minute. [[It's constant noise.]] Well, I think that the night debates are not only anti-family, but they are also empty because of the low numbers, which have exactly the lack of television broadcasts, but in the case of Thursdays and Fridays, if they were like this during the second week, and every Friday, as they are not on a single Friday, more people would follow daytime debates either on TV or on the Internet. You can work at night, of course, but night seats are anti-family, they lead to divorce rather than births. [[Defiance.]] and for drinking at the parliamentary cafeteria [[Noise, interruptions in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] As permitted in all other parties except Jobbik's faction, unfortunately. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-02-15-42	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, I also call on my fellow members of the Government to ensure the smoothness of the speeches. Thank you very much. The next speaker from the LMP Group is Mrs Bernadett Szél. Here you go. [[15.30]]
u2016-02-15-43	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen of the Government, There were two very important government statements regarding the new seating schedule. One statement was that the opposition's control powers were maintained and the other was that the Hungarian Parliament could approach a normal, predictable operation. That's what you said when the May Other put forward a bill for a family-friendly parliament. You voted against this, but you said that with this new seating schedule, these problems will be reduced and resolved. I am sad to say to the Hungarian Parliament that none of the statements have been made. Although the duration of the interpellations could remain for two hours on the LMP initiative, we see it, and the time has shown that our so-called B weeks pro-government fellow Members have little interest in the functioning of Parliament. In addition, it is a sad experience that, in contrast to many European national parliaments, the Hungarian Parliament continues to operate in a completely confusing timeline, indeed, the night debates are not uncommon, and the days are also completely confused. I believe that a family-friendly operation is not only in the interest of the current Members, but if we are committed to bringing more women into public life, then we must be able to operate a Parliament that can produce a working order similar to a normal working order. In addition, we protested strongly enough that citizens' licenses also decreased by not being able to control the work in Parliament, since there are no television broadcasts that could continuously show what Hungarian Members of Parliament are doing in the Hungarian Parliament. If the May Other is the Politics on the Government, I can assure you that even the committees would be camerad, because the most exciting things happen there, and we believe that citizens, Hungarian citizens, have the right to see what they voted for or even all the Members do in their working time in the Hungarian Parliament. All in all, I can tell you that, on the one hand, the May Other Politics asks us to make Parliament fully transparent, we ask that there be a continuous live stream of Parliament's work and of what is going on in the committees. Perhaps this would also motivate some of my pro-government fellow Members to work in committee. Moreover, at weekly level, we consider it important for Parliament to be able to meet in such a way that the opposition's control powers can be fully implemented. We ask the government to take examples of other national parliaments and try to balance this confusion and confusion that is taking place in the Hungarian Parliament in a timely fashion. There is no reason why the Hungarian Parliament should be able to operate like a normal workplace. I think that this is not only in the interest of women but also of men, and it is also good for other institutions in the country. Thank you.
u2016-02-15-44	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. The next speaker from the KDNP Group is Mr Rubovszky György. Here you go.
u2016-02-15-45	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, This year's work schedule was first discussed in front of the House Committee, and when the President presented this working order, we saw that last year's, in our view, was a well-oiled, well-equipped working order. On the other hand, Jobbik's representative there assured the House that they would not vote, and everyone knows their reservations against this working order. I came here today to see if anyone from Jobbik would tell me what kind of reservations he has. Then the predecessor of Novak stood up and said that television was not broadcasting the meetings of the National Assembly. [[It's connected!]] [[It's connected!]] You just forgot to explain what this has to do with the schedule. (Elect Novak: Related!) That's what Wind Bernadett said. I would like to reassure the congresswoman that all minority rights laid down in the House Rule and the Parliamentary Act are guaranteed, in my view, which is too secured [[Mr. Novak intervenes.]] And it's not a problem that the weekly hourly interpellation is one day in two weeks. I believe that last year's agenda worked perfectly last year, and now the President is putting forward the same thing, so on behalf of my group, I can say that we are voting in favour and we are also asking for support from the opposition. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-02-15-46	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr Gergely Bárándy is next from the MSZP Group. Here you go.
u2016-02-15-47	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I think that opposition representatives raise problems in different styles and vehemences, but about the same, and I intend to do the same. I think that when the Rules of Conflict of Interest were laid down by Parliament and practically forbade Members from doing any other job, one of the grounds for reference was that this work required a full man. Well, ladies and gentlemen, I do not know what you are basing this on, when virtually the majority of Members spend one or two days in Parliament every two weeks, the remaining 12 days elsewhere. I know that the work of representatives is not only the work of Parliament, but also its backbone. [[Intercoms in the ranks of the ruling parties. The president's ringing the bell.]] But I also think that it is an exaggeration that some Members interpret this as just enough to spend a day here, about half of it when the buttons are pressed. Ladies and gentlemen, That's what the work schedule you want to adopt here today is about. I don't know why we had to create full-time representatives from the current 199 Members. As for committee week: well, I am glad that President Rubovszky has spoken in the previous proceedings, because we have asked Members many times to set and schedule committee meetings for days when we can attend, i.e. there are no factions or they do not want to hold this on the day of the plenary session. I have hardly seen a committee meeting that was to be held in the so-called B week, because my fellow government members refuse to come up to Budapest, but even the people of Budapest refuse to attend the committee meetings. So, ladies and gentlemen, let us not talk about the fact that week B is the week of committees, because, let us not have a committee meeting for week B, but they are not even willing to set committee meetings for the non-plenary sessions of week A. And as for mediation, I would also like to discuss it. One of the most important features of Parliament is that debates take place in public. This means, in the 20-21st century, not the personal presence, but the transmission of television to the Parliament. The Constitutional Court did not say in a resolution that, for example, one of the most fundamental differences between the law and the regulation is that while the decree is being passed in secret by the government, if you like, before the Parliament, the adoption of the laws takes place in the public debate with the broad involvement of society. Well, this widespread involvement of society has been made impossible by eliminating mediation, so this is very closely and organically relevant when we are discussing this issue. That is why we will not support this work schedule. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2016-02-15-48	Thank you very much, Congressman. The next speaker from the Fidesz Group is Mr György Balla. Here you go.
u2016-02-15-49	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Government, I would like to inform you that, despite what you have just heard from the opposition, there is no change compared to our one-year operation, so that is what opposition representatives are talking about, which has worked perfectly for a year. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: We didn't accept that either. Zoltán Haughty: For you!]] That's what they were criticizing. [[Intercoms.]] I understand Congressman Novak's problem. Night discussions are really tiring, really hard. [[Interjection in Jobbik's ranks: How do you know? Defiance in Jobbik's ranks. The president's ringing the bell.]] and they can really hurt families, especially if you and your wife are both Members. This must be very stressful. I have not heard this argument from anyone other than you that it is difficult for your wife to hold a late-night debate since 1998 since I have been in Parliament. I don't want to interfere with your personal life, but this may be your problem, not your work order. [[Intercoms in Jobbik's ranks.]] As far as television broadcasting is concerned, the Parliament has one task: Parliament's task is to ensure the end points through which any press organ can convey Parliament's meeting. Any of them. These endpoints are available. [[Interventions in the ranks of opposition parties.]] They are also available to ATV, my fellow socialists. If they think that this parliamentary session is so staring and so important that they want to broadcast it in 0-24, they can [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: Isn't it the duty of the billion to become a public?]] And you can do the news TV, Mr. President Novak, Congressman. [[Defiance in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] You're so close to Lajos Simicska right now, talk to him, we'll secure the end point, and News TV will be able to broadcast Parliament's session. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[15.40]]
u2016-02-15-50	Thank you very much, Congressman. [[Noise. Zoltán Lukács: It should be published on DVD.]] On a case-by-case basis, Congresswoman Dóra Dúró asked for the floor. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2016-02-15-51	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, I would like to address you personally, because in the response of Mr Balla to Mr Novak's predecessor, he also made a personal remark about me and my family. [[It's a lot of noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] I would like to tell you, Congressman, that since the change of regime, there have been couples in Parliament in every cycle; there have been five couples and married couples as Members at the same time. [[Lajos Kósa: József Torgyán, János Veres. Nice list.]] I think it's hard for every woman who's a mother of a family to make her sit here at night in Parliament, not just for someone whose husband works in a similar job, and that could be a problem for men, by the way. Viktor Orbán's wife was also Fidesz's listed and individual candidate. Thank you. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2016-02-15-52	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, We will not open a debate on this matter on a case-by-case basis. Since no other speakers have made themselves known, it is now up to the Parliament's decision. [[We'll talk about it at night.]] Congressman Novak, calm down now. [[Defiance.]] I think the rules of chivalry are all settled with regard to your wife's personal involvement. [[Noise, interruptions.]] Since no other speakers have made themselves known, it is now up to the Parliament's decision. I ask the honourable Parliament whether it accepts the proposed working schedule of the spring session. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the proposed schedule of work of the spring session by 120 votes in favour, 52 against and without abstentions. It is now time to set the agenda for our meeting starting today. We shall decide on the agenda, the duration of the meeting, on the basis of a proposal put forward by the President in his power to speak. At the meeting of the House Committee, all political groups agreed that, in the same way as previous practice, Parliament should adopt speeches outside the agenda and a derogation from house rules in relation to issues during the interpellation period. The proposal for a derogation from house rules was made by H/8863. You can find it on the website. I would like to ask Mr Lajos Szűcs to explain the substance of this.
u2016-02-15-53	Dear Parliament, The House Committee initiates the Parliament to adopt its agenda for several weeks at its spring 2016 session: Point 1. The political groups shall be entitled to speak outside the agenda on the other day of the second week of the sitting, as set out on the agenda. The intention to speak shall be notified no later than the opening of the first sitting of week 2. Point 2. During the discussion of the questions, it shall depart from the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the Decision in such a way that, at the meeting on the 2nd week of the sitting, the issue containing the item on the agenda of the questions may only be discussed, which has been submitted at 9.30 a.m. on the working day preceding the sitting.
u2016-02-15-54	Thank you very much, Mr. Notary. Dear Parliament, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that in order to derogate from the house rules, the four-fifths of the Members present need to vote in favour. I therefore ask the Honourable Parliament whether it agrees to derogate from the house rules. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the derogation from the rule of the house by 167 votes in favour, 1 against and 6 abstentions. Dear Parliament, The MSZP Group suggested that the 2012 CLIX on postal services. T/8829. The general discussion of the legislative proposal No 1 shall not take place at this meeting. I ask you, who agrees, to vote with your hands up. [[Vote.]] Thank you very much. I find that the visible majority of Parliament has not accepted the proposal. Dear Parliament, We are now deciding on a proposal on the agenda put forward by the President. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts the recommendation on the agenda. Please vote by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] It's a visible majority. I note that the visible majority of Parliament has adopted the agenda and the agenda. Dear Parliament, In the power of the President, I propose that the Parliament ask the negotiating committee to decide on certain reports. The house rules are 85. Pursuant to Article 1 (1) of the Act, Parliament shall decide on this without debate, separately. First, B/8339/2. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it invites the designated National Defence and Police Committee on the implementation of defence tasks in 2014 and on the preparation, state and development of the Hungarian Defence Forces, B/8339. for a decision to be taken on this proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament asked the designated committee to take a decision by 143 votes in favour, 32 against and 1 abstention. Now B/8386-2. I ask the Honourable Parliament, on the basis of Motion B/8386, to ask the designated Committee on Agriculture, on the state of the agricultural economy in 2014. for a decision to be taken on this proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament asked the designated committee to take a decision by 119 votes in favour, 56 against and 1 abstention. Dear Parliament, A decision on a personal proposal will not take place today. At the same time, I would like to inform the Honourable Parliament that the government has submitted a legislative programme for the spring session, which interested parties could learn on the IT network. The State Audit Office has presented its recommendation to this effect, which can also be accessed through the IT network. Dear Parliament, Now, at 3:49 p.m., we're moving on to interpellations and immediate questions. Dear Parliament, Congressman István Hiller, Vice-President of the Parliament, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Human Resources entitled "The Future of Public Education." Mr. István Hiller, Vice President, please.
u2016-02-15-55	Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Congresswoman Wives and Congressman Lords! The problem of education is clear to all of us that it has grown beyond the walls of schools. Masses of parents, grandparents, civil society organisations indicate indignation, and the protest has now become national. An avalanche was launched by a letter of protest from a brave school, Herman Ottó High School in Miskolc. The government's response was to create a round table around which there were many organisations with decisive knowledge and experience, others who had not been able to say much about education. First of all, the institutionalised and statutory dialogue forums, Mr. Secretary of State, have been beaten up by you. It was called the Public Education Policy Council. [[15.50]] Now, when there's trouble, they're looking for forms that shouldn't be created in a hurry right now if they hadn't beaten them three years ago, and then five years ago, for the second time. Whether it is said by a Member or by a State Secretary, the allegations that the level of public education between 2000 and 2010 would have been reduced are false, Mr Secretary of State. From the first government of Viktor Orbán until 2010, domestic and international surveys have demonstrated that our results have improved slowly but at an increasing pace. In 2010, you took over a system with a lot of problems, but it is increasingly improving performance, and then you beat it up. But what's even sadder is that they have created a new one that has proven to produce deteriorating results and results in public uproar. The level of public education is deteriorating today, and for this reason and for no other reason has tens of thousands of people demonstrated here in Kossuth Square for two days at a dignified demonstration. Dear Secretary of State, The problem is systemic, but there is one among you who says that all this is just screaming, there is no particular problem here, only the press enlarges the whole thing. Therefore, I ask you with all due respect: do you agree that the problem in public education is not really significant, but rather just whining, and that the press distorts and enlarges the whole thing? Do you agree that the control center, the KLIK itself, is the problem? Do you agree that the open letter from protesting teachers raises real problems? Do you agree with the teacher's opinion, as a father, as a parent, that you would be there for a demonstration like this next time? Thank you very much.
u2016-02-15-56	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. State Secretary Bence Rétvári answers the interpellation question. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2016-02-15-57	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, Dear House, The question of whether the KLIK, the state reserve is needed, how much is needed, let me quote a professor at the university:. State public education - state education, not municipal public education - is an effective response to the two main challenges of Hungarian public education: inequality of chance and segregation. In the future, this university professor continues - earlier - this is how it can be seen very clearly that everywhere in the world and not only in Europe in solving problems of such nature and gravity as the current economic crisis, it is a well-functioning and strong state that can act effectively. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. [[Dr. István Hiller: That's right!]] You obviously recognize these, as you said to the People's Republic in 2009, when you raised the possibility of maintaining a state reserve for institutions, schools that operate in a settlement in difficulty. In addition, on 11 March 2009 you were supported by the head organizer of the protest, the Teachers' Union. Therefore, I say that although KLIK's organisation is struggling with many problems from within, but the state reservation - I think you can agree with the 2009 self - is a problem or a solution for state maintenance, in many cases state reservation is a possibility for many schools, especially in Eastern Hungary, small settlements, in difficult settlements. Because there were settlements where there was no money to maintain the school, and in 381 places there was a lock on the doors of public education institutions between 2002 and 2010. Elsewhere, in addition to the power of the municipality, he was able to keep the school alive so that he could pay the wages of teachers, the bills and other costs, and the loans and bonds of these municipalities had to be paid in the order of a thousand billion after 2010, since there was no real collateral for this. The education system was underfunded. That's what I'd say to one of the questions. The other question, which was also mentioned on the round table for public education, is how representative or not representative, honourable Member: in the last few weeks, they have generally referred to me, not to politicians, but to organisations, who have referred to the fact that there is not a broad enough dialogue, who have been invited themselves but who have not come. It's a little weird. You know, in law school, I learned a basic rule of law that no one can lay a right on their own reprehensible behavior. If a person does not come to a public education round table, then do not refer to the fact that there is not a broad enough discussion. However, we have tried to start the widest possible consultation. And why did we choose this form over the forms you quoted? Because this has worked in the field of higher education in the last two years. Because we set up a round table in higher education and all the problems that were, where appropriate, urgent two years ago, could be solved in this dialogue system. With this operation, with this negotiation, we have succeeded in higher education, so we think that we can achieve success in the field of public education more widely, because it is obviously a wider circle, too. Therefore, we invite not only trade unions to do this, but also the representatives of parents, the representatives of students, the representatives of the Faculty of Pedagogism, the Education Committee of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences or the similar organization of the Academy of Arts. We invited the leaders of Herman Ottó High School to be experts and asked him to represent all those who agree with him and take a similar position. From the next meeting, we invited the OECD to bring the best samples, examples they can see to the table of the public education round table. Compare whether a Hungarian student is really overwhelmed compared to a student in an OECD Member State. Where is a class number, the number of children per educator higher: Hungary or OECD average? It is difficult to compare this in some cases, but it is the only basis for a calm dialogue. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2016-02-15-58	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I respectfully ask Vice-President István Hiller if he will accept the State Secretary's reply.
u2016-02-15-59	Dear Secretary of State, Quote exactly, nicely, as secretary of state comes and goes in the sky. So, I quote, you will proceed with what I said back in the day. These schools would not be created by distasteful nationalization more than half a century ago, not by regulation, but by negotiation, by means of a maintenance exchange. You're allowed to be a public school, but you don't have to. That's what they would have received! If that's what they do, if they don't have to take away schools, then the standards are quite different. That is why I am asking you not only to accept my proposal for 2009, but to complement it now. I suggest you eliminate the KLIK. I suggest that you allow Debrecen, Pope, Szeged, Győr or the Hegyvidék, Pesterzsébet or Kispest to be a school maintainer again. I suggest you give me back the rights of the directors. As long as that's not the answer, I won't accept it. Thank you very much.
u2016-02-15-60	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President didn't accept the Secretary of State's answer. I ask the Honourable Parliament if it will be accepted. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution, the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 106 votes in favour, 48 votes against and no abstentions. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Parliament, Congressman László György Lukács, representative of Jobbik, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Human Resources, with one foot in the grave. Is patient care safe? It's an address. Mr László György Lukács has the floor. Here you go.
u2016-02-15-61	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, Unfortunately, patients are getting used to the cases where they have to buy batteries in the 24-hour blood pressure measuring device themselves or when they have to carry printer paper to print their final report. These cases, as a drop in the sea, show how important and serious health care is in addition to this. If we are to continue to look at health from the patient's side, it is very important that we address the issue of patient safety itself. Now, it may not only be the people who suffer from malpractice or malpractice, but also the professionals claim that people are not really safe in our healthcare facilities. It is a regrettable fact and a result of a survey in which they wondered how safe doctors felt about their own patients during treatment. Well, in this survey, 78 percent of the doctors thought that the patient was not at all or barely safe in the care. The data is devastating, so it's barely 20 percent who thought the patients were safe. But we can go further, and we can say that nearly two thirds of healthcare institutions are already unable to meet the minimum requirements set by the government itself in order to provide safe care, and what we would like them to do to ensure that where they go to heal, patients are safe. [[16.00]] In fact, we are concerned that an ex-chief physician can say in 2012 that the only reason why they do not go to health institutions is because they do not comply with their statutory control obligations, because health institutions are no longer able to comply with them. What we need to say and see is that the problem remains that the state does not control patient safety, we cannot know, and even patients cannot know, that the institutions where they go to heal, where they perform surgeries at all, do not get divorced if they like which is the death factory or where our doctors work in good quality and excellent quality. So what we need to see is that the public rightly expects that all the data that relates to safe patient care should be made public. If we could say a simple metaphor, and perhaps this is health care, and if we see health as a restaurant, we could walk in this restaurant without any criticism of it, and we can't even read about the results of working in this restaurant, but even the authorities can't check it. Well, who would go into a place like this? ! This is what Hungarian hospitals are like at the moment. But in view of all this, I would like to ask you, Mr Secretary of State, to answer a few questions now, in the light of the patients. Why doesn't the state comply with the minimum conditions for safe care itself? Why does Viktor Orbán feel that health care is a nuisance? And, above all, why do you feel sorry for budget expenditure when, believe me, our health and not Andy Vajna are the best investments in the future. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2016-02-15-62	Thank you very much, Congressman. The answer to the interpellation question raised will be Mr Bence Rétvári, State Secretary. Here you go.
u2016-02-15-63	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr. President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, The government thought that health is one of the most important sectors, an area where improvements need to be implemented, because care for patients requires the most modern equipment park and renovated hospitals, which, let us say, has been obsolete not only since the change of regime, but many times before. I myself, when I was at one of these handovers... the oldest machine we've just triggered has been installed 40 years ago, and now I've managed to find a source of that big 500 billion-dollar package we've made over the last five years to finally get it to a Transdanubian facility, if I remember correctly, to retire and replace it with a modern machine after 40 years of service. The purchase of assets was one of our top goals, and they have been able to buy the latest, most modern medical devices in the last five years with a value of HUF 104 billion. And we pushed that for hospitals with an extra 40 billion CT, MRI and X-ray contest in the second half of last year. On the one hand, it can also serve the safety of patients and, on the other hand, the fulfilment of minimum conditions, and on the third, it is also an important tool in keeping doctors at home to work in the most modern conditions, in clean, well-groomed and modern conditions. Therefore, we have mainly tried to improve diagnostics so that the examination could be carried out within 14 days, even if there is a reasonable suspicion of cancer. Indeed, it has been said, and at first not in the wider public, but in the consultation of hospital directors, that instead of listing minimum conditions, it is a new minimum regulation adapted to patient safety and patient needs, which is the intention of the EMMI in the next period. Both this and the other actions of the Secretary of State were first discussed and discussed in a hospital board of hospital managers. There, I believe, there were fewer oppositions than the plenary session of Parliament or what is expected in committee. We therefore hope that these minimum conditions will be transparent, enforceable and verifiable. At the same time, the HUF 500 billion that we were able to devote to the modernisation of rural hospitals was not the final source, as it was published just last week, Mr. honourable Member, the annual development framework in which we set out the funding for hospitals this year: for comprehensive, targeted public health developments for HUF 8 billion; for the development of emergency and accident child care HUF 10 billion; for the development of a single care facility park of HUF 5 billion in the New Széchenyi Plan; for the creation of an active inpatient psychiatric and addictological care system, for the creation and development of infrastructure conditions; for HUF 5 billion for the development of nursing homes; for HUF 10 billion for the development of clinical skill labs; for the development of a pathological and medical laboratory network of HUF 9.8 billion; for the development of a missing health and social and human services at county level of HUF 14 billion. And I could say the HUF 6-7 billion for screenings or HUF 8 million for comprehensive development, or even HUF 4.4 billion for a scholarship program supporting career choice for nursing students. These are all widely and widely available sources to be announced this year. And I could add it to you, because it is a much bigger amount, which appeared exactly in the Hungarian Gazette last week. We want to help you with this, not only with words, not only with different horse-zungs, but also with concrete financial support, as we have done over the past five years, from community resources, from national sources, so that hospitals can meet the needs of patients. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2016-02-15-64	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I will ask Mr László György Lukács if he will accept the State Secretary's reply. Here you go.
u2016-02-15-65	Mr President, I'm not at liberty to accept the answer, not even because of the fact that the government's message to patients seems to be very well drawn from its response to the boring number war: you don't even want to know what patients think about patient safety. In fact, I didn't even care, it seems, for the government to operate a well-clear and thus a health system guaranteeing safety. That's why it's clear that they're deciding over the heads of the patients. The Jobbik, learning from these mistakes you are making, will conduct a genuine national consultation in 2016, including in the field of health, where we will ask people's opinions on issues considered to be the most important in health. Those answers will show you the state of health and the response you really need to give to get the system out of the crisis. Secretary of State, the most important thing must be patient safety. I believe that all of these will be there, and this question will also be there in the response to the real national consultation, and also in the question. Thank you very much.
u2016-02-15-66	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, As we have heard, Congressman did not accept the Secretary of State's reply. I ask the Honourable Parliament if it will be accepted. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 104 votes in favour, 35 against and 2 abstentions. Dear Parliament, Congresswoman Bernadett Szél, representative of the LMP, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of the Prime Minister's Office:. Why did they lie to the Hungarian families? It's an address. On behalf of Mr Miklós Seszták, Minister for National Development, who is competent and competent on behalf of the Prime Minister, Mr Zsolt Szabó will respond to the interpellation. Congresswoman Bernadett Wind has the floor. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2016-02-15-67	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, I'm a little sorry that the minister who played the leading role in this shameful process is not responding to my interpellation, and whose words I wanted to quote now, but, in any case, let's look at what happened and see why this interpellation has to take place at all. In short and succinct terms, last August was the announcement in which the government made quite a fuss over what it said, stating that it would provide EU non-refundable support for the energy efficiency modernisation of homes. Well, if I were to put it briefly and concisely, then I can say that it's practically nothing. However, Hungarian households would desperately need this help, because they do not have savings for this purpose, but we seem to use twice as much energy in Hungary as in Austria, and not because it is so hot in Hungarian homes, but because the heating systems are so bad, the windows are bad, the houses are not isolated. Therefore, the Hungarian people spend their money on heating, they remain cold, cold in their homes, they cannot heat their house as hot as they would like, because the state of the house is so bad in this respect. You have recognised this problem last year and said that you will help Hungarian people and promised Hungarians that with a 40% non-refundable percentage, Hungarian people will be helped to seal their houses. You have withdrawn this promise, the Hungarian people will not receive this help if it is up to you. That was the first mistake. The second mistake was that when we brought to account the competent minister, who did not respond to my interpellation today, the answer was that the EU was responsible for all of this, trying to effectively shift responsibility to the Union. The EU had to write in writing, from the letter of the Commissioner for Regional Development Corina Crețu, that it was not the European Union's motion to change this programme, because it would be necessary to make an explicit modernisation of the 50 thousand households from the programme that you have submitted to the European Union, the Union has accepted it. [[16.10]] So what happened here is that the Hungarian government did not take responsibility for what it had done, that is, that it had promised something to the Hungarian people and then withdrew its promise. The recent events point to the fact that the government has actually started gambling with EU support for Hungarian people, in particular, they have already initiated an amendment to the European Commission's operational programme, i.e. allowing homes not to receive this money but to spend it on public institutions. I think all common sense is practically lacking in this kind of behavior. We clearly see that with a comprehensive energy modernisation program the energy bill of a family home can be halved, halved. Hungarian people should pay half as much for rent and household costs, and this would be absolutely necessary, because Hungarian people still do not earn so much, the wages in this country are so bad that they cannot pay the yellow checks at the end of the month. [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] Dear Secretary of State, Why did you keep talking to him? Why didn't you stand next to the Hungarian people? Why didn't they give you the money for the homes?
u2016-02-15-68	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. As I have already said, Parliamentary Secretary Zsolt Szabó responds to what has been said. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2016-02-15-69	[[Without sound:]] Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament,
u2016-02-15-70	Mr. Secretary. Is the card in? Fix it, please. [[It's happening.]] Good.
u2016-02-15-71	Are you going now? [[Intercoms: Yes.]] Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and I would like to reassure you that the government is proposing four proposals for solutions and will take action in the next period to support Hungarian families in the area of renovation of houses and properties. The reduction of the rent has shown how much the expenses and burdens of Hungarian families can be reduced. In the case of an average family, this means savings of around 100,000 forints per year. And let me add another number: Between 2012 and 2015, the debt decreased by about 30 percent, the amount of outstanding debt for utility bills over 30 days. Perhaps the congresswoman was less concerned when she said no on two occasions to the vote on reducing household heating and energy bills. I ask you that if you vote in favour of these in the next period, this will be a major saving for Hungarian families, and it will certainly be a great step forward. The government is committed to representing the interests of households and will continue to support Hungarian families. What we've done so far? Within the framework of the program "Home Gay" we helped 85 thousand households with HUF 17 billion. In the case of the replacement of machines, this meant savings and renovations of approximately HUF 20 thousand, saving between HUF 150 and 180 thousand in the case of the modernisation of residential buildings. At present, there is a sub-programme for full energy modernisation of family houses, which is expected to start around March and May and will continue to be available with a substantial amount in the coming years.In 2016, development policy measures will be taken to increase the economy, and within these frameworks, some HUF 100 billion of the innovative programme for economic development will be issued in the form of refurbishable interest subsidies for the renovation of family houses in a tender form. I would also like to add the possibility that just recently the so-called CSOK programme for the home creation of families, which is included in two government regulations, is an opportunity for real estate purchases and real estate investments, renovation and expansion of old-type properties. And let us not forget one important factor: in the case of new real estate, the VAT reduction that we have introduced will make shopping, purchasing and family spending easier from 27 to 5 percent, about 17 percent. If we add all this up, the government has fulfilled its expectations to a much greater and greater extent, as promised. Please accept my reply. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-02-15-72	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I'll ask Congresswoman Bernadett Wind to accept the Secretary of State's answer. Here you go.
u2016-02-15-73	If the Secretary of State had responded, I would have had the chance to accept it, but I have nothing to accept. On the one hand, part of what he said was in the past tense. I don't want to hear about Fidesz's 2014 government program, thank you very much, those words might have been saved. What you said next time, why should I believe that? You said that this 50,000 households will also be assured that they will have non-refundable support, and then they will not. Now you can promise anything, and we'll see what happens and what doesn't. One thing is certain: you clearly do not want to help Hungarian people to make their own lives more economical. We see that Fidesz's goal is to keep this country dependent, which is why they taxed the solar panels, so they started an opaque nuclear project with Russia in Putin and therefore increase our dependence on Russia in Putin. We believe that it is in the interests of Hungarian people and Hungary not to be dependent, but to be a strong, sovereign country. To do so, however, Hungarian people need to be helped not to get cold in their homes, they can insulate it, and this requires grants; you did not give it. I have nothing to accept, Mr. Secretary.
u2016-02-15-74	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, As you have heard, the congresswoman did not accept the Secretary of State's reply. I'm asking you if you'll accept it. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 100 votes to 31, with no abstentions. Dear Parliament, Congressman Zsolt Becsó, representative of Fidesz, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of the Interior:. Can Salgótarján's budget be lost? It's an address. Congressman Zsolt Becsó should take the floor. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-02-15-75	Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, A year ago in Salgótarján, the Fidesz majority government handed over the management to the left with a surplus of HUF 945 million. Despite the short time since then, the budget deficit of the currently socialist-led city may reach up to HUF 1 billion. We can safely say that the socialists have led the city to a dead end, and instead of turning around and leading the settlement out of trouble, they are adding, more precisely, covering up the trouble. In the summer of 2014, the socialists, who promised, among other things, a passenger-friendly crowd approach, better public security, more jobs, and, of course, that the city was starting to flourish, saw that they could not cope with their promises, and that after 14 months they were trying to deceive the city again. No doubt, they just see people as voting machines. As an old socialist custom, they wish to pass on and wash the responsibility after failure, citing party state times. Admitting their lack of leadership skills, a task force was set up instead of putting a competitive budget for the development of the city on the table. They have a clear intention of not having to face the facts before the mayor election at the end of February and saving black soup for March. In line with the traditions of the fallen left, they want to fill the budget holes with the well-known Gyurcsány-Bajnai recipe, reducing expenditure only by closing facilities, redundancies, reducing salaries and introducing new local taxes. The construction tax has already been increased by more than 50 percent, the 30 percent rent discount for businesses has now been withdrawn, but that is not enough. They want to reduce public transport dramatically, the Zenthe Ferenc Theatre would be closed, the public employment system would be hit dramatically, the property tax would be levied, and the overall cost would be hundreds of people's livelihoods. I am convinced that a responsible city administration should present its budget in due time and with sufficient foundation, which the body of representatives of the municipality can accept, otherwise there will be a multitude of uncertainty and negative consequences for the settlement. This is the situation at the moment in Salgótarján: their unscheduled steps will attack the safety of people and will permanently destroy the city, but people cannot be deceived without impunity. On this basis, I respectfully ask the Secretary of State what the consequences will be if a city does not adopt a budget for that year. Can a city administration postpone the adoption of the budget on the basis of a campaign? How can the legal operation of the Salgótarján municipality be restored? I'm waiting for your answer. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-02-15-76	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr Tibor Pogácsás, State Secretary, responds to the interpellation question. Here you go, Secretary of State. [[16.20]]
u2016-02-15-77	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear Parliament, The operation of the municipalities is clearly regulated by law, the municipal law is clear, the budget law is clear, and the question arises: why is it possible at all that a city, a settlement, does not accept its budget, why did it deceive its voters? For legitimate, regular operation, predictable management, the functioning of the institutions, the provision of local public services, it is all necessary that every city, every settlement, accepts its budget. The Hungarian Parliament adopted the 2016 budget at the middle of last year, so there is nothing surprising or unexpected that the settlements had to expect when the settlement budget was adopted. It is true that there was a time in the history of the municipalities when the huge debt - which weighed on the settlements - was limited due to the late budget, and they had a short period of time. In Salgótarján's case, the state took over HUF 3 billion in the course of the debt transfer, but today such a burden, such a problem does not weigh on Salgótarján or any other settlement. Therefore, there is every opportunity for the budget to be adopted. But not only are there opportunities, but they are also an obligation to the settlements. The budget shall be submitted by 15 February. If a budget is not submitted, if the municipality does not make up its Financial Regulation, then it will have to expect sanctions, since in that case normative or public funding will be suspended. Otherwise, it is completely incomprehensible why anyone would operate today, since all responsible leaders should know that their settlement, their city, will be harmed directly and in the short term by making its normal annual operation more difficult with the risk of non-State aid. The municipality is operating in the city. It is unfortunate that Mr. Mayor has passed away, but the municipality is functioning. The municipality can perform all functions, in the absence of the mayor, the deputy mayor exercises the powers of the mayor, so the deputy mayor is obliged to submit the city's budget within the legal deadline. If submitted within the legal deadline, then, on the one hand, the leaders of the city, the representatives of the municipality, can clearly learn about the planned budget figures, on the other hand, the people of the city can see and face the situation that appears in the operation of the city, in the appearance of the resources necessary for the operation of the city. I must confirm and say that there is no legal possibility that a settlement, even in an election campaign, will miss the submission of the budget. If this happens, you will have to take into account that, in the case of a budget not adopted within the deadline, until the budget is adopted, State aid will not be granted to the municipality. And, of course, the government agency must investigate the case and, where appropriate, carry out the necessary procedures. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-02-15-78	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I respectfully ask Mr Zsolt Becsó if he accepts the State Secretary's reply. Here you go.
u2016-02-15-79	Thank you very much. Secretary of State, I accept your answer, but everything that happens in Salgótarján is unacceptable. By noon today, the town of Salgótarján had no budget submitted, and it is likely that until 28 February, the day of the elections, the city of Salgótarján County will not have an approved budget. By not having an approved budget for the city, the socialist city administration deceived the people and deceived the Salgótarjáns. I think people want to be clear. In 2012, as Mr. State Secretary mentioned, the Fidesz government consolidated the city of Salgótarján county, freed it from a debt of 3.2 billion, and in 2014 the former Fidesz city administration handed over a surplus of HUF 945 million, but after 14 months, the socialist city administration put Salgótarján at a dead end. He drifted to the brink of bankruptcy in Salgótarja. This situation needs to be changed. And when we have the trust, we will protect the safety of the people, and we will save the city from bankruptcy. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-02-15-80	Thank you very much, Congressman. As we have heard, Congressman has accepted the Secretary of State's reply. Dear Parliament, Congressman Zoltán Gőgös, representative of the MSZP, has submitted an interpellation to the Prime Minister:. What about Mezőhegyes? It's an address. On behalf of the Prime Minister, János Lázár, Head of the Prime Minister's Office, who is responsible and competent according to the subject, responds to the interpellation. Congressman Zoltán Haughty has the floor. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-02-15-81	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister, Time is running very dangerously short until this November, and our profession has certain biological needs, which we hope everyone is aware of when making decisions. The fact is, in Mezőhegyes, we have managed to destroy a company that has been operating for a very long time. I know the answer will be that the reason for this is privatisation, but I would like to draw your attention to the fact that none of the jobs ceased 12 years ago, the factory kitchen was not closed, the water supply of the majors was not at risk, and I would like to mention, in particular, the problems relating to livestock farming. In fact, in 2010, that enterprise survived an unprecedented natural disaster. We have now heard that they will definitely save 400 jobs there. There is also a government commissioner - I add, a competent expert - who does not comment, says anything, has not even been able to negotiate with him, and they expect it to be a meaningful step, because - I say, Minister - by the end of April we should reject the silo corn that the thousand cows there should eat next year, if the dairy establishment and the eighty jobs with it are at all preserved, because I find it impossible that a rider's company, which has been reorganized into a budget administration, should not be able to eat next year. You would be able to draw up such a workforce unless you want everything to be cashed and collected with a fork by hand, because you know that there is a greater need for capacity for this. And obviously the locals would like to know that after 1 April, he will supply the water in the majors, because the public limited company has written to them that this kind of service will cease. In the meantime, the factory kitchen is closed, but the biggest problem is around the livestock farm. Everyone expects a clear answer as to whether the government is willing to take over this operation with some technique, in some way, because it is the largest employer of this system. But if it's fate that you've already set me up with Minister, I'd like to ask you one more thing. There's been a lot of storms these days about certain qualifications. I wrote a written question to which you gave a correct answer, and I do not dispute it, but I would like to know what agricultural education you have in order to get the name of the private land in your declaration of property, because in Hungary only farmers and farmers can obtain land. There are very, very narrow exceptions to this, but since your income is probably not from agriculture over 50 percent, it certainly does not correspond to that exception. I only hope that Lőrinc Mészáros did not have a schoolmate in Tolna County, but I would like a definite answer to that, since fate has brought us together. I wrote it in writing, but it wouldn't have to wait two weeks if you could give me a meaningful answer; and, of course, what will happen to Mezőhegyes, because that is basically what the people there are interested in. Thank you very much.
u2016-02-15-82	Thank you very much, Congressman. Minister János Lázár will answer his interpellation question. Here you go, Minister.
u2016-02-15-83	Thank you very much. Honourable Parliament! Dear fellow Member, If I may say so, I would like to start with what the matter is doing at the Prime Minister's Office, partly underlining the importance of the matter and the importance of Mezőhegyes in relation to the operation of the government. We believe that this is a matter of general government, in any case, that until a new agricultural business is re-established, the creation of a new enterprise, the assembly and construction of new operating conditions concern the work of several wallets. That is why the Prime Minister has instructed us to coordinate this. Our plans relate primarily to the need to re-establish the county estate of the county of Mezőhegyes, the state estate of Mezőhegyes. We do not agree with the model that saw a solution in privatisation at the time. The last time you had a vehement debate with me, I would not like to provoke this again from you, I respect your bias and commitment to the cause, so I just want to show that we see the solution to the social problems of the town of Mezőhegyes, the development of the agriculture there, if, on the basis of the proposal of my fellow Member Sándor Farkas, an esteemed agricultural expert, the government decides within a short time and re-establishs the Mezőhegyesi Ménes estate, the agricultural state enterprise of Mezőhegyes, which I believe will be a state-owned enterprise, which must work together in synergy, it must be part of a group with the current agricultural plant in Mezőhegyes. [[16.30]] That's a fraction of it. According to our investigations, the company could be re-established on a base of about 4,000 hectares, and fortunately, about 2,000 hectares of it are located close to each other or in one member, so its use is practical. There are areas that are not in the administrative territory of Mezőhegyes, and there are forest estates that are in state management and could be integrated with the company or with this format. The Prime Minister wishes, in part, to set up a business with the government and the state that can serve as a model property, be a suitable enterprise for integration and, of course, be able to carry on employment. We promised the city, the citizens of the city, the municipality and the mayor that we would provide jobs for the people. At the moment, Sándor Farkas is making a presentation to the government. This proposal is expected to be on the agenda in a short time, even at the government meeting next week, given the fact that it is roughly ready for its direction, and the Government is then ready to discuss its position here in Parliament, the Commissioner of the Government in Mezőhegyes, of course, with those concerned. We do not refrain from any of the possibilities for the state to acquire, seize, or block from establishing a new farm, nor do we refrain from negotiating with the seed plant. After all, some of the hundreds of workers were integrated into the agricultural seed plant after its separate privatisation. The aim is to create a viable, functioning agricultural enterprise, which is a flagship of Hungarian agriculture, which pays the people's existence and taxes to the city. I personally believe that this can be achieved at 4,000 hectares, not necessarily 9 000 hectares, but I believe that it must be state-owned and in the public interest. Although it does not coincide with the house rules, I can answer your personal question that the legislation has enabled you to become a farmer in Hungary with former primal law or forest management law. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-02-15-84	Thank you very much, Minister. I ask Mr Zoltán Gőgös if he accepts Minister János Lázár's reply. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-02-15-85	Thank you very much for your answer, Minister. By the way, we don't allow legislation, you know wrong, but we'll fight this battle separately. I really hope the land office doesn't record this land purchase, because then I'd be very sad. What you said about Mezőhegyes listed what that company should be like. Mr. Secretary, that's what it was until the last year, until the land was yanked out from under it. He paid taxes, worked decently, gave work to 400 people, kept animals, had seed plants, supervised irrigation, coordinated, gave jobs to nearly a thousand seasonal workers. It was a company like this. Now, biology cannot be rewritten by party resolutions. You have to decide very, very quickly what will happen to the livestock farm. If this happens next week, I think... - but only in case what you say is true, if a positive decision is made and the genetics that will take 30 years will be carried forward, Minister. At present, this stock has a 30-year history. The profession would be very, very sorry if such stock were to be taken to a slaughterhouse. I don't accept the answer.
u2016-02-15-86	Dear Parliament, Congressman did not accept the Minister's reply. I ask the Honourable Parliament if it will be accepted. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the ministerial response by 104 votes to 33, with no abstentions. Congressman György Szilágyi, the representative of Jobbik, has submitted an interpellation to the Prime Minister:. Clearer public life or the possibility of concealing wealth? This is the title of the question. On behalf of the Minister for Foreign Affairs Antal Rogán, who is responsible for the subject, will respond to the interpellation on behalf of the Prime Minister, Mr Csaba Dömötör State Secretary. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-02-15-87	Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, As you know, Jobbik is constantly struggling to create a clearer, more transparent and non-corruption political public life. We want and will eliminate the harmful practice of the last 25 years, which you have developed together with the MSZP, and which has always provided protection and privileges to politicians who govern the country, so that they can keep their potentially illegal assets secret and hide them from the citizens of Hungary through various tricks. We want real changes and political public figures who don't tolerate crafty people, who collect dubious wealth. Unlike you, we believe not in words, but in actions, in actions that strengthen not the privileges of politicians, but the accountability and control of politicians. That's why we've broken up with the practice you've developed. As early as 2015, Jobbik's parliamentary representatives published the property statements of their family members living in their homes so that people could learn about our real financial situation. [[György Balla intervenes.]] We've made it public because we have nothing to hide, Congressman Balla. We have asked Members of Parliament, like us, to follow our example and make the declarations of his family's property, otherwise sealed in a secret envelope, public. Mr. Secretary. No one in your party has followed our example, none of your Members has disclosed their actual assets, not even the Member of the Balla, who is now shouting with a loud voice. Unfortunately, from this fact, we must conclude that you have something to hide about your assets. This suspicion is supported by a series of scandals linked to the financial situation of the Fidesz MEPs last year. We could infinitely list the scandalous cases associated with property declarations about mysterious houses which themselves grow or about mysterious companies, which, in principle, belong to the representative, but not actually to him, he only allowed them to use his name, and we could still list them. If they weren't hiding their assets, we would now know where L. Simon László's wife had 280 million forints to buy land, or we could understand how Balázs Győrffy could pay 2-3 million forints a month after his 260 million bank loan. Mr. Secretary. Jobbik's representatives made public their family's property statements again this year, in 2016, thus creating the opportunity to compare whether the changes in property over the last year are in line with our earnings. I ask the honourable Secretary of State whether they will initiate, support, that the Members of the Parliament of Fidesz will also make public the declaration of property of their family members living in their homes, or whether they still have something to hide. I'm looking forward to your reply. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-02-15-88	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr Csaba Dömötör, State Secretary, responds to your interpellation question. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2016-02-15-89	Honourable Congressman, The debate on whether the system of declarations of assets in Hungary is effective is practically the same age as the regime change. It has long been the subject of heated disputes as to whether its representatives' declarations of assets are suitable to monitor the growth of wealth and to detect conflicts of interest. One thing is certain: Hungarian legislation is one of the strictest in Europe, primarily because the scope of investigation is as broad as possible; it also covers income conditions, various interests and financial conditions. Honourable Congressman, In your interpellation, you have said that you are working to create a clearer, more transparent and non-corruption public life. Allow me to say it's a pity that this job doesn't start on itself, let's say, Ozdon. Here it turned out that the better-looking mayor was barely warmed up in his chair, already paying from five places. [[Dóra Dúró: It's not true!]] All this in a city, in a city where salaries don't reach the national average. That way, every forint would have its place. In addition, David Janiczak receives one of his salaries from a company owned by the municipality. This story is particularly strange in the light of Jobbik's earlier view of job accumulation as a type of political crime. It wasn't that long ago when one of your fellow Members was handing out so-called Superman awards to someone who got paid from two places. And then the Mayor of Oz gets five places at once. We wonder when David Janiczak will receive the Superman Prize for Jobbik. [[16.40]] Just like we're wondering when the party's gonna come clean on this case because we're looking at it. [[President Novak: Members of Parliament...]] That Jobbik is actually arguing with himself. Honourable Congressman, You have said that you want public figures who don't tolerate scheming among themselves. In agreement with this, I would like to say that the first thing to do is to get things right is to start at home, in this case Ozdon. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2016-02-15-90	Thank you very much. I will ask Congressman György Szilágyi if he will accept the State Secretary's reply. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-02-15-91	Mr. Secretary. Let me tell you the difference between bidding and bidding. I'll give you a bid: Dávid Janiczak, mentioned by you, has put his own car to bid to support charity from this. [[Dóra Dúró: That's right! Moray in the benches of the governing parties.]] You're bidding, too. You're bidding only on land you take from farmers, and you can pay hundreds of millions, billions of dollars. [[Dr. Sándor Fazekas: Farmers bid on the ground...]] Land that you have sold to yourself. Mr. Secretary, that's the difference between the two bids. This, you know what it's like? It's like when you say that there are criminals sitting in the benches of Jobbik, and then one of your Fidesz politicians is about to be arrested in advance for murder, and then the young Fidesz guys who will be your reinforcements will beat each other to death drunk at, say, a spa pig killing. [[Defiance from the Jobbik benches. Moore from the benches of Fidesz.]] Well, that's the difference. That's the real face of Fidesz. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] These are you, yelling in a loud voice, but no congressman dares to disclose his own family's property declaration. Show me your fortune if you have nothing to hide. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] I can't accept the answer. [[John Lazarus: You speak well! Applause from the benches of Jobbik and LMP.]]
u2016-02-15-92	Dear Parliament, Congressman György Szilágyi did not accept the State Secretary's reply. I ask the Honourable Parliament if it will be accepted. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 106 votes in favour, 31 against, with two abstentions. Dear Parliament, Representative László Földi, representative of KDNP, submitted an interpellation to the Prime Minister's Office:. What are the experiences of the administrative-residual reduction a month after the introduction? It's an address. It is for Congressman László Földi to take the floor. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-02-15-93	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Minister, Dear House, In Hungary, many of the government's measures prove that the reduction in the overhead costs started during the previous cycle is taken seriously on all fronts. In December 2015, the Parliament voted in favour of CXCIV of 2015 on the abolition of fees and administrative service charges for certain official procedures. Law. The adopted legislative package amends 108 laws, simplifying administrative matters on the basis of practical experience. This is the first step in the government's efforts to achieve simpler, faster and more efficient public administration, which entered into force on 1 January 2016. The measure will result in a reduction of the total amount of procedural charges of HUF 10 billion from 1 January 2016. In the interests of the enforcement of certain constitutional rights, the fulfilment of obligations and social justice, many procedures have become free of charge. The Act provided for the exemption of the following: the issuing of an official certificate of morality, the issuing of company extracts, the issuing of an official certificate certifying permanent identity card and address, the issuing of a parking document for persons with reduced mobility, the issuing of a driving licence. To sum up, the bill resulted in the elimination of more than 20 fees and administrative service charges, which could save several billion forints for citizens and businesses in 2016. On this basis, I ask the honourable Minister: what are the first experiences one month after the introduction? In what other way does the government intend to implement the administrative-residual reduction? I look forward to your reply, Minister. [[Applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2016-02-15-94	Thank you very much, Congressman. I now give the floor to Minister János Lázár, who will give the answer to the question. Here you go, Minister.
u2016-02-15-95	Thank you very much. Your Honour, Mr. President. My dear fellow Member, First of all, I would like to thank you not only for the question, but also for the support that the Government has received from Members of Parliament in this matter, and I think I have had several opposition fellow Members who supported this matter. When the Parliament and the executive are trying to answer the difficult question of how bureaucracy can be reduced in Hungary together, we are quite sure that there are some fixed elements to this issue, which will help to reduce the bureaucratic pressure on our constituents in Hungary and the complexity of handling matters. One of these is the amount of laws and laws. I commend to Parliament the new British rule that if the British executive proposes to amend a law, then in return he asks Parliament to propose that two be abolished. In Hungary, the amount and quality of legislation is also opaque, and it places a terrible burden on taxpayers and entrepreneurs alike, on those who want to do something in this country, want to create or invest, or want to employ. 110 laws were amended jointly in December 2015. In February, we will already see the effects of this 110 amendment. Our colleagues have proposed to amend over a thousand rules in the government's district offices and government offices. We would like to continue with this: we will come forward with another package of amendments to 80 laws, and the government plans on a quarterly basis to propose simplification of legislation for Parliament. On the other hand, for the first time since the change of regime, we have reduced the state's procedural levy to HUF 10 billion, the fee for the procedures with which voters turn to us. There are about 2-3 thousand cases with which every year voters seek government, executive power, and deal with about 23 million cases a year. From this we have now tried to grant concessions in the biggest cases after 400 thousand Hungarian voters answered the question of how they would like to change. The district offices, the 197 district offices of the country, conducted a consultation and 400 000 people expressed their views on what should be cheaper or what should be free. Of course - a number of proposals have been made - we have made the changes in line with the burdeny capacity of the budget. I would also like to point out that, in the budget debate in 2017, we will not only ask for the simplification of laws, but also for the reduction and reduction of additional duties, and we will propose to the Parliament. I would like to say here that ID card, which is the identification document, was 77 thousand in 2015 and 149 thousand in 2016, is related to the introduction of the electronic ID. Official Moral Certificate, which is free, so far 19 thousand in January last year, now 26 thousand. Change of document resulting from a change in family status was 2100, now 8200. There has been a significant increase in free company documents, individual business IDs, as I mentioned earlier, the proportion of those who require official moral certificates. So what the voters have suggested is what they're using. I think that it is important not only to reduce taxes, whether on the side of employees or employers, but also to have professional, cheap, easy-to-reach and good quality administration for voters who turn to the Hungarian state. The essence of our concept is a government decision-making level that delegates implementation to government offices and district offices, and there we can handle voters' affairs in low-cost, 270 state-of-the-art government windows, in one place this year I hope - pensions, health insurance, social security and all other complaints - and possibly cheap or free of charge. I'm asking you to do this. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] their further assistance and support, regardless of party standing. [[Applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2016-02-15-96	Thank you very much, Minister. I will ask Mr László Földi whether he will accept Minister János Lázár's reply.
u2016-02-15-97	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister, I also consider it very important, as a simple citizen, that the government considers it a priority task to make this country a state of service for the implementation of the necessary reforms. To this end, it provides customer-friendly, transparent and fast administrative administration, reducing the burden and the fees to be paid for it. Of course, I accept the Minister's reply. [[Applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2016-02-15-98	Thank you very much, Congressman. So, as we have heard, the Member has accepted the Minister's reply. [[16.50]] Dear Parliament, Szabolcs Szabó, an independent Member, has submitted an interpellation to the Minister for National Development:. The Csepelians are waiting for the Government's response to the resolution on the termination of the HÉV. Congressman Szabolcs Szabó has the floor. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-02-15-99	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear House, Mr. Secretary. In the summer of 2015, the Hungarian Parliament decided to support the Olympic competition in Budapest. All of this, you know, is going to cost a serious budget, so it is also included in this proposal for a resolution that the government needs to review the government developments needed to organise it and act as coordinator for all the investments related to the Olympics. We did not know the details of the feasibility study during the vote, but we already knew from the executive summary that this would be an investment of around 3 billion dollars, and the largest part of the total investment cost - which amounts to approximately HUF 1900 billion - would be a transport development investment. Even then, we knew that the Csepel HÉV would be included, although the details were not clear. All we knew was that the section between Közlőhíd and Boráros tér will be triggered, there will be another solution, and we will use HUF 28 billion as a direct investment amount from government sources. As a surprise, this plan, which was presented to the Metropolitan Assembly to turn the Csepel HÉV into a tram, I would like to ask Mr. State Secretary, on the one hand, whether the government is in fact in favour of switching the HÉV from a railway plant to a tram plant. What exactly is expected is that after the Kvassay bridge a new transfer would be built, so that the HÉVs coming from Csepel would connect with a right turn to tram terminal 2. We have quite a lot of questions about what kind of vehicles will be running there. We simply have no other way of understanding the particular location proposal that came before the capital than that there will be old Tatra trams. I would like to ask Mr Secretary of State what happened to the plan for the North-South regional expressway, which is included in all the development documents in the capital, as this would ensure in the long term that the Csepelians could enter downtown with a high capacity, a suburban railway. How will the electric plant keep the schedule, comfort once old Tatra trams are moved there as planned? How will these trams fit on the Körút and the Danube beach in Pest? We see that trams in Pest also form trams with much lower flight density. Whether trams starting every two minutes will cause traffic congestion, since there is no level crossing in the material. I would like to look forward to these questions from the Secretary of State and the Government's position on what they are planning to do with the Csepel HÉV. [[A round of applause from the independents.]]
u2016-02-15-100	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr János Fónagy, State Secretary, will give the answer to the interpellation question. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2016-02-15-101	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, First about the North-South Highway: it's an old idea, an old plan, where it turns up, where it's in the background. What we are talking about here is the direct idea in the Olympic package, which, by the way, shifts from railway to electricity. The North-South regional expressway is a significantly bigger development. When this was sometime in the mid-1990s, they expected an increase in population significantly greater than the present one in South Pest and in Csepel. At present, this has not been proven, and - we do not make it a secret - the very significant cost increase of Metro 4 and the outdated construction technology of many experts, so this large tunnel system makes the government careful to expect greater metro construction now. However, the Mór Balázs plan, adopted by the capital city, which I know from the press, is currently being amended, is also counting on the modernisation of this line, a surface solution, which does not rule out the possibility that in the future this fast-rail train, i.e. the North-South expressway, could be implemented in the longer term. If we want to meet the needs of the Olympic Committee, we cannot start with a nearly fifty-year-old HÉV. By the way, this line itself can't withstand a decade of subway construction, so the construction of subway 5. As I was saying, a fixed-track traffic, perhaps even the construction of it, does not make it unnecessary. With regard to the Member's concerns, releasing the fact that you knew that the actual implementation of the developments related to the Olympics would begin if Budapest won the right to direct in 2017. It is proposed that the proposal you mentioned, i.e. the Olympic proposal, is that trams 6 and 1 would run to Csepel. The former flight is already operating with modern Combino, so it is not and cannot be about Tatra. And the new modern fittings will be on the market this year. The Olympic transport development plan envisages the purchase of more modern low-floor trains, so I repeat that the old Tatras would not be on this line by any means. With the elimination of the currently low speed track sections, the current calculations suggest that the Csepelians can save 7-8 minutes overall compared to the journey with the VAT, thus speeding up access. The peak hour of the morning is two and a half minutes of follow-up time. There are two minutes on the Boulevard today, so it is not unknown in capital traffic. On tram line 2, we're looking at new, modern vehicles that can fit in the tunnel. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] Finally, on today's Weiss Manfréd road, there is no need to be afraid of traffic, and its current transfer capability is already an opportunity to do so. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-02-15-102	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I will ask Mr Szabolcs Szabó if he will accept the State Secretary's reply. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-02-15-103	I am afraid that Mr. Secretary of State has not read the proposal for a location selection submitted to the Metropolitan Assembly. It is clear from the fact that Tatra trams will be sent to longer trams only and only. On the other hand, I am surprised that if, for example, the HÉV between the Közlőhíd and Boráros tér made the way in two minutes, on the same section of tram 2 and five minutes, then how would the tram be faster on the whole section. By the way, there are no slow marks on the Csepel HÉV line right now. By the way, I would suggest that the Csepelians would be much more pleased if, like all the other agglomeration regions, I would start using Flirts, for example, which you can now hear in the case of Rackeves, Gödöllő or Szentendre HÉV, because such a high-capacity means of transport are wanted by the Csepelians and not by trams, which are in the traffic. So I don't accept the answer. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the independents.]]
u2016-02-15-104	Thank you very much, Congressman. As we have heard, the Member did not accept the State Secretary's reply, so I respectfully ask the Parliament whether it accepts it. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 105 votes in favour, 37 votes against and no abstentions. Dear Parliament, Congresswoman Erzsébet Schmuck, representative of the LMP, notary of the Parliament, has submitted an interpellation to the Minister in charge of the Prime Minister's Office: Why doesn't the government start cutting red tape on its own? It's an address. Congresswoman Erzsébet Schmuck has the floor. Here you go.
u2016-02-15-105	Thank you for the floor. Dear Minister, In 2010, Viktor Orbán said that the new government would turn its back on rank and government dariado. Plebeius promised me puritanism, and that less than half of them would work with humans. The great promises were soon forgotten, so much so that today there are more than twice as many state leaders as before the 2010 change of power. The number of ministers, State Secretarys, Deputy State Secretarys, Ministers is already close to 200. [[17.00]] When it comes to cutting red tape today, there is no mention of state leaders, the enormously swollen government apparatus. The more we hear about the dismissal of hundreds of thousands of state employees. A few weeks ago, word went off as a bomb that the government was planning to lay off 100 to 150 thousand people in the long run. Shortly thereafter, background institutions were announced to be terminated, and another unexpected turn was announced that 6,000 government offices would be divorced this year. However, we do not know what analyses and impact assessments have been used to base this large-scale reduction. The Scandinavian model is set as an example, where 10 percent of employees are claimed to work in the public sector. Perhaps we should have looked at the OECD data, which just shows that the proportion of the public sector in the Scandinavian countries is the highest; the ratio is 25-33 percent in Sweden, Norway, followed by 24 percent in Hungary. But not only the reference base is wrong, the Hungarian numbers are quoted inaccurately. The 18-20 percent you speak of, Minister, does not include employees of public companies, while in the one million people you also like to refer to, they are already included. [[Sándor Lezsák, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] But even if the data were correctly referred to, this should not be the way to cut red tape. By first determining the desired number of public sector, the coat is sewed to the button. Earlier, they said that they would first assess the tasks to be performed by the state and adjust the numbers to the tasks to be performed. They're doing it the other way around. They plan to direct redundant workers to the competitive sphere. Up to 10 million forints of exit money can be received by those who undertake not to be located in the public sector for the next 10-15 years. In addition to the need to absorb so many people, the state would lose just those workers who have competitive knowledge in the market. [[In the notary seat, Györ Nándor Gúr replaced Dezső, the believer.]] Here's what I'm asking Minister. Is the government ready to start cutting itself off? What background calculations, impact assessments were made, and when will they be made public by the government? Thank you.
u2016-02-15-106	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. I give the floor to Minister János Lázár.
u2016-02-15-107	Thank you very much. Honourable Parliament! Mr President, My dear fellow Member, First of all, I thank you for the opportunity to bore the Parliament with internal issues of governance and executive power. Just because I think that every government has the authority - as the leader of the executive power - to settle the executive power on the basis of its knowledge, conviction and mandate and mandate in the elections, obviously within a defined constitutional and legal framework. Nevertheless, I consider it important to inform the Parliament regularly of the work that I have received from the Prime Minister, either directly here in Parliament or at the Commission level, and I do not claim that it would be an easy job, as I have not yet been able to inform my fellow politicians or fellow ministers in the last 25 years, who have managed to reduce bureaucracy or reduce the public sector in any way, except for some social cutting and radical solutions that we do not want to address. With regard to numbers, I would like to refer the data of the International Labour Organisation to her, which is even worse than the OECD, which says that 24 percent of the working population in Hungary is employed by the public sector. The OECD claims that 18 percent of employees in the government sector are employed, while Eurostat considers that Hungary employs around 113-150 thousand more people in the public sector than EU Member States of similar size. I have met with an entrepreneur, employer or employee who has paid taxes in the competitive sector who would have found it sufficient or sufficient for the public workers - not the public workers - the proportion of public sector employees - and the taxpayer from such a competitive sector has not yet met. I have met taxpayers from the competition sector who are protesting - there are 3 million 300 000 - how many people in Hungary work with their money and their taxes, and they assume, perhaps, that in Hungary employers' contributions cannot be reduced because a million people who work in the public sector have to be paid a month. This practically means that the Hungarian Treasury refers to 750-780 thousand wages, this is just public employees and public sector employees, there are no employees of public companies in this, and there are no employees of public works in this number. So it's more than a million people in total. At a million we draw the line, sometimes it's hard to figure out how many organizations, how many public companies and how many people work. When unemployment is 6 percent in a country - there are only 3 regions, when economic growth in a country is 2-3 percent and the deficit is less than 2 percent, the time has come to try to rationalise this number in a five-year programme. I believe there's a great deal of reserve in this. You are absolutely right, step by step, so we will first determine the lowest level. With the establishment of the State Officials' Faculty, on 1 July 2016, we will tell you how many people are handling the affairs of the clients who have turned to the State. I think it's going to be 20 to 22,000 people in 270 government windows organized into 197 district offices. Then, on 1 January, we will tell you how many people work in the government office at county level, and in the 2017 budget we will tell you how many people have to work in the government, in the ministries. So what you're asking me to do is start with the government on its own, and that's gonna happen with the 2017 budget. In part, because the background institutions can already be taken over by ministries with an 80 per cent salary forecast, so we fund the previous 100 per cent wages at 80 per cent, that is minus 20 per cent, and I will propose in the debate on the 2017 budget, in particular for competitiveness and economic growth, that next year's budget be planned by the government, central ministry organisations, with 15 per cent less wages than this year. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-02-15-108	Thank you, Minister. I'll ask Congresswoman if she'll accept the Minister's answer.
u2016-02-15-109	Unfortunately, I cannot accept Minister's reply. Minister did not respond to background studies and analyses [[János Lázár: OECD, Eurostat...]] This bureaucracy reduction programme was based on domestic analyses. You mentioned various statistics, I can also mention the domestic KSH. According to the Hungarian KSH, 1 million 100 thousand people who are involved in this, including state companies, of which 200,000 are public workers, 660 thousand are civil servants and civil servants. We would also prefer that the government not start cutting red tape with people at the end of the line, but start cutting itself first. He did not respond either, Minister, that the number of leaders in the ministries has doubled. Maybe not in 2017, we should start this year. By the way, we see a weakness in the absorption capacity of the competition sphere. Multis have virtually zero growth employment potential, and SMEs are also very weak. Thank you.
u2016-02-15-110	Thank you very much. So I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts the Minister's answer. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the ministerial response by 105 votes to 37, with no abstentions. Dear Parliament, Attila Tilki, representative of Fidesz, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of National Economy:. New Year, New Taxation - What changes do the new tax system of 2016 bring about in people's lives? It's an address. Congressman Attila Tilki has the floor. [[Defiance in the ranks of the MSZP. What did you vote for, Attila?]]
u2016-02-15-111	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Since the change of government in 2010, the government has set itself important economic policy objectives: increasing employment, growing economy, improving competitiveness, reducing public debt and budget deficits. We can now say that we have succeeded in a number of areas and that there are few macroeconomic indicators that do not show a positive picture of the state of the economy. Dear House, I think that it is familiar to all my fellow Members when citizens say, when they hear these beautiful figures, that this is good, good, but ordinary people hardly feel anything about it. I believe that the current government has nothing to hide in this regard, because a number of measures have been taken in recent years to help people grow. This is also the year 2016 when personal income tax fell from 16% to 15%. For the first time in the first days of February, people experienced this when the first monthly payments arrived. [[17.10]] As a result, some HUF 120 billion more money was left in people's pockets. But we can continue to reduce the VAT on pig meat to 5%, which is also an important welfare measure, since pork is one of the most important basic foods. In addition, tax relief for families with two children will increase and the burden of managing citizens, fees and fees will be reduced. Dear House, Last, let me highlight the family's home creation discount, the CSOK, which, on the one hand, is of particular importance for population policy and, on the other hand, can be a driving force for the construction industry, and will create thousands of jobs. The performance of the Hungarian economy has improved a great deal in recent years, and this gives the government the opportunity to implement measures from the surplus income of the economy that represent a direct rise in real wages and greater consumption for people. Dear Secretary of State, In view of the above, I ask what changes the new tax system for 2016 will bring about in people's lives. I'm looking forward to your reply. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties. Dr. István Józsa: Such a beautiful question!]]
u2016-02-15-112	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to the Secretary of State, András Tállai.
u2016-02-15-113	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, I would like to stress that, following the establishment of the Government in 2010, the Government announced in its programme that it would like to change tax policy, the essence of which is what you have said. [[Bangóné Borbély Ildikó: It certainly has changed!]] In order to reduce the tax rate and the tax amount of the income obtained and to focus primarily on consumption and turnover taxes, the public budget would like to ensure its revenue primarily from these taxes. In the area of personal income taxation, it clearly develops a tax system that encourages work, thus means a low tax rate, and on the other hand families will be at the centre of the government's attention, and families will enjoy the priority. I think that in the last five years, for almost six years, the government has achieved this objective, and more than that, it has proved it. Let us not forget that the rate of personal income tax in 2010 was still 17 percent and 32 percent, and from 2011 it became one-key, it fell to 16 percent and, as you say, it further decreased to 15 percent from 1 January 2016. But what happened was primarily in the area of family tax relief, since during the socialist period, the rate of family tax relief was HUF 4000 per person/child, and only those with three children received it. Then, in 2010, 100,000 families were able to reach the family tax relief facility and cost the state budget 12 billion forints, that's all the families got. Now, thanks to Fidesz's family policy and tax policy, more than 1 million people reach this discount, and the amount of the discount paid, which does not go into the budget, but stays with the families, exceeds 240 billion. That is, if I compare the family policy of the Fidesz government with the family policy of the Socialist Government, then it can be said that the number of families that raise children and use family tax reliefs has increased elevenfold, and the rate is 20 times higher than in 2010. It is a huge discount that the Fidesz government extended it from 2014 so that after the contributions it could continue to benefit from this discount, thus costing more than HUF 40 billion to the families in 2014. This exceeds 50 billion in 2015. It is important to say that, in addition to reducing the personal income tax rate, which we would like to continue in the cycle, it would be good to ensure that personal income tax is one-digit from 15 percent, and that we would like to increase the tax reduction rate double for two children, i.e. to HUF 40,000 instead of the current HUF 20 and HUF 25 thousand. Clearly, I think the Fidesz-KDNP government has proven that the government of the families, the government of the people who work, who earn income, has reduced the key to personal income tax. The Fidesz-KDNP government would like to continue this policy in this cycle as well. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2016-02-15-114	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I ask the congressman if he will accept the Secretary of State's answer.
u2016-02-15-115	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I am the parliamentary representative of an area that is the furthest from Budapest, I have been a representative of the Szatmár-Bereg region for several cycles. I have a chance and a way to compare what the Secretary of State has said is really true. There really is more left in people's pockets, and people really can spend more. I believe that the most important thing for a poor, disadvantaged area and for the country is that if it has a government that takes into account the fact that it is trying to increase people's consumption and to make as much money as possible to people. The same can be said of the CSOK. In contact with the branch managers in my area, everyone confirms that there is a great deal of interest, and a lot of people would like to use it. As they say here in Szatmár, there's a lot of interest. Thank you very much. I accept your answer. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2016-02-15-116	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, István Tukacs, a representative of the MSZP, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Human Resources with the title "The National Rescue Service." Mr István Tukacs has the floor.
u2016-02-15-117	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, We have already tabled amendments to the 2016 budget on emergency services and workers. Especially because we have found that their wages, similar to those of other workers in the health sector, are unworthy. However, this statement was now supported by an interview with the acting head of the National Rescue Service. He was talking about three things. On the one hand, the most important obstacle to the good functioning of the rescue service is unfair wages. It is the unworthy wages that now endanger the operation and the families. You, who call yourselves the government of families, should really notice this. His second statement was that the National Rescue Service was no longer required to reach the case in 15 minutes. This is interesting because we had an argument with the Secretary of State during the month of November, and he tried to convince me with a very, very large elan, in a sort of youthful spirit, that they wanted to reach a 15-minute arrival time. This interpellation, by the way, was at that time relevant to the vomitous fate of the rescue stations. The third claim was even more cuckoo. And it's about certain IT tools from the emergency services, a lot of them being dusted in a warehouse instead of being used by the service, and the acting manager, Mr. Director, will make sure that they get into the service little by little and help the paramedics work. Well, that's very interesting. What tools? Why are they in a warehouse? Why haven't they been able to use them before? And who even got them if they weren't useful? Mr State Secretary, I would therefore like to have answers to the following questions. One, if you don't believe us, why don't you believe your own people that unfair pay is now a threat to the job? Mr. State Secretary, I am so different from the interpellation, and I predict that, in reply to my previous agenda, a health worker sent his payment reclassification paper on 1 January 2016. He received an increase of 1400 HUF for his salary of 128 thousand forints. Let's just do the math. How much is this? Mr State Secretary, my second question is who acquired these tools and what they are and why they should be put to work after long dusting. And, of course, the third is, what about this 15 minutes? Is the ambulance going or not? Because for people who don't diagnose themselves, but they're sick, it doesn't really matter. Thank you for the floor, Mr President.
u2016-02-15-118	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. [[17.20]]
u2016-02-15-119	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Dear House, There is always a charm, Mr. Congressman, when socialist Members say that they have faced - I quote you literally - that, let us say, in ambulances, the wages of those working in care are unworthy, and the Hungarian Socialist Party is confronted with this as soon as it is out of government, and suddenly realizes that this is a matter of unworthy wages. Before that, the wage could bear the fact that you were taking a month's money, then it was not unworthy, but once you're in opposition, suddenly you realize what unworthy amounts are. Honourable Congressman, I think this kind of justification is quite transparent, this kind of attitude is quite transparent, that they only want to raise wages when they suddenly get into opposition; then, of course, it's easy to say. [[Interviews from the ranks of the MSZP.]] But let's look at how wages were made in the ambulance service between 2011-15. If you look at the situation of a nurse, her earnings increased from 178 100 to 212 100 forints, an increase of 119 per cent for a paramedic from 249 000 to 277 300 forints, an increase of 11 per cent for a doctor from 318 000 to 437 300 forints, an increase of 38 per cent. This shows the average earnings of the outgoing stock in a basic wage plus variable wage composition, so these figures should be seen with such calculation and such projection: 11 percent, 19 percent, 38 percent, depending on the exact job position. Obviously, we all think that it would be better, even more fairer, if they were paid higher, only when we look back in time, we see that in your period of time it was more of a reduction in the last years, before 2010, and we can see the same in the case of working conditions there, because you were the ones who were saving up to buy ambulances in the last days of their administration. This is why it was necessary to obtain not only the ambulances needed for these five years during the Fidesz-KDNP period, but also to replace the purchase of ambulances for the last socialist government years. There were times a year when you got two ambulances, so many procedures started. We put 387 ambulances on the market, perhaps most of them in 2014, 183, but also 76 new cars last year, precisely to make the rescue safer. This was obviously done in the framework of a large project, the other part of which was that we built 22 new rescue stations out of 11 billion forints and renovated 60 rescue stations and provided them with electronic equipment. The condition of the developments, honourable Member, was that if you asked 15 minutes that the arrival time had to be improved by 10 percent in the five-year term, you had to speed up the arrival time by 10 percent in national and spatial structures, obviously even in individual cases, as this is how we want the ambulances to arrive in 15 minutes. After this development, 90 percent of the country is probably around the area where we can actually do that and actually reach the ambulance in 15 minutes. We have spent an additional HUF 4.1 billion on the development of the rescue management system and IT development, but we have also made it possible to purchase 978 smart on-board terminals, which allow the digital transmission of patient documentation to reach the data at the same time or even earlier from these tablets to hospitals where patients are provided. We are confident that all of this will help to make sure that all devices are well - used and that the ambulances really get out faster. And it would've been nice if they could've done it in their own time. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] to report on wage development in the rescue sector. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-02-15-120	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. I'll ask Congressman Tukacs if he'll accept the Secretary of State's answer.
u2016-02-15-121	Secretary of State, I would like to remind you that the last eight years have been over six years, so we need to talk about and re-enlist the record of what happened during socialist governance. Secondly, who is responsible for the opposition and the government, I would like to recall the preparation of the 2006 budget, but rather the 2010 budget, when you in the opposition submitted approximately 140 times the budget in the amendment, with the shoulder being taken to resolve the issue of the government. [[György Balla: And you didn't accept any!]] So much for responsibility. Of course, it's obviously used in the election campaign to see if they can't even solve that. Mr. Secretary, the answer to wage development is insufficient, because we need wage development. The answer to the 15-minute exit is insufficient, because you lied to yourself about trying to do it while you claimed you wanted it. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Yes, that's what we want, that's right.]] Secretary S, the wrong answer was that you didn't answer the IT tools, and I'm going to look into it, but it's going to be worse for you. Thank you very much, Mr President, I do not accept the answer.
u2016-02-15-122	Thank you very much. Therefore, I ask the Parliament whether it accepts the State Secretary's reply. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 100 votes in favour, 37 against and without abstentions. Dear Parliament, Zsolt Egyed, representative of Jobbik, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Agriculture:. Who protects animals? It's an address. It is for Congressman Zsolt Egyed.
u2016-02-15-123	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Minister, During our session break, there have been several brutal animal abuses that cannot be passed without saying a word, and we need to examine whether laws and justice stand in their place. In early January, a video of a young man smashing a puppy's head in the summer of 2015 was released. The case took place in Borsod County, Detek, where the unsub's mother is deputy mayor, so I personally visited Detek, met the mayor and the deputy mayor. I have indicated to Mr. Mayor that he has an obligation to report to the authorities if any lawlessness occurs in his settlement and becomes aware of it. I emphasized the importance of his resignation to the deputy mayor's mother in such a case. According to the mother, her son was well educated, home - minded, hardworking, teenage carelessness, and was very sorry for his actions, and would atone for his sins at an animal shelter. In my opinion, this act must not be left unpunished, because failure to do so could cause the proliferation of similar cases, which would mean that brutal animal cruelty and bragging with it did not drive me from society. Nearly a month later, Kazincbarcika was handed over to a policeman, a person who fired from an SUV at the village's dogs in a residential area, claiming that it was a municipal assignment, which was absurd and later denied by the mayor, but the situation was not fully clarified, but the animal torture was definitely done. Both cases will be a precedent, so I ask the authorities to act accordingly and the Minister to monitor them. Once again, it is very important for society to know that animal torturers can expect serious punishment. Jobbik has been saying for a long time that there is currently no apparatus for animal welfare. In order to change this, I have initiated negotiations with animal defenders, the result of which I will, of course, be forwarded to the government. Dear Minister, Welcome to the current Btk. penalizes animal cruelty, but less attention is paid to reducing animal cruelty due to the overloaded state of the police. Is that why you did not think of cooperating with other organisations or animal welfare associations in order to act more effectively? What has the government done to curb animal cruelty and bring all these hidden cases to the surface, to eliminate dog fights? I look forward to the Minister's reply, and I am not only looking forward to it, but also to the tens of thousands and hundreds of thousands of animal defenders in Hungary, who are currently helpless in relation to these matters. I'm waiting for your answer. Thank you. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-02-15-124	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Minister Sándor Fazekas.
u2016-02-15-125	Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, First of all, allow me to thank you for your question, which focuses attention on an extremely important area. Like you, we condemn all animal abuse. In order to achieve our common goal, our wallet and the National Food Chain Safety Office work together with state and municipal bodies as well as with civil animal protection organisations. Our cooperation is particularly close with the Hungarian Association for Animal Protection and Nature, as well as with the Hungarian National Association for Animal Protection and Nature, Herman Ottó. In addition to the animal protection authority, the police also associate with several animal protection organizations, including the Cerberos Animal Protection Association, the White Cross Animal Protection League, the National Animal Guard Foundation and the Fejér County Animal Rescue and Animal Protection Association. In order to ensure effective cooperation, the county and the Metropolitan Police Headquarters have appointed a main contact point for coordinating animal torture cases and direct contacts with the county representatives of animal protection bodies. [[17 .30]] In the course of investigations ordered for animal torture, the police pay particular attention to the professionality of the procedures, in which, in cooperation with the National Animal Guard Foundation, the regional and local investigating authorities organise continuous training for their staff in the field of animal torture. Thanks to all these measures, the number of accusations of animal cruelty has increased considerably in recent years, demonstrating that the detection of cases has improved. Our wallet is committed to reducing animal cruelty, which, in our opinion, requires an approach to society as a whole. In order to achieve this goal, I believe that the most effective tool is the early start of education for the respect, protection and good behaviour of animals. If this social approach is successful, it will not occur or at least be rare in sad cases such as those mentioned by you. We have also launched a number of programmes aimed at raising responsible livestock. These include the "Free" program and, in particular, the "Visitor-partner" project to help train guide dogs. At the same time, I agree with the Member that the penalty which may be imposed in the event of a criminal offence must constitute a sufficient deterrent force. Animal cruelty has been a crime for 12 years now. In view of the fact that in many cases the current sentences are not sufficiently dissuasive, our wallet intends to initiate an amendment to the Criminal Code, namely to declare the basic case of animal cruelty a crime instead of a misdemeanor, and to increase the limits of the sentences that can be imposed in the event of animal torture. Thank you very much for your attention, and I ask for my answer to be accepted. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-02-15-126	Thank you, Minister. I'll ask Congressman if he'll take the minister's answer.
u2016-02-15-127	Thank you very much. Minister, I cannot accept your answer because I do not believe that, in the last quarter of a century here in the Hungarian Parliament, you, among other things, have not thought to deal with it. However, I am pleased to hear that I would like to exacerbate Btk. in this case, because I have made my amendment proposals, and if I understand it correctly, my amendments will support the ruling party in this matter, which includes, for example, the punishment of serious cases of animal cruelty in all cases by imprisonment, and I would like to say to the honourable party as a good advice that it would be worth a bit of pressuring the courts in the direction of setting exemplary judgments, because there is currently no normal legislation in these cases in Hungary. That's why I started the animal protection round table, and that's why we'd like to go through this with animal protection to finally Hungary. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] have the roots of normal livestock farming. Thank you very much, so I cannot accept your answer. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-02-15-128	Thank you very much. I'll ask the National Assembly if they'll take the minister's answer. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the ministerial response by 99 votes in favour, 34 against and 2 abstentions. Dear Parliament, Erzsébet Schmuck and Benedek Sallai, representatives of the LMP, have submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Agriculture: It's an address. Congressman Sallai Benedek has the floor.
u2016-02-15-129	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister, Dear Parliament, In my interpellation, I gathered some questions about what we experienced in the agricultural field at the beginning of the year, and I thought I'd ask what's around the MVH. We saw different statements, didn't we, Minister, that you started the nurse's bath and claimed how well everything works in the MVH, while there are a multitude of proceedings and criminal cases due to unauthorized claims. Then we saw how the Ministry ordered studies on Hungarian-Kazakh agricultural cooperation for 40 million from the Turkish Szentmiklós agricultural company, the minister's friend, belonging to László Horváth's interest. Obviously, it would be interesting what happens at a time like this: is the Ministry reclaiming the money, is it prosecuting for abuse, or what will be the result? It also arises what will happen to the half-billion-dollar website in the Chamber of Agriculture, which, as the press has found out, is the possibility of abuse, since no programming could have cost that much. Most importantly, as the most serious issue, there is the issue of land privatization, which is clearly the results of the year, and the analysis has proved that it has failed, the idea that the government has claimed has failed, because not the small ones are buying, but the politicians and the big ones belonging to the governing parties. The majority of them came to large farmers, and there are hardly 20 percent of them from the MVH database, who are indeed local farmers in small areas in recent years. Nor did it come to pass that this land should not be lost, which has been repeatedly said, that it will not be sold for little, since the person of the minister's kin bought the land for about HUF 200,000 per hectare in Szolnok County, where the county average was 1.1 million. He paid nearly HUF 10 million for 50 hectares of land, where it also arises how the government managed the property. Nor could it be said that there was no abuse, since there are a number of similar stories concerning different government members, when the value of land in one case was significantly less than on adjacent land. It was also not possible to protect the land from foreigners, because, although Prime Minister gave the farmers his word in 2013, that while he was involved in government, he would not buy here a foreign or national citizen, the government itself sold almost 13 thousand hectares of state land to foreigners and nationals of the Member States. Obviously, it has not been realised that farmers would start with equal opportunities, because apparently, the Minister does not allow Natura 2000 areas, which is right and we agree with that, but we do not understand why he is contributing to sales in all other Natura 2000 areas. So obviously, agricultural governance is at a moral level, and I would like to see the Minister's annual evaluation of how to proceed. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2016-02-15-130	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Minister Sándor Fazekas.
u2016-02-15-131	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, I am pleased that you have brought up the programme for the farmers, and you have also presented a specific version of it. When you bought land, honourable Member, and even wanted to buy a protected area, you did not have such problems buying land. At the same time, when a person buys land at a public auction, at an official auction, he seems to be making excuses; but I would like to talk about this a little later. Dear Parliament, The programme for farmers is effective, successful and serves the goal of helping family farmers and farmers in rural areas, and we can now say that about 8 thousand farmers have bought land in the framework of the programme. 2931 farmers successfully participated in the auctions, and on average they were able to buy some 45 hectares of land, and the state sold 4691 of the land of less than 3 hectares. More than 60 percent of the announced lands have been sold, and a significant proportion have been sold after serious price competition. We will continue with this programme, as it can be seen that this is a significant help for farmers. All the land was purchased by Hungarian farmers, and they obtained these licenses under legal conditions. Any other categorization can be classified as modern-day cluttering. Small or large, Fidfolded or remote, is also an arbitrary category. You have used this before, and I refuse to do so on behalf of the Hungarian farmers, because we are well aware that the land law does not require the summation of property, it would also be unconstitutional, since the acquisition of property by one person cannot be an obstacle to the acquisition of ownership by another person. And I can also refuse that there has been an irregularity or a seizure or something like that, because a bid does not have any significance as to who is related, who is familiar with, which party belongs to, whose believer and so on. It doesn't matter whether you're a relative or a good friend, and it's also true of my family members, which you like to quote, and your fellow parties refer to it. In addition to the fact that the land price is totally misleading and false, because 800,000 forints per hectare in Tiszaszentimre cannot be regarded as a low land price at a pasture; but I would like to say that my family members, whom I am proud of by the way, are honestly farming alongside Tiszaszentimre on a farm, and they are working for the land they survived, our family survived the previous cula list, and will survive the LMP list. [[17.40]] Dear Parliament, Other questions were also raised. With regard to the price of the land sold: earlier there was an valuation per walk, the land price as usual was established by the National Land Fund, and this was increased by 10 percent. So there's no way to talk about under-sales at any price. Rather, many complained that buying land from the state was not cheap at all. But by the way, it's the local land price that comes out of the auction, honourable Member, because all the rest is just an estimate. When farmers go there and say that it is worth it or not, the result will decide what the actual price of land is. That's what I'm offering you. As far as foreigners are concerned, foreigners living in Hungary with Hungarian citizenship are the land buyers. But I'd like to stress that we're talking about the results of the auctions. The real owner of the land will be decided by local farmers when they exercise their pre-emptive right or do not use it. Our goal is to deliver the land to those who cultivate it, to the Hungarian farmers. That is the spirit we will continue to work in the future. Thank you very much. Please accept my reply. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-02-15-132	Thank you, Minister. I'll ask Congressman Sallai if he'll accept the Minister's answer.
u2016-02-15-133	Mr President, after some consideration, I find the answer unacceptable, because there is the same nutmeg bath that we see regularly, because we hear facts completely thrown away from the facts here. He says, Minister, that 8 thousand farmers; yes, of which 40,000 hectares were bought by people who were not former farmers. Because, Minister, if anyone goes to a goldfish course in Tolna County, it'll make him a farmer. Another 40,000 hectares have been bought by relatives of your friends, undersecretaries and ministerial staff, which is obviously to be called a "club mission," but it's not that, it's just a corruption hunt, nothing else. And we can also talk about the 13,000 hectares that you have given to citizens of the Member States, because obviously the question is: how does this serve the interests of the small and medium-sized you have been talking about? Obviously, he did not mention the development of a half-billion-dollar website of the Chamber of Agriculture for a reason, obviously he slipped when he spoke about his dear nephew, because there we are talking about a price of 200,000 forints per hectare during the purchase of a lawn of 10 million forints and 50 hectares, and in many of these we see the same slippages. So you can't accept that. Thank you.
u2016-02-15-134	Thank you. So I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts the Minister's answer. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the ministerial response by 104 votes to 37, with no abstentions. Dear Parliament, The final question of interpellation follows. Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, a representative of the MSZP, has submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Human Resources about the anti-family measures of the family-friendly government... or what is it that state propaganda does not talk about? ! It's an address. Congresswoman Ildikó Bangóné Borbély has the floor.
u2016-02-15-135	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, Dear fellow Members, While the government and Viktor Orbán also speak loudly today that Hungary is performing better, while the reality is much more disappointing. They don't advertise on billboards how many hundreds of thousands of families have been deprived of subsidies, how many people have been reduced. They don't advertise that just a year ago, housing support, debt reduction aid, were abolished, which together helped nearly half a million families. They do not advertise that the kindergarten allowance has been abolished, the family allowance, the child, the child and the maternity allowance has not been increased in eight years, or that family daycare centers will be closed within a few years and the services of family supporters have been taken for miles. Katalin Novak does not stand up to admit that the Hungarian government is destroying families with children, because it does not even increase the benefits with inflation. They don't fill newspapers with advertising that they've taken care of tens of thousands of disabled people or reduced them to below the level of livelihood. Mr. Secretary of State doesn't stand to admit that he can't work, sick people were pushed from the side of the road into the ditch. He does not hold press conferences about how many pensioners live below the minimum living age or that they have abolished public health care and care fees. Or by tightening the rules for home assistance every six months, so that even the elderly living alone can get kicked. Charles Czibere does not stand up to announce that the government is saving on the care of the elderly. It is also not included in government announcements that hundreds of billions of HUF have been withdrawn from the social security system in the last six years. And Zoltán Balog does not stand up to announce his resignation because he allowed the government to destroy the social security system. If Hungary is doing better, why is there no money for children's support and education? Why do 16-year-olds have to go to community service? Why should family allowances be taken from preschoolers? If there is money for stadiums in this country, why is there no money to provide meals for all five hundred thousand children in need on holiday? If the Hungarian reforms are working, why is the pension minimum still 28 500 HUF, which means that many social benefits and family support have not increased by one forint? How much do you think this is worth today? Secretary of State, this bike has been pushed beyond the supply system. Therefore, I would ask you: when will they finally support the Hungarian families instead of their own family and friends? I look forward to your reply, Mr. Secretary.
u2016-02-15-136	Thank you, Congresswoman. I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2016-02-15-137	Thank you very much for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Mr President, Dear House, I believe that the congresswoman has undertaken almost an impossible mission in the faction when she has undertaken to try to prove that this government is not taking family-friendly measures. In its details and in its entirety, what we have been able to offer to families over the past five years is rare. There is not much of an example that in other government cycles, we have been able to offer so many benefits to families, whether in nature or in material terms. Overall, this also means that if I look only at the direct benefits in the budget, it is 38 percent higher than the 2010 value that Hungarian families are now receiving. 230 billion forints is the surplus we gave the families. And here, obviously, there are many other things that come naturally to them, and I can't add that, as family support has become part of the free textbook supply, the number of children who can eat free of charge for the smallest children has increased from 92 thousand to 318 thousand, but overall, the amount of social meals has doubled. In fact, it is now rising above HUF 70 billion this year, while in your last year of government, it is HUF 29 billion. Then he could have asked these questions more vehemently to his own government people at the time - who may now be sitting next to you in the benches of the MSZP - why they did not do what Fidesz-KDNP could do, why they did not raise this during the socialist period, why they only had time and opportunity to take away the 13th month's salary and pension, why they could not move forward in the eating of children. Or if I look at the introduction of family-type taxation: today, a family of three children with average income does not pay taxes or contributions; the tax relief of two children is constantly increased in four years, from 20 to 25 thousand forints this year, then there will be 30, 35 and finally 40 thousand forints that we leave with families, because we say that it is better to spend on the child - because raising the child costs - than if the state takes this away and returns it in a redistributive system. She regularly slides the idea that the family allowance would be taken away by the government from any family. We now call it school support, Congresswoman, and we are suspending this payment to families who do not send their children to school. Dear Member, who does not pay enough attention to his child to see if he goes to school in the morning and arrives there, who has no such attention to his child, and who threatens the future of his own child by not paying any attention to getting his child to class 4 or 5 or any school class. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: I was talking about kindergarten.]] In these families, we believe that this kind of signal is needed for families to care at least that much for the mother or father who did not even pay attention to going to school. And you say here in front of Parliament or in the press that Fidesz-KDNP is taking family allowances away from families. Congresswoman, I would like you to give up this practice, at least this new year, this new session, and do not say anything that you know is untrue when it comes to measures that have managed to reduce the percentage of students who have missed more than 50 hours without justification to about half in a few years. [[17.50]] This is in the best interest of the children, and this is in the interest of the families. And what we have recently provided, at the end of last year, in VAT reductions, family home support, discounts, or a maximum loan of HUF 10 million, with a very favourable interest rate, is a support for families that has not been before, since families receive help to buy the children's room, build the family home, and in Western Europe, almost unprecedented help. And the fact that we have introduced such discounts in the diet system, I think that many students have the only option of eating healthy three times a day. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-02-15-138	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. I ask Congresswoman if she will accept the Secretary of State's answer.
u2016-02-15-139	I don't accept it, Mr. President. And why hasn't the 13th month's pension - which you've already mentioned many times - been returned? They've been steering for the sixth year, they could've given it back. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: We gave it back in the pension raise!]] Mr. State Secretary. We were supposed to stand up to the parents on Saturday at the protest. Tens of thousands of parents were out in the rain before Parliament. You could have told them that, Mr. Secretary, in case they had given you an answer. Let me tell you one more thing, Mr. Secretary: we have a three-year-old who can ride a bike, and he knows that the bike should not be pushed, but should be mounted and rolled. I could only recommend it to Minister and Secretary of State, if you have forgotten to ride a bicycle, or if you can't, then the bicycle must be given to the person who can sit on it and roll it, Mr. Secretary of State. It's about time they did that. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2016-02-15-140	Thank you. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts the Secretary of State's answer. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 104 votes in favour, 36 against and without abstentions. Dear Parliament, We'll move on to immediate questions. Mr Zsolt Legény, representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: The Prime Minister has appointed Minister János Lázár to respond to his urgent public mission. I would like to ask the Member whether he accepts the person who is responding, or whether he will personally ask the Prime Minister for the answer.
u2016-02-15-141	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I have no objection to the Minister's identity, but since he is indirectly concerned with the subject I would like to bring to this House, I would like to wait for the Prime Minister. Thank you very much.
u2016-02-15-142	Thank you very much. Prime Minister will have to answer at the hour of the third immediate question. Dear Parliament, László Varga, a representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: It's an address. The Prime Minister has appointed Minister Zoltán Balog, the Minister of Human Resources, to respond to his urgent public mission. I ask the Member if he accepts the person who is responding.
u2016-02-15-143	I'll take it.
u2016-02-15-144	You have the floor, Congressman.
u2016-02-15-145	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister, Ladies and gentlemen, The media was loud in Hungary in January by bold initiative, as the teachers' faculty of the Herman Ottó High School in Miskolc turned to the public in an open letter, explaining the problems of public education. I note that this letter was sent to the KLIK and the Secretary of State before, but they were not appreciated for answering any of the questions. The problem is known. Another initiative was launched from Miskolc, as MVK Zrt., transport workers, did not receive their salary increase. By the way, they're looking for about 60 percent, say, of the traffic workers in the capital city. So they also initiated a demonstration. What were the reactions to this? That's an interesting question. They're very bad. The fear of power began to threaten me. On the one hand, discredit was started in both respects and, on the other hand, unworthy manifestations were made, particularly concerning teachers. I must say to you, the feeling that you did nothing led directly to the demonstration of about 5,000 people in Miskolc on 3 February. I think it was a historic demonstration, the largest demonstration in the countryside in recent years. Undeserving appearance tables, further humiliation: the 50s were also quoted by the urban municipal media atmosphere. Last Saturday, February 13, there were tens of thousands in Kossuth Square. I think it is unworthy that there are still no meaningful dialogues in any sector, especially in public education, and what they are doing is unacceptable. Hungary cannot succeed in such a way that the majority of the people living here are unsuccessful and are forced to do their job in very bad conditions. In the interests of the future, as a Member of the Parliament of Miskolc, I ask you when you will finally hear the voices of the protesters and when you will finally do what is necessary to solve the problems. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2016-02-15-146	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Minister Zoltán Balog.
u2016-02-15-147	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear fellow Member, I think you're a few months behind because not only did we hear the voices of those who criticized the public education system, but I personally went to Miskolc, where I met more than a hundred directors, parents, students and teachers who could tell for three hours what problems they had with the public education system and have received answers to these questions. In addition, if you have been watching the press - if you have not been informed in your own city - last Friday, a few days ago, Minister of State Palkovics personally visited Herman High School. And if you are not informed enough, I would like to remind you once again that the director of Herman Ottó High School, who said that we are at the start of meaningful negotiations in the round table of public education to which we have invited all the important participants in public education, has also appeared. So these concerns were too late, and they were not only a few months late, but a few years too, because they should have been with the teachers when they were on the government. Then we shouldn't have closed more than 450 schools, then we shouldn't have closed more than 280 kindergartens, then we shouldn't have taken out the biggest source of public education between OECD countries after 2008 - even your then minister of education acknowledged that - and maybe we shouldn't have let 17 thousand teachers go. If they had been with the teachers at the time, it would be more credible now that they are trying to get into the dissatisfaction of which we are happy to deal with all their legitimate professional objections, and I trust that this may even reassure you in the future. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-02-15-148	Thank you, Minister. I give the floor to Congressman Varga in return.
u2016-02-15-149	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister, I'm briefing you on the problems of my hometown and constituency, not the unacceptable 50s public media you run, and I'm not getting any information from the local government media. By the way, it's amazing that such media can be maintained in a rule of law. So I'm not getting my information from here, but directly from the people involved, and I have to say to you, it's amazing that the 25 points are still not being discussed and that there are no real roundtable negotiations. But to mention the other sector, it is amazing that a transport trade union leader, who stands up for the interests of the workers, the promised wage increase, for the salary increase - which is then withdrawn - will then be classified as a vehicle cleaner in my hometown. You know, that's what we should be talking about, that's what we should answer, but they can't, because they can't talk about a series of demonstrations that are justly critical of your government. So I can tell you, Minister, I think you should push the bike. Thank you very much.
u2016-02-15-150	Thank you very much. The rejoinder also deserves Minister.
u2016-02-15-151	You see, Congressman, the problem is, when you're only getting information from the party press. [[Defiance on the pro-government side.]] It's a matter of fact. It's a matter of fact. Was I in Miskolc, or was I not there? You weren't there. Secretary of State Palkovic was there, I was there. He listened to you, and all you can do is scream back, which is typical of your behavior. We've been through the fifth trial of 25 points. If you don't believe the public media, read the party press, because in it, the union leader of Mrs Gallón said so. [[Noise in the ranks of the MSZP.]] I think yelling is a feature of people who know they're wrong and try to replace their credibility with volume, but I don't think that's gonna work. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-02-15-152	Thank you very much, Minister. Dear Parliament, Ádám Mirkóczki, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: "What are they really asking for? It's an address. [[18.00]] The Prime Minister has appointed Minister János Lázár to respond to an urgent public task. I ask you whether you accept the person of the response or wait for the Prime Minister's personal answer.
u2016-02-15-153	With all due respect, I'd like to wait for Prime Minister.
u2016-02-15-154	Thank you very much. The Prime Minister must respond at the hour of the third immediate question. Dear Parliament, Dániel Z. Carpathian, representative of Jobbik, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question:. A new flood is coming? It's an address. The Prime Minister appointed Mr János Lázár, Minister of the Prime Minister's Office, as a response to the urgent public task. I would like to ask the Member if he accepts the person who is responding. [[For signal:]] It says yes. Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát has the floor.
u2016-02-15-155	Mr President, Dear House, While there is a rhetorical war going on against migrants, which I am very much in favour of, I was surprised to see during my visit to Szeged last week, when we held a press conference in the area near the railway station, behind us a group of dozen migrants sat down to play a game without authority or supervision at all. We experienced all of this when the force assigned to the region was supposed to be doubled by leadership, and in principle there was already a situation where the fence, the physical border lock, would have been protected in a fair manner, according to you. On the other hand, under the leadership of Péter Tóth, the team of the goodies there receive reports daily not only about the continuous damage to the fence, but also about the continued promotion of the estate of the residents of the farms in the outskirts, and the new arrivals rest on their property. So another slow leak started. All this situation is compounded by the fact that migrants leaving the Great Tree may meet without delay at the nearest shopping mall with smugglers who will continue their journey to the West. You can see that what you're fighting in virtual space is here all the time, all around us. In addition, there are new signals coming from the Vámosszabadis area that migrants are becoming more frequent on highways and in the hostel area. It is therefore incomprehensible to us where the independent border guard is, where is the organization that can continuously guarantee the security of our borders. 'Cause let's face it, the police force and the defense, as well as they do, wouldn't be your primary task, and in itself, you can't solve this problem in a sustainable way. So our question is simple and clear: when are we expected to set up an independent border guard, or how long will the government assist in the amazing Gyurcsányist destruction that destroyed this very important organization? [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-02-15-156	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Minister János Lázár.
u2016-02-15-157	Thank you very much. Yes, Mr. President. My dear fellow Member, First of all, I would like to draw the attention of the Parliament, which Prime Minister Viktor Orbán underlined here today, and that is that 2016 is certainly a year when the immigration crisis, illegal migration, will put new, stronger and stronger pressure on the European Union, including Hungary, on the basis of all the open and covered information at our disposal. With regard to the assessment of the situation, I think that it is not a fair Member's express and unspoken criticism that Hungary did not stand up for border protection, given that the European press, especially the German press, has been constantly pouring fire on Hungary because Hungary was trying to defend the borders of Hungary in its own way. The Hungarian government was the first government in Europe to address the issue of border police and border security, and with a technical border lock, a lively defence and the setting up of a legal system, with the combined use of these three instruments, we managed to prevent immigrants from crossing the borders of the country. I remember those arguments where they said that the fence couldn't solve the problem. We were hoping that the percentage of immigrants could fall to 20 percent of the previous 100 percent. At the moment when we built the fence in the Croatian-Hungarian border section, immigrants tried a different route than we can consider protection to be successful at the Hungarian-Serbian border, which is also known directly by me. I do not dispute the facts, given that the security of the region is a special challenge for law enforcement agencies there, so to the Csongrád County Police Headquarters, led by János Lukács. I would like to underline the change in the internal security system that within the Hungarian police, the independent border police border squads have been established in the context of the migrant crisis, regardless of the fact that no independent border guards have been organised. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-02-15-158	Thank you very much, Minister. I'll give the floor to the congressman in return.
u2016-02-15-159	Dear Minister, We are not discussing what has been said here. For it is true, Mayor László Toroczkai, who is a right-wing mayor of digging, suggested to local police leaders that we need a physical border lock. You've done this nine months behind, and we've supported it, and we've secured two thirds for every viable idea. What hurts us a little, I could make it easier for you to evacuate barracks, to have refugee shelters there, and we don't like the fact that the migrants are running smoothly in downtown Szeged. But if we look at all this in a slightly wider spectrum, we can see that they are rhetorically acting against the quota, and in the field of action, we will see what this will be enough for. I hope as much as possible. But with the deportations, they've done nothing worthwhile so far. At the end of last year there were hundreds of migrants and deportees in Hungary. We don't see protocol for their expulsion. In the absence of an independent border guard, the security of Hungary cannot be guaranteed, since neither the police nor the defence can have the departments and equipment in a sustainable way, which is historically necessary to guarantee the security of Hungary's borders. It's an inevitable task, don't avoid it. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-02-15-160	Thank you very much, Congressman. The rejoinder is also due to the Minister.
u2016-02-15-161	Congressman! Once again, I can point out that within the police force, the number of which has been developed by 5,000 permanent persons since 2010, the independent border squadrons and border protection units have been established. We expect your help and the authority to have the defence at the disposal of the police and to be able to help it if the border is in danger. I know exactly how many forces are stationed there, because in my home town, in my constituency, Hódmezővásárhely there is the most powerful force of the Hungarian Defence Forces today, which is on constant alert to prevent any danger. And as far as deportation is concerned, honourable House of Representatives, is there anyone to deport? Let's be careful with this. Forty thousand people were being deported to Hungary. How many of these are there in this country? If in this country there will be 300 to 400 people in temporary accommodations for the next 15 to 20 years, we can be happy. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-02-15-162	Thank you very much, Minister. Dear Parliament, András Schiffer, representative of the LMP, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question:. Hungary capitulates? It's an address. The Prime Minister appointed Mr János Lázár, Minister of the Prime Minister's Office, as a response to the urgent public task. I would like to ask Mr. Congressman, Mr. Group leader, if you will accept the person of the response.
u2016-02-15-163	In view, Mr President, of the fact that the war of freedom is conducted personally by Viktor Orbán, I therefore have to wait for him to respond.
u2016-02-15-164	Thank you very much. Prime Minister will have to answer at the hour of the third immediate question. Dear Parliament, Erzsébet Schmuck, representative of the LMP, wants to ask the Minister of National Economy an immediate question: "How long does the government intend to keep government employees under pressure? It's an address. The Minister has appointed Mr András Tállai Secretary of State to respond to an urgent public task. I ask the congresswoman if she accepts the person who is responding.
u2016-02-15-165	Yeah.
u2016-02-15-166	It says yes. Congresswoman Erzsébet Schmuck has the floor.
u2016-02-15-167	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, There can be no peaceful nights for the government after the trade unions that have worked for public companies have announced in recent weeks that they will strike if their demands are not met. Wage negotiations are still taking place in several sectors. Last week, the railway trade unions announced that if they fail to reach an agreement with the employer by 20 February, they will declare a strike at the beginning of March. The situation is similar with Volan companies and water. The rigid isolation from wage increases in employees is more than interesting because recently the leaders of these state companies have received generous wage increases from the government. Based on the country's good economic performance and uncompetitive payments, several state managers raised their basic wages by two and a half times, i.e. HUF 5 million. But with employees, economic performance doesn't matter. While the government is busy filling the executives' pockets and cutting red tape, the wage situation of the workers is becoming increasingly unsustainable. Low wages have led to a shortage of staff that already endangers the supply of public services, such as the MÁV. [[18.10]] The government's response to this situation is to raise the minimum wage slightly, which is still well below the minimum wage. The other employees have a zero-percent wage increase, but at best a few percent. Here's my question. How long are you going to keep the workers on the payroll? When will the minimum wage be tax-free and raised to the minimum level of living? When will state employees receive substantial wage improvements?
u2016-02-15-168	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. I give the floor to the Secretary of State, András Tállai.
u2016-02-15-169	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Perhaps your speech, if it were to be heard in 2010, would have been appropriate. [[Deterioration in the pro-government benches.]] In 2010, when a month's wages were withdrawn from the public sector after the socialists had been governed, and real wages were constantly reduced every year, both in the public sector and in the public sector. However, in 2010 there was also a turnaround on this issue, as the country's economic situation was restored, stable and economic growth could start from 2013. Obviously, more of the surplus produced by the public sector was also available, and more wage increases were started. I think you don't have to tell me, because there's a reason you missed your speech, because these are positive elements that, for example, the wages of teachers on the street now grow by 30 percent at the same time, and then by 5-5 percent a year, so you will reach 50 percent. The same is true of law enforcement workers. There, too, will be a four-stroke or five-stroke wage increase, and the same will be true for healthcare workers. What the country, the economy, the people grow, a part of it does go back to the public sector, the public sector, in the form of wage development. I think that your criticisms in this regard are completely unfounded, because, for example, we have not talked about higher education workers, where a 15% wage development will start from 1 January 2016. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] In all segments of the public sector, real wage growth has been lower or greater in the last five years. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-02-15-170	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. The congresswoman is entitled to a rejoinder.
u2016-02-15-171	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, I was at the protest on Saturday. The space was full. A lot of speakers and speakers spoke about how unworthyly the salaries of public sector workers are. They said that you can't make a living from 60-70-80-90 thousand forints net, you can't make a living from one month to the next. One day at a time, the next day at a time. Public sector wages haven't been raised in eight years. The solution can be to restore the multi-key personal income tax system. One-key personal income tax failed. [[John Lazarus: Has He Failed?]] But you don't want to see that. It's time to think about that, make the minimum wage tax-free and restore lower bar taxes. [[Dr. András Schiffer applauds.]]
u2016-02-15-172	Thank you very much. The rejoinder shall be granted to the Secretary of State.
u2016-02-15-173	Thank you very much. The opposition seems to have selective hearing, especially the LMP. [[It's grumpy.]] I will not repeat that in the public sector, teachers, law enforcement and defence workers, police officers, health workers, judges and prosecutors, workers in the social care system, from this year on, government officials will receive a significant wage increase. However, if we only look at the tax change, we can see that the shift to a key in personal income tax has caused a significant increase in income tax, since the employees paid 16 per cent instead of 17 and 32 per cent, and 15 per cent from 1 January 2016. And if we add family tax relief to all of this - because there are also people in the public sector who are raising children - then it is realistic in recent years that real wage increases have occurred in all segments of the public sector over the last three years. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]] [[Dr. István Tiba takes over his notary seat.]]
u2016-02-15-174	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Mengyi Roland, a representative of Fidesz, wants to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question:. What is happening to the hospital in Szikszó? It's an address. Congressman Roland Mengyi is the one to speak.
u2016-02-15-175	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister, Over the last few days, weeks, changes in one-day surgery in the hospital in and around Sikson have triggered a big echo. The news spread as a wildfire that, in fact, the most important outpatient care for those living there will be closed, and then the whole hospital will be terminated. At present, besides one day of surgery, there are musculoskeletal rehabilitation, care and chronic departments in the hospital, which is the Borsod-Abaúj-Zemplén County Hospital, but it is also outpatient care that is really important for the people who live there. At the same time, a real response is needed not only by this idea but also by the rapid ageing of the region, which is challenging for health. There is an increasing number of elderly people, and this fact gives rise to an immediate urge to act. Analyzing the need for care and care, Borsod-Abaúj-Zemplén county accounts for almost 23 percent of those over 60 years of age, representing 155 thousand people in the county. Studying national data, elderly people, especially single people, require, on average, 20 percent of the benefits within the institutional framework. This form of care is of paramount importance, especially when it comes to the immediate period after active health intervention. The easiest solution at the moment is accommodation at a level of chronic inpatient care, which is obviously wrong. This can provide a temporary solution for families for a few weeks, but we need to find a solution for a longer period of time. Well, given the social challenges of South Aba new and the current form of hospital care, it is easy to see that the health care situation is calling for a solution. Preferably for a solution that responds to the above societal challenges, everyday health needs, by strengthening and developing outpatient care, it helps to increase employment and the professional background, working background and employment of other professionals. I respectfully ask the Minister what changes are planned in the hospital, which will ensure that the Siksians are provided with continuous improvement. Thank you for your answer.
u2016-02-15-176	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Minister Zoltán Balog.
u2016-02-15-177	Mr President, Dear House, Honourable Congressman, First of all, allow us to clarify a misunderstanding in Siksai II. About Ferenc Rákóczi Hospital and Clinic. As regards the day-to-day benefits provided by the institution and outpatient care, I would like to point out that the cessation of outpatient care is not included in our plans, and even in line with sectoral development ideas, the promotion of the role of outpatient care is a priority policy objective. The possibilities of this are also worth examining in Siksó. As regards one-day surgery, it was initiated by Borsod-Abaúj-Zemplén County Hospital and University Training Hospital at the Szikszó site, as you mentioned, taking account of professional, patient safety and sustainability aspects at the same time. For the population, benefits are still available at the hospital's premises in Miskolc at a distance of 15 km at a high professional level. The other matter that you have raised is indeed a plan in which the State Secretary for Health, Social Affairs and Social Inclusion work together, in order to bring together long-term care and care for the elderly, we are also preparing an integrated form of care. Professional work is carried out by assessing the needs of the population, either with the aim of developing appropriate forms of organisational care, which are different from that currently in place. If necessary, if it can be operated more efficiently there, some capacities may also be transferred from healthcare to social care. To this end, it is necessary to identify overlaps and, accordingly, create transitional forms of care in order to establish a link between the two types of care systems for the benefit of the population that is still lacking today. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-02-15-178	Thank you, Minister. In return, I give the floor to Congressman Roland of Mengyi.
u2016-02-15-179	Thank you for the floor. Dear Minister, Thank you for your answer. I'm glad to hear that the government is working to strengthen outpatient care. I think this will also be true of Siksora in the field of the most important professional groups on the ground, such as internal medicine, surgery, ophthalmology or labs, and that an integrated supply model is being developed to ensure safer care for the elderly and patients. [[18.20]] There is a need for a model of care and care more appropriate to the needs of the population. With regard to Siksó, we would be happy to present you with proposals on this matter. Finally, I hope that this can be achieved by increasing the number of people employed in the hospital. Thank you for your answer. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2016-02-15-180	Thank you, Congressman. The rejoinder is also due to the Minister.
u2016-02-15-181	Thank you, Mr. President. Yes, indeed, Congressman, as you have mentioned. In this border area, between health and social care, we need to think about changing services. So any data and suggestions aimed at organising care in a more efficient way that better suits the needs of the population or at resolving a real specific situation are welcome. I am sure it is possible to develop a functioning, sustainable supply model more suited to the needs of the population to ensure the care and care needs of the elderly. Mr President, it is also a matter of devising the social challenges of the southern Ababaúj region, and I believe that it will help us to make the necessary adjustments at all times, taking into account local needs. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2016-02-15-182	Thank you, Minister. Dear Parliament, Bertalan Tóth, a representative of the MSZP, wants to ask the Minister of National Economy an immediate question:. What is the need for offshore agents in the distribution of sovereign debt? It's an address. The Minister has appointed Mr András Tállai Secretary of State to respond to an urgent public task. I would like to ask the Member if he accepts the person who is responding.
u2016-02-15-183	Yeah, I'll take it.
u2016-02-15-184	Yes, you have the floor, Congressman Bertalan Tóth.
u2016-02-15-185	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Today, an ectant example of the operation of the Fidesz regime is the distribution of settlement government bonds through offshore companies. Everyone remembers the circumstances under which Antal Rogán, former Chairman of the Economic Commission, appointed companies in the Cayman Islands, Cyprus, Singapore, Liechtenstein to assist in the resettlement of people from Asian, Middle Eastern or Soviet successor states for a measurable profit of hundreds of millions. This could have been done directly by the state, but for some reason it was important to intervene these offshore companies. I leave the reasons to everyone's fantasies. In any case, the practice also seems to have liked the Government Debt Management Centre. The Treasury Reserve Plus government debt is sold by the Hungarian Treasury through the intervention of a partly private company. The company is the full distribution of securities by Magyar Posta, so the Treasury Savings Ticket Plus in the Post Offices belongs to the Hungarian Government Bond of Bonus and the Hungarian Government Bond of Premium. The company is under the joint management of FHB and Posta, but the customers registering sovereign debt and investment fund shares at the Posta do not necessarily know that the securities distribution company is not wholly owned by Posta. This company is Magyar Posta Bejlesztési Zrt., which has been owned by FHB Invest Kft. since 2013. FHB Invest Kft. Among other things, Zoltán Spéder's interest and an offshore company in Panama, Silvermist Estate SA, appear. Dear Secretary of State, The task could be performed by 75% of the state-owned Magyar Posta Zrt. So do I. I ask: why did the State Debt Management Center entrust these treasury bills to a 50 percent private brokerage company instead of the Hungarian Post Office? What is the need for private brokerage firms, perhaps to favour Zoltán Spéder, and what is the amount of commission paid by intermediate brokerage firms that distribute partially private securities? I'm looking forward to your reply. Thank you very much.
u2016-02-15-186	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to the Secretary of State, András Tállai.
u2016-02-15-187	Thank you very much. Thank you, Mr. President. Honourable Congressman, Let's get back to selling the settlement policy for a second. It is the Parliament's Economic Committee that defined the criteria for criticism under the law, which are public. So you've read it, which is probably why you can talk about it. The winner, the winner, is always announced and decided by the Economic Committee after a public tender. So it's on the basis of a tender. The decision, after being taken by the Economic Committee in public proceedings, is also open, since opposition representatives are equally involved in the decision-making process. And in this case, in any case, you can start a company where you know clearly, the decision-maker knows who the owners are, because you have to make a statement about it, and based on the Commission's data and company information, that statement can be verified. So I think that, in this regard, the accusations that there is some kind of closed and secret procedure are not true. I think that, by selling Hungarian government bonds or other securities, a company that can be owned by a known, indirectly known individual, I think it is not illegal or illegal. So the important thing is that the sale of the security is in the interests of the State and therefore the State does not pay a separate commission or any other fee to the issuer of the securities. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2016-02-15-188	Thank you very much. Congressman has the opportunity to rejoin us.
u2016-02-15-189	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, He didn't answer the question, because I asked why the State Debt Management Centre didn't entrust a fully state company with the sale of this, did he not, the Hungarian Posta, why a private company was half of it. Why we need Magyar Posta Bézik Zrt. to intervene in the sale of public sovereign debt? I mean, the state parent company could do that through the Posta network. In addition, this company may mislead the population by using the Posta logo, the mail horn, the details of which we do not know yet. I feel that these are precisely the questions that make you wish to encrypt Magyar Posta's contracts, the public interest data that would allow you to understand the relationship that Magyar Posta has with this investment company and these brokerage companies. So I can't accept your answer.
u2016-02-15-190	Thank you, Congressman. Mr. Secretary of State has the opportunity to rejoinder in a minute.
u2016-02-15-191	I can reassure Congressman that the public is not disturbed by the fact that Posta Zrt. Posta Intersects Investment Zrt. during the sale of sovereign debt, as it does not reduce the sale of securities, but increases from day to day. The most important thing here is whether the public has confidence in sovereign debt and whether it trusts in the state, the returns and whether it chooses this form of investment. And what I can tell you is that the form of sovereign debt investment in the population is very popular and its popularity is increasing. If you do not accept my answer regarding the solution to offshore companies or foreign accounts, please contact Gábor Simon's partner, who will soon be charged, if everything is true, for tax fraud, forgery and other crimes, who are professional in keeping untaxed income on foreign accounts. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] Or ask the former President of the Hungarian National Bank how to invest in offshore companies as Chairman of the MNB [[The president's ringing again.]] And you'll probably get a better answer than I did. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2016-02-15-192	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. We had a one-minute chance. Dear Parliament, Mrs Loránt Hegedűs, Member of Jobbik, wants to ask the Minister of the Prime Minister's Office an immediate question with the title of the Council System 2.0. You have the floor, Congresswoman Loránt Hegedűs.
u2016-02-15-193	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister, In recent days, we have received this document on the close central control of municipalities and the dismissal of 5 to 10 thousand officials. Although the material is not public, it is not approved, and its author is not known, but it is clear that its author is an insider on the subject. It is also clear that government decisions over the past years are all evidence of the analysis and would fulfil those ambitions. [[18.30]] According to the study, the municipalities will have to be connected to a public central database using the ASP IT system, and then any depth data will be retrieved without the consent and approval of the municipalities. Public procurement can only be carried out by means of a central countersignation, which is supposed to reduce corruption. But, Minister, corruption has not been built on the system of small settlements that will be the biggest losers of this transformation, but on the central state apparatus, as you well know. The study acknowledges that centralisation may make local offices redundant, which will then be terminated, making it much more difficult for citizens to deal with. In a statement from the Ministry of Interior, he wrote about this study that he was known only by news. I am now asking you, as the other competent minister, whether you really want to implement the mass merger. Will any municipal decision really require a central countersignation? And would the self-determination of settlements really be abolished, contrary to the international conventions adopted by Hungary? I'd like to ask you a worthy answer. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-02-15-194	Thank you, Congresswoman. I give the floor to the Minister of the Prime Minister's Office, Mr János Lázár.
u2016-02-15-195	Thank you very much. Your Honour, Mr. President. The truth is, I spend the weekend with my kids. If it is necessary and fate, the obligation - or service - brings it to my constituents, but not to study the press, I confess, so I probably missed something. [[Mrs. Loránt Violin, as she hands over the text to János Lázár: I will help you!]] I have no idea what document the congresswoman is talking about, and I do not know her. Thank you very much. It's beyond my ability to read these dozen pages within the remaining minutes and a half, and then I'll refer you to what's inside and what's the government's intention. What I can say is that the local government's reforms and reforms have been completed, there is no plan for the government regarding the powers and responsibilities of the municipalities. So, as we have now established, we are interested in ensuring that local authorities operate well, that local services are developed as far as possible, and that quality of life is significantly improved in all Hungarian settlements and in 3200 settlements. I do not know of any transformation during the preparatory work of the government, either at administrative or political meetings, or at government meetings, in any form that would have affected the powers or activities of the municipalities. To better control the municipalities, there is a minimum of opportunity and opportunity, since the two-thirds laws excluded the possibility that government offices, as the Ministry of Public Administration and the Ministry of Legality of the municipalities, could exercise any powers. It is precisely the efficiency and practicality of farming that we cannot set foot in, for the Parliament has forbidden us to do so. So I can only deny the assumption, the allegations made on the question, and I can answer all your questions with no. So your claims or the claims made in your questions will be answered in the negative; we have no plans with the municipalities. I don't know what Jobbik's plan is or what kind of panic they want to cause. We have completed the transformation of the local government, including the powers and tasks, and now we are trying to ensure that all Hungarian self-governments work well. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-02-15-196	Thank you, Minister. I will give the floor to the congresswoman in return.
u2016-02-15-197	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary. I'm shocked! So you have no idea what's going on in the municipal system about the remodeling of the offices. You have no idea what you, by the way, are pushing through government offices to build this ASP system everywhere. Yes, that is what this study is about, how this will influence the situation of the municipalities and their freedom to decide. This is exactly the system that you, your government, are implementing with EU money and has already been introduced in a number of municipalities; for the time being, it is only a pilot programme, but now, according to the study, at least, for the next one or two years, it is intended to make mandatory for all municipalities. So I'd like to ask the Honourable Minister if you'd be so kind as to find out what's going on around your house. You are also competent at government offices [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] Maybe you should take a look at your work. Thank you so much for listening. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-02-15-198	Thank you, Congresswoman. You have a rebuttal answer for the Minister.
u2016-02-15-199	Thank you very much. I probably went to a different school than you, but it's possible that because I first entered a city hall in November 1995, and for 21 years I've been going there almost, only once a week now, but every day, and on some occasions I gained the trust of local voters as mayor, so I'm likely to know less about the municipal world than you do. What I can tell you is that the first thing I've learned is that the independence of the local governments, their sovereignty and their own decisions are guaranteed by the Fundamental Law and before that by the Constitution. For my office, the two-thirds laws allow us to carry out legal checks on the functioning of the municipalities, which the state has not been able to run for many years, but the independence of the municipalities is guaranteed in full. It would be a big problem if I spent my time and spent my ministerial work interfering in the lives of the municipalities. The government does not interfere with the lives of local governments, and even gives all the support it can to make them work well. If you're going to be mayor someday, you can experience that. [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] But to do that, you have to win the voter's trust. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-02-15-200	Thank you very much, Minister. Dear Parliament, Imre Vejkey, a representative of the Christian Democratic People's Party, wants to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question:. How does the conditions for a family home creation benefit change? It's an address. The Minister appointed Secretary of State Bence Rétvári to respond. The congressman indicates that he accepts the person who is responding. You have the floor, Congressman Imre Vejkey.
u2016-02-15-201	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, The Hungarian government responded well to the demographic situation in Hungary by offering a family home creation discount. CSOK aimed not only at increasing birth numbers, but also at ensuring more comfortable living conditions for families who have children. Of course, we must not forget the impact of the CSOK on the expansion of housing, construction and economic performance. CSOK may also be requested by spouses, partners and single parents, but the existence of a marriage is a condition for future child support in such a way that at least one of the parties must be under 40 at the time the application is submitted. Young married couples who undertake the birth of three or more children, but who want one or two children, are the best ones. It can therefore be said that the amount of aid depends solely on the number of children. For the construction or purchase of a new apartment, the amount of the aid is 600 thousand for one child, 2 million 600 thousand for two and 10 million for three or more children. For the purchase of used apartments there are 600 thousand for a child, 1 million 430,000 for two, 2 million 200 thousand for three, and 2 million 750 thousand forints for four or more children. [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] I respectfully ask the Secretary of State what changes the family home-building discount will bring in order to make as many as possible eligible for support. I'm looking forward to your reply. [[Dr. István Józsa: Very good changes!]]
u2016-02-15-202	Thank you. I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2016-02-15-203	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, At the time of the introduction of the CSOK, the government's goal was to provide as many people as possible with apartments as cheaply as possible. Whether it is the reduction of VAT or the simplification of authorisation, or the non-refundable grant in the items listed by you, or the hugely reduced loan of HUF 10 million, which can also be taken in the event of the use of the 10 million CSOK, all of them constitute an facilitation for families to the extent that they have been facilitating access to their own home, their own housing, their own house building in the last 25 years, but not even before in Hungary. To make it easy for more people to see through this system, this is why the two new CSOK regulations were published on 11 February, with the aim of listing in one of them clearly the cases where someone buys a new apartment, a new house, and the other one when they buy a second-hand apartment and move there with their family. The clear, clear, simple, comprehensible regulation on new apartments includes either the use of the family home creation discount, the reimbursement of the VAT on construction costs and the detailed rules for the 10 million HUF non-refundable support that can be accepted by families with three and more children. [[18.40]] In the regulation on used real estate, you can find the terms of the non-refundable grant for purchase and expansion. As you said, each sum rose compared to last year's. So there's at least 10 percent rise everywhere. From now on, the amount available depends only on the number of children. It does not depend on the size of the house, there is only a minimum size area to buy quality real estate with a uniform price of HUF 35 million. The threshold is not broken down, whether it is the maximum amount for children or for parts of the country, so it is more flexible [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] the new regulation has become more transparent, simpler and transparent. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-02-15-204	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. You have a one-minute rejoinder for the congressman.
u2016-02-15-205	Thank you, Mr State Secretary, for your reply, which has made it clear that a number of further changes have taken place in the context of the recent reform of the aid scheme, in addition to increasing the amount of the CSOK. The conditions have become significantly simpler, more transparent and more realistic in order to increase the desire to have children, on the one hand, and on the other hand, to further stimulate the Hungarian economy. Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, I accept your reply.
u2016-02-15-206	Thank you very much. It's for the Secretary of State.
u2016-02-15-207	Thank you very much. Let me say one or two more facilitations, simplifications, which can be beneficial for everyone. For example, there were settlements where there was no canal or no plumbing network. It would be unreasonable to get these people out of the C.O.C., even if they were living on a farm. The new regulation also provides for the possibility of this. If there is healthy drinking water, which can also be from a drilled well, if the sewage is properly drained or settled, they can also use the CSOK. That can't be an obstacle now. Also, you do not have to sell your own existing property if you want to buy one of these. We have also made it easier to understand who dependent children are. So when a person brings children from another relationship, they are raised together, children count in the same way. We don't want to tell anyone here exactly what conditions to wear the CSOK. So we trust that this will help, as well as the obligation to repay. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] the government agencies have built up a power of fairness, precisely so that in the long term we can deal with individual situations. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-02-15-208	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, István Ikotity, a representative of the LMP, wants to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question: It's an address. I would like to ask Congressman if he will accept the Secretary of State, Bence Rétvári, who has been appointed to answer. [[István Ikotity: Yes.]] Yes, the floor is yours.
u2016-02-15-209	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, A few days ago, it was discovered that the nurses and specialists had not received their promised raise from January of this year. The government didn't think it was important enough to at least inform health workers about the missed wage increase, thousands of people could only find out after the same payment allocation as last year that the government had deceived them again. But the promise was that 43,000 nurses and 18,000 doctors would rise from January. Compared to this, the trade unions reported that only 400 doctors received wage supplements on the basis of a separate application. The government has fooled medical personnel for the longest time. In the past, he has promised a general wage increase several times, but only a narrow layer has received a wage supplement that is not based on a basic wage. The series of scams make it clear that the government does not actually have any plan to deal with the ever more serious health crisis, but merely wants to plug holes in the sinking ship, which is not enough for anything, but rather harmful. The government, in fact, only by deceiving it, will more and more health workers be fed up with a series of scams and decide to emigration. With all emigrated workers, both the money for their training and the ever more worrying shortage of professionals in healthcare are being thrown out. By ignoring health problems, the government is creating new problems. Dear Secretary of State, When will you stop plotting health care workers and make a real wage increase of at least 50% of the basic wage? When are you gonna realize that you don't have to pull resources out of health care, but spend as much money on it as possible? With all due respect, Mr Secretary of State, I would like to ask you not to discuss improvements in health care and EU aid. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] Talk to me, you've said that at least three times today. Thank you in advance.
u2016-02-15-210	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2016-02-15-211	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, I think it is a good thing that this issue has been raised here, because there has been a lot of confusion over the last few weeks, and it is good to be able to separate them. As regards wage increases, there was a general wage increase in 2012-13. This affected everyone who works in health care, on average, it was 27 percent. That's the basic wage. That was a general raise. Compared to this, the government decided, in the middle of the last year, that those who work for patients and overwork because they are on the lookout, spend more time with patients in the hospital, for those so-called mobile wages on basic wages, to the same extent that basic wages increased in 2012-13. We also provided funds for this in last year's budget. And the new thing this year is that the annual budget now contains this HUF 12.8 billion for the whole year on the basis of a legal guarantee, not with an interim measure during the year, but with a guarantee that the total annual budget will include this amount. This was also allocated to a total of 71 863 employees, HUF 804 million in January 2016. This was 5-15 thousand forints gross and 20-25 thousand forints for doctors. As I say, this will be 12.8 billion a year, last year, when this increase on mobile wages began in a truncated year, it was 5.3 billion forints. This is the difference between specialist support for young specialists, since we wanted to keep the most mobile young graduates at home with the residency support program. For 2,500 young people - if I count the last few years - the extra wage weight we could guarantee them was HUF 5 billion, but young people are slowly getting out of this residency program and should be kept at home as young specialists, and this is what we have worked out. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] a solution that I'll tell you in a minute.
u2016-02-15-212	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Congressman Ikotity will have the floor in a minute.
u2016-02-15-213	Thank you for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, The thing is, the things you've just said are understandable, but they haven't been communicated before. In June 2015 we were talking about a basic wage increase in the time of Secretary of State Sombor. This was confirmed by the EMMI in October, once again, that there was going to be a serious wage increase. On December 27, I saw a video footage, just recently, when State Secretary Csaba Dömötör reported on it, I quote literally:, And from January 43,000 nurses and 18,000 doctors will receive higher wages, the qualified doctors will receive a salary increase of HUF 151 thousand, and the minimum wage of the specialist will rise to HUF 270 thousand net. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. So he didn't do this as part of a tendering system, so that any resident, a young specialist who does this, would then get this, but would talk about an automatic system. That's not what happened. What we're seeing is that there's not going to be a raise that they promise. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] As a result, doctors and health professionals are facing an uncertain future. You change your sayings on a regular basis.
u2016-02-15-214	Thank you, Congressman. The Secretary of State shall also have a rejoinder.
u2016-02-15-215	I'd pick up where I left off. The person who was in the residency support program could receive a grant of 100, 150 or 200 thousand HUF in five ways, and his salary was obviously increased. When he got out of his residency period, he would have had a smaller salary. This would obviously have encouraged young specialists to leave the country or to choose another course or to go to a hospital that was publicly funded as a non-practicing physician in other areas of health. That's why we introduced the 151 thousand forints that young specialists can receive. Obviously, your hospital has to claim this, so it involves administration, but we provided it to everyone who requested it, and this is the HUF 151 thousand that we guarantee for five years for those who either participated in the residency program or took their first specialist exam after 1 September 2015. That is why the Secretary of State said that the minimum wage for young specialists could be up to HUF 270 000 if the hospital used it after them. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] This is the amount that the Hungarian budget has provided to every hospital in need. Thank you very much. [[18.50]]
u2016-02-15-216	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Within the agenda, the final immediate question follows. President Novák, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Minister of Defence an immediate question: å Does the Minister of Defence support our proposal for voluntary basic training, since according to his recent response, the number of operational reserve holders under 45 is merely 515? It's an address. Minister Tamás Vargha has appointed Minister of State to respond to his urgent public service. I would like to ask Mr President Novak if he accepts the person who is responding. It says yes. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2016-02-15-217	Thank you for the opportunity, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, I have submitted a bouquet of questions in writing to Minister István Simicskó, but he has not answered seven questions with noble simplicity, not even formally, and in a rather timid way he has not answered any of the most delicate questions for him. Therefore, on the one hand, I am forced to submit this week again, and I hope that I will not get an empty paper in response this time, and on the other, I would like to highlight a problem here already. This is that we have learned that thousands of people from the six thousand frames of the voluntary operational reserve system are unfilled, which we may have already known, but not that the number of people under 45 is indeed 515, terrifyingly low. Depending on this, I would have particularly looked forward to the answer to my next question, which I have also put in writing, but I have received no reply from the Minister. Do you not think that this alarming figure also justifies the inclusion in the scope of the proposal submitted by Jobbik to introduce and encourage voluntary basic military training? Does Minister support the inclusion of this proposal? We have received no reply at all, although the competent committee of the Parliament will take a position on this, and in light of this, we would like a clear response to this, especially on the basis of the number of the 515 voluntary operational reserve system, as regards those under 45 years of age. Furthermore, I also did not get an answer as to when you were planning a five-party meeting on the transformation of the voluntary reserve system, as previously Minister promised this in both an MTI interview and another wider five-party meeting. I look forward to Mr Secretary of State's substantive reply. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-02-15-218	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to the Secretary of State Tamás Vargha.
u2016-02-15-219	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear Parliament, In general, I am not a fan of reaching back for the 2002-2010 period for every problem and problem that comes before us, but if we want to see clearly in the sea of numbers, we still have to turn back to the time when, between 2002-2010, socialist defence ministers Ferenc Juhász and Imre Szekeres led the Ministry, and they concluded that there is no need to develop the capabilities of the military, because no security challenge is expected in the future, it is enough to develop missionary capabilities only. As a result, in 2010 we got to the point that the voluntary reserve system... - if we recall, in 2010 during the floods caused by the heavy rains, when Minister asked the Minister of Defence how many reserve workers we could expect in this case, and the answer was that, by 17th time, Minister was pleased to acknowledge that 17 thousand, yes, would be a serious help, and the Minister said in his reply that 17 people were 17 people. So in 2010, 17 reserve players were registered in the Ministry of Defence, compared with 3780 voluntary operational reserveers and 1590 voluntary reserveers in the Hungarian Defence Service. They are not very young in their age, because due to the layoffs, we were the first to address soldiers who were forced to retire early, precisely during the socialist layoffs of the Hungarian Defence Forces, and they are the voluntary operational reserveists who now give their backbone to the reserve system. Yes, we know that their age will force them to leave the system sooner or later, so if we want to maintain this functioning system, we need to further develop it.
u2016-02-15-220	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. I'll give the floor to Congressman President Novak in a minute.
u2016-02-15-221	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary. This past eight years really is so outdated that it is now, in the last eight years, more than ever, your last eight years, and they would have had the opportunity to expand and replenish the voluntary operational reserve system, at least the statutory framework. Unfortunately, we have not seen this, and we are currently talking about the 500-person stock that is shamefully low. I would like you to finally answer the question whether the Ministry supports the right-wing proposal on this and before the National Assembly, because it is very nice that the Fundamental Law requires all Hungarian citizens to protect their country, but the state does not provide the basic training required for this, even for those who would learn it voluntarily. Therefore, I think that the proposal that we have drawn up precisely, which has been sent to you and received no concrete criticism, and which is supported by its principles, should therefore be supported, but we would like to get a clear yes to this. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-02-15-222	Thank you, Congressman. The Secretary of State is entitled to a rejoinder.
u2016-02-15-223	Thank you very much. If we add up these numbers, we get the number of VRSs that are well over 5,000, so there is a shortage in this case, I don't think we can talk about it. Mr. Congressman, you are banging the gates with your proposal, because we are working on the initiative of Minister and under the leadership of Minister in the Ministry to open the gates even further and where we have left off in the previous answer, so we can replace the reserve workers that flow out because of their age, and we are therefore very much looking forward to young people. This is what we are working on at the moment, and if there is an element of this proposal that will come before the Parliament, then we are also looking forward to the support of Congressman. [[Forebod Novak: We submitted it, we ride the horse backwards!]] To support our proposal. Thank you very much. [[The First of Novak: What? Where is he?]]
u2016-02-15-224	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, We will move on to our next item on the agenda. A general debate on the proposal for a decision declaring the year 2017 as the Memorial Year of János Arany will follow until closure. Presentation submitted by László L. Simon, Szilárd Németh, Fidesz Members and Földi László KDNP representative H/8343. is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr László Földi, rapporteur on the agenda, in a 30-minute time frame. [[President Tamás Sneider, Vice-President of the National Assembly.]]
u2016-02-15-225	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, In 2017, we celebrate the 200th anniversary of the birth of János Arany, so we considered it important to remember one of the cornerstones of the Hungarian cultural community. For Hungarian speakers, János Arany means the native language. To this day, he is quoted as a decisive evidence in linguistic and language matters, and his version is accepted as decisive evidence. János Arany is the main figure of national classicism, and the power of national identity is still active. Its significance is that it has tried to translate poetry in a national way, in a language that is understandable to the people. He speaks as a son of an ideal nation, both as a narrator and as a lyric, the richest soil of which is history itself. He sees this history as a people's thing, making it credible, realistic. Through his works, he has constantly sought to strengthen national identity and to emphasise the importance of this. Ladies and gentlemen, It is to be splintered and miraculous that the exceptional young man from the depths was able to acquire such a large and versatile culture as he has mastered a language culture that he is now familiar with the masterpieces of Latin, Greek, German, English and French literature by the time he was a man. His later criticisms and studies, in addition to aesthetic need, show such scientific readiness that the Academy of Sciences chose him for no reason. [[19.00]] He is also one of the major classics of our literature as a critic and aesthetist of the need for realism. The scientist and the prepared meditator are the foundation and the background to the poet. This poet is often said to be one of the greatest epics in our literature, or by his art form he is a narrator. That's true, but it's not the whole truth, because the great epic is also one of our greatest lyrical poets. Poems like the Autumn, Dante, Széchenyi's memory and the final cycle, many pieces of the Autumn, such as Petőfi, Ady, Attila József, in our lyrical poetry, belong to the order of magnitude, even though they are epic poets, with whom no one competes in our literature. Dear Parliament, So next to Petőfi, János Arany is the other main figure until Ady's performance. Personally, they are good friends with Petőfi, and he is one of the few with whom Petőfi, so firmly and emotionally attached to his principles, is never different. So you can say that they belong together, but they differ in artistic form. Next to the fast - reaching Petőfi, Gold's poetry unfolds slowly. Gold was never a young poet. You destroyed the early attempts to prove the path to progress. He is 28 years old when he even appears in literary life, and when he is 31 years old, the success of Toldi is very much justified. Artistic development has been constant since then. His art will all become richer, he will be able to renew with sickness and doubts at the age of 60, and in the twilight of his life will be the starting point for modern sound in Hungarian poetry. But not only is it slow ripening, but it is also a continuous internal struggle. Gold is constantly tormented by uncertainty, whether it is right as he thinks or does. [[Dr. István Józsa: This is not typical of Fidesz!]] The result is that he has eternal problems of conscience, and that he is present in his activities. Ladies and gentlemen, János Arany's life path is not rich in external activity. When he is young, he may become a wandering actor for a short time, but his duty calls him home to the parents in need of support. His school education will soon stop in half. He learns with time and you teach with him. He's getting married when he's young, and he's a family man with a 24-year-old. Parastis tries hard to raise money to support his own and to give good education to his children. In the meantime, the poet is slowly catching up. In 1845 the unknown village nitarian won a prize in an academic competition with his satirical poem The Lost Constitution, which is both a parody of hexameter epics and the fight of noble parties. Gold, who shares the view of the peasant environment and who has the same sense of suspicion, is also watching the old nobleman, the progressive nobleman. There is the same revolutionary democracy in this earliest Golden Works, which now sounds loudly at Petőfi. In 1848 and 49, he was a loyal soldier of the revolution, a national guard and an official of the Ministry of Interior. But he didn't have a significant political role, so after the fall, he just loses his job and starts all over again. He was a district clerk for a while, and then he managed to get a teaching job at the high school in Nagykőrös. These years of Nagykőrös are in the spirit of continuous further education and poetry. It's the most productive time of his life. Here, far from the capital, it becomes the main figure of living Hungarian poetry, and this allows it to enter Pest. The Kisfaludy Society invites you to its executive director and is appointed Secretary of the Academy as a member of the Academy. He's embarrassingly doing boring administrative work. As the compromise approaches, János Arany is increasingly less and less in agreement with any political party. Paraszt is confronted with instinct and civic awareness of noble aspirations, but no less alarmed by the cold inhumanity of unfolding capitalism. The official literature almost made him an idol and noodles, which he doesn't want to do. This situation explains - and not only the premature and sudden death of his beloved daughter - that from 1865 to 1877 she is silent for 12 years. He's not idle, he's just silent. He plans to complete the Toldi trilogy, and recreates the Hunmond trilogy, which, after all, remained a fragment, only the first part of Buda's death was completed. In 1867 the king decorated him with the highest medal, the cross of the Order of St. Stephen, which he accepted only to dissuade the minister of the cult. Then, in 1877, when he was 60 years old and he was plagued with various diseases, the poetic creative power flares up at the same time. Here comes the lire of the Autumn and the gloom of the final great ballads. The statue of Petőfi will be erected in 1882, but a few days later, the weakened 65-year-old poet will be taken away by a single cool. Dear Parliament, So János Arany's oeuvre is a central part of our classic poetry, both in terms of poetic and aesthetic, as well as in terms of cultural history and linguistic art. He was well acquainted with Hungarian and European poetry, from among his contemporaries with his critical, literary and aesthetic works, and from XX. He was a prep student in literary science in the first century. The principle of his literary journal, the Literature Watcher and the Wizard was to be strong on the subject analysed and not in the manner of the debate. That is still to be considered, fellow Members. As a representative of the region, I was very pleased to join Mr. L. Simon, who had already done a great deal to promote and strengthen Hungarian poetry and literature as President of the Association of Young Writers and later as Secretary of the Association of Hungarian Writers. The aim of our proposal for a parliamentary decision is therefore to provide the basis for a worthy memory of the whole country in 2017 of János Arany, a mild poet with a profound respect for others and an open spirit to the values of the world. At the committee meeting, the representative of the Ministry of Human Resources supported our proposal and I trust that the government will be happy to participate in the practical implementation of the Memorial Year. To do this, my fellow Member, Mr Simon, and myself, we will give you all the help we can. With all due respect, I ask you to support our proposal. Thank you for listening. [[Applause from the benches of the governing parties, LMP and MSZP.]]
u2016-02-15-226	Welcome, fellow Members. I will ask Mr. Peter Hoppál, Secretary of State, if he wishes to comment on behalf of the government. [[Dr. Péter Hoppál: I'd like to see you at the end.]] In the end, all right. Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. I give the floor to Balázs Simon Róbert, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group. [[Dr. István Józsa: Doesn't the government have a say? Dr. Peter Hoppál: It will be at the end!]] [[19.10]]
u2016-02-15-227	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, As a member of the Cultural Committee of the Hungarian Parliament, I think it is important that I comment on this item on the agenda. Toldi's author, János Arany, will have his 200-year anniversary next year, which is definitely a significant date. Each Hungarian person can identify with his literary legacy, as he was a Hungarian-thinking, well-known Hungarian culture, but also a broad-minded and homely-moving linguistic genius in other cultures. János Arany was born on 2 March 1817 and died in Budapest on 22 October 1882. He was a poet, writer, literary translator, editor, director of the Kisfaludy Society, member of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences, and secretary general of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences. He started as a private teacher, actor, scribe, subscriber, and then as a teacher and philologist, but clearly he was among the greatest in his literary work. His life's work, from which Toldi trilogy and many of his ballads emerge, contributed significantly to the enrichment of the Hungarian language. His language is commonplace, yet his vocabulary was the largest of 19th-century poets with almost 60,000 unique words. The roots of his poetry go deep into the traditions of his hometown and the entire Hungarian nation. In its forms the basic nature of the Hungarian man, his great dignity, his residence, his funny sense of humor, and his giggles. All the threads led to him and all the threads lead from him, he is the centre of radiation of the Hungarian spiritual life. If it makes sense to talk about roots and organic development about spiritual phenomena, this can be said about János Arany. 'Antal Serb,' says Antal. The bicentennial planned for 2017 is an important symbolic event for the entire Hungarian national community, but it is also a positive cultural and tourist opportunity, which can bring together Hungarian communities living in different regions and in different living situations. 2017 is also a significant year for the history of literature, as the Hungarian Academy of Sciences is preparing for critical publication of the Arany oeuvre, and adds cultural historical rarities such as the poet's wind notes found in various publications, from which we can learn more about the creative processes and the thinking of János Arany. His great talent is similar to that of Toldi, who was formed by him, who, however, ascends from his unworthy position and proclaims the triumph of himself and of the Hungarians. Ladies and gentlemen, Renewing the memory of János Arany, remembering him makes us better, nobler, because by his greatness we can face the greatness and power of Hungarians. At the last meeting of the Cultural Committee, we unanimously supported the declaration of the Year 2017 as the Memorial Year of János Arany. I trust that a similar decision will be taken here in Parliament when the resolution is adopted. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-02-15-228	I now give the floor to Lajos Korózs, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group.
u2016-02-15-229	Thank you so much for the opportunity. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I think it will be worth dealing with János Arany in 2017, more than my fellow Earth Member said, and we all know that 200 years ago, one of the most outstanding personalities in Hungary has shown the greatness that can be shown in literature at all. Even in his life, as many people here have referred to him, he has become one of the nation's dominant personalities. It is truly known, as you said, by writing and publishing Toldi, two of my fellow Members. I would also like to highlight the diverse activity that he has done in addition to his writing, as he was also a very serious cultural politician in this country. As he was referred to, he was the Secretary General of the Academy of Sciences and the Director of the Kisfaludy Society for years, and besides, he is also a writer, poet and literary historian. At every post that John Arany filled, I think he was able to demonstrate the greatness that was very few during that period. The Golden oeuvre in which Hungary showed its then face with great credibility is fantastically rich. That is why I also believe that the poetry and greatness of Gold should be addressed in 2017. Dear House, I would also like to forward to my fellow Member and to Mr Secretary of State that the Socialist Party and the Group will support this parliamentary resolution, despite my view that the cultural policy that the current Orbán government is pursuing is not very similar in spirit to what János Arany represented, but we will support the parliamentary resolution proposal. Thank you.
u2016-02-15-230	I now give the floor to Gergely Farkas, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group.
u2016-02-15-231	Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, The Jobbik faction, as indicated at the committee meeting, will support the proposal for a decision and we consider the initiative very important and good. Just because the person of János Arany is surrounded by a national consensus, it can be said that he is an out-of-controversial personality as much as this country needs, and we would be very happy to have as many as possible such cultural personalities or even historical personalities as he is. He, who we can be proud of from a cultural, scientific, literary, even mother tongue, and we can truly consider his person and his work to be our national treasure. In his works he faithfully embodies national traditions, values, characteristics of our spiritual and spiritual form, which is a great value, and it is important that we cultivate it and do it properly. Allow me to mention a few practical things in connection with this commemorative year. I have a question and a request to my fellow members of the government. Point 3 of the resolution proposal states that the Government is invited by the Parliament to take the necessary measures and initiatives in order to carry out certain tasks related to the Arany János Memorial Year. I think that this debate is not the place for us to talk about what kind of programmes, exhibitions, works and similar things we could imagine next year, because there is another place for it, and we do not have to do it here. However, if there is such a national consensus and consensus on this proposal, I would like to ask the pro-government representatives that, when you, the relevant government experts, prepare a draft programme for the whole year, the opposition can be present there either as representatives or experts, who can add their suggestions and ideas to the programme series of next year's commemorative year. I trust that, since this proposal really seems to be pan-European, it is all-party, I hope that the consensus surrounding János Arany can be expressed in this way. My second question is that the president of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences set up a committee on a commemorative year in the autumn of last year, the chairman of which became János Korompai and received his letter from the Cultural Committee, and in this connection I would like to ask a question - in his own words - because he concludes in his letter to the Cultural Committee that he asked Minister Zoltán Balog for 100 million HUF from the Institute of Literature History of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences and the Petőfi Literature Museum for financial support of the commemorative year. We had correspondence about this with the Public Collection Department of the Ministry of Human Resources, the head of which expressed professional support for our programme. I would like to ask you - in this letter we read that the government can provide professional and not financial support for this commemorative year - whether you understood Mr. János Korompai correctly, or whether we understand his words correctly, or what kind of financial means the government will use to support the implementation of this commemorative year. In connection with the Memorial Year, I also have to recall that the fact that Hungarian film production is a very big shortcoming in general in relation to our historical films. We would have a number of historical events, personalities about whom it would be worthwhile and important to make a film, just to show young people our national prides. I think that this would be very important for our national identity. [[19.20]] It's a deficiency. There is also a lack of such a film made from the trilogy of János Arany, Toldi, even though there was a year, not so long ago when we were very close to this. In 2014, György Pálfi film director submitted a scenario of this kind, which was supported in the first round by the Hungarian National Film Fund with production support of HUF 900 million. Still, this movie didn't turn out to be anything. Otherwise, it would have been a film with a very serious budget, but it didn't come true despite the fact that the Film Fund provided HUF 900 million in support of the film director György Pálfi in the first round. My question is, what is the reason for this, and whether there is a reality and government support for the 200th anniversary of János Arany's birth next year, so that this long-awaited Toldi film will indeed be born. We trust that the government's support will be positive, and this film will really be born. To conclude, I can only say once again that the person of János Arany, the Memorial Year of next year, is to be supported by us, and we believe it is very important, we trust that the presentation and embracing of his work will contribute even more to the transfer of Hungarian young people to cultural values by meeting as many and truly important cultural values as possible. The language and mother tongue of János Arany will also set a good example for today's Hungarian people. So there are a lot of aspects, a lot of possibilities in this memorial year. We're hoping to have a meaningful year ahead of us. Allow me to end my words with a quote, a compliment. I would like to remember János Arany myself with two verses of his poem entitled János Arany Singing. Allow me to read this. / But the rivers are flowing, but the mountains are standing, / And while we have such gold, it is not lost / The hope, the life, the Word, the Mind, / The future of Hungary! / And, friends, let us go to the grave, / The resurrection, which is encouraging news, / Let us sing there. / Golden spirit - Easter bell - / In triumphant, triumphant / New Hungarian songs! I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Thank you so much for listening. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-02-15-232	I now give the floor to István Ikotity on behalf of the LMP Group.
u2016-02-15-233	- El away, squeamish-nosed bastards! / El, thin, lunar species, / The element of which is only perfumed oil, / And shuts its nose when it is released! / El e pulsant people! I don't have anything to do with you guys. I'm singing about the lachory. .. in the House.. Of course, the May Other Politics agrees that the 200th birthday of János Arany will be declared a commemorative year. One of the greatest, if not our greatest Hungarian poet is János Arany. The proposal for a decision is, of course, supported. Why did I choose the starting lines of János Arany's poem "The Casino Kitchen"? Because I was referring to the fact that the petitioners bear the name László L. Simon and László Földi. I looked it up: János Arany uses the name László 58 times in his poems, and he really likes that name. I'm surprised Laszlok is the petitioner. We know about János Arany that he even named his son Laszlo. Our fear is none other than one .......................................................................................................................................... [[Németh Szilárd István: Golden Laci.]] That's not John Arany's poem. [[Dr. Peter Hoppál: Petőfi wrote that.]] Yes, Sándor Petőfi. So one of László's first-name petitioners is our concern. I'm sorry L. Simon László isn't here, so I have to tell you our concerns in his absence. We are quite simply distrustful of L. Simon László. Based on his work so far, we have good reason to believe that problems may arise here. In the framework of the Memorial Year, various commemorations and programs are organized. Who knows how transparent this will be, how much people - as has been said in previous keynote speeches - are involved - from other parties or from other places who can see, make the processes transparent, how these state resources are used, and not for buddies and buddies, as they usually do. [[Dr. Péter Hoppál: The Hungarian Academy of Sciences as a buddy!]] I would like to recall some of the cases associated with the name L. Simon László, looking around in his previous submissions. Back in 2013, Parliament amended its proposal for the 1997 CXL on museum institutions, public library provision and public education. Law. The amendment allowed the paintings of the Museum of Fine Arts worth hundreds of millions of forints to be admired by H. Árpád Prime Minister's Chief Advisor, Ibiza tourist, luxury bag and art-loving vitrin expert in his private apartment in District V for months. He suggested that the advertising tax, driven by political considerations, should be introduced, including the payment of advertising taxes for small businesses. It is true that this point of the proposal was no longer remembered before the cameras in 2014. He also put in a cultural gown the amendment that housing in municipal and public dwellings of high national importance, located in an area of national property or classified as a priority for the national economy, could be cancelled. This is also the product of 2013. He presented the bill of lex L. Simon on his own, which allowed L. Simon to become the quasi-president of the National Cultural Fund as State Secretary L. Simon László. This happened in 2012. The Hungarian National Digital Archive and Film Institute was established on the basis of his 2011 presentation, which was created with many question marks at the time and now, as this background institution is being shredded in the large bureaucracy and employment reduction programme. And, of course, we have not talked about the government referrals that have taken place in the field of culture in recent years, and they have been radically opposed to the burning demand that millions of people excluded from culture have access to basic cultural goods and that these people can also be part of cultural value creation. On the other hand, the government and L. Simon László are also proponents of all megaloman programs; let us consider the Liget project or even the Hausmann plan. I sincerely hope that there will be no abuse in the Memorial Year and that the poet's name will not be abused. I trust that my gloomy thoughts, which are obviously unworthy of the name of János Arany and even of the Memorial Year, will put away any useful thoughts, or, if not, I hope that our threat is all the more. With the lines of Sándor Petőfi quoted earlier, we'll find him stinging if something like this happens. At the same time, when my thoughts are closed, János Arany is also known - it was also said in appreciation - that he is one of the greatest Hungarian poets with vocabulary. It's not hard to find those words in your poems by searching for any words. In closing, I would like to quote again a poem from his work entitled The Lost Constitution, L. Simon László, which has already been presented in László Földi's lead speech, regretting once again that he does not participate in the debate. Wait a minute, Coach. I say, wait for him, if you don't understand the joke / I'll give you my revenge: you will eat the seed of this peach. Thank you for your attention. [[Delight and applause in the ranks of the MSZP.]]
u2016-02-15-234	Ladies and gentlemen, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. The further speeches will now take place, and I will be the first to give the floor to Mr Sebestyén Csító.
u2016-02-15-235	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Unfortunately, today, as Gergely Farkas mentioned in his speech, we are living at a time when the role models suggested by the media are not sufficiently high - and at that time I put it mildly - for young people. Such commemorative years provide an opportunity for these young people to choose new ones, whether they are historical or literary, who may actually be role models. A commemorative year may give you the opportunity to do so with exhibitions, various programmes, of course, if they are organised at the right level and access is also available to young people. John Arany, not only as a patriot, as a man who loves his country as an intellectual, as a thinker, can be an example to young people, but also set countless examples in his works for young people. [[19.30]] I would take out one style in which this is very well tracked, we find almost all the universal and Hungarian human values, which can be important for a man who is growing up today, whether in high school or in a smaller or an older generation. I'm thinking about ballads here. In his historical ballads, even if you think of two of the Sondi's minions, he sets an example of our patriotism, the possibility of self-sacrifice with the country. I could even say that in other historical ballads, you can arouse the interest of young people in learning about a historical era or in learning about the greats of our history. It's just an example of human values. He sets us a very good example of love of justice, truth seeking, and the thinking of a moral man who does everything for justice; it is enough to think of the Welsh axes. Or it's a matter of conscience to consider the Agnes woman. So it could be classified until sunrise, perhaps the framework of such a debate is narrow to the fact that one lists these values and sets them as an example. We can trust that there is no Hungarian student, no young Hungarian who does not meet the works of János Arany during his studies, but we know very well that from our own youth and from our own years of study that what is mandatory, which is a subject from which we have to take an exam, from which we have to answer, always keeps us a little away from the values that these works suggest. Perhaps such a commemorative year offers the opportunity for growing generations not only to see a compulsory literary curriculum, not just a lot to be cut in, and not just a kind of obligation, either in János Arany's works, but rather to dig more into it, knowing better either his or her career or his works, taking over something from the values that he or she has listed, whether his works or his life's work suggest. A man who wants to show real value to children today needs to work against a very large edge. I cannot argue that there is, by the way, a very strong government responsibility at all times, whether it is 40 years of communism or the government responsibility of the governments of the last 25 years. I could also say that most of the psychics have become intellectual garbage. This can only be a step to counterbalance this, but we would have much more to do. We have to look at it as an example, we have to look at the characters of his works as an example, we have to look at the values and values of his works as an example. I trust that this will be the result of the 2017 Memorial Year of János Arany, which is why I, as well as the rest of my group, will vote in favour of every member of the entire Parliament, along with them, with great confidence and confidence, as I have noticed from the lead speaker group. I trust that this year will also be able to fulfill this intention, above and beyond, regardless of how worthy we are to commemorate Hungary and the Hungarian people, one of our greatest poets and literary artists. Thank you for listening. [[It's a rare applause in the ranks of the Jobbik.]]
u2016-02-15-236	I ask Mr. Peter Hoppál if he wishes to comment now. [[Dr. Peter Hoppál: In the end.]] In the end, just 'cause he's high, that's why I had to ask now. [[Defiance.]] Congressman István Józsa has the floor.
u2016-02-15-237	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I am sure that my fellow Members László Földi and László L. Simon suggested that 2017 should be the Memorial Year of János Arany, which is the value and artistic value of the Arany János oeuvre, which is a personal example for them. If you are well acquainted with the life's work, work, and idealism of János Arany, then it cannot be easy for you to be political in the ranks of the Fidesz. János Arany was both a humanist, enlightened, patriotic and plebeius poet and sincere man. So if I would like to quote, I see that you are still in our ranks, if you have moved back a little, Mr Robert Balázs Simon said a very noble thought that the commemoration will make us better, nobler. Yes, Congressman. It makes you worthy of a memorial and honest. Yeah. Then it will make us better and nobler. That's what I wish for you, for us, for all of us. Because if we look back at the events of the last few years here in Parliament, I have to say that we can learn a lot from János Arany, we can learn a lot from that idealism, the human posture, the morality that he represented, he has shown on an artistic level in his poems. I am very pleased that the author László Földi also mentioned the Autumn Rocks, including the Epilogue. I'd like to quote two lines from this. If I've met a gentleman's horse horse / I've met him and he's covered in mud: / I didn't smack him, - / I pulled over, I wiped him. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. When we learned that when we were 18 at school, it was very difficult for me to understand. I was full of energy, anger, desire to change. Now, so a few years later, when I may have seen such a picnic, I can understand a wise man, living with a gentleman's horse, who has beaten me with mud. He says, "I didn't scrounge, I pulled over, I wiped it off." I wish that the Year of János Arany should be the year of noble commemoration, not to scorch, but to remember the real values, the great artist. Thank you. [[A rare applause in the ranks of the MSZP.]]
u2016-02-15-238	I give the floor to Member István Szilárd Németh.
u2016-02-15-239	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Thank you very much to everyone who supports this parliamentary resolution proposal. I thought it was everyone. However, I would also like to ask everyone, because in these supportive speeches, I think irony can and can go away, but cynicism is no longer possible, it is worth noting that, because we are insulting János Arany, János Arany's oeuvre here in this House, if we lean towards cynicism. However, what doesn't fit at all, I think that with megalomania, we should immediately accuse the entire anniversary of John the Arany. Here in this House today, the Kádár era has been said more often than a despicable example or an example to follow - let everyone understand it as I think it is. Maybe it's from the party that's talking about megalomania. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, while we do not wish to engage in any kind of community with the Kádár era, we have also stated this quite clearly in the Fundamental Law. But there was another bicentennial in 1984, the 200th anniversary of the birth of Sándor Kőrösi Csoma. If we look at the Memorial Year then, it was an exemplary memorial year. István Sarlós was then the Speaker of Parliament for the Memorial Year, and at that time the National Assembly had allocated HUF 35 million in the budget of the country to commemorate Sándor Kőrösi Csoma, his oeuvre and career. This included the publication of a whole national school competition, including the complete revision of Csoma Sándor Kőrösi's oeuvre with Professor Terjék's four large volumes, the Tibetan-English Grammar, the Dictionary and his other works, and the full revision of the works of Sándor Kőrösi Csoma led by Professor Terjék, when the collection of Sándor Kőrösi Csoma was renewed at the Hungarian Academy of Sciences, and I could give many more examples; even the complete renovation of the tomb in Darjiling. [[19.40]] Therefore, we do not wish to cooperate with this system, but I would like to draw your attention to the megalomania that it is not at all tedious that a great Hungarian scientist or a great Hungarian poet, poet, cultural organizer, linguist, teacher on such an outstanding anniversary of his birth as this bicentennial, we are determined to do something other than what you might think in this respect. I would also like to draw your attention to this and ask the government's support to seize this commemorative year, which is also mentioned in Article D of the Basic Law, and we are obliged to have Hungary's fate community with Hungarians across the border and to facilitate their stay and prosperity in their homeland. The Grand Salon inseparable from János Arany. Nagyszalonta is the settlement, I think you all know, which is the second most populous city in Bihar county, and the only settlement in the southern partium region that still has a significant majority of Hungarians - based on the 2011 census, we have a 59 percent majority majority in Nagyszalontan - and has Hungarian leadership, Hungarian mayor, Hungarian majority body of representatives, and a very wide-ranging Hungarian civil society, with many foundations and associations that carry out a wide range of activities, whether by helping pensioners or helping Hungarian children to attend Hungarian school with the Golden Tulipan Scholarship. I think that we should take this opportunity here to take this settlement, Nagyszalonta, the birthplace of János Arany through the great birthplace, by the way István Sinka, Lajos Zilahy, astronomer György Kulin, for example, is the birthplace of this city, but we are talking about János Arany... - Through János Arany we could also launch a programme in connection with the Memorial Year, not only in the cultural segment, but also in terms of poetic, linguistic, aesthetic and literary values, but also in terms of real values of economic importance to Hungarianism. Among other things, through János Arany and the János Arany monuments, we could promote the development of tourism through the Monk Tower, the Golden Port, the Golden Exhibition, the Golden Statues. But I think that this could include helping other entrepreneurs, helping agricultural workers, helping education, helping the Pro Lyceum Foundation, and now, with the support of the Hungarian government, a Reformed College is being built, which will take in Hungarian children from the sporadic. So in any case in this segment, in this national political segment, I would like to ask for it, and I would strongly support it myself, to help the Grand Salon. I would ask my fellow Members to support the Parliamentary motion for a resolution. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-02-15-240	I now give the floor to Secretary Peter Hoppál.
u2016-02-15-241	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Fellow Members! While, of course, I am very pleased to be able to discuss such an item on the agenda, the case of the Arany János Memorial Year has been sent to a general debate, and I assure the Honourable Parliament that according to the Government, the 200th anniversary of the birth of János Arany of 2017, is an event of clear importance to the Hungarian national memory, and we must make it so jointly. In view of the social, political and cultural importance of the anniversary and its general, wide-ranging nature, the government also supports the declaration of the year 2017 as a commemorative year in the form of a parliamentary decision. Obviously, the speeches made here also revealed that János Arany should not only be remembered in the following year as one of the finest figures, personalities and creators of Hungarian literature, but also as one of the most important literary organizers and science organizers of the centuries behind us. It was also mentioned here that his work as the leader of the Kisfaludy Society was exemplary, and that the Hungarian Academy of Sciences first served as a correspondent, and soon as a regular member, his role as Secretary General of the Association also showed an exemplary period of Hungarian science organization. However, in addition to these institutions and the successors of these institutions, it will, of course, be important to create a series of national and Carpathian Basin programmes in the context of the Memorial Year, which includes the care of the memory of the home town, the Grand Salon and the city of the decades of teaching, Nagykőrös, and these must obviously also be socialised. So a programme launch and programme creation can begin after the hoped support of the Parliament, which will be undertaken by the Ministry of Human Resources and the Secretary of State for Culture. Remember, a hundred years ago, on the occasion of the centenary, the West magazine devoted a whole number of pages to the memory of Gold, but three years after its death the Golden John Memorial Museum of Nagyszalontá was created, and 11 years after his death, the wonderful work still visible in the garden of the National Museum took its final place in the form of a three and a half meter tall bronze statue of Alajos Stróbl. It is obvious that 2017 will host a powerful series of memories, as this year, 2016 is apparently quite crowded from the point of view of the commemorative years. Only the Secretary of State for Culture has undertaken work, tasks and responsibilities in the creation of three programmes, all of which are outstanding. One of our most important identity-forming events is the commemorative series organized for the 60th anniversary of the Hungarian Revolution and Freedom Fight in 1956, and the other important commemorative year is the Bartók Memorial Year. Béla Bartók was born in 1881 and, as a result, 135-year-old half-wheel anniversary commemorates the great composer genius this year. But perhaps even more exciting for the position of Bartók's career is that because of his death in 1945, right now on 31 December, 70 years after his death, the copyrights expired largely for Bartók, and therefore this year we were able to launch the Free Bartók, the Free Bartók, program series, with the support of nearly a billion forints of state and national budget resources. Another third commemorative year from this year is allowed to be mentioned, which was also preceded by a previous parliamentary resolution, which donated the title Civitas Invicta to the town of Szigetvár on the basis of the heroic posture of 1566 of Zrínyi and 800 heroic castle protectors, and is now being organized on the 450-year round anniversary of a large series of events and national commemorative years. In the same way, Hungary and the Carpathian Basin can be the seat of very important international events and events in 2017. After all, based on the literary and public career of János Arany, it is obvious that the international commemoration of the Reformation, which will also celebrate its 500-year anniversary in 2017, as well as the UNESCO Kodály anniversary, which will commemorate and remind us of the anniversary of Zoltán Kodály's death, the 50th anniversary of his death in 1967, should also be the special Hungarian anniversary event of the 17th anniversary of the commemorative year related to the person, literary and public work of János Arany. Of course, from this draft parliamentary resolution, we undertake the task of the government, but not in the way that some speeches have suggested. I would like to do it here without replying to it, but I would like to disprove the points that would suggest - and I do not feel that this is worthy of the spirit and message of today's presentation, I think that someone has mistakenly exchanged his speeches - that there is some sort of "dudes," a party, a programme preparation. [[19.50]] It's nothing like that. There's no preparation for the programme year at all. At the same time, I would remind my fellow Members that both the Hungarian Academy of Sciences and the Petőfi Literature Museum consider the organisation of the Golden Memorial Year to be a priority, and in this respect they have actually contacted our Ministry with this intention, and we will obviously integrate the programmes of these institutions with good intentions, and we are pleased that both the Hungarian Academy of Sciences and the PIM have come up with concrete programme proposals, just as the cities of Nagykőrös and Nagyszalonta are preparing, and have already prepared plans for the coming year. Obviously, it will be necessary to create a single programme which, in my opinion and in our preliminary calculations, will far exceed the certain HUF 100 million programme support claim that has been raised in the above-mentioned letter. I think that a rich series of János Arany bicentennial programmes, which really touch the entire school age group, can not be organised with small amounts of money, nor will we receive European Union funds, so it is assumed that we will bring it in to the government as a government referral, and we will take the presence of all professional organisations, co-operative programmers, with a good heart in the event. I also believe that the proposals of the political communities in the organisation of the Cultural Committee, which are present or in parliament, should also be heard in the context of the consensusary year of János Arany's memorial, as I have heard, in the opposition's speeches, very honourable references and suggestions. Dear Parliament, With regard to the implementation of the parliamentary decision, the government will carry out all the tasks assigned to it. It is a great honour for us to be able to participate in the preparatory work, so that we can know together in a worthy manner, all of us who are users and understandings of Hungarian culture, to contribute to the achievement of the Golden Heritage at the 200-year anniversary of the time of his entire career, which began in the Reform era, passed through the period of freedom struggle, and then covered the period of consolidation of Hungary after the Compromise, and which, in addition to the literary quotes quoted here by you, can be approached by another quote which is very dear to me. Some lines of the verse Loneliness say: "It can't be a prayer from millions / forever, sky! / And so much blood - the leaver of freedom - stay where it was poured. / You have to attack, always in larger circles, / Life where my martyr corpse / You are made up in a quiet earth nugget: / Be faithful and trust your future, my nation. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause for the governing parties, sporadic applause for the Jobbik ranks.]]
u2016-02-15-242	If there is no further intention to comment, the general debate will be closed, and I will ask Mr László Földi as rapporteur if he wishes to comment. [[For signal:]] Yeah. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2016-02-15-243	Only in one sentence. Mr President, Thank you for all your support for the Golden Year. I trust that all of us who are working in the walls of this House will have a good feeling in 2018 that we are having a very good year, and that this year 2017, the 200th anniversary of János Arany's birth, will give everyone serious experiences and serious recharges, and all the values that János Arany represents in Hungarian literature, Hungarian public life, in the world of Hungarian science, will appear and appear - we trust - in next year. Of course, we also have the government's support, and we hope that, when we negotiate next year's budget, these will come back to the state budget. Thank you all once again for your support and for a good evening.
u2016-02-15-244	Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. We now have a general debate on the draft law between the Government of Hungary and the Government of the Republic of Korea on the exchange and mutual protection of military classified information until closure. The government referral is T/8549. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr Tamás Vargha, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Defence, author of the item on the agenda.
u2016-02-15-245	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, On 3 December 2015, the Agreement between the Government of Hungary and the Government of the Republic of Korea on the exchange and mutual protection of military classified information was concluded. Pursuant to the Act on the Procedure of International Contracts, the recognition of the mandatory scope of the Convention is the competence of Parliament and can only enter into force if it is published in law. The bill does not contain any fundamental provisions. Dear House, Under the agreement before you, Hungary undertakes to protect classified information exchanged or generated under the Convention on the basis of the compatibility of the national classification levels set out in the Convention. In addition to the tasks of overseeing the protection of military classified information provided by the Republic of Korea to the Hungarian party, the National Security Inspectorate will be in the future. In the framework of security cooperation to ensure mutual protection, the competent security authorities shall process the classified information provided under the Convention and shall provide each other with information and assistance. It is a guarantee rule that Hungary and the Contracting Party, the Republic of Korea, shall conduct visits to verify, where necessary, the management of classified data. The Party receiving classified information under the Convention, i.e. both States, shall ensure that it protects the military classified information received at the same level as it provides its own national military classified information at the same rating level. The Parties shall also recognise personal security certificates and site security certificates issued by the other Party. The Convention envisaged to be published shall also lay down the rules for the transmission, reproduction, translation or even destruction of military classified information. Dear Parliament, The establishment of the Convention is justified in order to allow Hungary to participate in international security cooperation involving the exchange of military classified information with the Korean partner, which requires the conclusion of a bilateral agreement ensuring the protection of military classified data in order to achieve this goal. Defence, including protection of defence data, is a national matter, so I ask the Honourable Parliament to support the bill. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2016-02-15-246	Dear Parliament, Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. I give the floor to Mónika Bartos, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2016-02-15-247	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Our table contains a proposal to announce the Convention on the Exchange and Mutual Protection of Military Qualified Information between the Government of Hungary and the Government of the Republic of Korea. This proposal contains an element of our already wide and constantly expanding relationship system. On 13 September 1988, we agreed with the Government of the Republic of Korea to establish a permanent representation, and on 1 February 1989 to establish full diplomatic relations at the level of the Ambassador, and mutual accreditation of ambassadors. Following the entry into diplomatic relations, mutual high-level visits were carried out, along with the top-level managers, a visit was carried out by the first men of several specialities. The establishment of institutional foundations for bilateral relations was launched at the same time as agreements on the normalisation of political relations. Intergovernmental agreements have been reached on investment protection, avoidance of double taxation, trade and economic, cultural and scientific-technical cooperation, full visa waiver and cooperation in aviation and tourism, and a Joint Intergovernmental Economic Committee has been established. [[20.00]] Following the accession of diplomatic relations, in 1989 the governments of the two countries concluded an intergovernmental agreement on culture and education in Seoul, within which the concrete forms of cooperation were defined in two-year work plans. 2012 is also an important date, since the Korean Cultural Center opened its doors in Hungary in February of the year, which gives Hungarian people the opportunity to explore Korea, while also wanting to make Hungarian culture known to Korean people, thus playing the role of the cultural bridge between the two peoples. Trade relations between the two countries have shown dynamic development in recent years, resulting in Korea becoming Hungary's major economic partner in the Asian region. There are further untapped opportunities to expand our trade relations. The EU-Korea Free Trade Agreement, which entered into force in 2011, is a new perspective for the versatile development of trade relations, which has broken down 99% of EU customs duties and 96% of Korean customs duties. Development of investment relations is of particular importance in deepening bilateral economic cooperation. From the very beginning, Hungary has been a popular destination for Korean investment. The number of Korean companies established in Hungary is now close to 40, and the volume of foreign direct investment from Korea exceeds USD 1.8 billion. But not only economic professionals, investors, but also private people are interested in our country. According to the latest statistics, Hungary is an increasingly popular destination for Korean tourists in the region, but we still have unused opportunities in this area. Our relationship system is strengthened and coloured by the proposal before us. On 14 December 2009, the Parliament adopted the 2009 CLV on the protection of classified information. Law. The new legislation in force from 1 April 2010 has fundamentally codified the structure of the protection of classified information in Hungary, but the implementation of these provisions is justified in order to fulfil Hungary's international commitments and to ensure closer cooperation with the Korean party on the exchange and mutual protection of military classified information. The purpose of the bill is to issue a mandate for the final establishment of the text of the agreement and to submit to Parliament legislation on the recognition of the mandatory scope of the law. In addition to the general objective, Mr State Secretary has presented the proposals in detail, and I would not repeat them, but I ask my fellow Members to support the proposal. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2016-02-15-248	I now give the floor to Márta Demeter, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group.
u2016-02-15-249	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, As the Secretary of State and my fellow Member have mentioned to me, Mr Secretary of State has presented the proposal in more detail, and Mónika Bartos has made progress in bilateral relations, and I would also like to point out that since 1988 there has been a very dynamic development in relations between Hungary and the Republic of Korea. There are several dimensions to this. Cultural relations, as well as scientific and technological and economic relations, have developed significantly over the last decades, and this has happened with a large number of high-level mutual visits between countries. And, as mentioned and referred to, these relations have developed in a number of areas, as has the relationship between academic and university research institutions and the economic line in recent decades. Luckily, in recent years, there has been no breakage, and this is also demonstrated by the bill to announce the convention before us. In particular, as has been mentioned, the conclusion of this contract with the Korean party and the fulfilment of Hungary's international commitments in relation to the implementation of the Law on the Protection of classified information is also an important task to ensure closer cooperation with the exchange of military classified information and mutual protection. I would like to mention some examples of the provisions of the Convention. As regards the purpose and scope of the Convention, the Convention aims to protect military classified information exchanged or generated in cooperation between the Parties. The Convention shall be without prejudice to the obligations of the Parties arising from other bilateral or multilateral treaties to which they are party, including agreements on the exchange and mutual protection of military classified information. In addition, the security classification levels in the two countries are aligned with each other by the Convention, declaring the conditions for access to military classified information, as well as the security principles on this. The Convention declares the procedure for the conclusion and execution of classified contracts as well as for the transmission of classified information. It also sets out, inter alia, a timetable for dispute resolution and cost bearing. In addition to these, the Convention contains a number of important regulations which, for both countries, I think are decisive and will develop further cooperation. To sum up, the MSZP naturally supports the adoption of the proposal, given the fact that both the implementation of obligations and the commitment of international commitments and the strengthening of cooperation itself. Thank you very much.
u2016-02-15-250	We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. I now give the floor to Congressman Gergely Farkas.
u2016-02-15-251	Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, The bill between the Government of Hungary and the Government of the Republic of Korea on the publication of the Convention on the Exchange and Mutual Protection of Military Qualified Information, as well as the final text of similar intergovernmental agreements, must be approved by the Hungarian Parliament. The laws in force since April 2010 have fundamentally changed the system of protection of classified information in Hungary. Such conventions are adapted to this. The fact that the agreement on the exchange of military classified information was also signed with the Government of the Republic of Korea proves that the relationship between the two countries has traditionally been good. Márta Demeter spoke in detail about the increasingly improved relations that have existed since 1988, at academic, cultural and economic level, so I would not repeat them, but I would just like to assure the Parliament that the Jobbik Group supports the publication of this convention. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2016-02-15-252	I'm asking if anyone else would like to comment on the debate. [[No one's reporting.]] I do not see a candidate, so the general debate is closed and I will ask the rapporteur if he wishes to comment. [[For signal:]] Mr. Secretary Tamás Vargha has the floor.
u2016-02-15-253	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Indeed, this convention is a very important milestone in the history of increasingly dynamic Hungarian-Korean relations. Thank you very much for the support of the factions, and I would ask all Members of Parliament to vote in favour of the bill. Thank you very much.
u2016-02-15-254	Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. We have reached the end of the discussion of our agendas today. It is now time for the speeches after the agenda. After the agenda, Mr László Varju was the first to present his address on the subject of the seven events. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2016-02-15-255	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Among the events of the past few weeks, we can mention, a little in connection with today, that a few words have to be said about the work and the consequences of one of the most active spenders of money, János Lázár. In particular, I would like to say a few words about the actions committed or committed in the context of the use of development resources, in which serious damage was caused to the Hungarian State and to the European Union. [[20.10]] We all know that during the implementation of the tenders, the intermediate body is obliged to check the grant intermediary, i.e. the state which, in the case of a tender of less than HUF 300 million, has to check ex post and over HUF 300 million in process. what is happening and why this has happened in the event of an amendment to the contract covered by the Public Procurement Act. In all cases, the procurement documentation and contract amendments shall be sent to the intermediate body and, in the event of a dispute, an appeal may be submitted to the Prime Minister's Office. In the specific case, which has been revealed in recent years, despite final court rulings stating that the grant contracts are Ptk.-based contracts, and therefore the State does not exercise a public authority function, the Prime Minister's Office has avoided contacting the Public Procurement Arbitration Committee and has accordingly infringed the law. In the specific case, these procedural deadlines have not been complied with in cooperation with the Ministry of National Development, much later than four months have been the case for irregularities against municipalities and municipalities have been unlawfully punished. Thus, the entrepreneurs were also harmed. But let it be clear: neither the intermediate organisation nor the Prime Minister's Office has a right to establish a public procurement infringement, which could only be carried out by the Public Procurement Arbitration Committee as an independent body. Otherwise, the situation arises, as is the case here, that in the dispute, the state offices, as one of the parties, abuse their situation, are also a prosecutor, a detective, a judge and an executioner. When they missed the independent Public Procurement Decision Committee, they basically did so. The violation in this case is that the court has already ruled twice that neither the Prime Minister's Office nor the Ministry of National Development can do this, but they are defying it, even in the case of their own register, which is available on the website, and which they do not accept, they are illegal. This has been the case since May 19, last year. The Prime Minister's Office closed the case, otherwise the measure was taken at its own border and illegally demanded more than HUF 16 million from a municipality. On the basis of this, it is safe to say that this omission raises suspicions of unfaithful and sloppy treatment, and it is necessary to press charges, since it is obvious that it cannot defend the financial interests of the Hungarian State and the European Union even if it is still right. 'Cause in this case, the Ministry acted beyond the time limit to be clearly on the side of the loser. For the beneficiaries, such a procedure is always in conflict with the Ptk. because it is clearly a misrepresentation and abuse of dominant position of the Ministry's operation. It can be concluded, therefore, that the Ministry of National Development continues to fail to comply with the legislation on the control of the use of grants, and I wanted to draw attention to this once again with this comment. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2016-02-15-256	Mr Sebestyén Vágó applied for a speech after the next agenda:. It has been a year since he left with the title of the national ethnographer. You have the floor.
u2016-02-15-257	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. As can be seen from the title of my speech after the agenda, a year ago, on 13 February 2015 Zsuzsanna Erdélyi died a ethnographic researcher, awarded with the National Artist Award and the Kossuth Prize, among others the folklore and ethnography researcher awarded with these two awards, member of the Hungarian Academy of Arts and the St. Stephen Academy. He's got a lot of collections, lots of publications. His main area was the collection of folk archaic prayers, folk maria cult, religious folklore and religious folk songs and prayers. He said that he was lucky enough to have met this area within ethnography and folklore, by collecting such an archaic prayer from an informationian in Nagyberény in 1968, in a settlement in Somogy County, and it was so captivating that he devoted his work to this, he went through all parts of the Hungarian language area, and collected these almost apocryphal prayers and folk works. He was lucky, according to himself, and according to folklore people, it is fortunate that at almost the last moment, in 1968, after which a radical change in rural life occurred, he met this genre, these folk works, these popular prayers, before life in the village changed so much that traditionalism was no longer expected, these prayers did not spread from mouth to mouth, from mother to daughter, from father to son. And if he hadn't started this work, then they would probably have been forgotten, and we know very well how important collections are and how important folk traditions are that he can learn from posterity. Perhaps you can revive these traditions, relearn these prayers, and thus even draw closer to the Savior himself or to God himself. In 1980 he summarized his work and other researchers' works and research, and in Esztergom he created a collection of folk religion without which we would be poorer, and without which this significant folk cultural wind, this significant value would be lost, and it would not be known to posterity. He thought himself lucky, considered himself a self-believing man, thought he was persistent, and we think he was. Your work is highly appreciated. Think about it: In 1968, when communism was raging, it began to deal with such a genre, popular archaic prayers, folk belief, and the Mary cult. In today's world, we can't even begin to think about the resistance he may have encountered. He often had to do his work in secret so that we and our offspring could learn about these values. She was exemplary in her personal life, and she considered motherhood another important profession besides her cultural work. He believed that it was a woman's duty to have children, to raise children, and he not only confessed in words, but also proved it with his life: he raised four children in honor, gave birth to four children, and started four children in the way of life. He has increased the number of citizens of our country by four valuable people. It is important to remember him, so even a year after his death, it is important to know his work, he can be an example to us in the respect of tradition, in the respect of our traditions, in the knowledge of our ancient religion, in the knowledge of our traditional religion, in the knowledge of our prayers, in the care of our traditions, in the provision of memories. Thank you for listening. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2016-02-15-258	To speak after the next agenda, Congresswoman Ildikó Bangóné Borbély asked for a speech:. What hurts Hungarian families? It's an address. You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2016-02-15-259	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, There's been a lot of talk about this weekend's educating ceremony, and the governing party looks like it doesn't understand why teachers, parents and even students went out on the street. [[20.20]] Then I would like to approach it from an aspect of what hurts Hungarian families today and, most of all, Hungarian students in public education, as we personally experience it by our children.2016. On 16 January, 54 thousand children wrote the central written admissions in Hungary, the high school admissions, plus the six-class high school and the nine-year high school. Sixty-six thousand young students took written admissions in Hungary together with the additional recordings. If I hadn't seen it in person, I wouldn't have gone with my own kids to the audition, maybe I don't understand how these kids lived it, and maybe I can't believe it myself, which appeared in the press on Monday. They started the written exam with Hungarian at ten o'clock, they had 45 minutes to do ten tasks, and then these children re-entered the room at 11 o'clock, and they had 45 minutes to take mathematics. At 12:45 p.m., the doors opened, and we, parents in the hallways, were shocked to see the pale, desperate, desperate, and sobbing children exiting the door. They've been through the first big test of their lives, which may determine the daily lives of the next school years. These kids came out that door like they've been through the worst hour of their lives for 45 minutes. It is possible to ask whether a 14-year-old child or a 12-year-old who is going to the six-class high school really needs to go through this in Hungary today, whether he really needs such a written admission. The fact that a 14-year-old has ten serious tasks to solve in 45 minutes is even more outrageous: a 12-year-old had 34 mathematical tasks to do in 45 minutes. Seeing these children, we first thought, as parents, that they might be hysterical or not understanding something, but then we talked there - whichever child we could talk to, because we could talk to my little girl personally after crying for two hours when we could talk about what happened. Trust me, that's what made it worse. When we went to get the results, we saw despair on the parents. Indeed, children with good abilities have to face such results when they were above the average of four during the eight classes or under the six classes, or approaching the excellent, or perhaps as excellent, they came out with such results that they could achieve, say, eleven points from 50 points, but among the better ones were children who reached, say, 28-30 points. I don't know if the congressmen know that if a child in elementary school doesn't make 50 percent, it's one. The 50 percent! How did these kids feel when they found out their results? And of course, when we took over the evaluation papers, they told us that mom, please be happy, because the kid was above average, had a very good result. Well, I beg you, the kid wasn't trying to get anything above average, he wanted to see it come back the same way he's been doing for the last eight years. We could say that these children may soon learn to become adults, but I just don't want to face what I had to face when my child says it's good, Mom, they're gonna hire me in high school, but I don't want to start college in this country anymore. You can ask the government representatives the question: is that really what they want? Are you trying to drive these kids away when you're 14? I wish these Members that I didn't wish for. [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] I call on them to listen to the children, not the teachers, the children themselves. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2016-02-15-260	For the next speech following the agenda, Mr President Novák applied for a film and state commemoration of the outbreak in 1945. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry.
u2016-02-15-261	Dear fellow Members, Dear fellow Members of the Opponents, they are the only ones present! In honor of the outbreak in Buda in 1945, our martyr heroes declare 11 February a day of honor in recognition of their example of honor, loyalty, endurance, self-sacrifice and patriotism. The National Assembly invites the government, local governments, educational institutions, civil society organisations and patriots to remember the day of honor in a dignified manner every year. The Parliament invites the European Union to commemorate the Hungarian-German sacrifice on the day of honor, thanks to which the Soviets could not occupy all of Europe. Dear fellow Members, Of course, this is not an accepted parliamentary decision, but thanks to the appearance of Jobbik, at least such a proposal can be found on the National Assembly website, along with its 70-page justification, which is largely due to the Parliamentary Library's Information Service, which prepared this on my request. In this way, it can finally become a topic in the public discourse that it is truly thanks to the Hungarian-German army of Budapest that the Soviets could not occupy even more of Europe, because this German-Hungarian army of defence defenders here at the capital of the Hungarians, which Stalin ordered to occupy in the procession, stopped the Soviet besiegors for more than a hundred days, of which 53 days in full fencedness. This, of course, has cost us some serious casualties, and let us consider those wounded by flamethrowers in military hospitals during the occupation. After all this, it is fair to say that we cannot condemn those who chose desertion among the Hungarian soldiers in the hopeless situation, and thus survival, because the Hungarian life was needed for survivors. But we must also bow our heads to those who have died for what we think Europe should be and what a Europe of nations should be. Compared to this, history has brought internationalism and similarly anti-national globalism. The 11th of February 1945 could not be remembered for decades, and in fact it cannot until today, let alone a movie or a state memorial year after year about the eruption. But we can draw strength from the Trianon memoirs, because at the beginning, we were treated like fascists, Nazis and similar stamps, and we were told everything when we organized Trianon memoirs, but by 2010, we managed to achieve that these Trianon memoirs told so many things were finally raised to the state level. Of course, not the way we really wanted it to be: Fidesz created a celebration of national solidarity from the day of mourning of national fragmentation, but we can say at least in some form if we still have something to do to raise the commemoration to a state level. Jobbik is now taking on a similar task by restoring the worthy appreciation of our forgotten or inadequately treated historical memorial days, as we still have a lot of work to do. Just think that in 1945 the invading Soviet troops destroyed the Memorial Group of Liberty Square, or our national memorial site, and built their own obelisk in its place. 13 years after the change of regime, in connection with the reconstruction of the space, all good people rightly believed that everything would finally be in its place: the memorial of Soviet soldiers to the cemetery, and the Hungarian historical monuments back to the Szabadság tér, but this was not the case. Instead of restoring the original state of the Szabadság tér, the political leaders of Hungary decided to rebuild the Soviet heroic monument in full glory. To this day, on top of this monument, the inscription "Glory to the Liberating Soviet Heroes" is decorated in the name of all of us, to the glory of the Soviet Imperial Army which occupied and occupied our country for half a century, its soldiers raped our women, our daughters, hundreds of thousands of our compatriots on the Málenki robot, the majority of whom perished in the camps of the Soviet Union under inhuman conditions, and when our people rebelled against the unbearable regime they dictated in 1956, our freedom struggle was also brutally crushed. We feel that the parliamentary parties have thus granted the final coup d'état of grace to the whole change of regime, which was, in principle, based on the fact that we said that the event, which has been referred to as the "Soviet Liberation" since 45, was actually an occupation. [[20.30]] And what's changed? Unfortunately, not much. It was poured with red paint the other day and attempted to crush the army grave on Mount Peak, which now has a vaulted plate thanks to Jobbik in Óbuda, so that although a small piece of concrete broke out of the concrete, it resisted the blows. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] I trust that the Ministry of Defence will have the courage to at least condemn the attack on the Hungarian military grave, since there is no state commemoration of the outbreak, so I say to them that it is a glory for the heroes! [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2016-02-15-262	Mr György Lukács applied for a speech after the next agenda:. The Abaújians built it, the breakdown of Fidesz: the case of the hospital in Sikszó.
u2016-02-15-263	Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, The subject of this speech is a very beautiful, very beautiful history, but it seems that it is a very sad and gloomy institution, the Szikszói II. It will be about Ferenc Rákóczi Hospital, or at least what's left of the hospital if the pro-government people implement their plan. It started in the late 1920s and was relatively quickly completed by the construction of the Szikszó hospital, which serves 80 settlements in southern Abaúj, which was built with the locals' money, the local people's donation, and this institution in order to go further with the age, to go further with the supply possibilities and to provide security to the people living there. As the demands grew, as the settlement otherwise grew, and as the medical cart progressed, the technology continued to develop, we can say, the hospital developed unbrokenly. In recent years, however, the situation has not been so rosy. The modern era, after the 1990s, after the change of method, made the first so-called cut on the hospital wound in 1995 and 96, followed by these sacrifices of socialist work in 2006 and 2007, when even the governing party considered it important to stand up for the hospital, they protected it by living chains, and tried to prevent the Gyurcsány government from implementing its health measures in the Sikszó hospital in any way. Well, that's how the world changes, and that's how many people change not only the meeting point, but also their position about a hospital; now Fidesz has no reason to defend this hospital, left it on the list of marodies, and let the county institution 20 kilometers away from it eat it all up, and eliminate any new or innovative possibility. One of the most emblematic and perhaps one of the most illogical ways of the current liquidation is to destroy one-day surgery. This shows the whole method and what Fidesz and the government were thinking about. It was government propaganda, and it was a well-supported goal to make day-to-day surgeries available to the government in as many places as possible, given that they are less expensive, very modern, comfortable for residents. This was also done from EU sources in Siksó, where for nearly 1 billion forints a completely new O.R. was created with a completely new block and a good room for one day of surgery, where, by the way, doctors from Miskolc were well placed to go who had been bitten or bitten or were not given sufficient opportunity in the county hospital. Otherwise, they performed their activities there to the greatest satisfaction of the residents, and often, in many cases, they were able to do much better professional work than in the Miskolc institutions. Well, it seemed to me that someone had cast an eye on this, or that the great love of one-day surgery had passed, because they could not wait until January 31, 2016 until the last seal had dried, so they immediately closed and locked the one-day surgery, thus shutting the inhabitants of 75 settlements away from taking these services in their surroundings and in the nearby settlements. It looks like Miskolc is eating everything. He's been systematically demoting day-to-day surgery, and it looks like he's completely destroying the hospital. I am also saying that you will completely destroy it, because we are faced with another measure the other day that the government wants to move from health care to the social sphere, although, as they say, even a certain part of chronic internal departments. We don't have good news for the Siksians, they have 53 beds at the moment, which means they'll probably have to leave, but if it affects chronic medical beds, we'll be talking about 150 beds, so there'll be barely 80 beds left in this hospital, if you like. If this is done by the government and it is completely separated from the hospital, you can begin to remove the sign that it is the hospital, because it will continue to remind you that it is a hospital in nothing but its tracks and in the memories of the Abauji. And what remains - we can rightly ask for the sake of the Siksians, the South Abaujis - in the city, in the settlement that serves their health care? There seems to be very little, but rather the inconvenience of the population, the constant travels, the constant torment and the struggle to get into the institutions of Miskolc; there remains a broken hospital, which was built on the funds of the Abaújans, and now seems to be a hospital condemned by the government and Fidesz to be eradicated and eradicated. The Jobbik for Hungary Movement has repeatedly stated and continues to state that we will not allow the total destruction of the hospital in Sikszó, we will protect the hospital. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2016-02-15-264	Mr Sallai R. Benedek asked to speak after the next agenda with the title "Fate of the Hungarian Fisheries." You have the floor, Congressman.
u2016-02-15-265	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear fellow Members present, Perhaps it is not unreasonable for me to mention that, as they pass through the blue salon, the small salon regularly here, for the parliamentary plenary session, they may occasionally look at the statues and the traditional Hungarian occupations where there is fishing with several sculptures. Perhaps most of the Members have already been in the Hunting Room, where the painting Balaton Fisheries almost determines the mood of the whole room, giving the right elegance to this beautiful room. This is not a coincidence, because among the prehistoric occupations there was already a trace of fishing in the Carpathian Basin, and archaeological findings prove that it was practically formed together with the history of the Hungarians, and that the fishing has evolved in Hungary. Even in the 19th century, paparazzi and fishing remained as one of the last remaining treasures of the hoarding life form here and in the Carpathian Basin. In the last six months, while there have been legislation of this kind, I have repeatedly raised my word in order to try to make my fellow Members wonder if it will be good to stop fishing for natural water in Hungary from 1 January, whether it will be good for sports fishermen to take control of all natural waters and to eliminate this Hungarian prehistoric occupation and to abolish its traditions. Obviously, in the course of its professional, fish-fauna and ecological examination, I regularly gave my opinion, and now we have come to the point where we now have to give an opinion on what will happen to the 240 families who have lived from it in Hungary. I recently received an invitation from Szentes and Csongrád to attend a protesting meeting of Hungarian fishermen, with which they tried to draw attention to the injustices they had suffered. I met families, fishermen there. He was a fisherman, whose grandfather was a fisherman, and he was fishing with his grandson until the end of last year in Hungarian waters. You can't do that anymore. With fish, who invested a lot of money in having a boat, has a boat engine, buy nets, have equipment to do his job, and all this became worthless in one day. Nearly 80 million in total life's work is collapsing so that it will be unusable overnight, as it will not be able to put it on water, nor will it go out again, to use the tools in which it has invested its entire life and will make a living. Obviously, the Hungarian government, partly subject to the fishing lobby, has made these decisions from a vote-optimization point of view partly to social pressure, because it thought that 240 fishing families were more dangerous to the waters of Hungary than 350 thousand fishermen. Obviously, I have already said these professional doubts, and I would not like to repeat this, but that there are 240 families in Hungary that have lost their livelihood, with which the Hungarian government does not negotiate, who is not received by the Minister of Agriculture, for whom the Chamber of Agriculture and no professional representative organisations do not stand up, because they think that this is all right. Most people think that these people have now lost their livelihood, try to retrain themselves or go out to any other place on the labour market. They don't understand what kind of people live here. They do not understand that they exist in water and fishing, and they have lived in it. I met at the protest with an uncle who was almost sentenced to death in '56 and got away with spending his whole life on the Tisza, waiting for a change of regime, and became a right-wing Fidesz voter by denying what the socialist system had previously created in his life. He said that while he was waiting for the verdict in 56 with his straight back, he now fell back and wept at the news that he could never do his profession again, and what he taught his granddaughter and son to do, that profession vanishes from Hungary. [[20.40]] These fishermen are asking for the floor now. This week, on Friday, Saturday, Sunday, a demonstration was announced here, in front of Parliament, at the Danube quay, in order to draw attention, if possible, to the injustice they have suffered and not to ask for much. They're asking someone to listen to them. They ask that at least the responsible authority negotiate with them, what will become of them, how will they be used, what will become of selective fishing, organic fishing, what will happen to what the waters otherwise require, and it is in the interest of fishermen to maintain their profession in order to achieve a better ecological status. What about those who can't continue their profession? Do they get compensation? Buying up their worthless assets? At the moment, all they would ask is for someone from the government to welcome them, at least to negotiate with them, but so far they have not received any encouragement. I have now brought the message that at least these demands should be made in Parliament, that the government should be asked to at least begin negotiations on their fate and future during this week, and, if possible, to start thinking about what will happen to Hungarian fishing. I ask for the assistance of my fellow Members of Parliament. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2016-02-15-266	Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát applied for a final statement after the last agenda:. How much longer? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2016-02-15-267	Mr President, Dear House, In the front of the Hungarian public life there are waves of migration crisis, its effects, the debates around it, but we must note that there is a Fidesz initiative spreading, which means that local authorities, or even local authorities, are trying to get them to vote that, where appropriate, there is no compulsory resettlement quota to bring aliens to Hungary, which could in itself be a goal to support. At the same time, we can see that there are Balliberian liberal forces in Hungary that are doing everything they can to destroy the deep tissue of the Nation's body, and we also see that there are national radicals on the other side, who prefer to make amendments to prevent repatriations and to create unwarranted reception centres, refugee hostels within or in the immediate vicinity of inhabited areas. So let's start with the liberal drives, because there's plenty of them to cut down. Lóránt Budai lies in front of me, an amendment sent by the right representative of the Jászberény municipality, not by him, only by him, which is related to the local Balliberal forces, a dwarf party, and according to which the Balliberal rapporteur expresses that he believes that the body of representatives of the municipality of Jászberény should state that Jászberény is struggling with a demographic crisis, so he would need additional residents who accept our core values, our laws and are able to make a creative contribution to the development of our city. This science-fiction chapter could still be added with a shovel, according to which, according to point 5 of the amending proposal, the inclusion and integration of some immigrants in Hungary is inevitable for historical, economic, political and humane reasons. And if you get air again after these terms, in point 7, you are confronted with the fact that, according to the Balliberal author, the body of representatives of the municipality of Jászberény must support European solutions adopted jointly by the Member States, if quota acceptance wins, so should it. He managed to finish this with a voluntary offer of HUF 184 071, and he intends to use this support to provide the main parish services of the refugees admitted to Jászberény. These liberal stunts are quite similar to the removal of crosses and symbols of Christianity from reception centres in the Scandinavian states, because in their opinion they may interfere with the sensitivity and spirituality of the cometmen, aliens, while the arrivals, real refugees, in a small part, and much more economic immigrants, are in fact ignoring what is on these buildings, simply asking for generous donations from the social systems here. At the same time, I mentioned that our national radical representative also provided an amendment to this whole issue. He would supplement the ban on resettlement quotas by not having migrants and their receptions in Hungary by means of deportation, adding that the quota, as well as deportation, would be unlawful and pointless, but it would be important to state - this idea is much closer to us - that the representative body of the municipality of Jászberény does not support the establishment of a foreign police object, so that the reception centre, hotspot, and others are not established in its administrative area, and at the same time rejects the obligation for third-country nationals to be employed in public employment programmes, as our colleague Loránt Hegedűs pointed out on numerous occasions that the current government of Hungary wanted to allocate funds for this, as the Fidesz Fundamental Law contains an objection to the requirement that a migrant with a positive request can vote in real local elections, so that our domestic affairs and joint affairs can be decided upon, which in itself is disturbing and blood-rageous. That is why we would like to clarify over and over again the rightful position that we do not wish to give any unjustified benefits to migrants, no voting rights, no local government tenements, and no special social benefits. For real refugees, the dwarf minority, food and drink are very welcome for a few days, but nothing else, because Hungary belongs to the Hungarians, and we will vouch for it to remain so. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-02-15-268	Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches after the agenda. Thank you for your work. Parliament will resume its session at 9 a.m. Meeting day's closed. [[Meeting ended at 20:47 p.m.]]
