u2016-11-28-0	I welcome my fellow Members. The 26th day of the autumn session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that László Földi and István Ikotity will be taking part in this meeting. I welcome all those who are monitoring our work today. Today we start our work with speeches before the agenda. Then, from 11:50 a.m. to 13:20 a.m., and then from about 13:20 a.m. to 14:20 a.m., immediate questions and answers, followed by a political debate day from approximately 14:20 a.m. With the speeches following the agenda, we will complete the meeting of the Parliament. Dear Parliament, First of all, Congresswoman Bernadett Szél applied for a speech before the agenda:. 16 action days against violence against women. You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2016-11-28-1	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Government, Already in May, Romania ratified the European Council Convention on Effective Action against Women and Domestic Violence. Unfortunately, the Hungarian government has not been willing to take this step for years, as it is fond of pointing out to the countries that are awaiting ratification, saying that you are still on time; but this is not the case. In Hungary, you certainly know that the situation is extremely serious. In the last two weeks alone, the Hungarian press reported two deaths: a man in Budapest and a man in Borsod brutally killed his partner. On average, violence within and against women is fatal weekly in Hungary, with hundreds of thousands of women living in violent relationships. According to the latest data provided by the Ministry of Interior at our request, the number of cases of sexual violence against women increased by one and a half times over a year, i.e. from 2014 to 2015. In addition, there was a double increase in the number of procedures for sexual violence, with 329 in 2014, more than twice the number a year later: 670. There is simply no excuse for the Hungarian Government not to support the implementation of the Istanbul Convention against Women and dealing comprehensively with domestic violence. Their apology went on until recently when they said that the victims didn't need a treaty, they needed help. This is the most brutal demagogy that can be said, because this is exactly what would happen by ratifying the Istanbul Convention: it would oblige you to devote considerable resources to preventing violence against women and to helping victims, to preparing everyone who meets the victims and would not be able to get away with this. With the implementation of the Convention, prevention, awareness-raising, professional training, victim support would be launched on all existing channels. The government - and now a few quotes from the Hungarian government - could no longer be relied on to take into account the current budgetary options, or to increase, I quote, the number of places in crisis centres as much as possible as necessary, and it would not be enough to say that, I quote, efforts should be made to ensure the continuous training of professionals in contact with victims. I think a politician talks like that when he wants to get away with something. They talk about budget opportunities, while everyone knows what they don't spend on completely unnecessary things from the Hungarian budget; they say that it is necessary to make an effort. It's not that. If you were to ratify the Istanbul Convention, you would no longer be able to refer to a shortage of resources. I think more and more that you do not want to do as much or as much against violence as the Istanbul Convention requires. That is why they are delaying ratification, even though you know very well that in Hungary prevention, victim protection, and even the accountability of the perpetrators are very weak. We all know that school prevention programs are sporadic, and there were some that went wrong, and the police, the child protection workers, the doctors, the judges, the prosecutors don't get regular training, and we asked them, and I know exactly that they don't get it. Only one-tenth of the necessary crisis areas are available, and unfortunately police action is not effective. Victim error is common on the part of the authorities - perhaps many of us remember the - you can do something about it! He ran with a title for police videos in Pécs; this, I think, was a complete misunderstanding of the problem. Unfortunately, with the recent poster campaign, the government also showed that it was only then and only to the extent that violence against women and the fate of abused women could be of political benefit. What we have seen, and this poster campaign has been about this, is that the government that makes women safety a campaign subject simply measures the violence of Hungarian men against Hungarian women with a different standard, which, I think, is totally unacceptable. According to the LMP, any kind of double standards on this issue are unacceptable. The government must declare zero tolerance to all rapists, not only in words, but also in actions. You have every means to do this. They cannot stand by and watch an average weekly death by a woman by her partner or former partner and hundreds of thousands of victims per day being abused by women. The Istanbul Convention could finally bring about a change of perspective in Hungary; in the concept of the Convention, the fight against violence begins with equal treatment of women - in the household, in raising children, in the workplace, in wages, in everything. It is time for the Hungarian government to finally recognise that domestic violence is closely linked to the disadvantage of women. It's not some kind of family defect, the way you're trying to make it look. The May Other Parliamentary Group of Politics will therefore re-submit a resolution proposal to ratify the Istanbul Convention and call on the Government to stop delaying the necessary steps. Thank you for your attention. [[Sallai R. Benedek applauds.]]
u2016-11-28-2	On behalf of the government, I give the floor to Secretary of State Katalin Novák.
u2016-11-28-3	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, Once again, since this has been the case several times, it cannot be repeated enough that all forms of violence are unacceptable to us. I fully agree with you on this, and as we have already emphasised, we will continue to emphasise it in the future. This is our starting point. At the same time, I think that it would be very helpful for us to make progress on our common cause, if you did not approach this issue in such a blinking way and saw what was happening in this area, and you would also be monitoring these results, perhaps even talking about them. I think it would be important for the victims, potential victims, to have the new opportunities that we offer them as the results of recent years. He says there's been an increase in the number of cases of sexual assault. I ask you, Congresswoman, why are there such procedures at all? Why is it possible to talk about relationship violence? Which government has made relationship violence a separate criminal act, if not ours? Therefore, the fact that there is such a fact at all is due to the fact that we in the Criminal Code have presented it as an independent fact. Let's talk about this Istanbul agreement, because I can see that it's completely fixed, so I'd like to give you some information that you probably know about, but you're not talking about. Our government has signed the Istanbul Convention, and I think it also shows our steps in this direction, not only our words, but we have also justified by our actions that we consider this to be an important document. If we look at where we stand with regard to signatures and ratifications: 41 of the 47 European Council Member States have signed, 21 have ratified it. I can also give you a list of the Member States that signed this agreement before us and have not yet ratified it: the United Kingdom, Greece, Lithuania, Germany, I could list these Member States. The only reason I'm telling you this is because it's not the point, it's an international convention, the ratification process of international conventions is a long procedure, and every country has to go through it, that's what the Hungarian government does in its normal bed, we do in the case of the Istanbul Convention. But instead of waiting for us to see when the Istanbul Convention will be ratified and then its entry into force, we will act instead. For example, what has happened in recent years, in addition to the fact that we have made relationship violence a separate criminal case, or that we have recently adopted a parliamentary decision on this subject? In our budget, we provide 50 percent more resources to all crisis centres. The funding of the secret safe house has been increased by 100 percent, and the funding has been doubled. We have created a new crisis centre, a halfway house, a new form in the near future, this crisis clinic, which helps those who can take serious action in the form of such an outpatient assistance to get out of this difficult situation. He's talking about poster campaigns. I'd like to draw your attention to the, please notice. For a awareness-raising campaign, which took place in 2014, 2015 and 2016 with our support and funding. We are just calling attention to the fact that relationship violence is not a private matter, not a matter that is not our concern; if someone is the victim of such sexual violence, we should notice it. [[11.10]] That's what this campaign is about, and we support it every year. In addition, we are now launching a programme that provides more resources in this area than ever before. Think about it, Congresswoman, we have planned a HUF 3 billion development resource exclusively on the subject of relationship violence. Tell me, when have you ever had so much resources for this purpose that a government has put there, or for which a government would have felt so important? I would be very pleased if you would follow these events, including facts, and sometimes reflect on them from time to time, since it would be important for these victims to have access to their new opportunities. Such a development source is the safe haven, which is about to start, or the development of the national crisis intervention telephone service. We run a phone service that is available 24 hours a day for the victims for free. We will also develop this telephone line to make it accessible as widely as possible and across the country. He talks about the importance of training professionals. Thanks to the proposal or project that is about to start, we will be training 5,000 main professionals in the child protection signalling system, only in this area. We will involve 5,000 people in this training, and we will launch further national campaigns. In addition, we have a number of measures, a number of initiatives to prevent contact violence. I could mention, for example, education in the family life or ethics education, ethics education in schools. They also serve to help us talk to children about these issues already within the system of public education. I would ask Congresswoman to monitor these results, these events, our commitment to this, and a little bit. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] be less biased about this question. I'll thank you for that in advance. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-11-28-4	Mr Bence Rétvári, State Secretary, asked to speak before the next agenda: the washing of the Dictators and the alkonya on the left. You have the floor.
u2016-11-28-5	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, In recent days, after the death of Fidel Castro, we have heard surprising statements, both worldwide and in Hungary, mainly from left-wing politicians. A few weeks ago, we asked Parliament how many Snowy Sofias there are in the MSZP. I think this question is more topical than ever. I don't think it's a Democrat who remembers Castro and his system with a kind of nostalgia. Fidel Castro's attitude is unacceptable to a democratic politician. If I only look at how he commented on the Prague Spring in 1968, the rebellion of a neighbouring country against the Communist and Soviet dictatorship, like the '56 revolution, he said that this was an imperialist campaign in Czechoslovakia, and they do so in other countries of Eastern Europe, and the imperialists are war arsonists. Thus he commented on the common freedom struggle between the Czech people, Slovak and Czech people. But his own takeover was no different, for five years after his takeover there was no one around him who had previously gained power. Not only were the people of the former system placed in front of revolutionary tribunals and execution squads very briefly, but they kept trying to eliminate as many different thinkers as possible, even under their own regency. At the end of last week, we remembered the victims of the gulag, here in Parliament at the beginning of the week, and at the end of the week at several memorials and memorials. Well, not only did the gulags exist, but the UMAP camps in Cuba, in which 30,000 unwanted people were exiled by Castro. Of course, this included former capitalists, non-volunteers, homosexuals, Jehovah's Witnesses, Catholic priests, Protestant ministers, or other dissidents. This is the Castro featured in many of their Facebook and other posts today. By 1970, the number of executions had reached at least 5,000, according to the 1997 estimates it had already gone to 15-17 thousand, but as with all dictatorships, we will probably not know the reality until years later. With the changes called land reform, he forced the farmers there into cooperatives, as he did in Hungary, nationalizing all private assets. 500,000 Cubans fled to Florida and about a million and a half in total to different countries of the world. And in 1962, we managed to start almost a third world war along the Cuban missile crisis. Nevertheless, even if we look at some foreign contributions, Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau thinks back with great romance; President Juncker does not condemn him, but says that for many he was a hero; President Obama also believes that he has a huge impact, which the world will judge later. EU Foreign Affairs High Representative Mogherini also said that he was a determined man and a historical figure. We can see how determined he is, tens of thousands, but he may have executed hundreds of thousands of his own countrymen. Zsolt Gréczy's DK spokesperson and Csaba Horváth couldn't help but think romantically about the time when they themselves waved a flag to Fidel Castro as a child, or Csaba Horváth thinks that Che Guevara and he are already smoking cigars together in a heavenly bodega. That is an attitude that is unacceptable to democrat politicians in the world. [[Intercoms in the benches of the MSZP. What's wrong with Csaba Horváth? What's wrong with that? It's a religious speech! István Tukacs: What about the ax killer? Zoltán Grimlock: How much better is the ax killer? How much better is the Azeri axe killer?]] Those who write these romantic entries, look into the eyes of the people who were executed for political reasons, Castro, try to make such cheerful comments. It is unacceptable to have a double standard that if someone is a dictator but a leftist, then it seems to him that more things are permissible, even the killing of tens of thousands of his countrymen. We can remember how many civil wars you supported in the South American region. He destroyed his own country, economically frozen it, deprived people of his freedom, and, as I said, fled his country for millions. I think that politicians who write such things about Hungary should think even more about it, because we in Eastern Europe have seen exactly what it means to live under the communist dictatorship. No one here can say that he has no direct information, no direct knowledge of what it means to live under a communist dictatorship, and therefore it is unacceptable to give Fidel Castro any kind of cheer. Those who bow their heads, even at imaginary funerals, think back to Fidel Castro, and think back to his period of romance, will be ejected from the ranks of democratic politicians because he cannot live up to a democratic political dictator. But it seems that it is still more important for the left in Hungary to be left-wing than to be a Democrat. Therefore, a dictator can be referred to with romantic adjectives, nostalgic for his years, just because he was left-wing, and they didn't care that he was a dictator. [[Zoltán Grimlock: What kind of dictator is your boss?]] So there are a lot of Snowy Sofias sitting in the ranks of MSZP and DK and other left-wing parties. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches. Zoltán Grimlock: Give food to the poor!]]
u2016-11-28-6	I give Mr. Csaba Dömötör the opportunity to answer.
u2016-11-28-7	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Honourable Congressman, It is not easy to summarize how many people have suffered in dictatorships like Cuba. It's hard to describe human suffering with numbers, especially when the authorities there are not public champions. Some of them tried to bring the victims together. According to the black book of communism, the Castro system is responsible for the death of nearly 100,000 people. 17,000 people were shot to death, thousands lost their lives in prison, and almost 80,000 died trying to escape. Another 100,000 political prisoners needed to know exactly what the many horrors of concentration camps meant. I don't want to qualify for international declarations right now. Half the world will do for me, and fortunately the new American president will do for me, but I still find it a scandal that the head of the MSZP in Budapest also praises Fidel Castro. [[Zoltán Grimlock: What did you do to honor him?]] According to Csaba Horváth, Castro was a unique and age-old figure, and Che Guevara was waiting for him in the heavenly café, where they would smoke cigars and rums. Check it out if you haven't seen it. Honourable Congressman, It's worth recording a few things. Even for the sake of a clear conscience. Che Guevara is not cool, Fidel Castro is not a hero, he's a bloody dictator, and their portraits are not for T-shirts, but mostly for trash if they liked cigars if they didn't. And if the MSZP wants to smear Communist crimes, it's best to look at pictures of Cuban labor camps. That's what we're offering them. Honourable Congressman, When the MSZP has been fleeing from its 56 memories in the last few weeks and squinting about the celebrations, we could not really decide what could be in the background, but thus, given the statements of the last few days, the picture is clearer. The left seems to think completely different about dictatorships and their horrors. This is why the MSZP did not participate in the commemoration of 56 here in the National Assembly. [[Zoltán Pride: That's not why. We wreathed Imre Nagy, you know?]] so that the Polish and German Speakers took part; that is why they did not sign a joint statement from the parties, which was, by the way, about the joint celebration. [[Zoltán Haughty: With you? "56"?]] ; that is why one of their members fascistized the heroes of 56 and that is why one of their MEPs said that he could not see it as a national holiday on 23 October. Csaba Horváth continued this terrible socialist tradition, instead of remembering the left. I am sorry to say this in 2016, but if you consider the statement of the head of the MSZP in Budapest as a guide, we still think very, very differently about what freedom and democracy mean. All of this means that the messages of the Pest boys are more timely than ever. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the pro-government benches. Zoltán Grimlock: That's for sure, because Orbán finally... noise. Zoltán Gőgös: What is the situation within your own dictatorship? The ax killer and the one who stole the country, what's the deal?]] [[11.20]]
u2016-11-28-8	To speak before the next agenda, Mr Sándor Czomba came forward:. How does a significant increase in the minimum wage contribute to an increase in the standard of living? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2016-11-28-9	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, In recent days, we have heard a number of very important announcements about wage development. I sensed that everyone agrees that wages should be increased in Hungary, regardless of the party's position. Discussions have been held over the past period in relation to its mode and measure. The most important message may be that it is important what we think about this in Parliament, but the most important message is what those who are involved in this process, sufferers or winners of this process, workers and employers think. I think that this battle was won in the right place by the government, and a very important agreement was reached. Perhaps it is worth a thought to go back to where we started in 2010. There has recently been a parliamentary debate on labour shortages, and I believe that the question alone is that this debate was not about high unemployment and the management of these problems, but about the lack of people or the lack of qualified people in each area. This is also an important issue, a serious issue, but what we saw in 2010 is, in addition to the huge unemployment and many other problems, this is a much more grateful task that we have to deal with. Just let me go back for two figures. I bring the Greeks here because they were the ones with whom we were about the same level of unemployment and employment. The unemployment rate was around 12 per cent in 2010 in Greece and Hungary, now 22 per cent in Greece and 4.9 per cent in Hungary. So the Greeks almost doubled, and the unemployment camp in Hungary was roughly halved. But perhaps even more important is the employment rate of young people. At the Greeks it went from 30 percent to almost 50 percent, and in Hungary it came down from almost 30 percent to 13 percent. I think these are important and valuable values, data. Of course, there are tens of thousands of people behind the data, who, instead of living without work or on welfare, have been given the opportunity to live from work. With regard to employment data, I would just like to say that there is an increase of 460 000 compared to the 2010 period in the competition sector, which I think is a very important and significant figure. Wages increase is also important and necessary, but it is not enough to ensure that labour shortages can be dealt with substantially in the next period. There are also demographic, vocational training and other problems. But it is also important to record some figures regarding wages. Between 2010 and 2012, at net level, in real terms, wages have indeed increased slightly, but because in a period of crisis, more people had to work at zero per cent of GDP instead of aid. The effects of the conversion of the tax system were virtually set to 2013, and we see that after 2013, we saw a real increase of around 24 per cent, starting our catching up with the countries of the region. With regard to the net value of the minimum wage - because this is perhaps the most important message for employees - I can say that the net value of the minimum wage will increase by HUF 18 thousand in 2018, i.e. in the next two years, and the net value of the minimum wage for skilled workers by HUF 34 thousand. Now it may not even be possible to understand what that really means. We're always arguing about whether or not you've reached the minimum of living. I would like to draw the attention of my fellow Members to the fact that the Hungarian net minimum wage has not once reached the minimum wage since the change of regime. Now will be the chance in 2018 to reach this otherwise important value or, if necessary, to exceed it. All comprehensive measures also have clear results and risks. It is therefore very important that the social partners, employers and workers, who have clearly considered pro and versus advantage, disadvantage and everything, have reached an agreement. Predictability must be one of the most important elements of the Hungarian economy, going forward for several years, and I think that with this predictability we will also be able to keep the Hungarian economy on track for development in the coming years, as well as to further increase employment. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-11-28-10	Thank you. I give Mr Péter Cseresnyés the opportunity to answer.
u2016-11-28-11	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, I confirm your words, and the government is also very positive about the agreement that has been signed in the last few days. It is clear to all interested parties that this time there is not the usual end-of-year wage agreement between the negotiators, not in two respects. On the one hand, we agreed not only to increase the minimum wage and the guaranteed minimum wage to a significant extent, but also, as has been said, employers' taxes will be significantly reduced in order to facilitate implementation. On the other hand, due to the time horizon of the agreement, the agreement signed on Thursday is exceptional and unprecedented for the last 26 years. We have now set a timetable for reducing the employer's burden for the next six years, in close connection with wage increases and increases. I would like to repeat how this is going to happen. For 2017 and 2018, the minimum wage of 15 and 8 percentage points and the guaranteed minimum wage of 25 and 12% will be combined with a reduction in corporation tax of 9 per cent and the social contribution tax of 5 plus 2 per cent, i.e. a total reduction of 7 percentage points over two years. A further reduction of 0.5 percentage points may occur in 2018 if wages increase by at least 11 percent on average in the enterprise sector in the first and third quarters of 2017. In the following years, a further 2-2 percentage point reduction of the social contribution tax can be achieved in four steps if, on average, workers' real wages are increased by at least 6 per cent in the competitive sphere. We consider the agreement to be a major turning point on the part of the government, which could pave the way for a longer period of time to bring the growth of Hungarian wages to a faster path. But let's go back to a determined increase in the minimum wage. I would like to say numbers, as Mr President has already highlighted a number or two. The net amount of the minimum wage is expected to increase by HUF 11 per month from 1 January 2017, as has already been said. But I would like to extend this by, for example, increasing by HUF 16,000 for two and more children thanks to the family tax reduction. In the case of the guaranteed minimum wage, the net monthly surplus will increase by HUF 21 thousand, HUF 26 thousand for two children and HUF 31 500 for three or more children. This means that about 1.2 million workers directly affected by increases can take more home from January. We can also be sure that this increase in income is largely spent on the purchase of goods and services, so the process that we have been observing for years is that from month to month, every year, retail sales are increasing because, thanks to the increase in employment and the increase in real wages you have mentioned, people are constantly spending more money in shops. As I said, this increase in wages, which is also true in terms of wage and real wage growth, generates additional demand for domestic businesses, thereby strengthening the dynamism of the economy. We can also expect that a strong rise in minimum wages will also lead businesses to raise the wages of their employees in the higher pay categories. This will further improve the standard of living of Hungarian families and, as a result of their increase in consumption, will also strengthen economic growth. With this minimum wage and guaranteed wage increase, the government intended to achieve that the process that took place as a natural process for three years, the increase in employment, real wages and wages as a whole, with a help, with a significant tax reduction, and by proposing a substantial increase in the minimum wage and the guaranteed minimum wage, together with the social partners, this process should continue and a higher level should be maintained in the further process of raising wages. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-11-28-12	Thank you. At the next speech before the agenda, MEP Adam Mirkóczki came forward:, is it really that difficult to give up dirty money? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman. [[11.30]]
u2016-11-28-13	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, If we look at the case of bank and broker scandals and financial abuses from the change of regime until today, then there is only one common denominator, namely that, regardless of the current government, the real big fish, the real responsible ones have always escaped, and they have always remained unharmed from the point of view of justice. This is no different for your government, let's think of the BudaCash case or the Quaestor case. However, not a day passes, but not a day passes, so that information that proves all your pre-existing direct statements about what a lie it is. This is the case now, because your accomplice, Csaba Tarsoly, made a statement to a newspaper, and stated the not insignificant information that the State Department itself, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and its company introduced and put together with the Pharaon, who, for months now, has become more and more confusing and more scandalous information. Here, I would remind you that, on the other hand, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, in cooperation with the Ministry of the Interior, lied for many weeks and months, and Bagatellized a series of information about Pharaon. One word, like a hundred, but Csaba Tarsoly managed to make a HUF 200 billion minus at the expense of the taxpayers, to which you have assisted in no small way. But don't get me wrong, I wish there was a fair trial, and then a fair justice, and then they'll have a chance to prove their innocence. But we can't go anywhere near Pharaon, because this gentleman, whom Viktor Orbán only called Professor Pharaon, only turns out that he has been wanted for many years in a growing number of countries around the world, and in Hungary he has been able to perform the feat that he has reached the Prime Minister's family, he can conduct business directly with the Prime Minister's family, and not least with the already mentioned Ministry of Foreign Affairs. On the other hand, you lie all the time, and I could say you're involved in a spiral of lies. At one moment, Pharaon is not Pharaon, and the next moment, when he arrives in Hungary, he will be captured immediately. I suggest that you decide, once and for all, which position you represent and do your job accordingly. Do not point fingers at the American secret services or their games, ask the authorities that you control, including the secret services, how this man could have gotten to Hungarian documents and why he was not captured by the Hungarian authorities. And as far as the settlement bonds are concerned, here we see the same spiral of lies in your communication as in so many other things. Namely, your position is that the settlement bonds have fulfilled their expectations, they are no longer needed, they are eliminated. At the next moment, however, information is coming to light that your companies and offices continue to advertise this construction with great intensity and even greater intensity, and are expanding the range of countries, the areas by which they are waiting for these immigrants to come to Hungary, if they have money, of course. I would like to note here that if you were right and we look at it as a purely economic construct, it can also be concluded that in Hungary over the past two years the Hungarian State has caused a debt of HUF 9 billion, and we can also conclude that only your friends and your companies have been able to make a profit of 112 billion. However, we say that this is not an economic issue, but a matter of security policy, especially when there are so many barrels of powder in the world, so many conflicts, we should pay more attention to them, and not in Africa, the Middle East and China, with increasing intensity. You, who say that the country's security is the most important, who are fighting immigration, can be seen very briefly as a real policy in this matter. In English, if Merkel and Juncker bought settlement bonds from you in Hungary according to the quota ratio they planned, you would not only refuse this quota, you would stick to it directly, you would be pleased. Because your policy can be summarised as fighting immigrants, fighting quotas, but if they have money, they can come. Thank you very much. [[Interjection from Jobbik's ranks: That's right. Applause in the same place.]]
u2016-11-28-14	I give Mr. Csaba Dömötör the opportunity to answer.
u2016-11-28-15	Honourable Congressman, As far as I can tell, the Jobbik are still looking for themselves and trying not to make any mistakes over the past few weeks happen. We wouldn't be in the position of those Jobbik sympathizers trying to figure out what Jobbik really represents. [[It's an intervention from Jobbik's ranks.]] As far as Quaestor's question is concerned, you were referring to an interview, and from that interview, you can clearly see that it is a desperate attempt by a desperate man to save himself. The seriousness of this interview is well understood by the gentleman you mentioned that he did not participate in the management of Quaestor at operational level, and we already had the money, while we know that there are more than 200 billion missing. I would like to tell you that there has never been such a case of fraud so quickly to be brought to court. I would also like to say that a significant proportion of victims have been compensated or compensated. [[Interruption from the ranks of the MSZP.]] , the Constitutional Court's decision sets out the framework for this. And I would also like to tell you that this was not the case in previous cases. For example, there was no compensation in the case of Hajdú-Bet, and you know it very well. We don't know what's going on, but what we can see is that Jobbik is still looking for itself, and it's like he's looking for an excuse why he didn't support the amendment of the Fundamental Law. One thing is certain, Jobbik ignored the outcome of the referendum, ignored the fact that 98 percent of people said no to forced resettlement, while you are very well aware of the risks of forced resettlement. Instead, you could afford to extort me in the wrong way. I'd like to tell you that 3.3 million people can't just be blackmailed. With this policy, Jobbik took the side of immigration policy in Brussels and joined a gang with Ferenc Gyurcsány, who also supported quotas, even collected signatures. It is, by the way, the party that has previously burned EU flags, and whose leader here in Parliament has not long considered it treason if someone did not vote for the amendment of the Fundamental Law. [[There's a noise in Jobbik's ranks.]] The total confusion is indicated by the fact that one of the leaders of their party, as mayor, adopted an anti-Islamic decree not so long ago, while the party president had previously meditated that Islam was mankind's last hope. In this regulation, however, there are still a number of restrictions that are very, very far from the cute tree. All of this shows that Jobbik is a very confused couple that can do anything for power. [[Interjection from Jobbik's ranks:...for money...]] And then a few months later, he's gonna do the opposite of whatever he's doing. One day they proclaim law enforcement, sometimes they organize a guard and cooperate with militia organizations; one day they write in their program to support Sunday free, and another they attack it loudly here in Parliament. One day, I'd sprinkle salt on commercial TVs, and then they'd go on the tabloids. One day they're worried about the country's security, so you've done now, and another day they won't clear up the worst espionage scandal since the change of regime, and they won't even cancel the congressman. We don't know what the point of such politics is, but we do know that more and more people are talking about the cooperation between Jobbik and the left. [[Ádám Mirėkóczki: You talk about this every day.]] András Schiffer may be right, who calls such cooperation a perverted coalition. As I said before, if there is a dangerous establishment, it is the establishment of Jobbik on the left. We had to be happy this weekend that Jobbik didn't join the ranks of those who praised Fidel Castro. [[Adam Mirkóczki: We work.]] We don't know why they're doing this, but we hope that at least one or two leaders of Jobbik know what they really believe. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]] [[11.40]]
u2016-11-28-16	Member László Szakács has applied for the next speech before the next agenda. It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2016-11-28-17	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear House, We have been saying for years that Hungary will not be competitive because wages are low in Hungary. From the outset, we say that EU funds should be used in Hungary to raise Hungary both socially and economically to the level of Austria or Germany. Unfortunately, you have not chosen this path; you have made the wrong decision; you are building a new fidesz urbanizing economic elite as a backbone of the economy, and Garancsik, Simicskas, Voldemortok, Farkas Florians, who are growing out of the ground, and I must not forget about the cashier, not Stróman Lőrinc, who are giving the backbone of the Hungarian economy today. What we see is that private wealth is growing nicely, while European Union money is disappearing in whole or in part in Hungary. As private assets grow, we see Hungary's competitiveness decline dramatically. Or to quote Minister Lazarus, who said last week that Hungary's competitiveness has been brutally reduced. This is your fault, ladies and gentlemen, this is your fault on the government side! The World Market Forum has found that Hungary's world market classification has decreased by six places. You know, that means we're considered the number of people in the world market. We are 69, but the situation in the European Union is even worse. In the European Union, 25 out of the 28 Member States are ahead of Hungary, only Croatia, Greece, which is in virtually bankruptcy, and Cyprus, which is connected to Greece, are following us. All the other states have preceded us in terms of competitiveness. Is that why we are going to have an EU debate day this afternoon? Are we going to listen to the fanfares that the people of Miskolc are going to have to listen to? Will we listen to fanfares about how effectively we use and draw on EU funds in Hungary? And our competitiveness is at the end of the line with regard to the world as well as the European Union. But that's because you made the wrong choice. You are facing a political culture, confronting politicalally appointed economic players with all the other economic players in the world, who have not reached where they are because they have good political relations, but because they have experience, they have risk tolerance, they have ability to work, they have preparedness, they have diligence. And you're running a political Voldemort against Lőrincek and Garancsi. Of course we missed it. In 2015, Bulgaria and Romania pulled past us like a fast train. Now, Hungary is not chasing the western half of the world, but Bulgaria and Romania, so that I do not mention such huge economies as the Slovak economy, which circles us every year. I think, ladies and gentlemen, this must be blushing. You should be ashamed of this, not with fanfares, to declare the glory that everything is all right in Hungary. No! Bulgaria and Romania and 25 Member States of the European Union are pulling by. And if they were such a fidesz urizing economic elite, they would at least pay attention to how they treat their own employees. Because we believe that there is nothing more important in Hungary than a safe living, and if János Lázár half-understands what this is all about, because Minister Lazarus said that Hungary should be set on a course by 2020 where he can stand on his own feet, and this is the responsibility of this government, then this admission could be followed by a paradigm change or even action and, let us say, help the workers. Workers are poor in Hungary, workers' poverty has appeared, and we demand that the net minimum wage be HUF 100,000. We demand that if someone has worked a life, you should not be able to spot their eyes with a 0.9 percent increase, a pension increase, but 3 percent, as calculated, and if someone is working, you give them the opportunity to pay their bills, reduce the price of energy in households, and reduce the VAT on basic foods as much as possible, according to the prices of energy on the world market. I believe that a reasonable governance would be an opportunity to do so. Thank you for your attention.
u2016-11-28-18	I give Mr. Csaba Dömötör the possibility of rejoinder.
u2016-11-28-19	Thank you, Mr President, for the floor. Honourable Congressman, I agree that we need to focus on living issues here in Parliament, and it is in our common interest that every Hungarian family, every Hungarian citizen, can take a step forward in their own lives. You spoke in your speech on matters of livelihood, and we are well aware that the MSZP has summarised in a four-point package what measures you would like to take. [[Dr. László Kács: I was talking about competitiveness!]] Otherwise, these measures would sound good in themselves if we did not know that the left did exactly the opposite when it had the opportunity to govern. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: Just the truth, Mr. Secretary of State.]] Let us consider the measures that you have referred to. For example, they do have a proposal on minimum wage. [[Zoltán Grimlock: What was the tax on the minimum wage?]] It's worth fixing the facts. I'm doing it now, Congressman. When the MSZP handed over government to the current government, the minimum wage was 73 thousand forints. [[Zoltán Grimlock: Net, now 72!]] This government will increase this to HUF 138 thousand by 2018, so it will almost double it. You're referring to the working people now, but when you should have acted, you didn't fight for them. It is only quietly noted that it was the civil government that significantly increased the minimum wage between 1998 and 2002. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély:...taxed the minimum wage.]] As regards the amendment of the pension system - you have just referred to this - it is not quite clear what the MSZP is demanding. Aren't you the ones who've been messing with the pension system more than once? It is not clear which pension scheme they would return to precisely, since the left, when he was on the steering wheel, patched up the pension system. [[Bangóné Borbély Ildikó: 3000 billion HUF withdrawal!]] For example, for the last time, the increases were adjusted to inflation, and now, if I understand it correctly, they are criticizing this; and Lajos Bokros, who is a professional, should be on his feet, able to cut order. One thing is certain, this government has protected the value of pensions, and on the other hand, the MSZP has taken a month's pension. Those are the facts. Then here is your proposal to cut energy prices, which you have just referred to. We can all be glad that the MSZP has finally recognised the importance of reducing costs [[Zoltán Grimlock: Read what we said then. You always do.]] with some phase delay at the same time. They've come from afar, so many saints, because they've doubled the price of electricity, triple the electricity. And then when Fidesz-KDNP cut the overhead costs by a quarter, you were worried about multi-businesses here. Now, I understand you're demanding a reduction in your rent again. Let me ask you: can MSZP Members still follow the MSZP's resolution on the reduction of rent? Please inform us which position is the real one. I mention the VAT on basic foods only briefly, because you supported the reduction this spring, and when it came to voting, you did not vote for it. [[Zoltán Grimlock: Because you put him in a package.]] The real friends of VAT cuts are getting dizzy at this rate. So much for your suggestions. However, there is an even more important issue, which is that last week we finally reached an agreement between employers, workers and the government. I am very, very sorry that you, as a left-wing party, have not spoken of this fact at all. An agreement was reached between the government and employees and employers on wage increases for the coming years. The Prime Minister asked the Minister of National Economy to go to the wall, and he did so, so the result is this. From next year, the minimum wage will increase by 15 percent, and the minimum wage for skilled workers will increase by 25 percent. [[Zoltán Grimlock: Live with it!]] It will also be easier for employers to manage this, since employers' taxes are reduced by 5 percent and corporate income tax is reduced to 9 percent. [[Your suit costs more!]] By doing so, Hungary will have the lowest corporate tax rate, so the government will help raise wages by reducing taxes; by reducing taxes for wage increases - that is the point. These wage increases mean that, in addition to having 600 thousand more jobs than in 2010, it is increasingly worth working in Hungary. [[Zoltán Haughty: To whom? The multi!]] , with the aim of work instead of aid, is supported by new measures. This does not mean that the government does not have much to do. On the contrary, there is still work to be done. [[Zoltán Grimlock: Yes, graduate quickly!]] The MSZP calls the government here in Parliament on numerous occasions - and has said on numerous occasions - to support wage increases, which is why I find it strange that when this happens, you will conceal this fundamental fact, the fact of the agreement, the fact of wage increases. [[11.50]] I know that in the meantime left-wing casting has been restarted, and there is no limit to fighting for positions, but if you have a little time left, if you allow me time, then I am asking you to support these wage-raising measures and help us strengthen Hungary. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-11-28-20	Ladies and gentlemen, We have reached the end of the speeches before the agenda. I would like to ask Mr László Földi to present the list of speakers after the agenda.
u2016-11-28-21	Dear Parliament, Today he applied for a speech after the agenda: Zsolt Becsó, Fidesz; Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, MSZP; Ádám Mirkóczki, Jobbik; György Lukács, Jobbik; Dániel Z. Kárpát, Jobbik; Sebestyén Vágó, Jobbik; Róbert Benedek Sallai, LMP. On Tuesday he applied for a speech after the agenda: Dániel Z. Kárpát, Jobbik; István Szávay, Jobbik.
u2016-11-28-22	Dear Parliament, At 11:50 p.m., we move on to questions and immediate questions. Márta Demeter, a representative of the MSZP, wants to ask the Minister of National Economy:. When do they finish filling the pockets of the buddy offshore companies and selling the free movement of Schengen to criminals? It's an address. You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2016-11-28-23	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary. In the last year and a half, their entire policy has been based on fear and hatred of refugees and immigrants rather than on governance. In the meantime, the circles linked to Fidesz have made tens, hundreds of billions of dollars from the sale of Hungarian establishment, the possibility of unlimited access to the Schengen area, and in the end it will be paid by the Hungarian people. Whoever buys the settlement government bond gives a loan to the government of Viktor Orbán, they are immediately granted a life-long residence permit in Hungary, and then five years later, he will receive his money back with interest. The Hungarian state has already lost more than HUF 9 billion from this construction, which will also have to be paid from the Hungarian people's money, and the interest on this establishment structure is much higher than market returns. So this hundred billion-dollar profit goes to fidesz buddies through offshore companies installed in the sale of settlement government bonds. Based on your data, Secretary of State, this construction has already given 17 thousand people, including criminals, free access to Hungary and the Schengen area. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that you do not come up with European examples in your reply, because nowhere in the world there is an inaccessible sale of government bonds through offshore companies. Since then, as a result of the scandals, you have announced the review of the programme, yet nothing has happened, so it is quite clear that you have lied again. In an interview, Mihály Varga said that the problem is not about bonds, but about pricing, as if there were no other problems. Therefore, their ministry will continue to assist Fidesz offshore companies to pocket a hundred billion dollars without a penny of taxation for criminals to come to Hungary and the Schengen area, and for Viktor Orbán's business interest to overwrite all rationalities again. My question is, how much longer are they lying? When will the settlement government bond finally be lifted? Do you support the resubmitted MSZP proposal for the termination of the bond sale? Thank you.
u2016-11-28-24	I give Mr András Tállai the opportunity to answer.
u2016-11-28-25	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and First of all, congratulations, because I understand you've given up your homework. Your homework is to tell you as often as possible that you're a close-to-Fidesz buddy or offshore company. You have managed to say this three times in two minutes, and I think that I have basically said the essence of your speech. With regard to the settlement policy, which you and other opposition parties have repeated and repeated, I can tell you that you have made false statements in your speech, because when you say that the settlement bond scheme costs more than the State and is worse than the market rate bond, you are wrong, as on 23 November, the NGM also issued a statement stating clearly that more than half of the stock of settlement bonds issued so far is of a more favourable interest than the market, so that after these settlement bonds, the State will pay approximately EUR 20 million, HUF 7-8 billion less interest than if this source was collected on the ordinary foreign exchange bond issue. It is also not right that this scheme does not exist in other countries, since it operates in 16 EU countries, and it is not right that small-town people have already received a residence bond permit, with a total of 3,915. [[Gábor István Bellozó: Don't lie to me!]] You are likely to mix the bond number with the number of people who have received the residence permit. So, so much for asking the whole question. Moreover, the question is indeed relevant in one thing, that the government has put the restructuring of the debt strategy on the agenda, and in this the revision of the settlement bond programme, but it has not yet been decided. Please be patient, there will be a decision in the near future. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-11-28-26	Zoltán Magyar, representative of Jobbik, wishes to ask the Minister of Agriculture: . When can the untenable situation be eliminated at Hortobágyi Halgazdaság Zrt.? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2016-11-28-27	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Mr. Secretary. Many problems arise in public farms, which are more serious each year, of course the most common reason for these is that workers do not receive adequate wages and decent working conditions. It is regrettable that the quality development of these farms is also lagging behind, as it would be in the interest of the national economy that this should not be the case and that domestic fish farming could regain its former position. In addition, it could be expected to improve the conservation of the countryside, and not to mention that the Hungarian fish could have a serious, positive impact on health impacts in an appropriate quality. Six years ago, Hortobágyi Halgazdaság Zrt. operated as a profitable undertaking. That's when you came, and the former leadership was replaced, as usual filled with your own people. I do not know about the previous leadership, nor do I want to give an opinion on them, but it is clear that since then there has been a significant reduction in standards. They took away the workers' dinner fish, because according to the data subjects, the new leader takes significant quantities of fish from the farm at the address "representation fish" three or four times a week. For six years there hasn't been a salary increase or a work uniform for the workers there, and they're not even employed on professional wages while they're doing this job. The company does not provide drinking water, the social room, all of this in 2016 for a public company. This is quite simply unacceptable and outrageous. I therefore ask the Secretary of State when to expect wage increases and more humane working conditions at Hortobágy Halgazdaság Zrt. And speaking of the sector, we would also like to know that the fishermen whose work has ceased and their compensation has been promised here a year ago within the walls of the House, and to date they have not seen one forint from this when they can expect the promised and substantial compensation because the state has made their work impossible. I look forward to a meaningful response for the families of fishermen and the workers there. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-11-28-28	I give the Secretary of State István Nagy the opportunity to rejoin me.
u2016-11-28-29	Dear House, My dear fellow Member, I can assure you that the Hortobágy Fish Farm is in good hands. Between 2005 and 2009, it was only possible to make a profit by taking on an annual agricultural-environmental payment of some HUF 230-250 million. Today, without this aid, the company is able to make profits on the competitive market. The management of the company did not cease in 2015 but regulated the quantity of fish that the workers could claim free of charge and the rules on the release of fish in a CEO's instruction. The previous practice was a hotbed for crimes against the company's property, and because of the crimes committed, the company was forced to file a number of criminal charges, which led to dismissals. According to the CEO's instructions, this benefit can now be reached to a uniform extent for all employees, so that it can be monitored in the registers. I think this should also be extremely important to my fellow Member. The bad faith statement about the CEO is without any basis. Each year, wage increases were made in line with the minimum wage and the guaranteed minimum wage according to the legal requirements, and the wage development was in line with the company's capacity. [[12.00]] All employees of the company will also receive benefits, in addition to wages. The gross wage corresponding to the guaranteed minimum wage shall be provided to workers in positions requiring secondary qualification when the evidence of formal qualifications is presented. Zrt. it will, of course, provide its workers with protective clothing and, in addition, with the non-mandatory work clothes. It is incomprehensible to assume that the employees of the company may carry out their special activities only in such a dress without wearing any protective clothing. It is in the company's primary interest to pay particular attention to occupational safety regulations, and therefore, by contract, OSH consultants also assist the management. I assure you, Congressman, that the company. all its units are provided with drinking water and social space, and the mineral water is carried out in balloons into the departments. Thank you very much for asking. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2016-11-28-30	Ladies and gentlemen, Ákos Hadházy, representative of the LMP, wishes to ask the Minister of Agriculture:. Can the failed regional landfills be repaired? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2016-11-28-31	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ciko, Bonyhád-Börzsöny - Small villages near Bonyhád - and their region has been living in an unbearable stench for years. The locals' problems are also bitterly affected by water waves near populated areas and farmland, which continue to leak into the environment. The problem is not unique. The same phenomenon is being faced in Balatonfűzfő and similar symptoms are being reported more and more often in the vicinity of other regional waste managers in the country. It's the same reason everywhere, it seems the same reason. When the island, which was built with EU support, was designed for landfills, it was miscalculated due to a calculation error, miscalculating the amount of water which could not be leaked due to insulation. They've been expecting a significantly larger vaporization than what's coming in the real world, not as much water as it goes into the system. The accumulation of water in the landfill space prevents the transfer of waste from being deposited, while the high organic content causes degradation processes to start. You can imagine that stench. Water leaking through waste and then gathering in the lower region is considered hazardous because of its ever-changing, difficult-to-defining composition. The treatment of this is unsolvable on the ground, and therefore waste water that is abundant in poisons is released into surface water by various illegal methods. By the way, I saw this last week in Balatonfűzfő with my own eyes. They didn't want to let me in, but I checked, and there's actually sewage running out of the Balaton belt area. In 2012 the Inspectorate identified an environmental emergency Cicón, because there are 40,000 cubic metres of water in the system instead of 10 thousand cubic metres, and therefore it is quite ridiculous, it imposed a penalty of 200,000 forints, but the situation has not changed since then. I was there, there's more water than there was then. My question is whether the authorities have taken action again. Since the problem is on a national scale, how many places have such residential announcements been registered? What does the Ministry do to combat environmental pollution that is damaging the quality of life? Do you see a proposal for a solution that could be used to counter this? Thank you.
u2016-11-28-32	I give the Secretary of State István Nagy the opportunity to rejoin me.
u2016-11-28-33	Mr President, Dear House, Dear fellow Member, For the first time in 2012, it was noted that the treatment of the local landfill is unsolved, that the size of the necessary pools is insufficient in case of heavy rains, that the licensed technology may not be respected, and that may be the reason for the reeks of the population. Following the detailed official procedure, the environmental authority responsible for the area reviewed the single environmental permit and issued the permit at the beginning of 2016. A single environmental use procedure is that the activity must meet the requirement of the best available technique. Due to previous repeated complaints by the public, it should be pointed out that the procedure was made public, the documents were sent to the notaries of the municipalities concerned, and the authority also notified more than a dozen civil society organisations of the procedure. The above procedure should guarantee that the impact of the activity on the environment can be achieved without damage. If this is not the case, it can only be for an extraordinary reason and requires immediate intervention. In the rainy summer of the last few years, there have been operational problems. On the one hand, we have a slightly more rainy period compared to the previous years, and on the other hand, the annual levelling of precipitation distribution has changed. The winter season is quite dry in some years, until the summer has become more rainy. At national level, these problems have occurred in several places, although the Ministry has no concrete statement of their number. However, each case must be dealt with immediately by both the operator and the authority. However, it is not always the case that the stench against the landfill can be traced back to the unsolved treatment of drip water. In the other case mentioned by the Member - Balatonözfői - this was not the cause of the stench, as the Ministry knows, and therefore generalisations must be avoided. Each case shall be handled individually, investigated and the necessary measures taken immediately. Thank you very much for asking. [[Applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2016-11-28-34	Ladies and gentlemen, Szilárd Németh and Gyula Vantara, representatives of Fidesz, would like to ask the Minister for National Development: It's an address. Congressman Gyula Vantara has the floor.
u2016-11-28-35	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Honourable Members, Dear Secretary of State, Surely we all know the problem is that from time to time we try to deal with our troublesome business at a service provider's telephone customer service, but either we cannot get an administrator at all, or we can only start dealing with problems after a long, very long wait. This causes a serious headache for all consumers, as 10-20-30 minutes of waiting or more take time from our daily lives, which could be spent either on family life or on home activities or on other leisure activities. However, let us not forget that, in worse cases, these waiting times are meant as a service, since let us think that if we have a problem with the Internet, television, telephone or mobile service, these waiting times may indeed multiply. Not to mention that some phone customer service menus are so complex and detailed that it is a serious challenge to find the menu item or menu items where we can begin to deal with the merits after lively login. And I will not mention that when the waiting moment comes and the administrator picks up the phone, there is no or knowledge of different codes, passwords and identifiers that may cause further difficulty on the way to solving the problem. Dear Secretary of State, In view of the above, I would like to ask what measures are expected to make the operation of telephone customer services more efficient and at the same time to further strengthen the interests of consumers. I'm looking forward to your reply. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-11-28-36	I'm giving Secretary of State Kara Ákos the opportunity to reciprocate.
u2016-11-28-37	Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Indeed, it is true that telephone customer services of service providers play an important role in the lives of consumers and customers, but it is also true that they have really caused many people in recent times to be annoyed and burdened with reporting complaints about these services. Therefore, the amendment of the Consumer Protection Act gives us all, the Members of Parliament, the opportunity to change this, as this amendment re-regulates rules on telephone customer services for subscribers and consumers. Therefore, from next year to every service provider in Hungary, the period of switching the different menu items up to a quarter of an hour or longer will end without a quick and meaningful assessment of our complaint. Therefore, if a consumer, a customer will be consciously looking for the service provider in a specific complaint case, he can immediately choose the linking of the manager without running through the menu bar, without selecting sub-menu items. I think that this will save people a lot of time and save them a lot of annoyance, and I think that we will give companies a fair transition time. From the beginning of spring, all service providers must switch to this system. Ladies and gentlemen, I would just like to point out briefly that we have now been able to bring the previously very annoying, over five minutes of administration within the five-minute period. Another important rule will be that we will look at the assessment of this type of complaint from the official side. [[12.10]] I think that, in line with previous government steps, we can find an effective solution to the problem that Mr President has just raised. Thank you very much for your patience. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-11-28-38	Ladies and gentlemen, Nándor Gúr, a representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Minister of National Economy a question: Why does the government increase the tax burden on non-wage benefits? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2016-11-28-39	Thank you very much, Mr. President. In an infringement procedure, the unsuccessful Hungary practically attacked a case that should not have been attacked, i.e. the cafeteria system. Practically within the cafeteria, in connection with the introduction of the Erzsébet voucher and the SZÉP card, the establishment of the monopoly position was all in question. Yet the government attacked the cafeteria system itself. If you think about it, the Erzsébet voucher has been used to combine voluntary pension or health insurance funds with a higher tax burden, through work catering, through the multitude of local rentals, from school start-up support, and I could also take the two most important examples. Practically from the beginning of 2017, there are only two areas: the SZÉP card and the central payment of HUF 100,000, where the rate of reduced taxation remains. In addition, the size and size of this is 450 in the competition sector and 200 thousand in the public sector. So the system of self-care is damaged, or I can also say calmly that it is falling back, in a sense it is going away. My questions are very simple. Why are workers getting worse in the cafeteria in terms of increasing the tax burden on benefits? Why have either voluntary pension fund contributions or employer's contributions from the health fund been taken out of the favourable tax category? Why are they punishing self - care with higher tax burdens? Mr. President, thank you very much.
u2016-11-28-40	I give Mr András Tállai the possibility of rejoinder.
u2016-11-28-41	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, I believe that the Fidesz-KDNP government has nothing to be ashamed of in terms of increasing employee incomes, since, on the one hand, the tax burden on labour incomes has decreased and, on the other hand, I think it is accepted that real income has increased significantly in recent years. However, workers' savings and self-care have also increased substantially. It is very important that the minimum wage has increased significantly. [[Nándor Gúr: Cafetria!]] At the same time, state career systems have been launched, and the level of income generated in the real economy has also increased significantly, not to mention the six-year agreement concluded last week between the employees, employers' side and the government, which will significantly increase the overall real income for workers. It is true that the cafeteria system has been transformed, but this is not detrimental to the workers. The reason for this transformation was not the government, but the European Union, who basically abolished the Erzsébet voucher, abolished it in Hungary. The conversion of cafeteria is beneficial for workers, as it allows workers to receive a significant part of the cafeteria benefit in cash in the future with the same tax burden. What you are referring to, self-care remains within the cafeteria system, and, in particular, for employees, the 20% personal income tax allowance remains in respect of the voluntary cash account, the pension savings account or the amount paid in favour of pension insurance. We believe that changing cafeteria rules will not reduce worker self-care. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-11-28-42	Dear Parliament, Lajos Kepli, representative of Jobbik, would you like to ask the Minister of Agriculture:. 80 percent of the Balaton vineyards could disappear? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2016-11-28-43	Thank you very much. Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, We know that viticulture and winery are roughly the same age as state-founding activity in the Carpathian Basin. Of course, the country has several significant bovidities, but the Balaton Highlands, if not the most important, are perhaps the most dear to my heart. That is why I am concerned when I read in the online diary of a local winemaker that within 5-10 years, up to 80 percent of the vineyards in Balaton may disappear. After all, the professional believes that the plantations are getting old and that young people are not interested in continuing these traditions only as long as they can benefit from EU subsidies and that many of their lands are being converted into construction sites. Of course, these vineyards are on very valuable Balaton properties. Financially, it is less and less worth the tradition to continue and renew vineyards. I experience this with my own eyes, more and more aged, uncared vineyards in the Balaton Uplands. Many go abroad, but more and more people who stay at home also stop doing so. There are other problems that threaten the vineyards. In Balatonfüred, for example, construction and demolition waste from construction activities is appearing in more and more places in the area of vineyards, which endanger the vineyards in other ways, the areas still existing. In this case, I have made several notifications, reports to the authorities and to the police, without any results for now, as it seems that the municipality is at least tacitly assisting in this. So, there are problems with the winery and winery in the Balaton Uplands, and we want these good grapes and wines to remain in the years to come. I would like to ask the government what it will do for this, what it will do for this, and whether it will allow these vineyards to become an annihilation, or if it will take real measures to continue the tradition of the winery in the Balaton Highlands. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-11-28-44	I give the floor to Secretary of State István Nagy in return.
u2016-11-28-45	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear fellow Member, Instead of relying on the statements of some or all of the winemakers in the press, I suggest that we look at the situation of the future of the Balaton vineyards on the basis of the facts and by asking for the opinion of many more winemakers in Balaton. In the last six years, about a fifth of the wine-growing area of the six wine-growing regions of the Balaton wine region, 1860 hectares were renewed by farmers using EU funds. In particular, installation has grown over the past four years. Between 2011 and 2014, winemakers in the wine region received more than 214 million HUF for cellar modernisation. It is important to note that the protection of Balaton grapes is effectively protected by several laws. Under the strict regulations of the Balaton Act, it is only possible to build in areas classified as wine grape-growing cadastrals if the land is used with grapes at least 80% of the land. Building permits can only be granted for buildings related to vine cultivation and wine tourism services. The recent amendment of the wine law is also a protection, since the owners of non-cultivated plantations have 30 days from the date of the request to set up and cultivate their plantations. This is also important because it is precisely the region that is effectively exposed to the danger of being affected by the yellowing disease of the grapes, and this could damage the vineyards of the whole region, and it would actually be a great damage if we could not do so. It is necessary to encourage the owner of any vineyard that neglects to provide adequate protection for the grapes, because this is the best prevention and that we can protect well-groomed and cultivated vineyards. I could say that this is the guarantee that Hungarian vineyards can be protected in the future. I believe you have a sense of responsibility in these owners. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] and we will be able to provide adequate protection for the other vineyards. Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-11-28-46	Ladies and gentlemen, Mátyás Firtl, representative of KDNP, wants to ask the Minister for National Development: What can consumer protection do for the peace of the holidays? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman. [[12.20]]
u2016-11-28-47	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, At the end of the year, the domestic retail trade is preparing for a serious start, and the growth in product turnover has been uninterrupted for more than four years, and its pace has been higher than the EU average according to the latest data. December is traditionally the strongest month in this regard, but wage increases during the year can now make a particularly big difference in traffic recovery. The National Trade Association calculates that the total retail turnover in December may exceed HUF 1000 billion. However, several purchases pose several risks, a number of threats for consumers, and December is also the main season of abuse and trade omissions. Internet stores reach an increasing audience; customers do not even have as much routine as they do in enforcing their legitimate interests towards traditional shops in the effective handling of complaints. A failed choice, broken from the box, a wrongful gift can spoil the most loving holiday atmosphere. It is therefore worth taking every opportunity to draw the attention of consumers to prudent purchases, to raise awareness of the opportunities provided by the legislation to correct a misguided decision. This December can also be an important and serious test for the development portfolio, because the Ministry will take over the tasks of the National Consumer Protection Authority next year as a result of a unified and efficiency-enhancing transformation of the public organisation system. Dear Secretary of State, Please help us clarify what legal options customers have during the advent period, what measures the government is planning to make for safer and smoother purchases. I look forward to your reply, Secretary of State. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of Fidesz.]]
u2016-11-28-48	I'm giving Secretary of State Kara Ákos the opportunity to answer.
u2016-11-28-49	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Christmas and the preceding Advent period are especially important for all families, and the holiday preparation is part of the purchase of gifts, of course. In trade, December is the highest period of revenue compared to the other months of the year. Ladies and gentlemen, According to some statistical forecasts, in the coming weeks traffic could reach a turnover of up to HUF 1000 billion, which could be HUF 50 billion more than in the same period of the last year. Customer activity is particularly true for shopping over the Internet. According to all research data, and I think we can see, based on last weekend's traffic, that there will be a significant increase in the amount of money spent on the Internet, an explosion. Honourable Congressman, Because of the Christmas shopping rush, the number of fast, sometimes reckless purchases is also increasing, so it is important for the government to draw attention to consumer rights. Therefore, it is not bad to know, obviously without the need for completeness, but as an example, that the defective durable consumer goods, such as TV, washing machine, can be replaced within three days of the purchase, and, in case of ordering online, the ordered goods can be returned within 14 days even if it is not defective. Because of the explosive growth in internet commerce, the government therefore pays particular attention to the players in the online e-commerce market and provides legal protection to guarantee that the customer gets what he wanted for his money. Ladies and gentlemen, In the coming weeks, we will be able to vote in Parliament on the possibility of making the relationship between the trader and the consumer, the buyer, more and more appropriate in terms of e-commerce, and moving this area towards fair trade. Thank you very much for your patience. [[Applause in the ranks of Fidesz.]]
u2016-11-28-50	Ladies and gentlemen, Sallai R. Benedek, representative of the LMP, wishes to ask the Minister of Agriculture:. Responsible or powerless, Minister, that the National Environmental Reduction Programme is barely moving forward, and thus endangers the health of tens of thousands of people and the drinking water every day? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2016-11-28-51	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, Basically, we see Hungary swimming in filth, symbolically, in reality and now I wanted to talk about the latter, because my colleague Ákos Hadházy pointed out the problems of communal waste disposal systems [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Say it faster! Faster!]] , the problems of sewage treatment systems are well known and I would like to point out in particular the remaining impurities from industrial and other economic activities. Scenty road, Balmazújváros, Kiskunhalas, Gyömrő, these are only recent cases that have drawn attention to the fact that, since the creation of the national environmental remediation programme, it may be in the worst position, since its implementation and implementation seem to be of little significance to the government. In 1996, the programme with the Government Decision and before 1995 the annual programme environmental law and Act I of 1997, adopted by the Parliament without a vote against, created the possibility for the governments of all ages to devote substantial resources to the exploration of impurities left in the geological environment, soil and groundwater. Previously, this was a very successful story. In the case of Üröm-Csókavár, the defence has also taken substantial action in the past, and also in the case of Metallochemia there has been substantial use of resources in this case, but this is not the case now. As explained in the 2015 discharge law, last year a report was prepared for the government on the areas involved in the elimination of the environmental damage left behind and the remedial tasks, and the FM prepared a package of government measures needed to carry out the tasks of the national remediation programme. What happened to these documents? We can't find them published. What measures have been taken, where are the resources to be implemented in this matter? What happened to the commitment in the fourth renewal of the national environmental programme to implement a highly sensitive groundwater protection by the end of 2015? Where is this state at the moment, I'd like an answer to that. Thank you for the floor, Mr President.
u2016-11-28-52	I give the floor to Secretary of State István Nagy.
u2016-11-28-53	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, My dear fellow Member, It is true that decades of intensive socialist industrialisation and irresponsible waste disposal practices carried out in the last century have left thousands of contaminated areas with environmental problems for the present time. Today we have reached the point of having to intervene, because it will not tolerate any further delay, and it may even leave a task for our grandchildren to deal with the damage. At the same time, the question put forward contradicts the stubborn facts. In recent years, the national budget has doubled, which exceeded HUF 20 billion last year. This should be done not in the budget line of the Ministry of Agriculture, but in the lines ensuring the operational functions of the co-wallets under the responsibility of the government. In addition to budgetary resources, the government allocated HUF 25.9 billion in priority 3 of the Environment and Energy Efficiency Operational Programme in the 2014-2020 EU cycle to the public responsibility for remedial tasks, which could be received by public trustees. In addition, more than HUF 22 billion is available to municipalities for the rehabilitation of brownfield areas in priority 2 of the operational programme for territorial and urban development. In mid-November, at a national professional conference, co-wallets reported on the tasks of sub-programmes carried out under State responsibility, results, and experts reported on their latest research and development results. In the press release of the conference, we also pointed out that over the last twenty years more than 580 state-owned measures were implemented in the order of HUF 232 billion. To this end, it is also necessary to add the number of interventions carried out under the national environmental remediation programme in the financing of businesses' own funds. With regard to the documents raised in your question, I would like to inform you that last year's report was adopted by the Government. A technical proposal for a package of proposals on government measures to implement the national environmental remediation programme has been prepared and proposed in the Government's first half of 2017 legislative plan. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-11-28-54	Dear Parliament, János Pócs, representative of Fidesz, wishes to ask the Foreign Minister of Foreign Affairs and Trade a question. It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Two minutes to answer.]]
u2016-11-28-55	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, A few days ago, Thyssenkrupp's Jászfényszaru investment arrived at a symbolic milestone. The new-fuel facility has reached its highest point, and we have held the appropriate bouquet celebration for this occasion. This is a great success for Jászság, and it is also a success for the country that another international company has decided to expand here, to implement its development here, to invest in 30 billion worth of investment, to create new jobs and to pay taxes here. The new plant will play an important role in the production of smart government systems developed by the engineering team of the company's headquarters in Budapest. [[12.30]] In the Hungarian factory they will produce products representing the world's technological edge. Meanwhile, Jobbik of Jász-Nagykun-Szolnok County is constantly attacking the largest local employers by using non-domestic workers, trying to coordinate public opinion against companies and governments. The reality is, however, that only 2 percent of the around 25,000 jobs provided by companies operating in Jászság are occupied by migrant workers. At the same time, the region's turnover exceeds the pre-crisis level of more than HUF 40 billion. Ladies and gentlemen, In 2010, the government announced a programme to create 1 million jobs in 10 years. Since then, there has been a consistent policy of action, thanks to which employment is continuously improving in Jászság, unemployment has been replaced by dumping of jobs. In any case, these facts do not appear to be the organization of national and county Jobbik. If it were up to them - we must see it now - they would certainly make it impossible and drive away companies that are now helping the region to rise. Their principles: what is not Hungarian is a foreigner must go. We can say that Jobbik, with this attitude in Jászság, is fighting against the jobs of Hungarian people, against the livelihood of Hungarian people, and in this fight there would probably also be a by-product of a team of Hungarian engineers producing world-class developments. I ask the Honourable Secretary of State: how does the government support job creation? What part of the government's job creation measures is that ThyssenKrupp chose Hungary as its development site? Secretary of State, I look forward to your reply. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-11-28-56	I give the floor to Secretary of State István Arrowmaker.
u2016-11-28-57	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Since 2010, the government has done everything in its power to allow investors to meet an appropriate, ideal business environment in Hungary. This condition is facilitated by the simplified tax system, the flexible labour law, the reorganisation of higher education and the introduction of dual vocational training on a German sample. The effectiveness of the government's six-year economic policy speaks for itself. Since 2010, 680,000 new jobs have been created, two thirds of them, 460 thousand in the competition sector. Not as many people have worked in Hungary since the change of regime, that is, in 26 years. As a result, our country today has the fifth lowest unemployment rate in Europe. Continued tax and public burden reduction, cutting red tape, thus improving competitiveness, is at the heart of our economic policy. This is accompanied by a reduction in corporate tax and employer's contributions. The Hungarian economy has reached another milestone. The government can both improve competitiveness and increase wages. The reduction of corporate tax to 9 percent will enable the pace of investment to be accelerated, and the decreasing public burdens of companies will help to strengthen Hungary's competitiveness. Thanks to these measures, the country will become the country with the most favourable investment environment in Europe. The successes of the coming period now depend on the success of establishing an appropriate partnership with companies representing the new era of economic development, digitalisation, electromobility and automation. The presence of ThyssenKrupp, a large German automotive company in Hungary, confirms our progress so far, with which we signed the 72nd Strategic Partnership Agreement on 25 November 2016. ThyssenKrupp is one of the leading automotive suppliers of materials and parts worldwide and receives significant orders. [[Interventions in the ranks of opposition parties: Time! Time's up!]] Our country plays a prominent role in the development of these products in the Budapest competence centre of the company. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] The Jászfényszaru investment is therefore a very important investment supported by the Hungarian government by HUF 10.6 billion. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-11-28-58	Dear Parliament, Zoltán Gőgös, representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Minister of the Prime Minister's Office a question: It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2016-11-28-59	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Minister, It would also be worth a mass how the state, beyond its own laws, would shape an eight thousand-acre sample farm, but after protesting to protect the jobs in the field, we have achieved this by creating a state company, so I think it would not be elegant to argue about it here, perhaps on a different color. In any case, they will see that I hope that their agricultural policy has gone bankrupt, because they cannot keep or create new jobs with it. You could also say that they had come to their senses when they took back the mistake I thought of hiring, but I don't think that's what happened. Among other things, the following persons, the legal expert at the Prime Minister's Office, who lives 260 kilometres away, or Simonka, on paper in a local rubble, but his relatives living abroad, cousins at the address of the church in Battonya, the local Fidesz president, who is not a farmer, but a postman, are all receiving huge compensation for their non-existent damage. I can only think of one thing: those involved paid the tip to the godfather in advance, and after losing millions of EU funds, they submitted the bill. Mr. Secretary. You seem to be a more serious man than to assist in such a scoundrelry. Give me a sane answer: why waste taxpayers' money? Don't you think it'd be cheaper and it'd be better for everyone if the local mob were liquidated and white collar criminals were put in jail? Thank you very much.
u2016-11-28-60	I give the floor to Minister János Lázár.
u2016-11-28-61	Mr President, Dear fellow Member, First of all, I would like to thank you for your question, and I would like to inform you that this new model economy has started to be organised, and that, first, it is the structure and framework of the new Ménes estate bought back from the current Ménes and the Hungarian state on 1 January. I would also like to thank you for your support for this and the Group of the Hungarian Socialist Party. The compensation is provided for in the Mezőhegyes Act. In 2014, there were those who won a lease agreement and, in the possession of the lease agreement, they had the right to take possession after 31 December 2016, after the expiry of the land lease contracts. I also suggested to Parliament and the Government that everyone should be treated fairly, account for the person who quits the land lease on 31 December and buys the company - we bought this agricultural business for some HUF 2.1 billion - and account for those who were encouraged as Hungarian executives to receive land lease rights for long-term years there, so the National Assembly decided on a flat-rate compensation of HUF 150,000 per month, which is otherwise taxable, so that the tax imposed by the Hungarian State in the VAT law will come off, which will be returned to the Hungarian State. I think it was necessary to create a clear situation as soon as possible. The decision taken earlier was changed by the government, partly by the municipality, by the people living there, by the joint action of the parliamentary parties, by the government changing its position and starting the organisation of a new model economy. I would like it to be fair, fair accounting, we could start working together in an orderly manner, and this model economy would be the best agricultural business in Europe, and Hungarian agriculture is a business in which we can show what Hungarian agriculture means by the 21st century. In the century. Thank you very much for your support. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-11-28-62	Ladies and gentlemen, Editor Sebestyén, representative of Jobbik, would you like to ask the Minister of Human Resources, who will pay the bill? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2016-11-28-63	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, In the debate on the amendment of the social law, when we discussed the introduction of parenting, there was a problem, to which even the competent secretary of state or pro-government representatives said that it should be considered; of course, not the concerns raised by me about the institution of parenting. Because we know that it is not quite healthy that, in many cases, the court or an institution is involved in the conflict of two people as a third party, and it is clear that as far as possible, the state would like to withdraw financially from some social benefits. I, too, am a fan of traditional values and traditional family models, but unfortunately, with the development of civilization, many elements of this have become obsolete. I could compare this to the fact that the government would use law to make women not work, but to raise households and children, as they did 100 to 150 years ago. In the explanatory statement and during the debate, it was often said that it is our moral duty to provide for our ancestors. It did not occur to me that we have a more serious and meaningful task to provide for our children. In my speech, I suggested that on this basis perhaps this obligation should be dealt with more strongly and that it should be violated, since the logic of the law requires the parent to care for the minor child. Perhaps it would be more morally sound and fairer if, for the first time, the costs of providing temporary or permanent care for children from families who are at risk would be burdened by the state on the parents who are at risk. [[12.40]] Mr. Secretary, do you agree with your fellow State Secretary, Mr. Károly Czibere, on the legality of my claim? If so, will action be taken to this end? I'm looking forward to your reply. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2016-11-28-64	I give the floor to Secretary Bence Rétvári.
u2016-11-28-65	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, I think we all agree that every parent has the right and duty to care for his child, even if he chooses the principles of his education, and every child has an obligation to help his own parents if he has his own wealth, even if he has a surplus, and his parents suffer deprivation. I think it's a mutual obligation for both the child and the parent, because of the blood bond. Our current legislation describes in relative detail what parents need to do for their children. This is not the case, since there has been a clause in the Fundamental Law in the last five years, which is an amendment of the Ptk., and now another amendment of legislation is trying to approach from an everyday, practical point of view and provide the possibilities of enforceability. At the same time, if I look at the other direction, the child will be able to use the parent's fees, if not the parent's direct care, until he is 20 years old. And I'm not talking about separated parents, I'm talking about a parent temporarily failing to raise a child. In this case, you will receive temporary care in the framework of basic child welfare care, and the parent will have to pay a fee for the care you receive. In the longer term, if the child is in special care for children, the parent will have to pay a care fee here. So these legal institutions exist, and parents have to follow the child. After the child becomes an adult, this can be maintained if the child is receiving post-care care. This is important for the parent to always feel that he needs to care for his child, and even if he doesn't do it directly, the state will help him, and the majority of the costs will be borne by the state, even in addition to his own social and income conditions, but also in part, in the measure of his own keeping, but he is obliged to provide for his child. Thank you very much.
u2016-11-28-66	Dear Parliament, István Ikotity, a representative of the LMP, wishes to ask the Minister of Human Resources:. What will his problems be with Eötvös József College? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2016-11-28-67	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, Minister Zoltán Balog confirmed the news at the Cultural Committee meeting last Thursday that the Baja is about to be transformed by József Eötvös College. Half of the college, the technical institutions, i.e. water training, is separated from the institution, are absorbed by the National Public Service University, which is growing like a baby ball. The dismemberment of the college is a loss to the city, we believe that it would be in the interest of citizens of Baja to ensure the independence of the college, to increase its room for manoeuvre, not to transfer existing training to another university, but, on the contrary, to provide new trainings would also be in Baja's interest. We believe that strengthening higher education in rural areas is a key to successful rural development, and a higher education institution is also the region's intellectual, cultural and economic centre, creating jobs and working with businesses. According to LMP, the government should not weaken but strengthen rural colleges and support their development. So we do not understand the purpose of dismemberment. Minister Zoltán Balog referred last Thursday to the fact that certain colleges, including their problems, had accumulated a huge PPP debt that would have justified their immediate closure in 2010. I don't understand the connection - after six years of governance, do they realize now that institutions need to be dismembered because of accumulated PPP debts? So you wanted to close these institutions in the first place? Moreover, by the end of 2014, the debt was essentially lost in college, and I quote. This is the joint announcement of Mr Róbert Zsigó, who is not currently in the Chamber, by Fidesz MEP and Mayor Róbert Fercsák Fidesz, who was born last week. Someone's not telling the truth here. Please, Mr. Secretary, do justice. Either Zoltán Balog wasn't telling the truth, or that's not what Róbert Zsigó is doing. Please do justice, Mr. Secretary.
u2016-11-28-68	I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári to bring justice.
u2016-11-28-69	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Fortunately, justice does not have to be done between the two statements, since there is no contradiction between them. You, on the other hand, seem to have started at one time in Bajan, and the candidate who has not voted there is trying to create some sort of trouble around himself, and you don't care that you're otherwise creating some kind of doubt or panic in a stable college. Honourable Congressman, Thank God, there's no reason to doubt, no reason to panic, no reason to stay in college, no reason to stay on its own, no need to be stable, and the training will continue in Baja. I am glad that you at least read last week's statement to the Mayor and the Member, and it was also clear that the state has acted in recent years whenever the college is in a serious financial situation because of PPP investment, and if I only look at the last few years, in 2013 you have received HUF 916 million precisely to make it work, as an additional source of debt consolidation and restructuring of the structure. Then in 2014 the institution received another HUF 789 million to make it work. Then it continued: in 2015 it received 238 million forints. In addition to this development aid, the State took over the maintenance and operating costs of the training school. That's how much less the college got out, so he managed to keep up. The pedagogical training was an important home centre, there is and will be a college in trouble, so they will remain in Baja. As well as technical training. The NKE, which undertakes to continue some of the training courses, also carries out a number of other projects in Baja. We hope that this development will also please your troubles. And there are empty buildings that are not full of students now, we trust that the contribution of the NKE will also help these buildings to be filled with students again, at least in part. So, honourable Member, don't start a rumor, don't try to make your troubles embedded by 2018. There are other areas where you may be able to help your troubles, but you don't have to, because fortunately, as I said, your Bajas Eötvös József College will remain independent and stable. [[István Ikotity: You take half of it.]] Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2016-11-28-70	Ladies and gentlemen, Árpád Velez, representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Minister for National Development:.A. 81. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2016-11-28-71	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, I could start by saying that the situation is unchanged, and I have already asked why the section of road 81 called the Death Route between Székesfehérvár-Győr cannot be built twice on two lanes. My amendment to the 2017 budget, which would at least have provided funding for the start of the planning work, was not supported by the pro-government majority of the parliamentary committee. Since then, there have been more fatal accidents on the road, 12 people lost their lives here since 2012. My question is exactly: how many more people will have to die until at least the plan of the journey begins? If European Union funds cannot be used for this - as we learned from Chancellor János Lázár in May - then we would ask for a small portion of the positive economic results you have said to regroup it; what is the obstacle to that? I look forward to your reply. Thank you very much.
u2016-11-28-72	I give the floor to Secretary of State László Tasó.
u2016-11-28-73	Dear Parliament, Dear fellow Member, I'm sorry I'm backwards, and I'm going to answer your question. I would like to start by saying that in June this year, the Hungarian Government adopted a development programme that sets out the construction, capacity building and development of roads by 2022. The content of this list can be expanded, the content of this list is reviewed every quarter by the Hungarian government. With regard to road 81, it has never been said that the government or us in the Ministry would not consider it important to renovate and develop it, but I would like to say that we have been able to renovate road 81 for about 30 kilometres over the last two years, and in the following year there are 10 kilometres in the programme that will be implemented under the complex renovation programme. So we've renovated 30 kilometers and we're gonna renovate 10 next year. Of course, it would be good to expand capacity in the coming years, and it is not impossible to do so. However, it must be borne in mind that the Hungarian government has committed HUF 1279 billion from the Hungarian budget to road development only. This is a huge amount of money, because we know very well that EU funds - because this is not a TEN-T network - can only develop those for which there is a special opportunity. Here we can take action from domestic sources, but this is really a matter of budget. We hope that the momentum that we now have will continue, that the economy will be able to grow further, and with the help of the Hungarian people, together with the improvement of the performance of the Hungarian people, roads will be included in the new programme, with an important role in the region, such as road 81. [[12.50]] So we clearly agree with the development. We want to build and develop it as soon as possible, and next year we'll renew 10 kilometers of it. So be patient and hopeful, we hope you will be included in the program in the coming years. Thank you very much for your attention. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-11-28-74	Ladies and gentlemen, Tibor Bana, representative of Jobbik, wishes to ask the Minister of Human Resources:. Will there be another obstetric gynecology and active internal medicine in Körmend? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2016-11-28-75	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, In 2012, the previous Orbán government abolished obstetric gynecology and active internal medicine in my home town, Körmenden, with a single stroke of pen, referring to a change of function and efficiency. Despite all the efforts of the pro-government propaganda machine, people in Vas County face the fact that health care is in ruins every day. I thought that the best way to get a real and comprehensive picture of health care is to personally verify the conditions in hospitals, the daily lives of patients and those working in health care. This is how we spent three days with my fellow Hungarian Zoltán in the Gyula Nyírő Hospital in Budapest. I was aware that the conditions in Hungarian health care were blasphemous, but my impressions of volunteering made me sadder. It is regrettable that the pro-government representatives do not visit these institutions for a maximum of protocolary events. Meanwhile, they talk about unprecedented improvements in health care, but reality shows otherwise. Four years ago, Jobbik protested with all possible means against redundancies: in addition to my speeches in Parliament, we organised protests and collected signatures for the hospital in Körmend. The people who lived in the region then and at the time of our last collection of signatures were almost unanimous about the institution, but the government ignored their opinion. The investments announced with the big show-off did not go as promised, as they kept pushing the deadline. In connection with the renovations that have now been completed in Körmend, Fidesz politicians have promised to restore active internal medicine, but this remains in question. However, on the basis of my professional discussions and feedback, I can also say clearly that, contrary to what the pro-government politicians have said, obstetrics and gynecology are also needed in the region. Dear Secretary of State, I want concrete and clear answers to my questions. Will the terminated classes be restored to Körmend? Is there anything you can do to improve the health situation in our county, or is it still the investments similar to the small railway on the road and putting friends in the position of the government that are the most important? I look forward to your substantive answer. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-11-28-76	I give the floor to Secretary Bence Rétvári.
u2016-11-28-77	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, It is not the first time that you have talked about this, so you know exactly what the regulations required by the legislative and professional college are, which influence the functioning of these institutions. This year, the government spends half a percent of GDP more on health care, health care than in the previous year, precisely because we want patients to be able to heal in the best possible and safe conditions in Körmenden and elsewhere. As I have said, half of GDP is already an extra resource that can be measured at national level, which is available to health care. You know, Mr President, that obstetrics and gynecology will also start again in Körmend as soon as the annual birth rate reaches the minimum level at which children can safely be delivered when there is sufficient routine and experience to resolve complications. That's 500 births a year, so one or two births a day, but more like a birth. On the other hand, Körmenden is not ten percent less than this, but half of it is not born. If the birth rate is below this minimum level, which is currently 250, so it is significantly below the 500, it cannot be guaranteed that children will be delivered with complete safety. Nevertheless, there is a lot of development going on in Körmend, which you forgot to say, of course, for a billion and a half forints. Thus, the integration of walking and in-patient care is achieved, so the related professions are created in one place, and healing and treatment are possible in one place. The central building will be completely renovated, as part of which the O.R. will be modified; a new one-day surgical operating room will be created, new modern machines will be introduced, diagnostic machines, therapeutic machines, surgical background. This autumn, 25 specialized clinics offer outpatient care, medical gymnastics, psychotherapy, dermatological, pulmonary and psychiatric care, and two European Union-funded, 64 and 33 million forints of development is just ending. I trust that this will also serve the health of the people of Körmen. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-11-28-78	Ladies and gentlemen, I give the chair to Vice-President János Latorcai. [[Dr. János Latorcai, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]]
u2016-11-28-79	Welcome, fellow Members. Dear Parliament, Erzsébet Schmuck, representative of the LMP, would like to ask the Prime Minister a question:.. How did Viktor Orbán calculate the 1.6 percent pension increase? It's an address. The question will be answered on behalf of Minister Zoltán Balog, who is competent and competent on behalf of the Prime Minister, by Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Ms. Erzsébet Schmuck, the leader of the group, has the floor. Here you go.
u2016-11-28-80	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Last week Prime Minister announced that pensions will be increased by 1.6 percent in 2017 instead of 0.9 percent. This figure hangs in the air because there is no way to know how it came out, because the expected inflation is 2.3 percent according to the MNB. They promise to raise pensions retroactively at the end of the year. Why only then? Today, half of the pensioners, or nearly 1 million people, have a pension of less than 100,000 forints a month. The government isn't telling the truth when it talks about keeping pensions. Retirementers feel that the increase in pension rates after inflation is not a value-holder, as they encounter higher prices. From January, according to the bakers, the price of bread increases by 30 percent. It is also unacceptable that inflation is not calculated with the pension basket, so it is not based on the price increase of the products that pensioners buy, but on a general basket that lacks, for example, medicines. Thus, the current law means not only the preservation of pensions but also the freezing or even the reduction of pensions. To this end, pensions are not even being respected and pensions are not being increased to an extent consistent with inflation. This is not surprising, because we need the money to support their own moonyard. On pensioners, hundreds of billions were saved by abolishing the real wage index. Mr. Secretary. How did this 1.6 percent come out? Why don't they raise pensions by double, or 3.2 percent? By the way, it would not be enough for a decent living for pensioners.
u2016-11-28-81	Thank you very much, Madam Group leader. We will hear the answer from Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2016-11-28-82	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and Gentlemen, Dear House, The government not only talks about preserving the value of pensions, but also acts. In the last year, you pretended that pensions increased by 8.4 percent between 2011 and 2015 compared to the retired consumer basket you mentioned. This was possible because, as a result of the government's economic policy, inflation, the deterioration of money, neither the value of wages nor the value of savings nor the value of pensions disappeared. For this reason, pension increases due to earlier higher inflation rates remained with pensioners, they now receive more than in 2010 with a one-month allowance, while their expenditure did not increase or even decrease in some cases, in terms of pharmaceutical expenditures, may have decreased in terms of overhead payments, as the reduction of the rent was able to save the gas, electricity, water or chimney sweep charges, which are quite significant in their consumer basket, and is more secure for all pensioners. What needs to be done, or what can be done with regard to pensions, after the large increase in wages, we trust, in the coming months, is likely to be decided when we see clearly that the high wage rise wave that the government has started in the public sector in the previous years, and now we hope, as a result of the reduction in labour taxes next year, that a similar increase in income will occur in the economic sphere, and then we can see the potential for further increases in pensions. But what we promised, we kept the value of pensions, and in addition, the value of them increased by 8.4 percent. I believe that, after what the socialists did with pensions, when they took away a month's pension from all the elderly, there was not one, but more progress. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[13.00]]
u2016-11-28-83	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, Congressman Imre Horváth, a representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Minister for National Development:. Never will the M3 metro be built again? It's an address. Congressman Imre Horváth has the floor. Here you go.
u2016-11-28-84	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, The northern Újpest-Centre section of the M3 metro was completed in 1990 and is intended as a temporary terminal. Like so much in our country, this temporary condition has been going on for over a quarter of a century. Although the updated plans were further stimulated in 2008 at the initiative of the then Újpest municipality, no progress has been made since then. As an election promise in 2014, pro-government politicians provided numerous guarantees to both the inhabitants of Újpest and the people of Kápászmegyer about the start-up investment. However, after autumn 2014, all of this quickly died. Annex IV is amended as follows: For the residents of the district, it seems increasingly that the government treats the country's most important transport infrastructure as step-halls, without prejudice to the delay of the renovation in the tragicomedia. We can see that the situation is serious again, that the government is no longer considering the plan for the extension. This only affects about 100,000 people in the district, not including the other tens of thousands from the agglomeration, who often use the streets of Újpest as a parking lot. In view of the importance of the situation of more than 100,000 people who can be served by the M3 metro, I ask you to answer the following. What is the government's position on the extension of metro line M3 to the north? Is there any preparatory and planning phase currently underway? If so, with what deadlines and resource requirements? In your view, when will the investment start in the future be realistic? I look forward to your reply. [[A rare applause in the ranks of the MSZP.]]
u2016-11-28-85	Thank you very much, Congressman. I now give the floor to Secretary of State László Tasó, who will give the answer to the question. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2016-11-28-86	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear fellow Member, Thank you for your question, and I would also like to inform you that for the reconstruction of Metro line M3, a study was carried out in 2015 which looked at the possibility of extending the metro line north and south. It has been found that we can and can find EU funds for the northern extension of the line, because its economic and social benefits are justified and this makes it absolutely accessible. In the study, the total gross investment demand for the version was calculated at HUF 63 billion, so it is a significant amount, and the start was done by February 2022, with the end of November 2024. Our point of view is naturally that, first of all, we need to renovate the existing lines, because this renovation has been waiting for a long time. The works of the middle station section were completed in 1976, and the last part we are talking about was handed over in 1990, and of course the most important thing is that this renovation should take place as soon as possible. The Hungarian government provides sufficient support for the Metropolitan Municipality, since the Metropolitan Municipality is the owner of the area and has the opportunity to take action in this regard. It is absolutely certain that the Hungarian government has always been a partner in solving the traffic problems of the nation's capital, and will always help, as it has already helped to achieve the ambitions. So the point is, we're gonna do the renovation first, the reconstruction's over, and then we're gonna move on. Studies have also provided tangible and meaningful answers to this. Thank you, Mr President, for the floor.
u2016-11-28-87	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Congressman Balázs Ander, representative of Jobbik, wishes to ask the Minister of National Economy:. Why should Fidesz sacrifice Hungarian workers on the altar of capital interests? It's an address. Congressman Ander Balázs has the floor. Here you go.
u2016-11-28-88	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Employees' dissatisfaction greatly affects the unfortunate employee exodus, during which hundreds of thousands of our countrymen have been forced to leave Hungary in recent years to find a job in a foreign country. On the government's side, they're either trying to pin everything on him for the last eight years or they're tying up the weight of the problem in terms of even worse Romanian data. The Jobbik does not excuse the anti-national philosophy of Gyurcsányi, and the death of the Romanian neighbor's cow does not comfort us, so we will also cross our questions to the luxury right. The Fidesz Labour Code has destroyed trade union licenses, and there is no real representation law in Hungary today. Like in a colony or a banana republic, we are concerned that the trade union leaders of the profit sphere cannot be protected from the attacks on employers, and the vulnerability of the workers of smaller or larger companies sometimes quotes the England of the industrial revolution. On the one hand, they are being overworked because of the shortage of labour, but they are exploiting themselves, as they are legally forced to work overtime due to low wages, Mr. Secretary of State. Moreover, judicial practice also favours employers, since corporate interests override everything. You have disarmed the trade unions, because their mere existence does not fit the idea of assembly plants, which, with the promise of cheap and obedient wage slaves, tries to lure the multinationals here, and tries to satisfy their own oligarchs, the large, greedy little balls, those whose profit hunger and work-defeating behaviour also put honest employers at a competitive disadvantage. Why can't you see that there's a need to settle the status of union leaders? Why do you not accept the trade union proposal that the trade union official should be considered as a public authority? Why are Hungarian workers sacrificed on the side of capital interests? By the way, it would be good if the trade unions were also heard on these issues. I'm looking forward to your reply. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-11-28-89	Thank you very much, Congressman. The answer will be heard from Secretary of State Péter Cseresnyés. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2016-11-28-90	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, With regard to the international movement of the labour force, we have repeatedly done so, that it is not related to the topical policy issues, but essentially to the change of system and the accession to the European Union. That's when this movement started, and it's been happening ever since. It is not at all what Mr President is saying that the labour force is leaving Hungary, and therefore employment is falling. If that were the case, then the numbers that have been mentioned several times in the last few years between the walls of this House would not be true. Since the change of regime, so many people have never worked in our country. In the third quarter of 2016, according to KSH, nearly 4.4 million people have already worked, since 2010, it is more than 600 thousand, and it can be said that it represents an increase of nearly 700,000. In particular, economic operators have done and have done a lot since 2013 to increase wages in Hungary. According to KSH data, real wages increased by 24 percent after 2010 by 2016. In recent days, we have concluded a multi-annual agreement with employers' and employees' organisations on a significant increase in the minimum wage and the guaranteed minimum wage in 2017-2018, together with trade unions, as I said. Trade unions are free to lay down their rules and choose their representatives and officials within the legal framework. In order to respect trade union autonomy, the State should therefore refrain from interfering with the functioning of the trade union. On the basis of what has been said, I would also like to reiterate that this is why the State refrains from interfering with the functioning of trade unions, including the regulation of the status of trade union leaders. Trade union representatives can still act legally with sufficient guarantees. The increase in employment proves that it is important for Hungarian workers to retain jobs, where the representation of the interests of workers under the legislation is ensured and the functioning of trade unions is ensured. Thank you very much for your patience, Mr. President. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-11-28-91	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Congresswoman Erzsébet Schmuck, head of the LMP Group, wishes to ask the Minister of National Economy a question: Why are employers' contributions reduced, not their employees? It's an address. The word belongs to Ms. Erzsébet Schmuck. Here you go. [[13.10]]
u2016-11-28-92	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Last week, the government agreed with employers and employees on a 5% reduction in employers' contributions. The reduction in contributions, according to the LMP, has been due for many years, because, on the one hand, the burden on labour is already high [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: The other day, the LMP people wanted to raise their taxes!]] On the other hand, because of the need to bring the burden of workers closer to those living in capital. Today, a worker pays 49 percent tax and contributions on his superbrutto, while the Mészáros Lőrincek, who take out their profits as dividends, only 31 percent profit and dividend tax, and this ratio will change from 46 percent to 22 percent next year. The contributions should also be reduced because the wages can increase, so that poverty and emigration can slow down, but the government is not on the side of the workers, but on the side of the rich, large companies: it will not reduce the employee contribution, which would immediately result in net wage increases for everyone, but will leave its employers to the pleasure of the employers to drip something off of it for the workers. All this is being justified by the fact that the reduction in contributions increases GDP growth, but there is no evidence of this, nor should it be the aim. There's no growth, if it doesn't leak, only the rich and the Fidesz people will share, and the country will be torn apart. Instead, the LMP's tax reduction programme should be modelled, the abolition of the single-key tax on the poor, the tax-free minimum wage and the increase of the average wage by 22.5 percent. This would indeed be in the interests of the country and the workers. Mr. Secretary. Why are employers' contributions reduced and not workers' contributions reduced? I'm looking forward to your reply. [[Sallai R. Benedek applauds.]]
u2016-11-28-93	Thank you very much, Madam Group leader. The answer will be given by Secretary of State András Tállai. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2016-11-28-94	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Mrs. Freckles! First of all, I would like to say that the government's objective is absolutely clear: the aim is to increase people's income. However, in order for real income to be ever higher than it has been in the last three years, and this is a serious government result, there are more ways to go, including reducing the level of personal income tax. The government has done so because it has introduced it, it operates in only a few countries in the European Union, with one-key personal income tax, 16 percent and then 16 percent personal income tax further reduced to 15 percent. In addition, family tax relief has a significant role to play again, which also increases the incomes of families and workers significantly. It is true that it has a social policy goal, namely that families should have children and make it easier for them to have children. I am pleased that he also acknowledged at the beginning of his speech the need to reduce contributions. Then I do not understand why there is a debate between us, because if you and I have the goal of increasing the income of workers as pro-government, and the six-year agreement clearly supports this, then I think that we have achieved our goal. And if you agree that the reduction of contributions will release resources, generate improvements, create jobs or possibly generate an increase in income for each employee, I think we have achieved our goal. What I do not understand is that when you say that you need to increase the level of personal income tax, it is your objective, as far as tax is concerned, to serve it. [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] what the government wants, the growth of people's income. Because it doesn't serve you. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-11-28-95	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, Member István Tukacs, representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Minister of Human Resources: Where is the removal of the GP? It's an address. Congressman István Tukacs has the floor. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-11-28-96	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, I'd like honest answers to my questions. The reason I'm forced to anticipate this is because in our last conversation last week, when I asked why the trauma at the White Colonial Hospital had stopped, you said it couldn't have stopped, because it wasn't. I'll be lucky to send you a photo taken a few days ago, if you give me an address on the wall of the WhiteGyarmat Hospital that you're in the Traumatology Department. So much for honesty, Mr. Secretary. And I would like to ask you about a very serious problem, the general practitioners; about the fact that 250 GP practices are unfilled; about the fact that the GP community is getting dangerously old and approaching retirement, not just so that it can no longer work. I'm asking you, Mr. Secretary, if you don't have a home doctor or a substitute practice to meet the first step towards recovery, how do you feel when you know you're not going to your own home doctor? I'm asking you, Secretary of State, that the gap is getting deeper, some people can't get to recovery because they can't physically get to the possibility of healing. And I'm asking you, Secretary of State, what do you think, in a professional sense, is that without a GP exam, they practice in GP practice, of course, doctors with other exams. I am asking you, Mr Secretary, what are the steps that you are going to take to radically change the situation where the career as a general practitioner is not attractive when the occupation of practices is not attractive at all. Only one person who takes care of it is the patient, because the patient is not the doctor, but the patient. Therefore, Mr Secretary of State, please respond to what is being done to give everyone access to the first stage of healing, to the general practitioner or to the home-child doctor. Thank you for the opportunity, Mr. President.
u2016-11-28-97	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2016-11-28-98	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, I am pleased that the Congressman has honoured the House by saying that this week's question starts from at least real facts, who, because this is a real problem, a real task that many governments should have solved after the change of regime. [[Dr. László Kács: And the last eight years!]] that there are fewer and older general practitioners, but that has not been solved by any government, leaving this government after 2010. On the one hand, we provided additional resources for this, and this year's budget, which you have not voted for, included a surplus of HUF 10 billion for the general practitioners, which is about HUF 130 thousand a month's extra income, which they use for what they consider to be the most useful. If I add up to the previous years, the rise of this year, then it's about 1.5 times the funding for GPs now than it was before. That's one of the reasons I think we can make GP practices more attractive and more attractive. The second is the establishment and practice contest, in which GPs or GP candidates receive HUF 4 million for the purchase of the practice and up to HUF 10 million for the costs of the establishment, which are non-refundable grants. Obviously, the practice contest here can be used for the purchase of practice and the establishment of a general practitioner can be used for anything. This was also a significant sum in previous years, HUF 500 plus HUF 250 million in 2016, which will be further increased next year and HUF 1 billion 250 million will be available for these two applications. In addition, with the title "Infrastructural Development of Basic Health Care" from EFOP sources, HUF 22 billion is available for instrument, machine, IT and other equipment development, and HUF 18 billion is available in the framework of the comprehensive development of our basic care and public health system. What is the result of these programs so far, which would have been good if it had happened ten years earlier: we have completed 63 unfilled practices out of 703 million forints since 2014; we have completed 39 out of 181 million forints since 2015. 112 applications were submitted for this year's two applications, so let's trust that we can support all of them. [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] There will be no financial reason for this. This is active and effective support for more than 200 practices, and we trust that we can continue to do so in the coming years. We're sorry you didn't support them. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-11-28-99	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Congressman Gergely Kulcsár, representative of Jobbik, would like to ask the Minister of Defence: Mr Orbán said that Hungary is at the end of the line in terms of its force - Do you agree with the Prime Minister, Minister? It's an address. The Secretary of State will answer on behalf of the Minister. Congressman Gergely Kulcsár has the floor. Here you go.
u2016-11-28-100	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Last week, during a general debate, I already touched on this issue, and then I was not really given a meaningful answer, so I would like to try again. Recently Prime Minister Viktor Orbán gave an interview to Catholic Radio, in which he spoke extremely negatively about the state of our army. He said, and I quote, our neighbors are taking serious arms, re-arming, I could say. Hungary is at the end of the line. It is not good to be at the end of the line, a serious country has its own army, which is not a mandatory task to be checked out, but a serious actual force. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. On this basis, we can say that Hungary's Prime Minister believes that our country is the last in the region in terms of force and that we do not have a serious army. [[13.20]] Jobbik has raised its voice many times against the Hungarian defence, which has been a cross-border process from 1990 to today, so both the MSZP and the Fidesz governments have caused significant damage in this area. And after every critical speech we make, you're trying to make people think that Jobbik is trying to take down the military, which means the government. In response to a speech before the previous agenda, in which I spoke less strongly than the Prime Minister in this case, the then Minister for Defence said, I quote: I do not recommend that the military's capabilities and the value of his battles should be so obviously misplaced. Dear Secretary of State, On this basis, I would ask whether you agree with Mr Orbán's speech quoted by me. We really don't have a serious force, and we're at the end of the line? Or perhaps Csaba Hende is right, and the Prime Minister is obviously misusing the military's capabilities and military value? If the situation is really so terrible, why hasn't there been any progress in the development of forces for six years? What do you intend to do for the next year and a half in order to have a serious army for our country? I'm looking forward to your substantive answer. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-11-28-101	Thank you very much, Congressman. The answer will be heard from Secretary of State Tamás Vargha. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2016-11-28-102	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, I would like to reject the contradictions and untruths in your question, but if you have brought this issue to the public of Parliament, then I would like to take the opportunity to say that the socialist governments before 2010 were in two cycles those that have eliminated the key capabilities of the Hungarian Defence Forces, and thus total non-weapon cultures have disappeared, together with professionals, knowledge and technical tools, and indeed no development of forces has taken place at this time. I would also like to say that it took place just during the first Orbán government, in 2002 a large, serious salary development within the Hungarian Defence Office, and in this government cycle one of the most important military technical developments of the past period, the acquisition of the Gripens. And in 2015, within the framework of the career programme, the salary development up to 2019 has started, which adds another 50 percent to the salary of soldiers and continues to increase wage benefits. I would like to inform this House that, thanks to Hungary's economic and budgetary potential, the government is very committed to the development of the force. The defence budget will be increased by 0.1 per cent of GDP per year in the period 2016-2026, thus reaching the 2 per cent required by NATO by the end of the 10-year cycle. We have shown significant results in the past short period, such as the development of salaries, the strengthening of important capabilities due to the changed security conditions, the creation of the Special Purposes Regiment, the Military Police Center, and I could tell you that the government is committed to the development of the Hungarian army, and we always and every time, thank the Hungarian soldiers for their service. Thank you for your kind attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-11-28-103	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, It's 13:23, which brings us to the end of the questioning period. Now we're going to move on to the immediate questioning period. Congressman Zoltán Gőgös, a representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question:. Will you put up with it without saying, Mr Prime Minister, that the mayor of Fideszes Szolnok would abuse old ladies in the subpar style for their community? You're gonna try to save the unsavory by lying all over the place? It's an address. The Prime Minister has appointed Mr János Lázár, Minister of the Prime Minister's Office, to respond to an urgent public task. I respectfully ask the Member whether he accepts the person who is responding, or whether he is personally expecting an answer from the Prime Minister.
u2016-11-28-104	Mr President, we got to know the Minister's opinion last week, and I didn't like it, but I'd rather wait for the Prime Minister. [[A rare applause in the ranks of the MSZP.]]
u2016-11-28-105	Thank you very much, Congressman. I would like to inform the Member and the House that the Prime Minister will have to answer at the hour of the next immediate questions. Dear Parliament, Congressman Gergely Bárándy, representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the President of the Hungarian National Bank an immediate question entitled "Friends, friends and others." Congressman Gergely Bárándy has the floor. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-11-28-106	Thank you for the floor. First of all, I appeal to you, Mr President, that, because of my bad experience so far, after I have asked you, please draw your attention to the fact that Parliamentary Act 42. In accordance with paragraph 2 of Section 2 of this Article, you are obliged to answer my question, i.e. give a meaningful answer to that question. In turn, I would like to tell the respondents that according to the interpreter's dictionary, the meaning of the verb, which has been answered, is the following: it gives the relevant idea, gives the data, fact or opinion that satisfy the question asked orally or in writing. In other words, it is not sufficient to form sentences that seem meaningful by moving your mouth, but must be appropriate to the questions, or commit an infringement. After such a history, I ask you once again whether you paid rent to Mihály Patai, CEO of UniCredit for living in your apartment, or otherwise compensated for this millions of small friendly favor. I note that I have received several indications from residents that at the Balatonkarattya address indicated in the previous reply, although it is a nice house, but no one lives in the way of life, especially you. Before you misunderstand the question, Mr President, as you did the other day, I'd rather go to the old devil than to you, so I don't care what address you live at, I'll settle for just answering my question. On the other hand, I ask you again, do you not take it personally that your lover, with whom you belong, is financed from the central bank foundations? That a yoga instructor, even his mistress, would be paid 600 thousand forints of public money for research in India. [[Lajos Korózs: Shame!]] When a head of the department doesn't get paid for the same thing? - and her mother's booking four MNB foundations for millions of forints a month. And before you run this over by saying that it's a private matter, Mr. President, it's not -- not for two reasons. First of all, I think it's embarrassing for a conservative public figure to find out that he has a lover, although I wouldn't be particularly interested in that. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] It is, however, more so when friends, relatives, lovers, parents of lovers are supported by the president of the MNB with public money. So I look forward to your substantive answer. Thank you very much.
u2016-11-28-107	Ladies and gentlemen of the Council, The part of the question that you would like to leave to my interpretation, I think, does not belong to the question, since the explanatory part can now be waived. With all due respect to the President of the National Bank, I'll give you the floor for two minutes. Here you go, Mr. President.
u2016-11-28-108	Thank you very much. Your Honour, Mr. President. Dear House, Honourable Congressman, What applies to the answer is also the question, in which there were no facts. [[Interviews from the lines of the MSZP, including: Why? What? The president's ringing the bell.]] I would also like to draw your attention to the fact that this question has already been asked at the Parliament plenary session on 2 November 2016 to which I have replied. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: You just didn't answer!]] and your party partner, Dr. László Szakács, asked the same question 27 times and times. [[Zoltán Grimlock: Because you don't answer!]] So what we wrote in response to it is still true. We've made public public information. You're building on untrue information from an unpopular newspaper that's gone. [[Bangóné Borbély Ildikó: Aren't you ashamed?]] He's bombing me and others with different perceived false claims. [[Zoltán Grimlock: What is false?]] You don't have any basis for reality, because if you did, you would have told us. He didn't do that, and neither did your partymate. When I live in my permanent residence and when I don't: well, I'm glad to see you're interested [[Zoltán Grimlock: Forgery of private documents, Mr. President.]] For the affairs of Balatonakartya...
u2016-11-28-109	Your High Representative...
u2016-11-28-110	...thank you very much, citizens of your will, but that is certainly none of your business, nor is it your concern when and where I am staying outside my permanent address. [[Zoltán Grimlock: Only he doesn't live there! What makes you permanent, Mr. President?]] This personal information belongs to me, and I'm not looking into your private calendar, where you are on weekends, by the way. [[Zoltán Grimlock: He wasn't there on the weekend, I was there!]] Or at night and night. I would ask you to read carefully the answers you have so far, and to answer your unsubstantiated questions there. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. Dr. István Józsa: Zero! Moral zero!]]
u2016-11-28-111	Thank you very much. Congressmen Haughty and Józsa, you must submit a question [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: He won't answer!]] And then there's a chance to put it on... [[Dr. István Józsa intervenes.]] Congressman Józsa, I'm warning you. I would like to draw your attention to compliance with the rules of the house, and ask that I do not have to warn you again today, okay? Now it's Congressman Gergely Bárándy's turn. Here you go.
u2016-11-28-112	Thank you very much, Mr. President. It seems that next time I will quote the concept of fact to you, Mr President, from the interpreter dictionary, because you do not understand it. [[Defiance in the ranks of the MSZP.]] [[13.30]] The problem is, he never answers the questions, he still hasn't. Do you understand that question? It's very simple: did you pay rent for Patai? Answer that. Yes or no? Well, Mr President, this answer again does not offend me, but sees voters as air in a cynical and pitiful way, as it violates law many times with such answers. As a matter of fact, here's what I'm going to do, Mr. President. In violation of the law, I'm going to go to the Justice Committee. It's not that I'm hoping for much, but at least posterity will see what you were like back then. Then I will have your answers translated and sent to the President of the ECB and to all EU central bank governors. Well, not to see what kind of man you are, but to give you a chance to make you think better. I am thinking about the criminal report for abuse of office and possible further steps. Thank you very much.
u2016-11-28-113	Thank you very much for your attention. Mr. President is entitled to a rejoinder in one minute. Here you go, Mr. President. You have the floor.
u2016-11-28-114	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Honourable Congressman, We didn't hear the facts again. [[Deterioration in the benches of MSZP.]] You didn't reveal any facts that could be answered in substance. [[Sándor Burány: Questions can be answered.]] Wonder who and why would pay anyone any rent or flat or anything. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: Did you pay rent? The president's ringing several times.]] What if he doesn't live in an apartment or a house or a district or a city? Then why do you think I should? [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: Didn't you live in Patai's apartment? He didn't live there? He didn't live there?]] Why do you think I should? So where are the facts supporting your false claim that you can even ask the question? [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: Mr. President, say you didn't live there?]] You're doing a personal vendetta, private business, public money. [[Deterioration in the benches of MSZP and Jobbik.]] against the President of the National Bank because we are in a lawsuit [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: Say it now! He didn't live there? The president's ringing the bell.]] private, public money, public time. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-11-28-115	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Congressman Bárándy, Your question has been asked. No comment, Congressman. You will clarify that on one of the following questions. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: Only the answer is not. Zoltán Grimlock: Mr President, what is common time?]] Thank you very much. Mr. János Volner, leader of the Jobbik faction, wants to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: why doesn't the government do everything possible to raise the wages of the working Hungarian people? .. Your Honour, Chief of Staff.. The Prime Minister appointed Mr János Lázár, Minister of the Prime Minister's Office, as a response to the urgent public task. I respectfully ask you whether you will accept the person of the responding person or ask the Prime Minister personally for an answer. Here you go, Mr. Group Leader.
u2016-11-28-116	Mr. President, I'd like to wait for the Prime Minister. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2016-11-28-117	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. I would like to inform you and this House that the Prime Minister will have to answer at the hour of the second question. Congressman György Szilágyi, the representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: "Did Fidesz and Viktor Orbán have anything to do with Quaestor's bankruptcy and thus the destruction of tens of thousands of Hungarian families? It's an address. Honourable Congressman, The Prime Minister appointed Mr János Lázár, Minister of the Prime Minister's Office, as a response to the urgent public task. I respectfully ask you whether you accept the person who is responding to the question, or whether you are asking the Prime Minister personally. [[On the sign of György Szilágyi:]] If you accept it, Congressman György Szilágyi will have the floor. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-11-28-118	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Minister, The Quaestor failure, I suppose, has not yet been forgotten, as tens of thousands of Hungarian families have been destroyed by this bankruptcy. As time passes, not only would we see it more clearly in the Quaestor case, but things are getting darker and darker. The last week, we found out more about the Quaestor case. Csaba Tarsoly gave a comment, and in his report film The National 1 Television Explorer, we also learned more details. I would like to draw attention to two important parts of Csaba Tarsoly's statement. One is that he said that Viktor Orbán's statement on the radio contributed greatly to the Quaestor's failure, and this statement then moved the markets. I wonder if Csaba Tarsoly is right. We must say yes, because if the Prime Minister speaks on any issue, it has a weight, it has an impact on society, it has an impact on the economy and market movements, and it has done so. Remember Lajos Kósa, who almost broke down the forint with a statement in 2010. The other thing that Csaba Tarsoly said was that he was promised the right place to save the Quaestor. What is the right place in Hungary today? Orbán is clearly just Viktor, because Viktor either allows something or not, everything works according to that. To do this, Csaba Tarsoly had to do one thing: he had to go to the Deputy Chief Executive Officer of the MNB and uncover the case. I wonder why they didn't save the Quaestor after that. It's probably a hoax. During that time, Fidesz buddies, relatives, the state companies took the money out of Quaestor. Do you have inside information? - was the question until now. Clearly, they had, because you knew long before the bankruptcy that the Quaestor was going to go bankrupt, and it was time to tell friends, relatives. Now it's clear why they didn't sign the statements that they didn't withdraw money from Quaestor because they had something to hide. I have two questions. Don't you feel responsible for Quaestor's bankruptcy? And when will the government, some members of the government, and the Prime Minister respond to your role in Quaestor's tube? That's what I'm waiting for. Thank you. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2016-11-28-119	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Mr János Lázár, Minister of the Prime Minister's Office. Here you go, Minister.
u2016-11-28-120	Your Honour, Mr. President. Dear colleague György Szilágyi, First of all, I would like to underline what was fully agreed in the Parliament, because in order to compensate the Quaestor-harmed, to save their investments - even if their own responsibility is not negligible in this case, because they were entrusted with the money of someone who offered them much higher interest than the bank interest at that time - the Hungarian Parliament agreed unanimously on the intention of helping the Quaestor-harmed. To this end, we have adopted an indemnification law and I would like to warn the Member that the Constitutional Court has also taken a stand, so not only has the government not helped, but the government has helped us, it has turned to Parliament to establish a framework for assistance, and the Constitutional Court has also been dealt with. Why it is possible that these financial frauds have been stopped and contained, first of all because the legislation has combined financial supervision with the Hungarian National Bank with sufficient wisdom. While financial supervision was separate, I believe that the rigour that prevails today could not have taken effect, and that, in essence, the framework of this law created the conditions for strict action. On the other hand, financial businesses fishing in confusion were abolished, banned and stopped by the government in conjunction with the legislation. There are always businesses in the Western world and in every European country that offer investors the opportunity to pay more for their investments than they usually do with bank interest or with normal financial market conditions. I have always drawn attention to the responsibility of those who believe it, but I respect it, and I think it is right for us to help. However, I find it unacceptable that a serious, thoughtful Member of Parliament has sworn to the interests of the country to believe the words of a man who is in pre-trial detention at the moment, has stolen tens of billions of forints from people, a financial fraudster. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Not even a member of the opposition can believe a financial fraud. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-11-28-121	Thank you very much, Minister. Congressman György Szilágyi has the floor for a one-minute rejoinder.
u2016-11-28-122	Thank you very much. Minister, you understood exactly what I asked you. I asked: did Viktor Orbán, the members of the government, some members of the government, have anything to do with Quaestor's bankruptcy, whether the Fidesz took money out of Quaestor before the Quaestor went bankrupt? That should have been the answer. I didn't even mention the importance of the Prime Minister's relationship. After all, in his program N1 TV Explorer, it was shown that Péter Puska, who is the right-hand man of Csaba Tarsoly, is in the VIP box with Viktor Orbán. Anyone can't be together, I assume, with Viktor Orbán in a VIP box. We also learned that Péter Puska's phone was registered to a fidesz mayor; I suppose they also paid for Péter Puska's phone. The question is what is the relationship between Csaba Tarsoly, because if Csaba Tarsoly's right-hand man and Viktor Orbán and the Fidesz mayors have such a close relationship, it is likely that Csaba Tarsoly and Viktor Orbán have a very close relationship, and with this close relationship they have contributed to the Quaestor failure. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] That's what I asked. How much of Quaestor's bankruptcy has been exploited by Fidesz people to make money because business is the most important thing? [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2016-11-28-123	One-minute rejoinder, Minister John Lázár, please.
u2016-11-28-124	Dear fellow Member, I don't go to football games, so I can't list the VIP boxes, but I saw in one of the newspapers the other day that Gábor Vona and András Schiffer were sitting in the VIP box of one of the soccer matches. It follows that Gábor Vona and András Schiffer are working together with Viktor Orbán, who is also sitting in which section of this VIP box, I don't know. [[Dr. István Józsa: Yes! Defiance.]] Thank you very much for the addition of the socialists. I would definitely like to state here in Parliament that Csaba Tarsoly had nothing to do with the government. The Socialist Government has allocated HUF 17 billion to the Quaestor, which we have all failed, and we are not going to recover in due time. [[13.40]] We've done everything we can to get this money. If we had something to do with this whole financial fraud, why would the government have decided to do it, or would it have regulated it to prohibit this activity? Obviously, we did this because it was in the country's best interest to bring financial fraudsters to justice, which is taking place with unprecedented speed as a result of the cooperation of the prosecution, investigative bodies and our hope. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2016-11-28-125	Thank you very much, Minister. Dear Parliament, Congresswoman Erzsébet Schmuck, the leader of the LMP faction, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: It's an address. The Prime Minister appointed Mr János Lázár, Minister of the Prime Minister's Office, as a response to the urgent public task. I respectfully ask the Head of the Group whether you accept the person of the responding party, or whether you are personally expecting an answer from Prime Minister.
u2016-11-28-126	Thank you very much. I'll wait for Prime Minister.
u2016-11-28-127	Thank you very much. I would like to inform the Head of Group that the Prime Minister will have to answer at the hour of the next immediate questions. Dear Parliament, Member Ákos Hadházy, representative of the LMP, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question:. What is the explanation? It's an address. The Prime Minister appointed Mr János Lázár, Minister of the Prime Minister's Office, as a response to the urgent public task. I respectfully ask the Member whether he accepts the person who is responding or waits for the Prime Minister to answer.
u2016-11-28-128	I'll wait for Prime Minister, Mr. President. Thank you very much.
u2016-11-28-129	Thank you very much, Congressman. I will inform you and inform the House that the Prime Minister will have to answer at the hour of the next immediate questions. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, Congressman Sallai R. Benedek, representative of the LMP, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: "Hungary, will you do better? It's an address. The Prime Minister appointed Mr János Lázár, Minister of the Prime Minister's Office, as a response to the urgent public task. I respectfully ask, Congressman, whether you will accept the person of the responding party or wait for Prime Minister to be present.
u2016-11-28-130	Yes, I accept the response. Thank you.
u2016-11-28-131	Thank you very much. Congressman Sallai R. Benedek has the floor. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-11-28-132	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Minister, The fact that Hungary is performing better, we know not only from the payment of the central bank president György Matolcsy, who is in our midst, but also from the fact that the government has created the opportunity for several other state employees in similar and other positions, including the leaders of state forestry, at Gambling, MÁV, to receive such millions of HUF. This means, let's say, that the work of the President of the Central Bank is worth about five times as much as any minister here, if I understand your fair judgment of the government. However, it seems that now the mayors of Fidesz will also begin to perform well, as in the case of Nagykőrös, the body of representatives has again decided to reward Mr. Szabolcs Czifra and Attila Körtvélyesi, the mayor and deputy mayor of the settlement by the end of the year. This is not a unique thing; before that, Mr. Mayor took a six-month salary, which is 3 million 150 thousand forints, and a reward of 1.5 million forints. So, then, this is also being introduced in settlements to achieve such a good performance. This is an interesting question, because at the same time a new research has come out to Hungary, which again shows the intention of emigration from Hungary. You, members of the government, have already done this several times, that there is an emigration intention in all other countries, and this is not a Hungarian specialty; compared with this, the new research at European level shows that in Germany, Denmark, the Netherlands, the intention to emigration is between 10 and 15 percent, then in Spain, Ireland, Poland, the United Kingdom, France, and Hungary has achieved the worst result at the present time with a 46 percent result. 46 percent of 18-24 - year - olds are those who would choose to continue their future in another country in 2016. Where is this good performance? Where's the fund to raise the salaries of state employees? Where's the performance that makes the country better? That is what I would expect from the Minister with respect. Thank you very much.
u2016-11-28-133	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Mr János Lázár, Minister of the Prime Minister's Office. Here you go, Minister.
u2016-11-28-134	Your Honour, my fellow Member. I appreciate your interest and your question, although it will be difficult to answer, because it is an eclectic question. You're asking me more questions. I have no right and opportunity to judge the work of the central bank, given that the central bank is guaranteed to operate independently of the law and the government, but allow me one thing. I think that the fact that Hungary is able to achieve such economic performance at the moment, which basically provides the basis for a 40% wage increase in the next six years, is that the government deficit in Hungary is below 3 percent, that the government's debt is falling, not only due to the government's work, but also to the low interest rate in Hungary, which significantly helped Hungarian businesses. A very large part is due to the fact that there was a growth loan programme, which helped Hungary through the period 2012-2016 when we had to put the legacy in order, we had to eliminate the serious budgetary and financial imbalances we had received in governance. I think that Hungary's finances are much more realistic and optimistic than you said today. Look at how large credit rating agencies back up government policy, see how much Hungarian government debt financing costs today and how much it cost in 2010-2011! These numbers speak for themselves. First, the country had to be put in order to make the economy competitive, because competitive wages that could prevent migration, which in Europe can only pay legal, competitive wages, can only be paid by a competitive economy. But consolidation was the condition. And the competitive economy creates competitive wage conditions, which is why Minister Mihály Varga and the government have concluded a six-year agreement with employers and employees, and for the first time since the change of regime, there will be a higher minimum wage increase than originally requested by employees' representatives. No one has done more in the last 30 years to put the economy in order. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2016-11-28-135	Thank you very much, Minister. A one-minute rejoinder from Congressman Sallai R. Benedict. Here you go.
u2016-11-28-136	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr. Secretary, the reason these figures are weird is because you can only think in numbers and statistics. Please take a look at the results of European Union research coordinated by the Hungarian Academy of Sciences. There is no such distrust of the government and the future as there are no people in Hungary. All our indicators, which are for social policy purposes, so most of them die of cancer in Hungary, are the largest number of Hungarian men with depression throughout the European Union, and Lithuanians smoke more. Health care is among the worst in Europe, along with the Greeks. In practice, we achieve the worst indicators in all our consumption habits. The proportion of people who do not allow immigrants in at all, in proportion to the campaign of hatred for immigrants, there is a double hatred in Hungary. Every indicator we look at socially, the role of politics in Hungary is the lowest across the EU, below 20 percent, who trust politics at all. Most of the Danes, they're over 51 percent. Every indicator we measure as a social policy indicator in Hungary strengthens the lower performance in everything and the distrust that government activity suggests to society. I recommend this research to your attention if you really want to assess Hungary's condition. Thank you.
u2016-11-28-137	Thank you very much, Congressman. A one-minute rejoinder is also due to Minister János Lázár. Here you go.
u2016-11-28-138	Thank you very much, Congressman, for your report. Believe me, we, who are individual elected representatives, have an individual area, we feel exactly and know exactly what the reality is in the electoral districts. I am a Member of Parliament in one of the poorest constituencys in the country [[Dr. László György Lukács: I would argue with that.]] Along with others. Congressman, allow me to make a personal remark: this country's performance is the closest to Western performance from the statistics of the 1910s, and the last statistics of the 1930s, which appeared before the war. We were closest to Europe in 1937 and sometime in 2010-2012. It is not our fault that 50 years of communism have been destroyed in this country and 12 years of socialist government. When I asked my grandfather when he was 14 when he could change this world in 1989, it took the same amount of communism. That was old men's wisdom. It's only been 26 years. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2016-11-28-139	Thank you very much, Minister. Dear Parliament, Congresswoman Mónika Dunai, representative of Fidesz, wants to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question: "Wage increase in the human sphere." Mr. Minister has appointed Mr. Bence Rétvári as Secretary of State to respond to an urgent public task. I respectfully ask the congresswoman if she accepts the person who is responding. [[Mónika Dunai:]] Yes, you will, thank you very much. Congresswoman Mónika Dunai has the floor. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2016-11-28-140	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen of the State Secretary. Dear Parliament, It is pleased that the growing Hungarian economy will allow wage increases to be made and made in recent years and in the coming years, which have not been the case since the change of regime. One of the winners of this wage increase is teachers, whose social appreciation, along with the wage increase, has increased to a similar extent. [[13.50]] In addition to teachers, Fidesz and KDNP have always prioritised and dealt with the human resources issue of health workers and healthcare workers. In the last five years, we have done everything we can to improve the situation of health workers, taking into account the country's economic capacity. In 2012 and 2013, about 95 000 healthcare workers were paid in two stages, and from July 2015 we created the possibility of releasing mobile wage freezes for healthcare workers. As a result, the adjustment of the mobile wage elements of the wage increase in 2012-2013 to the basic wage was ensured, which was regulated by law from 1 January 2016. Dear Secretary of State, We also pay particular attention to culture. We would also like to make it available to everyone here in the capital, but in each settlement we have access to culture, so we have increased the cultural normative of 1700 small settlements, but we have owed so far the wage development of those working in the cultural sector. We're gonna change that now. Next year we will spend almost 5.5 billion forints on the organisation of wages for those working in the field of culture. I ask you, Mr. Secretary, how can we help you? [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] financial appreciation of those working in the cultural sphere. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. Dr. István Józsa applauds.]]
u2016-11-28-141	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2016-11-28-142	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, If you look at the data for the last 12 months, you can see that wages in the public sector have increased by 11,6 percent, compared to this in the entrepreneurial sphere, in a quotation mark, I say the only thing that's much worse than that, but it's down by 7.2 percent. Thus, the increase in salaries in the fiscal sector was much higher, precisely thanks to the sectoral wage increases to which she referred, but it can be seen that in the coming years what she has already made in the public sector wage increase must indeed be done by entrepreneurs to achieve a similar rate of growth. It is also important to draw attention to the fact that gross earnings have increased by 6.7 percent, while net earnings have increased by 8.3 percent, so that the increase in net earnings is much higher than gross earnings. That means the state's taking a lot less. If you work more, you'll earn a lot more, you don't have to be afraid that if you put extra power on the table, you'll be punishing them with extra taxes, you'll actually take less home. I believe that this is an important principle of a civil society, that there is finally an extra payment for additional performance. As you have indicated, the recent negotiations have resulted in an increase in the salaries of workers in the cultural field. A total of 7380 cultural staff are employed in central government bodies, and 12 796 still work in local governments or local government institutions. The average wage increase is 15 percent, depending on whether a person has a secondary or a higher education degree, this amount is different. Anyone with a secondary education will take home an average of 14 thousand forints per month next year, who will earn almost 30 thousand forints more with a higher education. The average monthly gross increase is thus much higher than those with higher education. We hope that this will keep the best professionals; next year's budget for this, as you said, will contain 5.5 billion forints. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-11-28-143	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. A one-minute rejoinder from Congresswoman Mónika Dunai. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2016-11-28-144	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Dear Parliament, It's good to see what we've done is done. This is the case with wage increases and career models in different sectors. In kindergartens, kindergartens, schools, high schools, higher education institutions, we have already introduced this significant wage increase, including in health care, I think that we have taken nice steps. In defence, law enforcement workers and the public sector have also started these wage arrangements, which not only contained significant wage increases. It is good to see that the cultural sphere can join this circle. Thank you very much for your reply, Mr Secretary of State. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-11-28-145	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. A one-minute rejoinder is also due to Mr. Secretary of State. Here you go.
u2016-11-28-146	Thank you very much for the floor. Speaking of a specific situation or number, there will be someone in the cultural sphere with at least 10 thousand forints, but who will pay 55 thousand forints higher from next January than he was this year. Social workers have increased their salary by an average of 16 per cent, 24 thousand forints in recent years, a first-time social advisor with a higher education degree, now starting from 52 thousand forints higher than they had previously started with. We often forget that there was a raise of 15+5+5 per cent in higher education, so here we can see that there is an average increase of 20.7 per cent, 48 thousand forints, but a university teacher III. You will now earn 528,000 forints next year instead of 437 thousand forints. In the field of public education, we know that education workers, educators, pay more than one and a half times the salary, but if you look at how much the salary of a graduate daycare worker increases, it can also be HUF 88,000 in higher education, which is quite outstanding. And this year's and future medical salary increase is very important in health care, which totals HUF 207 thousand, and in the case of nurses we can talk about a doubling. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-11-28-147	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Member László Szakács, representative of the MSZP, wants to ask the Minister of National Economy an immediate question:. It's an address. Mr László Csakács has the floor. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-11-28-148	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Minister, I also wrote to György Matolcsy, as the President of the Central Bank once referred to today. I didn't ask the same question 27 times, but I asked 27 different questions, but the point is what I asked him, precisely because he didn't make it clear whether he lived in the apartment of UniCredit Bank's CEO, he didn't live, whether this condition is still up, whether this condition is still in place. This is precisely why I asked him if it had anything to do with the fact that they had such a close relationship with each other, the President of the Banking Association, the Chairman-CEO of UniCredit, could have had a special relationship with the fact that, when nationalising private pension fund assets, all foreign assets in rather strange circumstances, I mean that foreign securities in rather strange circumstances - the dates don't really match - were still there for UniCredit Bank treatment, and that the State Debt Management Centre had launched an invitation to tender, but only one commercial bank could have been invited to do so and offered to the State Debt Management Center, and this was no different than UniCredit Bank, which was then the president-CEO Mihály Patai Patai. I was told to turn to Minister, since Mr President of the Central Bank does not wish to comment on the previous decisions of the Ministry of National Economy from his position as President of the Central Bank. I know you didn't create this situation, Minister, but I have no choice but to ask you if you think it's normal for a central bank president to live in the apartment of the CEO of a commercial bank, if that's the case; or how it could have been avoided. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] the foreign part of the private pension assets to the same bank that owns the apartment, and György Matolcsy may live there. Thank you.
u2016-11-28-149	Thank you very much, Congressman. The answer is given to Minister Mihály Varga. Here you go, Minister. You have the floor.
u2016-11-28-150	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear fellow Member, First of all, I would suggest that you definitely study the house rules, because it is not quite clear to whom you would like to ask the question, so the house rules clearly provide for this. I would like to answer the part of your question that concerns me, and what falls within the remit of the Ministry of National Economy, which concerns pension reform, the earlier reintegration of private pension funds. Look, I have to say, the decision was justified by life. Let us not forget that the basis of this decision was, after all, that the Hungarian government debt increased significantly, the money that we had to pay into private pension funds increased significantly the level of the deficit. [[14.00]] On the other hand, this money was not safe at all, since it was managed by fund managers who did not have the guarantee that this money would actually result in a pension benefit from which they could supplement their pension. So the government made the right decision. This is also confirmed by the fact that in recent years the government debt has fallen from 83 per cent in 2010 to 74,7 per cent. I would also like to emphasise, Mr President, that we were talking about voluntary members here. The government did not pression anyone, everyone could make a declaration whether they wanted to remain in the private pension fund or return to the state pension scheme which guarantees that the value of pensions would remain. Honourable Congressman, He's asking me about the use of money. Let me tell you that between 1998 and 2010 HUF 2560 billion was collected from their customers, between 1998 and 2010 by private pension funds. I think it's much nicer. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] that this is now in the hands of a public private pension fund, as it serves an uncertain private pension system. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-11-28-151	Thank you very much, Minister. A one-minute rejoinder is the word of Congressman László Szakács.
u2016-11-28-152	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister, It's not that... [[He's sighing. Dr. Bence of Rétvári: Give it up! Defiance.]] I'm not giving up, no matter what Bence Rétvári asks. Dear Minister, Even if it's a good decision for you, I'm still asking about the procedure. Is it right that at such a large amount of money, at HUF 511 billion, a single commercial bank would be lucky to be able to handle it? They know that these contracts have been issued, by the way, here they are, on not just any terms, and that this was decided by the sovereign debt management fund alone, because the pension reform fund will be established 20 days later, and you can only acknowledge this decision that it was placed at UniCredit for HUF 511 billion. Is that all right, Minister? That's my question.
u2016-11-28-153	Thank you very much, Congressman. Minister Mihály Varga has the floor for a one-minute rejoinder. Here you go, Minister.
u2016-11-28-154	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, The management of the money returned from the private pension fund and the use of property were legally regulated. First of all, I would like to reject your implied claim that there has been any irregularity here. One. Two. The part of the money that affected various state assets, sovereign debt and other assets was transferred to the Pension Reform and Debt Reduction Fund. His fate can also be traced. Parliament has been regularly informed of this. I think that the operation of this fund was entirely normal. The fate of the foreign papers at the private pension funds, in this respect, had to be dealt with by the Government Debt Management Centre, who is empowered to do so. I believe so, but I'm going to have it examined, based on your suggestion, that this was selected in a completely open public procurement. UniCredit received this assignment. If the congressman had asked this question in an interpellation, [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] I could give you more accurate data; I will therefore look at it and I will inform you on this issue. Thank you, Mr. President. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-11-28-155	Thank you very much, Minister. Dear Parliament, Congressman Lajos Rig, representative of Jobbik, would like to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question: "Are you out of money? It's an address. Mr. Minister has appointed Mr. Bence Rétvári as Secretary of State to respond to an urgent public task. I respectfully ask the Member whether he accepts or waits for the Minister's presence.
u2016-11-28-156	I'd be honored if you'd answer.
u2016-11-28-157	Thank you very much. For two minutes now, it is up to Congressman Lajos Rig to ask the question. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-11-28-158	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Mr. Secretary. I will save you the number you say in each response on the 500 billion-dollar health development in hospitals and health institutions. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: It was worth it!]] I have two hospitals in my constituency that have benefited from these investments. One was the hospital in Tapolca, which became a structural change hospital. He lost two classes, internal medicine and surgery. These two forms of care have been transferred to the area of the lip hospital. The lip hospital also went through an energy efficiency investment, but the development of X-ray diagnostics was no longer realized. In recent months, the local television community portal for local Fidesz has published an article saying that the money has run out? And here they were thinking of the infectious class of his lips hospital, which was in a separate building, and indeed, there was no developmental source. The article included 3-4 images of the condition of the lips that were contagious. I'd say wires are hanging out of the wall, plaster is crumbling, life-threatening and dangerous. The state of the stairs is slowly inaccessible, not only as a step, but not even as a sidewalk. You can also know about the Lip Hospital, that between 1972 and 1990, Dr. István Mikola worked here, in the internal medicine and infectology department of the Lip Hospital. He was also a hospital director. As hospital director, he's already tried to lobby for the renovation of the infectious division at the time. This is not just an infectious class of people on your lips, we're talking about a county infectious class. You emphasize the importance of hygiene in such a department. I ask you, in such an obsolete old building, can you keep those hygiene requirements, the rules of asepsis and antisepsis? I'm looking forward to your reply. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2016-11-28-159	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2016-11-28-160	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, The Jobbik faction acknowledges that in the last six years Hungary's history has been one of the biggest, if not the largest, hospital development programs, as there has never been one before. Not since the change of regime. But when it was the last time since the Markusovszky era, it's hard to find an example, so we're happy that Jobbik admits it. Precisely because there are clearly parts left, tools that need to be developed, or hospitals, so in our operational programme for the development of human resources, the EFOP, we have launched a number of hundreds of billions of HUF in total new programmes, which are intended partly to strengthen hospital care, partly basic care and specialised care. We hope that these will further develop the improvements that have been made. At last, you could see in almost all of the rural hospitals that something had happened, that since the change of regime something visible had finally been renovated, or that whole hospital buildings had been renovated and supplemented. This will continue. You too, honourable Member, if you enter the Hungarian Gazette, look at the Government's decision on the annual development framework for the operational programme for human resources development, you will see exactly what goals we can translate into, whether in primary care or professional care, but also in health or early childhood intervention or other areas, in the area of complex public health screenings or for other purposes. You will find a hundred billion-dollar scale for improving patient safety, which improves hospital infrastructure. There is a need for this, obviously it will be necessary. In recent years, even with the introduction of one day's benefits, what we have done, or as a result of this, the number of incapacity days has decreased, with a substantial increase in the salaries of healthcare workers, with HUF 107+100 thousand for doctors, 26,5 for nurses, then 12 and 8 and 8 percent for nurses. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] They all help them to do healing activities in renovated, new, modern tools and hospital buildings. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-11-28-161	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Congressman Lajos Rig has the floor for a one-minute rejoinder. Here you go.
u2016-11-28-162	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. For the rest of the minute, I hope to receive some information about the infectious department of your lips, although you are right to confirm, not only the system, but the building itself, because it will soon collapse. That, on the other hand, puts you at risk for patient safety, I think. If the 500 billion were properly spent and we tried to maintain and renew the health system from non-priced EU sources, much more could have been done. There's no way we're gonna kill hundreds of billions of dollars if they steal most of it. We're gonna make a new rescue station out of a hundred million if in a month the bottom starts to get wet because it's not properly insulated and the tiles are cracking because the rescue station is moving, and it's not moving in a cage. I'm asking Mr. Secretary of State if it's possible to renovate the infectious class in relation to the Lips hospital. Although when István Mikola was the minister, he didn't succeed, I trust him now. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] I was hoping that after my speech, an investment would be carried out there. Thank you. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2016-11-28-163	Thank you very much, Congressman. A one-minute rejoinder is also due to Mr. Secretary of State. Here you go, Secretary of State. [[14.10]]
u2016-11-28-164	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr. President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, During the previous period, he asked several times about the development of TIOP or KEOP in the hospital, and he was always given an answer. Obviously, if you specifically ask about your lips hospital and not give your speech a general address, you can obviously get much more detailed information. But if we look at it, since you mentioned the new rescue system improvements, it is well known that 60 rescue stations have been upgraded and 22 have been built. But here at more speeds, first 200, then 178, then 21, then another 32 ambulances were put on the market again, as in the previous years these purchases, all these improvements were missing. In the last six years, it was not 6 years, but at least 10 years of ambulance procurement, because in the previous period they preferred to outsource it to private suppliers, patient transport and as many related activities as possible. However, we continued what we promised before the elections. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] to strengthen the Hungarian rescue service. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-11-28-165	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Member László Szászfalvi, representative of the KDNP, wants to ask the Minister for National Development an immediate question: å Has the supply of gas to the population in the heating season been ensured? It's an address. Mr László Szászfalvi has the floor. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-11-28-166	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Your Honour, Minister. On 15 October this year, the official district heating season started in the 650,000 district heating apartment. The question of Hungary's proper preparation for the winter's challenges, as in previous years, has become topical again. The storage facilities in Hungary play an important security role in the domestic supply system, adjusting seasonal imbalance between supply and demand. The key issue at the end of each autumn is whether the storage of natural gas is sufficient to ensure adequate gas supply at the end of each autumn. It is a guarantee of safe domestic supply that universal service providers will be prepared in a timely manner and with the necessary quantity to ensure that consumption needs are met. As we learned from the press, at the beginning of the winter heating period there were more than 3 billion cubic metres of natural gas in domestic storage. I therefore respectfully ask Minister what this amount will be enough for, whether it is safe to provide the population, what the Hungarian families can expect. I look forward to your reply, Minister. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-11-28-167	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Mr Miklós Seszták, Minister for National Development. Here you go, Minister.
u2016-11-28-168	Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, The security of Hungary's natural gas supply relies on three sources: storage capacities, import sources and domestic extraction. The country's underground storage capacity for natural gas is much higher than our demand thanks to favourable geological conditions and year-on-year decreasing natural gas consumption. Our reservoirs currently contain nearly 3.2 billion cubic metres of natural gas, equivalent to approximately 50 per cent of the charge. Of this quantity, the security of natural gas supply is over 900 million cubic metres. There are currently 120 million cubic meters more in the container than there was a year ago. Only countries with higher storage capacity than Hungary have much more populous and higher consumption, such as Germany or France. At the level of the charge, the key factor is how the stored natural gas is compared to the consumption of the heating season. Today, on the coldest winter day, we use seven times more natural gas than on an average summer day. Due to the strong fluctuations and the dependence of gas consumption on temperature change, gas is placed in storage during the summer for safe winter care. The amount of natural gas available at the beginning of this year's heating period would also cover the use of the previous total winter domestic consumption. The amount of gas used in the previous heating season was nearly 3.5 billion cubic metres, of which more than 1.6 billion cubic metres were consumed by the population. Two times this retail consumption is currently in storage, so the supply is guaranteed. Thank you for asking. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-11-28-169	Thank you very much, Minister. I give the floor to Congressman László Szászfalvi for a one-minute rejoinder. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-11-28-170	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Hungary does not have the capacity to produce natural gas that satisfies domestic consumption, so it is essential for our safe supply to ensure import and proper transport routes. Although the current trade treaties are a guarantee of the smooth supply of gas to Hungary, in view of the precarious situation in our neighbour Ukraine, we must obviously also be prepared for the possibility that gas will not come to us from this direction, as has already been the case in recent years. In view of all this, thank you, Minister, for your reassuring reply. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-11-28-171	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Mr Miklós Seszták, Minister for National Development. Here you go.
u2016-11-28-172	I would like to inform my fellow Member that the security of domestic gas supply is further strengthened by the Government's success in route diversification. It is better to talk about this here too, as the new infrastructure development already makes the gas pipeline crossing the Hungarian-Slovak border work, and this pipeline, despite the current low utilisation, makes a significant contribution to resolving the approximation of domestic wholesale gas prices to international market prices. We can also guarantee the warmth of families' homes if imports stop unexpectedly or permanently. Although the risk of a shorter-to-longer suspension of deliveries is expected from the experience of recent years, we do not know of any emergency situations that would anticipate this. One thing I can tell you is that the residents' natural gas supply is secure. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-11-28-173	Thank you very much, Minister. Dear Parliament, Congresswoman Erzsébet Schmuck, head of the LMP Group, wants to ask the Minister of National Economy an immediate question:. Why does the government give a gift of 170 billion to the multinationals? It's an address. Mr. Minister has appointed Mr. András Tállai Secretary of State to respond to an urgent public mission. I respectfully ask Madam Group leader whether she accepts the person of the responding party or waits for the Minister of the Answer to be present in this Chamber.
u2016-11-28-174	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'll take it. Dear Secretary of State, Three weeks ago, the government admitted to leading the country's economy to a dead end, but last week, it also turned out that it chose the wrong tools beyond recognition. In fact, the government is severely reducing the profits of large companies. This unadulterated neoliberal step increases the profits of large companies and increases the gap between simple workers and privileged elites. Rich companies and their owners pay little tax, but simple workers and entrepreneurs pay half, a third, and two thirds of their income. This step gives the big companies a gift of some 170 billion forints. This step will undermine the relative position of small businesses and increase the dominant position of multinationals. It also undermines the state of the budget, even though it would have something to do with the austerity of previous years. The situation of Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprises is also affected because they bear most of the burden of raising the minimum wage and the benefits of tax reductions are different. The reduction is also pointless because Hungarian entrepreneurs do not have the biggest problem that the profit tax is high, because 40 percent of them have no profit. They'd be happy to pay higher taxes if they could make a living. It would be up to economic policy to help them do that. This step is only useful for some multi-company and large companies whose tax breaks are about to expire or who would tax a third of the taxpayers in another country. You're making a tax haven out of the country, but that's not gonna work. Only multinationals can be the winners of the downward tax competition, who are playing each other against each other. Secretary of State, why do the interests of large international companies move tax policy? I'm looking forward to your reply.
u2016-11-28-175	Thank you very much, Madam Group leader. The answer will be given by Secretary of State András Tállai. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2016-11-28-176	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and Gentlemen, The government is determined to improve and increase the competitiveness of the Hungarian economy and Hungarian businesses. Improving competitiveness does not concern sectors, sectors or small businesses or only large multinationals. [[14.20]] Improving competitiveness must affect the overall Hungarian economy. One of the most important public and government decisions is to reduce the public burden, reduce taxes, reduce taxes on farmers, companies and individual businesses. That's what the government decided to do. It decided to reduce taxes on labour and decided to reduce income tax, i.e. corporate tax. I think that this is a very important decision, which is sector-neutral, affecting everyone depending on the size of the enterprise. Another important resource for improving competitiveness is the provision of external resources. This is the provision of EU funds. Small businesses, for example, have a significant advantage here, as multinational companies do not benefit from EU external funds. But if we are talking about tax changes, it should also be said that, for example, for small businesses, the so-called "kata" tax increase from HUF 6 million to HUF 12, which affects nearly 150 thousand companies, will mean that twice as much revenue will leave the same tax, so that the tax burden will be reduced by half. The same applies, for example, to small enterprises that are taxed according to the kiva. Here too, they expect a reduction in income tax rates. I think that improving competitiveness affects small and medium-sized enterprises and must also affect large enterprises. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-11-28-177	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. For a one-minute rejoinder, it's a matter for the head of the faction. Here you go.
u2016-11-28-178	Thank you very much. Mr State Secretary, it is a fact that our competitiveness has deteriorated a lot and competitiveness needs to be improved. But the key to improving competitiveness is not here, it is not there to reduce the taxes of multinationals and put 170-180 billion forints in the pockets of multinationals. In small and medium-sized enterprises, there is indeed a great deal of public burdens. The LMP has been saying for a long time that these tax burdens must be reduced; but you choose poorly. The key to competitiveness, we think, is much more in education and health. The quality of education and health has been completely destroyed by you in recent years. Billions should be invested in education and health, and not 170-180 billion forints should be left in the pocket of the multinationals. With this money, you could have contributed, for example, to re-introducing the multi-key personal income tax system. Thank you very much.
u2016-11-28-179	Thank you very much, Madam Group leader. A one-minute rejoinder is also due to Mr. Secretary of State. Here you go.
u2016-11-28-180	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and I think that the LMP should decide whether it will then support the improvement of competitiveness, a significant increase in minimum wage and professional wages. Do you support the six-year programme in which the minimum wage will increase by 40%, support corporate tax reduction, support the reduction of the burden on employers or not? Or he says the same thing about personal income tax, that we need to increase the personal income tax rates, that we need to increase the personal income tax burden in Hungary. That's what you say. And they also say or suggest that family tax incentives should be abolished and families should not be given tax relief to such a significant extent. I think that LMP is on the wrong track if it does not support the government's intention to achieve a significant reduction in public burdens, and personal income tax remains one-key. This is what you want, and this is not what you want to follow. You'd rather support the government's intentions. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-11-28-181	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Member László Szakács, representative of the MSZP, wants to ask the President of the Hungarian National Bank an immediate question:. It's an address. Mr László Csakács has the floor. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-11-28-182	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, We need to go back in time, until 31 May 2011, then a regulation on the detailed rules for the functioning of the Pension Reform and Debt Management Fund will be published in the Hungarian Gazette. Its governing body will also sit down that day and conclude an agreement with the State Debt Management Centre on the management and sale of financial assets - you know, assets transferred from nationalised private pension assets - and other related services. That was May 31, 2011. A little after the rain, because before that, on 10 May, the State Debt Management Center announced an invitation to tender. True, there was only one bank on that, because one was invited, you know, your friend, Mihály Patai's UniCredit Bank, who received this call on the 10th, lived on the 13th with the invitation to tender and offered an offer, and won on the 18th. Where the authority for the State Debt Management Center to act was granted until much later, on 31 May. That's when there was a legal power to do so. Mr. President. What's the rush? Why did it have to be decided three weeks earlier about the fate of more than HUF 511 billion, which, by the way, was the private pension savings of the Hungarian people, so that it could be transferred to your friend's bank, UniCredit Bank? Why didn't you follow the rules? Do you think this type of procedure could have had a positive impact on this commercial bank? Why didn't they invite other banks? Has the legislation been complied with? Thank you for your attention.
u2016-11-28-183	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to President György Matolcsy. Here you go, Mr. President.
u2016-11-28-184	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr President, Dear House, Honourable Congressman, I'm afraid the thing behind your question is that you fell for that bluff we heard about a few minutes ago. For example, in the bluff series Tamás Szemerey received HUF 600 million from the Hungarian National Bank and its foundations to support vs.hu. That was never true, it was never for a moment, Tamás Szemerey owns vs.hu, and as such he could not get a penny. [[Dr. László Kács: I don't care, I didn't ask you that!]] Yes, you also fell for the statement that proved to be false, so it's a bluff that someone stole the 250 billion forints given by the Hungarian National Bank to the foundations. It turns out that this is not the case, the foundation's assets are in place, and even billions of forints have been donated. [[Dr. László Kács: But I don't care, didn't I ask? Why do you say that?]] Because you fell for the next bluff that someone somewhere thought that my humble person was living in Mihály Patai's apartment. I mean, that's where it all comes from. Minister Mihály Varga has given an excellent answer to your questions. These are my answers. Let's see why the State Debt Management Center decided in 2011 when. Let's take a look. It's regulated by law. And it certainly had nothing to do with me not living or living in the apartment as a bluff. This has absolutely nothing to do with a 2011 decision. Let's take a look, Congressman. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-11-28-185	Thank you very much, Mr. President. A one-minute rejoinder is the word of Congressman László Szakács. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-11-28-186	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. There are textual problems. I didn't talk about Tamás Szemerey, I didn't talk about vs.hu, and I never even asked you about it in my life. Here's my question. On May 31, 2011, something will have its legal basis, namely to provide for a significant part of the private pension savings of Hungarian people, some HUF 511 billion. But when you were the minister, you know, you were the Minister of National Economy, you invited only one bank in an invitation tender three weeks earlier, on 10 May, and you will be sent to the UniCredit Bank marked by Mihály Patai, which was followed by either the contract or did not act. I'm asking you, was that procedure correct? Why didn't they invite more banks? That's my question, answer that, Mr. President.
u2016-11-28-187	Thank you very much, Congressman. One-minute rejoinder, Mr. President. Here you go, Mr. President.
u2016-11-28-188	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Honourable Congressman, But the question is, how does Mr. Patai come into the picture? [[14.30]] You're on the trail of a bluff headed for your dead end. I agree with Mr. Secretary, let's look at it. But if we look at it and find that there is absolutely no legal violation, moral, ethical or moral problem, then there is nothing to do with the friendship between Mihály Patai and my humble person and Mr Patai's apartment on this issue, which, by the way, follows your bluffing. Are you saying, Congressman, that we're going to examine you? [[Dr. László Kács: Of course.]] Don't you agree? Louder! Thank you very much.
u2016-11-28-189	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, That concludes the hour of immediate questioning. Thank you very much, Mr President, for your presence in the Chamber. Dear Parliament, The political debate on the use of EU funds for Hungary for the period 2014-2020, initiated by the government, is now coming. The motion to initiate the political debate V/12874. all of them received it. I declare that the presentation will be discussed as an EU item on the agenda by the Parliament. I now ask Mr László Földi to explain the course of the political debate. Here you go, notary.
u2016-11-28-190	Dear Parliament, Allow me to explain the course of the debate. First, a statement by the representative of the Government shall be made for a period of 40 minutes. The speakers of each political group will then be able to speak in 15-15 minutes, and then the first independent Member will be able to speak. The remaining time frame will then be open to further speeches by its representatives. Finally, the representative of the Government will respond in 20 minutes to what has been said in the debate.
u2016-11-28-191	Thank you very much, Mr. Notary. Dear Parliament, Allow me to remind you of the main rules of the time-frame debate. The speaking time of the member of the Government who spoke during the debate is expected to be in the time of the pro-government factions. In the meantime, two-minute speeches, with the exception of responding to personal concerns, should be included in the timeframe. Point of order speeches are not included in the time frame. Congressman Józsa, if you will not know, you will have a problem with your speech, so I ask you to listen to me. On the meeting room information board, interested parties can monitor the use of time frames. Before we begin the debate, I would like to ask Mr István Ikotity, notary, to explain each time frame. Here you go, notary.
u2016-11-28-192	Dear Parliament, I would like to announce that the Fidesz, MSZP, Jobbik and LMP groups have initiated a two-fold increase in their timeframe, so that the time frame is divided into 164 minutes for the Fidesz Group, 92 minutes for the MSZP Group, 38 minutes for the KDNP Group, 82 minutes for the Jobbik Group, 48 minutes for the LMP Group and 9 minutes for the independent Members. The time limits provided for the factions include the 15-15 minutes lead speakers.
u2016-11-28-193	Thank you very much, Mr. Notary. Ladies and gentlemen, First, the government's debate will take place in a 40-minute timeframe. I give the floor to Mr János Lázár, Minister of the Prime Minister's Office. Here you go, Minister. You have the floor.
u2016-11-28-194	Your Honour, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, Although, according to the rules of the House, it has been said that the Government has initiated Parliament's debate, it is my duty to explain to my fellow Members the situation that it was Mrs Erzsébet Schmuck who suggested that Parliament's powers of control should be broadened in relation to the European Union's development frameworks available to Hungary and that it should be possible to find an opportunity for Parliament to have much more correct, much wider access to and insight into the financial and economic accounting processes between the European Commission and Hungary. In this way, the government considered the proposal in two respects. The Government has committed itself to report on a quarterly basis to Members of Parliament on the progress of the use of EU funds for Hungary between 2014 and 2020 and, on the other hand, we are launching a parliamentary debate day to review the relationship between the development policy objectives and the country's ambitions for socio-economic development. The government has partly committed itself to giving an account to the political groups and fellow Members of Parliament of what it is doing on a quarterly basis and, on the other hand, to giving our fellow Members of Parliament the opportunity to make concrete comments in addition to the review and the insight. Although it is not the most exciting and perhaps not the most frequented part of today's public discourse is how European Union funds are being used, which obviously may also be some kind of recognition of work, because the less we talk about in Hungarian public life, the less scandal, and this means that things may be going more orderly than before, I think it is important to address specific issues. So first, if we define the framework for today's debate in Parliament, we should start from the fact that, on the last day of Parliament's debate, we have clarified that these resources support Hungary's economic development efforts in substance, even if these resources were not provided for free. These resources have a price. The debate on the future of cohesion will and will make sense in the next period, for Hungary to receive this, for Hungary, for the benefit of Hungary or for the benefit of others. There was a debate about this in Germany not so long ago. There are sometimes political debates and political tensions between Poland and Germany. In this context, one Commissioner of the European Union said that Germany is not a net contributor to the European Union but a net beneficiary of the Cohesion Fund provided by the European Commission. According to German government calculations, 80 percent of the amount allocated to the construction industry in Germany migrates back to Germany. With the amount that Poland receives, 80 percent will go back to Germany and indirectly strengthen the German economy. This is the position of a European Commissioner, a German European Commissioner, which has attracted great attention in Germany over the last few weeks. So it is safe to say that some of the net contributors are net beneficiaries and Germany is first among the net beneficiaries. It is therefore an interesting intellectual polarity, the calculation of the central bank is known in Hungary as to what Hungary's position is in this regard. It is indisputable that Hungary receives significant development resources from these amounts, and it is also indisputable that Hungary has negotiated well between 2007-2013 and 2014-2020. Hungary is one of the winners in the allocation of resources. This practical means that Hungary can use HUF 12 000 billion between 2014 and 2020 together with rural development resources and various agricultural subsidies. The debate, which we will not have to carry out now, and the big question of the next decades, is whether, if Hungary is not in this community, the Hungarian economy will be able to produce such a volume of development resources. The price of being a member of the European Union, for example, can be measured on a customs website, but it can be measured on the page that Hungary has renounced certain economic protection instruments in exchange for EU membership and cohesion catching up, the proportion of which must be seen together. Don't get me wrong, it's not free money, and we're paying 3000-3500 billion forints ourselves. We can call ourselves a net winner, but somewhere in a decade's perspective, we will need to assess how this was worth it to the Hungarian economy. However, this must not be a political or ideological debate, but an empirical debate. That is why we have commissioned a audit firm, KPMG, to say something about the resources for 2007-2013, by carrying out detailed studies, documenting detailed studies on how these funds have been used in Hungary. One very important thing is that cohesion is backed by an ideology, an ideology hidden behind cohesion and catching up, for example in education, health or the structure of the economy. The question is whether these are the most important problems of the Hungarian economy or Hungarian society. I am not entirely sure that equal opportunities, the perception of the various gender agendas of the European Commission, are the most serious educational or social problem in a village of 1000 people. So I think that the ideology, the idea that organizes the way of money, is far from thanking the Hungarian reality and the current situation of Hungarian society. [[14.40]] The decision-makers who set the principles behind cohesion policy, expect them and measure them through indicators and hope to implement them through various studies and programmes are far from aware of a Borsodi, a South Baranya Hungarian reality, what voters really need there. Governments do not always find out exactly what voters and communities need in order to catch up. Another very important issue will be the debate on cohesion. As we know, we have the EU budget for 2017 and there is an intense debate on what cohesion and budgetary policy should be like for the European Union from 2020. There are pessimists who say that this will stop, there are optimists who say that this can never stop. The question is not from our point of view. In fact, the question is that after the closure of these two cycles, the Hungarian economy and Hungarian society will be closer to the average of the European Union, how much more viable the Hungarian economy will be, how much better to stand on its own feet than without using these resources, and the general state of well-being of the Hungarian society - which our fellow Member Sallai has just mentioned here, for example, its state of health, its state of knowledge, the mental state of society - whether it will be closer to what we think is healthy - it is also a question of what is healthy - the general state of well-being of the Hungarian society that we hope to be healthy in Western society. An ordinary person asks the question: is it nice to spend these resources, but after using these resources, can we reach the average standard of living in Austria? Not long ago, the central bank issued a statement that we were still very far away from that, to catch up with them, to catch up with them, or to get closer, and to substantially reduce the distance. So the use of the source in terms of purpose doesn't matter. I think that will be a very important issue for post-2018 governance - regardless of who will govern the country - what Hungary, after the transformation of these financial systems, will be able to do after this decline. We see the numbers, we have September-October data here. An analysis has also been published the other day that if there are no developments, the performance of construction, building or building is immediately reduced, and this is immediately seen in quarterly GDP, in quarterly growth. Is the link so direct, or is it done through transfers, and if we withdraw these funds from the Hungarian economy, what does Hungary's economic performance mean in reality? At the same time, we can say that on an annual basis, let's say if we now have 38 000 billion Hungarian GDP in 2016 and 2016 in Hungarian GDP, let's say 1600 billion is the EU resource, if I look at the other side of the coin, 1600 billion is not too big compared to 38 000 billion. So if I look at annual EU payments to GDP - between HUF 1500 and HUF 2000 billion per year - then this amount should not dominate so much, for example, it should not have so much impact on economic results. Perhaps it is behind the data that Hungary is still spending too much money on operations, and there are no domestic sources of development. Those who work in the government or follow the government's internal life know precisely that 2010-2013, I can tell you, between 2010 and 2014, there was no source of development from the national budget, because the obligation to repay debt, high government debt means budgetary determination, which means that a significant part of the GDP generated should be used to repay the government debt. And while 75-76 percent of the public debt is still below 60 percent or not in the state in which it was in 2002, I would remind all my fellow Members of the extent to which the 50-percent government debt allowed the government, between 1998 and 2002, without such volume of catching-up or cohesion money in the European Union; as long as the volume of the public debt is so large, then I am sure that these funds are needed as additional development resources and can have a greater impact beyond the percentage or numerical proportions. Today's parliamentary debate is expected by the government to see, understand, and even criticize and make proposals regarding the functioning of the system in which we use the money in connection with the accountability and control of the executive power. I will say this now, as I have indicated in the context of the amendment to the Public Procurement Act, that the European Union is setting a framework for the use of money. In particular, Hungary, as a Member State, has a strict set of rules. How the Hungarian government uses resources, how much resources it uses, what resources it uses, what resources it has been talking about, what the purpose of the resources is, how bound the hand is; so it is possible to formulate dreams and desires, what money can be used for, but we also have the possibility to rephrase it every seven-year cycle, so in 2010, unfortunately, the government did not have room for manoeuvre, and I don't think it had the courage to reshape the whole register. But to add, he wouldn't have had much room for manoeuvre. Now a new room for manoeuvre has been opened in which we have put the priority elsewhere, but there is a line, and I would like to say what the EU funds can be used for, and how it can be, is bound and there are strict rules on the functioning of the institutional system. If we assume that a European Commission official is being held - there are 38 thousand of them - to check in a significant part what we use net contributors' money for, then they understand everything, because there, these officials live their lives - auditors, quality assurance professionals, accountants, financial accounting - that we are putting net contributors' money into Eastern Europe and that we need to check how this money is being used. This results in terrible bureaucracy. When we look at how many days from the submission of the application, or perhaps from the intention of the application, an entrepreneur will get to the first account, it was between 400 and 600 days between 2007-2014 - so 400 and 600 days from the idea to the realisation - now this, if it is in 150-200 days, we have worked well. But it must be made clear that this bureaucratic set-up, which has been established, makes it significantly difficult to pay the money and the framework. What's the state's interest, what's the economic interest? First, it was in the interest of the economy to have, at last, the normal purpose of the public compromise for the payment of EU money. What was that? In this Parliament, I have never received criticism during the parliamentary debates, and no one ever criticized the fact that the Hungarian government said that 60% of the funds should be spent on economic development. So what comes from the European Union, this is HUF 7800 billion between 2014-2020, without EU agricultural subsidies, 60 percent of this amount has to be paid for economic development. That was 14 to 16 percent before. So, in 2007-2013, 14-16 percent went to economic development, and now the goal is to make 60 percent go to economic development. In the press, an evaluation showed that 50 percent of EU funds are going to economic development. This is also a huge achievement compared to 14-15 percent, but what we have signed is that every euro spent will go directly from every hundred euros to 60 euros of economic development. This one has a frame, by the way, I'll add. Now the figures that I will say are self-esteem, because the Hungarian state adds all EU funds to the taxpayers' money. For human development, which is at the Ministry of Human Resources, there is a budget of HUF 986 billion, amounting to HUF 310, and on 21 November the wallet announced HUF 527 billion. This HUF 986 billion is much less than what was available in the period 2007-2013. This is because the European Union does not directly understand economic development, such as the register spent on education or health care. Thus, the share of EU funds for education and health has changed significantly. There are 2,500 billion forints for economic development, 2549 billion, of which the Ministry of Economy opened 1674 billion. Obviously, money must go directly to the small and medium-sized enterprises sector. A very important figure between 2007 and 2013 is that, first, the majority of the 14 percent economic development, which is not very large compared to the total cash register, came to large companies and 66 percent of the large companies were foreign companies. So it was not just a matter of little economic development, but of a small number of large companies, and large companies were in foreign hands; while in Poland it was completely different, I add. In Poland, national-owned SMEs were already supported in the period 2007-2013. It is a huge debate, and it is not indifferent to the Hungarian economy whether the Hungarian SME is fit to receive this amount of money in such a short time, because time is working against us. I will also say a few sentences about this: what is the government's ambition, which we have discussed several times. [[14.50]] 1216 billion for transport development, 1161 for environmental and energy development. This is far less than the previous 9200 billion. Out of the previous 9200 billion, my calculations show that 4500 billion went to infrastructure development. This, of course, has led us to say without risk that Hungary is the country with the most advanced infrastructure in cohesion countries today, as far as public infrastructure is concerned. The motorways, the drinking water network, the sewage network, belong to this. In this, we can even prevent the V4 countries. Everyone can experience the motorway network, for example. Whether this is a profitable investment, whether it can now be used for an economic advantage after the end of the cycle, whether there is an investor who comes to Hungary because the infrastructure is better than in Central Europe in general, is also an important issue. We're spending 290 billion on public administration development. The majority of this, about 160 billion, goes to IT developments that are responsible for serving customers in the area of territorial administration and central administration, and finally in Hungary, there is an opportunity for the voter to deal with as many cases as possible by contacting the office electronically, directly from home, on the one hand; on the other hand, the three hundred or thousands of forms of use in the public administration with the help of informatics. The county and county-righted cities will receive 1,200 billion together, which was an innovation of the programme to try to provide opportunities territorially, but it insists on economic development everywhere. So counties and county-righted cities can only use this money decisively for economic development. This was the biggest debate, since cities and municipalities are striving to devote these resources to developments linked to the loss of municipal responsibilities. The government's goal - and this is an ongoing balancing effort - is that these investments, even if they carry out municipal tasks, should be linked to local businesses. The aim of distributing this HUF 1200 billion to local entrepreneurs was not met, and the European Commission did not allow this goal to be put in the interest of businesses, local businesses, for example, or through the renovation of public education infrastructure, directly or indirectly, through various labour programmes. The region of Central Hungary is not a winner of this development cycle, as Pest County and Érd fall out of this circle, so there are only 22 cities with county rights in the programme, and there are not all counties in it, only 18 counties, since the government opened a HUF 80 billion framework to compensate for the losses they suffer in the EU register. In view of the Hungarian historical development of Pest county, it is typically a very difficult county, because while Budapest is splitting, while some settlements of the county are splitting, there are spectacular regions in Pest county, despite the fact that the whole region is closer to the average of the European Union on the basis of territorial classification than other settlements. We received 1294 billion for rural development, of which 76 percent, 982 billion were announced. In total, together with Hungarian funds, we can count 8982 billion, out of which 6746 billion were announced by 21 November, 75 percent of the total budget. What's the goal? The ambition is that everything will be announced by March 2017. This year we would like to announce HUF 1000 billion by 31 December. I would like to say here that our colleagues have looked at how the use of resources has progressed on a pro rata basis between 2007 and 2013. In 2009 data is mathematically accurate, it can be said that about 55-60 percent of the current 75 percent have been published. So one thing can be said for sure: now the publication of the funds, the publication of the tenders, is moving much faster than it has progressed between 2007 and 2013. This is a very important change, and, in addition, with continuous social control before the tender is launched, the various interest representatives are being consulted on the subject of the proposals. We have provided a direct influence and transparent influence on what to put out proposals for, because the government expects, on the one hand, the resources to be written out quickly, because the economy absolutely needs this and growth needs to be forced clearly. In order to catch up, Hungary needs not enough 2 percent economic growth, 4-5 percent sustained economic growth. This also requires speeding up EU funds. That's one of the goals. The other is that these applications are suitable for the target audience. Between 2007 and 2013, there was a lack of sufficient and quality applications, compared with rural development applications or GINOP applications - TOP applications do not come up here because they are already labelled and quoted, as they are addressed to 22 county towns and 18 counties - so let's say, the economic programme or the rural development programme is over-subscribed at least three times. So there's at least three over-subscriptions for the sources that have been released, which means that the resources will find the right place. So it is indeed the SME - and the report also includes the most popular calls for proposals - that, indeed, micro and medium-sized enterprises, and indeed the farmers involved in rural development, need these resources and the themes are well opened. The fact is that we can no longer raise it from European Union funds, because the government is already over-planning the register by 10 percent in order to ensure that no losses occur, or in order to avoid any loss of funds. A progress report was also prepared in this respect, so not only the figures of 21 November 2016 are published in the report, which we are asking Parliament to discuss, but also a derogation assessment between 2 May 2016 and 21 November 2016. There have been new calls here, 83 pieces, and there is also a schedule, and I will not mention this here separately, my colleagues have prepared and are ready to answer your questions or to reflect on what we are doing in general. Obviously, the report and the debate also require a macro-interpretation, but we will not give up the fantastic opportunity to discuss concrete matters, since we have a fellow Member who has spent his political work over the last year exploring concrete matters - I am talking about Mr Hadházy - in order to contribute to increasing transparency in the use of EU funds. Of course, we are ready for every specific case with the answer, so make no mistake, but one thing is very difficult to solve, which is why we need to see it objectively in a sense. I have been thinking a lot about how to measure the claim that many people are making, that the use of money is not regular, or that there is abuse where appropriate. Is this a unique case or a general trend? So are we talking about individual cases or are we talking about a general trend? Where 8000-9000 billion forints are distributed in one country, there are obviously different interests and interest groups who would like to apply their criteria in any way. These interest groups are already around the call for proposals, and there should be no misunderstanding, whether it is large companies or large companies, with a specific call for proposals between 2007 and 2013; now they cannot come, given the fact that large companies cannot benefit from the source, but the Chamber represents obvious interests. It is not a question of whether this is a representation of interests, and it is a right or wrong thing to do. The question is whether it's transparent or not transparent. Because it is obviously in the interest of the Chamber of Agriculture to enforce the interests of Hungarian small and medium-sized farmers or of large farmers among rural development applications, it is in the interest of the Chamber of Industry and Commerce to try to enforce the interests of small and medium-sized enterprises in the exhibitions. The question is whether this is a transparent, verifiable and accountable process or individual actions. This is always a very important question when we judge the outcome of a case and the fate of a case. I think that the reason why this debate is important is how effective the use of money is and how regular the use of money is, because you need to see precisely that there is an ambition in the European Commission that the European Union will not distribute money with a national institutional system, but that it will centralise the institutional system. What's this about? Hungary receives, say, EUR 25 billion. How does the country allocate EUR 25 billion? Today, there is a national institutional system for this. The money is centralized, coming from a central register, but there is a national institutional system. How will the European Commission do that? The European Commission will consider it as giving the money that, when Hungary submits invoices for settlement, it will specifically check all accounts and, before paying the bill to Hungary for the budget, it will obviously validate an audit. In addition, there are ongoing audits and audits at the procurement system or, where appropriate, at the launch of tenders, at the operation of the institutional system. There is a strong effort - that is why today's debate has a special purpose and significance, and also the debates of the coming years - not to be a national institutional system, but to be divided by a centralised institutional system maintained by Brussels in Hungary, which does not have any influence on the national side of the executive power or the legislative power. [[15.00]] So the European Commission's aim is that if there will be money after 2020, it will not be divided by the Hungarian government or not by national governments, it will not be divided by legislation, it will not be influenced by the various national interest representatives, but will have an institutional structure in Hungary, which is maintained and managed by Brussels, and which does not represent an integral system of operation. So the Hungarian government is not ultimately the owner of the money-sharing organisations serving in Hungary, and not the Hungarian government makes the decisions, but the European Commission. There is now a delicate balance between the European Commission's social policy objectives, the objectives of the European Union and the Hungarian institutional system, the implementation of the door in the operation of an institutional system operated by power. A brake, counterweights, conciliation mechanism, constructive dialogue, debate, settlement debate, and then agreement at the end of the debate, this is the method today. This is what they want to simplify, saying that the use of money will be taken out of the hands of the nations, and that this will be centralized. The objectives are identical, but implementation is not left to the countries. That's why it doesn't matter what indicators we're going to do this with. I would like to tell you what I have already drawn attention to in this House, and I will do so now that Hungary's indicators can only be viewed according to the European Commission's figures, and I have not found any studies - and here I have also looked at all the banner protection organisations that George Soros maintains - based on empirical figures. After the European Commission gives the money, it is worth working on their numbers, which makes sense. When does the European Commission say that there may be a problem with the allocation of money? If there is no competition, if there is no competition, the country will not use the money like a good farmer. This is where the public procurement debate comes in - and here we are very much in the bottom of the regulations - how many people are applying for a public tender. This is where the proportion of single-offer procedures or multi-offer procedures comes in. I would like to tell you that there is the same proportion everywhere in Central Europe as in Hungary. So in dozens of countries in Central Europe, which are cohesion countries, there are the same phenomena everywhere. One third is a single offer and about 20 percent of the tenders were not tendered, they did not open competition, but were distributed in a national circle or without competition. And this ratio is the same everywhere, the same in Poland, the same in the Czech Republic, the same in Slovenia, the same in Romania and the same in the Baltic. The only reason I'm saying this is that when the government is accused of corruption, all Central European countries have the same social problems. And I would also like to say that, according to the 2016 audit, Hungary's numbers are significantly improving, the number of single tender procedures is decreasing, this can be followed by six or seven candidates in large public procurement procedures, and the number of procedures that are excluded from open competition is decreasing. The number of open competitive procedures is increasing, and the public interest which would require this if necessary is reduced. The account may contain numbers in this regard, but these are the proportions. I only said this in such detail because the regularity of the use of money within the institutional system is a very important and very important issue. And, of course, there is zero tolerance for corruption. This means that I expect you not only to press criminal charges if you are experiencing abuse, but I have also given this clear and clear instruction to my colleagues, both now and in the past. Basically, we're investigating every case, every complaint. The number of Hungarian budgets in the period 2010-2016 has been very talkative in public procurement procedures, and the percentage that the Hungarian budget has had to do with the European budget. I'll explain briefly what this is about. If the European Commission, based on your complaint - because the reports are coming from Hungary - object to an invoice, saying that there is supposedly lawlessness there, if the Hungarian Government cannot prove that there is no lawlessness, then the account cannot be cleared, the European Commission will not pay it to the Treasury. In the last six years, the proportion of accounts that the European Commission has not accepted has decreased from 2.5 per cent to 0.5 per cent and 1 per cent, respectively, since we have been managing. So overall, the proportion of unaccounted accounts where there is an irregularity - this does not necessarily mean corruption or lawlessness - is not in compliance with European rules - it is 1 percent at the moment. Ninety-nine percent bill is the one who gives the money, takes in and pays the budget. So the fact that the person who gives the money can't find an irregularity in it, I think we can accept it as a single fixed point in relation to the position of the opinion leaders financed by George Soros. The fact is, therefore, that the European Commission has a problem within the total register with an amount of 1 per cent of invoices following the public procurement audit. I think this is a very serious result, and these numbers must be monitored and monitored continuously, and that is why I resist any attempt to break the strictness of the Public Procurement Act, the system of the Public Procurement Act, because, of course, there are such efforts for a reasonable national economy. I do not think it is a devil's thing, and it is not corruption and it is not a crime that Hungarian economic operators expect the Hungarian government to benefit predominantly from European Union or domestic development resources to those involved in the Hungarian economy. It is the Hungarian government's duty to put Hungarian businesses in position, not to create a market for Strabag, not to create a market for foreign multinational IT companies. I will now, exceptionally, examine the concentration in the IT market, for example, that multinational companies are taking part in the purchase of the Hungarian IT service. Shocking data will come out, 60-70 percent of all IT spending will eventually migrate abroad, just as more than 50 percent of road construction still goes abroad. After all, the Hungarian national economy expects the Hungarian government to try to implement applications, EU funds and resource allocation in such a way as to create opportunities for the Hungarian economy. Of course, transparency and concentration must always be taken into account here, but the aim is to ensure that the players of the Hungarian economy can be significantly strengthened in the next period. I ask my fellow Members to consider separately the parts of the report that concern commitment, payment rates. This year, Hungary, as I have said, is expecting an advertisement of over 70 percent, and it is clear that next year our commitment rate, so what we have already decided and committed will be around HUF 5000 billion. This could mean a payment of EUR 2000 billion in 2017. This year we will pay 1500-1600 billion, which, compared to being in a year when relatively few applications were opened at the beginning of the year, and there is still little time for implementation, is not a bad number at all. So we have nothing to be ashamed of by 1,600 billion, and next year 2000-2500 billion forints will boost GDP and the economy. We cannot afford to keep paying EU funds until the end of the development cycle. It's part risk, it's rush, it's opportunity to make mistakes. Lucky for us, we were able to close the 2007-2013 cycle with no major error in the accounts so far. In 2013 we started from Hungary's ability to draw 60 percent of the funds, according to the European Commission, to become a net loser in the order of 700 billion or 1000 billion. Compared to this, Hungary closed the register at 110 percent, which means that we will not be net losers and we have been able to draw the entire source. To do this, the government apparatus had to work hard for three years - not for politicians and not for leaders, but for the apparatus - and the application had to be turned up. But this chance - or God is with us - is that we have not made a greater mistake and that we have been able to cooperate with the European Commission. It was probably in their interest that we could pay as much money as possible. Once again, we do not want to make this mistake, and therefore the resources must be spread in proportion and a separate economic policy plan should be drawn up for the period when these resources are no longer available. Because if the applications are published by spring 2017, the implementation will take place in 2017-2018.By December 2018, not only will the money be traced, not only will the money be called off, but the money will also start to be accounted for. So here is a resource that should be distributed in 2018, 2019, 2020 and will not remain substantially. So between 2019 and 2022, i.e. the n+2 year settlement system between 2019 and 2022, in Hungarian: during the cycle of governance of the next government, these resources can no longer be calculated as a practical economic incentive. The question of whether there is an idea and a plan to respond to the lack of these sources between 2018 and 2022 will be such economic growth that the Hungarian economy will increase the public debt and will be able to increase the potential deficit or smaller volume of these resources, since the next cash register will be opened in a practical manner 2021 if such a cash register is available at all. [[15.10]] In the specific cases, very detailed tables have been drawn up by colleagues, and the Secretary of State Csepreghy has prepared all of our fellow Member Hadházy's cases. We are all at your disposal, not just by us, but by all the investigations created by the European Union's control organisations, so that we can answer your questions in substance and decisively. I would also like to propose that, on the next spring session, MEPs should also have in their hands the EMCDDA study for the period 2007-2013 in order to have an opportunity to measure and discuss its social impact. The government is now ready to consider, heed, and to follow up on the general comments on the system, in general on the use of resources, as well as on specific micro-related matters. Of course, we initiated the debate day so that the legislative authority could exercise control. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2016-11-28-195	Thank you very much, Minister. Dear Parliament, The speeches will now be held by the Members, the first among which will be the speeches by the lead speaker. The Fidesz Group indicated that two of their speakers presented the group's position. First, I give the floor to Mr Erik Bánki, one of the lead speakers of the Fidesz Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-11-28-196	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Minister, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank the Minister first of all for the detailed information that he gave in addition to the documents he had sent earlier in the debate. I think it has become clear to everyone that the plans and objectives of the next period are well-founded, and the government is really seeking a balanced allocation of resources which, by the way, creates predictable conditions on the market, while also wanting to conclude not only contracts in this government cycle, but also a large proportion of payments. This was not always the case, as the Minister said in his expozee, because the Hungarian government had a rather serious legacy and gave the Hungarian government a task after 2010, which, I think, was a very serious test of strength for the first period of the term. Why am I saying all this? I am saying all this because, indeed, when we took over governance, the system of drawing on and even criticizing the European Union's resources was so hopeless that it required immediate intervention. As the Minister mentioned just now, even the European Commission itself thought, even in 2013, that Hungary would be able to draw up up up to 65% of the available resources. This would have meant that we really would have been the losers of this development cycle, so as net contributors we would have sacrificed more on the altar of the community than we could have called for funds and subsidies, from which we could have made investments as important and essential for Hungarian society, such as infrastructure improvements, such as the protection of the water base or environmental tasks. Not to mention that it was a fundamental problem in the allocation of funds that it was necessary to strengthen the system of business recovery, business development, small and medium-sized enterprises in Hungary and to encourage investment in Hungary to be the primary objective of the EU's allocation, since Hungary had a very serious unemployment problem in 2010, and our unemployment rate was above 10%. In Hungary, hundreds of thousands of people lived in a hopeless situation where they had no idea if they could find a job at all, a decent job from which they could support their family. The previous system was also a big mistake, so, however, as the Minister pointed out, that it had a total budget of 14-16 percent for economic development measures, and also had a serious problem that it also required public organisations, local governments, to submit applications in areas where there was no need to do so. After all, the country had a derogation obligation, such as in drinking water repair programmes or in the sewerage and cleaning system, where there was no discretion. Precisely, the government knew in advance what type of investments would otherwise have to be made on the basis of the EU commitment. So it was completely unnecessary to set up a tendering system for these applications, where 15-17 percent of the total amount of funding was taken by the applicants, project managers - and even in some cases it exceeded 20 percent - instead of using this amount to invest in infrastructure development itself. Based on these experiences, the new distribution system operates in a completely different structure, will be a much faster, much simpler decision-making process, and the candidate himself will have a much easier opportunity to write and submit these applications without any help. So the previous application system imposed administrative obligations on municipalities which made it virtually impossible for them to submit applications without external assistance, based on their own knowledge and preparedness, as they had to produce bulk materials, to complete data sheets in a complex tender system that made it difficult for them to submit these applications at all. We believe that if we can improve this merit, and the current system of announcement means that the tender schedule will be definitely easier and simpler, then most of the municipalities will be able to solve these tasks themselves, and will be able to submit proposals to help the living conditions and the working opportunities of local businesses, the population. In addition, the counties themselves have been given a task in which they can provide concrete assistance to small settlements in order to ensure that the resources allocated to that county can be used in the most efficient way possible under territorial operational programmes. I think the numbers speak for themselves. The ambitious plans that the government has set out in this area have one goal: we can use these resources for the benefit of as many Hungarian businesses as possible, as many Hungarian governments as possible, and through this we can demonstrate to the European Union that the Hungarian government is ready and able to implement the plans that we have agreed with them. What we want is for development policy to be not just a goal, but a tool. It is precisely the instrument on which the European Commission has set up the Cohesion Fund itself so that it can catch up with the regions that have fallen apart and establish competitiveness in these areas that can not only serve development but also, in the long term, start sustainable development that can provide long-term work for local people. I think, ladies and gentlemen, that these are ambitious goals, although they have been formulated by the government, and obviously both the Fidesz and the KDNP fractions support the government in implementing these plans, but I think that this is also the common goal and shared responsibility of all of us. I would like to ask the opposition parties to use the debate to get meaningful proposals from them, so the aim should not only be to launch a political attack on the government, but also to try to turn the matter around and come up with constructive proposals, either based on the example of other countries or formulated by your experts, to come to the table and discuss them. Let us have a constructive debate today, thanks to which the system, the structure that the government has thought about, and the steps and foundations of which are supported by the governing parties, should be even better, can lead to even more efficient use of resources, and can achieve even better results. I think that we can all be proud that, after the end of the 2007-2013 cycle, the European Commission has also stated that Hungary is among the best performing countries. The 109 percent efficiency with which we made the call for funds is the sensational idea on which the government added these proposals from its own resources, so that we are not able to deliver the submission to 100 percent in the first place, but that we can achieve at a level of 10 or 12 percent higher, so that we do not accidentally withdraw funds and leave a single euro cent in the European register, I think that the government's performance deserves all recognition. I, too, thank you for your cooperation in this, and I would like us all to do so today with a constructive debate in order to ensure that the next period is at least as effective. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2016-11-28-197	Thank you very much, Congressman. As I said, the mainnote speech of Fidesz will be given by two of you. Now it's time for Congressman Richard Hörcsik. Here you go, Congressman. [[15.20]]
u2016-11-28-198	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Ladies and gentlemen of the State Secretary. Hungary is one of the winners of the EU budget for 2014-2020, we heard it in the ministerial exposé. EU support for our country in proportion to the level of development represents a 3.6 percent position compared to national income, which means that we are second in the EU ranking. We have also heard that together with the Hungarian co-financing, a HUF 12 000 billion development will be published in the coming years. Ladies and gentlemen, The government therefore, rightly, prioritises the use of EU funds, programmes from EU funds, and the budget spends more than HUF 1400 billion of 4 per cent of GDP on investments during the cycle. Well, we have heard in the ministerial exposé that the government is prepared to use development resources in a targeted, simpler way, and has also decided to use 60% of resources to increase employment and competitiveness. It is worth recalling, ladies and gentlemen, that, as a result of the Government's successful negotiations, Hungary's net position was improved at the February 2013 European Council meeting, where a decision was taken on the current financial framework. It is also worth considering the quality criteria for spending EU money. In this respect, during the 7-year financial framework negotiations, the battle was won on the two most important issues in Brussels. One of the two key factors for Hungary is the 85 percent preservation of the EU co-financing rate for the less developed regions, and during the negotiations, the net contributor countries tried to reduce it to 75%, which was prevented. Another key rule of use is the eligibility of VAT, and I believe that this is also a very important result, that the non-refundable VAT can continue to be fully eligible in accordance with previous legislation. Finally, under the rules of use, I would like to highlight the so-called "n+3" rule that has been in place in this period in terms of the use of resources, which I feel is very positive for us. Ladies and gentlemen, It is also important that applicants can expect more transparent, simpler and streamlined tendering procedures than before. One of the main objectives of the transformation was to allow applicants to easily, easily and quickly access EU funds, and it is not acceptable that potential applicants are deterred by excessive bureaucracy. And to this end, the development policy institutional system has been reformed, with the result that the lead times have been drastically shortened, as the Minister said, in the previous period it has been 404-600 days, and in the current cycle, payments have been made between 100 and 200 days. What an interesting, honourable fellow Members, while the European Commission has whipped us in the previous development cycle because it is too slow, but in the new cycle it is criticising the government because of too fast a call for funds, although the competitiveness of the Hungarian economy, I believe, and the uncertain future of EU funds after 2020, is a key issue when we can complete these calls so that Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprises can be strengthened as quickly as possible. Then it is worth taking a look at how payment practice has evolved in recent years. The government accepted an acceleration work plan, with specific payment targets and monthly breakdowns, and each month it was called to account by the institutional system, as the Minister said in his expozee. I feel that this has had a serious impact, so we can now say that we have managed to bring every euro cent back from Brussels for the period 2007-2013. Ladies and gentlemen, At present, we are about halfway through the new cycle 2014-2020. In this case, according to the practice of the European Union, the General Affairs Council will discuss the way in which the budget is being implemented and what internal and external challenges the Union is facing, and in the light of this, whether it may be necessary to amend the budget. It is a very important rule that the 7-year budgetary framework cannot be changed if a single EU Member State has taken a veto against it. So I feel that there is a strong legal guarantee for Member States that national envelopes that were decided in 2013 cannot change despite the Member State's intentions. I report, ladies and gentlemen, as we know from the press, the mid-term review has been carried out, and we also know that the European Parliament has approved the EU budget for 2017, despite the alarm of Italian Prime Minister Matteo Renzi, who said that Italy's money will not give cohesion beneficiary countries a penny if they do not participate in the migrant forced resettlement programme. Ladies and gentlemen, I am pleased to inform this House that this threat has been addressed, so the Union has a budget for 2017 and therefore there is no threat to the smooth implementation of policies that have already been decided, including the payment of cohesion and rural development funds. If you will, my fellow Members, the Hungarian Government, together with its allies, has successfully defended cohesion policy against all kinds of politically undermotivated alarms. So we look with confidence, fellow Members, for the next few years, when this huge amount is drawn. I wish the government good luck with this. Thank you very much.
u2016-11-28-199	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker of the MSZP Group is Mr László Szakács. I give you the floor. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-11-28-200	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will try to follow the advice that we have heard from Erik Bánki to try to be constructive today, but you are obviously also curious about criticism; there is one. I think that one does not learn from praise, and criticism must be said in any way. You say that we should be constructive and tell us where EU funds are needed. Then you don't really believe the Hungarian Prime Minister. The Hungarian Prime Minister went around the country, this was the tour of the programme of the modern cities, where Viktor Orbán went round, I will not read the promises made there as a production conference, I have all of them, please believe it. If we leave it a little bit to each count, then the Prime Minister has promised some HUF 1481 billion, and of this, the one that is at least somewhere, so somewhere in the design, it is somewhere in the implementation, about 74 billion forints. So if you put roughly 1,500 to the 74 billion, I think it's not a success yet. I have also heard in the speaker's speech and in the Minister's Expo, that you will carry out improvements that are best suited to the local characteristics, the local needs. I'm going to talk about my narrower Patriot, Pécs. The Prime Minister has come - nothing has come of it yet, so nothing has actually been ruined yet - and Pécs has promised that the industrial park will be 200 hectares larger. It is true that the 90-acre industrial park next to it is still empty; then, if you keep the Prime Minister's promises, it will not be 90-acre empty, but 290-acre empty. It's not that anything is effective here; I'm going to end up talking about why, it's not because it's what the locals want. The locals would have the need to have 90 hectares full of jobs, and all of Baranya would not have to work anywhere in London or Budapest, but would be able to work calmly in the county seat. They also promised a wellness spa in Baranya County, in the city of Pécs, an adventure bath of 500 million forints - they didn't really want to spend too much - but also a basketball academy. [[15.30]] If we go through Baranya County together, one thing is for sure: not because of the basketball academy or lack of it, Baranya County feels that the government treats Baranya County as a sack settlement. In fact, it would not even be necessary to have an adventure bath in the county where the number of one square meter or per person is certainly the highest. It's definitely the biggest in Baranya County. There's seven so far. There will be an eighth if you keep Viktor Orbán's promise. I say all this by saying that both the northern half of Baranya County and the southern half of it, gentlemen of state, are actually not thinking about what to do this weekend, but about what to eat this weekend, what to eat, let's say, in the Ormania. It is not the adventure bath, it is not the basketball academy, it is certainly not a much bigger, completely empty industrial park from Pécs. That's not what I'm missing. In fact, if we go through it - my fellow Members will say so - the Prime Minister's promises also do not meet with the wishes of the locals. I'm sure there's an exception to that, and I'm sure there's someone in Pécs who misses the spa. I think that jobs are missing better, and that is why I would like to talk a little more about economic development and competitiveness. I was talking about this before today's agenda, and I thought we would be listening to these fanfares this afternoon, that the most effective source-recall mechanism, the simplest, the fastest, and the fantastic amount of money coming from the European Union. On the basis of the latest surveys of the World Market Forum, Hungary has made six places worse in terms of competitiveness indicators, i.e. being on the world market. This great work that John Lazarus said, in which the state apparatus was almost interrupted, and perhaps even the good Lord helped us, was, in fact, ladies and gentlemen, enough to slide back from 63rd place to 69th place in the world. But let us look at what this performance has been enough for in the European Union. In the European Union, we are ranked 25th out of 28, we can prevent 3 Member States from being competitive, and these three Member States are Croatia, which has recently joined and otherwise drowned in domestic political debates, Greece, which has been largely bankrupt, and Cyprus, which is linked to Greece. We can prevent them, and everyone else is ahead of us. Last year, in 2015 Romania and Bulgaria went by our side in terms of competitiveness. Now we are not following the bright West, we are not chasing them, but in this race we must first also catch up with Bulgaria and Romania in terms of competitiveness. And large economies such as the Czech economy and the Slovak economy, not to mention Slovenia in two counties, are constantly showing more economic development indicators than Hungary. Therefore, I think that the fanfares that we are now hearing should be turned a little lower. There is no need to organize celebrations in large cities all over the country, and I think that the lessons should be learned from here too. What are these lessons? Hungary's competitiveness is really not worse because the European Union would not be willing to finance these competitiveness-enhancing programmes, which are pumping money into the economy and helping Hungarian businesses. It's not because you didn't work out these programs. I can't even say that. This is because you define who will become a successful entrepreneur in Hungary and who does not. That's not how it works in the larger part of the world. There, whether someone will be successful or not, it is simply his experience, his ability to work, his ability to take risks, his diligence and courage, and in Hungary, who the finger of the dear leader points to. We also see who they were, who performed excellently in previous procurement procedures, where large amounts of EU funding could be used. Lajos Simicska was one of these, Garancsi or even Mészáros, and not Stróman, Lőrinc was the other. They want to give the backbone of today's Hungarian economy, and they cannot compete in the economy, because they are not competitive because they are actually the ones they should compete with, they came from the sphere where they learned what they were doing, they have the ability, they have the courage, they tolerate the risk, and they are not just based on their political relations where they are. Today everyone in Hungary knows that if they want to win in public procurements, who they have to work with. And if that's not the case, then these people are even texting each other in the press, so that each entrepreneur knows exactly which fold it is worth to belong to today. I think that is what is driving us down in terms of competitiveness. Therefore, any amount of money can be pumped into this because, in fact, these private assets will grow, and as long as these private wealth-funded policies last, you will be able to grow or stagnate, but then slowly eat yourself. This international organisation states that Hungary is among the worst on the basis of eight indicators in terms of competitiveness. Among these, state corruption is outstanding, i.e. the phenomenon - I would like to quote it precisely - that the privileged enterprises benefit significantly from the government decisions. And you can read about it in the press every day until you shut down these press agencies. We see that in the competitiveness indicators, as I say, we have been avoided from the levels of Romania, Bulgaria, Poland and the Czech Republic. Well, it's very difficult to live up to the desire to be constructive. Sure, make it infrastructure development. Yeah, let's make it economic development. Let this be sustainable. I, too, think that either the southern part of our county, the northern part of the country, or the northern part of the country, or anyone else, could do much more than they're getting now, but we see that based on these resource-use mechanisms, as you say, the winner is always someone else. Not the cities, not the cities to whom 1500 billion forints were promised, and then in the summer, on a nice quiet summer afternoon, they were withdrawn and they could start planning again. It's not the cities that win, it's the urizing elite that you put in position. True, they are Hungarian entrepreneurs, but they did not get there on the basis of their talents, but on the basis of their political relations. But let's see what happened this summer. The government has withdrawn Viktor Orbán's promises. What happened this summer was that government decisions were withdrawn in the Official Gazette, issue 113, which was published on 29 July. The government withdraws the decision on the source requirement for preparing key transport investments in Budapest. We asked Miklós Seszták about this last time at his ministerial hearing. He said that this was certainly no longer within his purview, so it must have been withdrawn. The Government withdraws the decision on the tasks related to the implementation of the agreement with the City of Veszprém, the City of Kecskemét County. The decision on the Olympic Games was also withdrawn. The decision on the tasks related to the implementation of the Government's intention to cooperate was withdrawn with regard to Szombathely. As far as road investments are concerned, you know, this was the case on Highway 1, Highway 7, and it was also withdrawn in the summer. As a punishment, János Lázár was also given the task of going to the leaders of the county-righted cities after that, and he should go to those who had previously been promised by Viktor Orbán what improvements he would make here and discuss with them that only improvements that could be financed by the government will be financed by EU money. Here, ladies and gentlemen, you cannot see sustainable development, you cannot see economic recovery here. All you can see here is that the Prime Minister taught John Lazarus a lesson. [[15.40]] It was his job to go and give the bad news. But you didn't have to go everywhere because you missed four county-righted cities. To four county-righted cities, this government has promised nothing. He didn't go to Hodmezővásárhely; I, in the place of the Hódmezővásárhelys, would only be outraged. Well, they also have a minister who's responsible for these resources. Or did you think he'd figure it out? The city of another minister, Győr, has not promised anything at all, but what really upsets us is not much of the cities with left-wing county rights, Salgótarján and Szeged, so it has not been possible to go to the Minister or Prime Minister, nor has it promised them anything. If, in terms of both the economic players and the promises, we see that it is only developments of a political nature, not planned, but not about the mechanism of development, it is not about what János Lázár said that in 2020 Hungary should stand on its feet, but it is about political distribution and political instruction, it is very difficult to engage in a constructive debate, because I think that it is their own fight between themselves. Only the Hungarians will always be the losers. I kindly ask you to focus on these, to be a real competition in Hungary, not only on entrepreneurs with political relations in Hungary, because they will never be strong enough to compete with other businesses in Europe and in the world, who have not been put where their political relations are, but also with their talents, their ability to work, their ability to take risks and their diligence. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2016-11-28-201	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Before I speak to Congressman Imre Vejkey, allow me to ask your opinion on a meeting matter, since you must decide on a meeting chair. Vice-President István Jakab indicated his wish to speak during the debate. Since he's gonna change me, he's not gonna have the chance to make a decision on the board of directors. I therefore ask the Parliament, with respect, to take a position, to give its consent, so that Vice-President István Jakab can lead the meeting during the political debate, and then, after he has taken his seat, he can take part in the debate and speak. With all due respect to the National Assembly, who agrees, please vote by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] It's a visible majority. Thank you very much. I declare that the visible majority of Parliament has accepted my motion. The lead speaker of the KDNP Group is Mr Imre Vejkey, I give you the floor. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-11-28-202	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, As a Christian Democrat, I already feel it is necessary to make clear that the EU's development policy was not created by Brussels as well as by goodness or solidarity, as many claim it to be, but by raw economic interest. The reality is that the aim of the EU funds is not to reduce the multiple differences between the citizens of the most developed regions and the domestic income of Hungarian people, but merely to achieve a return of EUR 1.5-2 for EUR 1 for Hungary in the Western developed economies. What does that mean, ladies and gentlemen? It means that developed Western European economies will achieve long-term economic benefits in relation to Hungary and the other newly joined countries by allocating funds. We therefore consider all statements in Brussels to be open political blackmail, which make it a matter of consideration that the European Union will reduce the cohesion support of Hungary and the other three Visegrad countries in the future if we continue to reject the admission of migrants. Ladies and Gentlemen, Meanwhile, in Brussels, pressure has been put on our heads, and we have been illegally bypassed, and a whole quota package has been decided to install Hungary with immigrants. Remember, our future, our security, our civilization and our culture are at stake here. Today's leaders in Brussels and leaders in Western Europe will not deliberately ask Europeans whether they want Europe's composition, culture, order and faith to change forever. Ladies and Gentlemen, We Christian democrats regard this as a dictatorial direction, and also the fact that Brussels is deliberately and in bad faith increasingly exceeding the powers conferred on it by the nation states. We therefore call on the European Union to return to the state of legal functioning by complying with international treaties. Ladies and Gentlemen, Returning to narrow economic interests, it is clear that the EU's developed Western countries have a tangible economic interest in improving the competitiveness of Hungary and the other Visegrad countries, because if competitiveness is increased, purchasing power will increase, investment opportunities will be better, i.e. Western companies will gain a Central European market. At the same time, we see competition in the world economy, so we need to look for more and more instruments to increase the competitiveness of our country. In particular, the new tax legislation on investment in R &amp; D, which will enter into force from 1 January 2017, as well as the new fiscal financing rules in this respect, will serve this purpose. Measures to increase competitiveness include, in particular, the reduction of corporate tax and employers' contributions, as this will make our country a European country with the most favourable investment environment. With six years of national-Christian governance, Hungary has reached the point of economic growth, low interest rates, zero inflation, unemployment below 5 percent, and a trade surplus. Credit rating agencies have been able to identify our country on this basis, i.e. we have been offered to invest. Ladies and Gentlemen, Fidesz-KDNP proved itself even when it brought back the development resources of the 2007-2013 cycle from the grave in the failed development policy system inherited from the Gyurcsány government. In spite of Brussels' attempts to put pressure on our country, the results so far show that we have been on the right path. It also shows that we are not having self-interest debates with Brussels, but that we are standing up for our national interests. We Christian Democrats believe that it is the joint responsibility of all parties to ensure that there is no threat to the achievement of the Hungarian competitiveness goals, as we believe that no opposition party or opposition organization would want our country to fall behind and reduce its competitiveness. We therefore believe that it would be up to the opposition to draw attention to the problems and not to undermine confidence in the development policy and public procurement institution system, which could negatively affect the economic efficiency of the use of resources. Ladies and Gentlemen, It is crucial for Hungary's economic independence that we manage to use the EU funds for the 2014-2020 programming period, as efficient use of resources can make a significant contribution to the sustainable economic growth of Hungary, which also means strengthening our sovereign national economy funds. To this end, in contrast to the previous 2007-2013 cycle, in the 2014-2020 cycle, 60% of resources are spent on economic development, as Minister said. [[15.50]] Ladies and Gentlemen, After all, allow me to focus specifically on the area of health with regard to the use of resources. Since the change of regime, we have made the largest development of more than HUF 600 billion in health care in recent years, where hospitals, clinics and over HUF 104 billion have renewed throughout the country to buy new machines and tools. The largest volume of developments took place in the so-called convergence region, i.e. outside Budapest and Pest County. In this context, we spent some HUF 13 billion in support of the development of infrastructure conditions for basic care services. With nearly HUF 50 billion of development aid, 40 existing outpatient clinics have been developed, 23 new outpatient clinics in the small region have been developed and 9 hospitals converting active care have also been developed. With nearly 11 billion development aids, 60 existing rescue stations have been upgraded within the development of emergency benefits, 22 new rescue stations have been built and 200 new ambulances and modern rescue equipment have been opened. Within the hospital emergency care, new emergency departments were established and existing emergency departments were developed using some HUF 13.3 billion of development money. In the field of health, the largest proportion of development resources, more than HUF 322 billion, served to renew and modernise inpatient care and to modernise oncological care. On the basis of the above, it can be said that a large part of rural hospitals are now subject to Article XXI. Patients can heal under centuries of age. Ladies and Gentlemen, After the development of the rural health infrastructure and the wage increase, the renewal of the supply system will now take place in Budapest. The capital's in-patient system provides at least 3.5 to 4 million people, so the Hungarian government has decided that the development should be concentrated in the country's largest population area, which includes the simultaneous renewal of infrastructure and assets. The programme will be implemented at HUF 1 billion this year, and HUF 40 billion will be available in 2017 as well as HUF 11 billion from the CUHOP funds. With these resources, we can start complex infrastructure developments, stressing that this volume of resources has not been available in the Central Hungary region for nearly a quarter of a century. The government has accepted the concept of the Ministry of State for Health of EMMI, the Healthy Budapest Programme, which will lead to institutional renovations and constructions in the capital in the coming years. In the coming years, along the concept that has now been adopted, at least two Pest and one Budapest hospital centers and associated co-centres will be developed. During the provision of the health care system in Budapest, it is important to create complex, multi-professional centres suitable for emergency care, which, as far as possible, operate on a site every day of the year in every profession. The development will make it possible to increase patient safety and patient satisfaction in order to increase the complex supply standards of the population using health care services in the capital. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-11-28-203	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker of the Jobbik Group is Mr Tibor Bana. Congressman Tibor Bana has the floor. Here you go. [[In the notary seat László Földi is replaced by Attila József Móring.]]
u2016-11-28-204	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I do not want to be accused of having a negative attitude, so I would like to point out that Jobbik sees it as a positive point that, for the second time this year, we can debate the use of EU funds here in Parliament, because a few months ago we could do this for the 2007-2013 cycle, and we would like to say our serious criticisms and constructive, constructive proposals, as well. This is of particular importance only because when we talk about the 2014-2020 development cycle, we are faced with the second full seven-year period, and I think that at a time when a debate day takes place within this framework, it is worth looking back at where we started. Whether we could go all the way back to the period before our accession to the EU, I would look back on the 2007-2013 budget cycle, i.e. the previous seven-year budget cycle, for a few thoughts, because then there were two very important promises for economic growth and employment. The then Socialist-Free Democratic Government made two concrete commitments by 2015 compared to 2006. One was that the added value generated by businesses should be 10 percent higher in 2015 compared to 2006, while the other sounded to increase the number of people employed outside the public sector by 4 percent, also during this decade. I will return to how this has been implemented or how it has not been implemented, but I also think it is worth mentioning that the system of distribution, which was established at the time, was under direct political influence. This was reflected in large investments, and was also reflected when we were faced with the fact that there was a circle of faithful municipalities that could benefit from the aid in a sufficient way during the previous period. However, the real problem, my honourable Parliament, is that this situation has not changed in this regard in the current period 2014-2020. So when we recall the words of Minister Mónika Lamperth, which I think we can all remember, who talked about not having to worry comrades, because in the regional development councils there will be people who will decide on the distribution of money, then we can see that, after the 2010 government change and especially during the current 2014-2020 cycle, the basic position has not changed in this respect. Thus, investments that are independent of economic rationality and of actual development needs, often meaningless, have been made in the past. It is enough to refer to the construction of the 40 centimeters high lookout tower from 40 million forints, or to the drawing up of the non-functional Hegyalya gate from 100 million forints. After that, it was no accident and surprising that many people looked forward to the establishment of the new government before the 2010 parliamentary elections, and Fidesz also made serious promises. These promises were about accountability, detection of scandalous cases, and revision of subsidies. Compared to this, after 2010, we had to experience that the application had been practically suspended for a year on the basis of the reasons given, and that there had been unthinkable changes to the institutional system. There has been no accountability, no unsolving of cases that were suspected of corruption and no substantive review of the aid has been carried out. We can therefore assess that Fidesz continued where their predecessors, the socialists, stopped, that is, the system of using EU funds has continued to function as a hotbed for corruption. No maladministration has been removed, and prestige investments and pointless projects remain at the centre. It's enough for me to give you the example of a small train up the road, but I've been able to bring in a number of cases like this since the last few years you've been on the government. And in the second half of the cycle, back in the previous period, the red tapes, the facial toasters exceeded all previous dimensions, so Brussels suspended payments for all operational programmes. The two main objectives I referred to at the beginning of my speech, i.e. the 10 percent increase in employment and the 4 percent increase in employment in the competition sector, were not only not realised, but in the latter case the opposite movements started after the change of government. [[16.00]] This may be why the government has made such a serious promise for the current period 2014-2020 that 60% of the aid will be paid for direct economic development, but unfortunately, it is already visible at the end of 2016 that this will not be achieved. But let's see what the frameworks are for the current seven-year planning period, how Hungary can draw and farm! It should be seen that EU funds have fallen compared to 2007-2013. This was done despite the fact that, rather than falling against promises, the differences between the central countries and the former socialist countries have increased. This gap has deepened in recent years, despite the fact that the so-called central countries have taken advantage of the devalued natural and human resources of this region. We can remember, and we can hear it all the time, that, in the meantime, the Union is falsely claiming that this is one of the main objectives of reducing these differences. But what can we see in contrast with these seven years? It means that the EU budget has been reduced by 4.5 percent in real terms. This was the first time in the history of the Community, and the most important cohesion funds for us in this respect fell by 8.4 percent. In the spirit of fairness, as I have said that we will certainly be characterised by a constructive attitude on this day's debate, it should be said that in the course of the negotiations a better outcome has finally been achieved than before. But the success propaganda, which was then said by the government, did not stand up at all, as overall, we came out of this process badly because of the reduction in cohesion resources. What is the most important aspect in Jobbik's view in relation to the use of aid from the European Union? It is to be optimal and to spend these funds for purposes that can create jobs and keep jobs in the long term, thereby increasing Hungary's competitiveness. And it would be crucial that these EU funds, these developments, are the basis for Hungary's ability to stand on its feet without them. Even before someone misunderstands me, honourable Members, I would just like to point out here that it is possible that, in the next seven years, such resources, cohesion resources, will no longer be available, but it is certain that the trend so far is in the direction that they will decrease in any case, which is something that should be kept in mind when we decide on improvements. Corruption remains high in applications. We've seen in recent years that a large part of the funding ends up with friends. There was also a need to change the way in which the decision-making process took place in Brussels. And what I am still very concerned about is that small and medium-sized enterprises are the most affected by these sanctions in Hungary. There are many complaints from the SME sector that they are virtually impossible to operate, while from the other side, buddies with thousands of ties to the government and Fidesz do not hit their ankles in this way, they can benefit from the resources. It is a question of priority projects, as this was also mentioned: indeed, almost 50 percent of this is the proportion of projects where decisions are essentially taken without competition. Needless to say, the chances of overpriced and corruption are increased. For this reason, we should not be surprised that, unfortunately, Hungary is prominent on the blacklists of OLAF, the European Anti-Fraud Office. But it is also worth talking about what is the situation with regard to which settlements can obtain these grants. It can be seen that villages and cities with non-government town leaders have far fewer EU funds, in particular in municipalities with an independent or other colourful mayor leading the village or city, with less than half of the EU's funding. This has been the trend under the socialists before, but the same has remained during your governance. I have already referred to the fundamental legislative changes that they had to make following Brussels' signals. Yes, they were important and justified, but why did they just happen? - I'm here to ask the secretary of state, the secretary of state. What is another aspect that we have not seen prevail over the past few years? The principle of transparency, transparency. Indeed, there has been some change from the point of view that I myself, as Vice-President of the Committee on European Union Affairs, have raised the need to be kept informed about the use of EU assistance, that this is now happening at certain intervals, but it should be done in much more detail so that we can see what these funds will be used for. We would like a regular report, at least at committee level, and we should have a meaningful dialogue in this respect. This is what I would like to say, first of all, towards the Prime Minister's Office. We also need to see, as we have heard in the expozee, that there has been no substantial support in the areas that have been in ruins in Hungary over the past years. I am thinking about health, education and the social system. The Jobbik is of the opinion that they should be used in substance for these purposes. Professor Attila Chikán in one of his statements to the Hungarian Nation, when he spoke about corruption slowing down economic growth, he also said that it doesn't matter who has the resources available. After all, we can see that other aspects are important for Fidesz instead of the growth of the Hungarian economy, helping and putting friends in position. I am referring to economic operators, and I am referring to large companies and SMEs, and they need predictability and planning, and they need to be able to make meaningful investments that create jobs and boost the economy. In our committee we meet several times a year with the members of the Hungarian-European Business Council, the HEBC, and, of course, there are debates between us on many issues, but I welcome them every time to say that it is necessary to establish a country strategy. After all, in this country's strategy, the medium- and long-term objectives that enable the actors to adapt and plan could be outlined. Unfortunately, however, we have to find that there is an ad hoc legislation in Hungary, and indeed very often these companies have to face unexpected changes affecting, say, tax or other legislation. I have also spoken on a number of occasions from the R &amp; D area, and this should be very pronounced, even because between 2014 and 2020, the amount available in this area will increase by two and a half times. We should therefore take this opportunity, because we need to know, and this is supported by studies and research, so that innovative companies can increase their workforce to a greater extent, and this is particularly true for small and medium-sized enterprises. [[István Jakab, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] I would like to return to the 60 per cent economic development goal for just a moment, as we have recently read an analysis on the portfolio page, where it has been shown that, if all the money is spent on this purpose for next year, we will not achieve this value, but otherwise it is much more likely that the proportion of resources spent on direct economic development will be significantly lower - by 50 per cent. So this kind of promise, which was formulated before the cycle, does not come true. Of course, it's a fact and it's true that it's a better ratio than before, but it doesn't matter at all who can benefit from it. Unfortunately, we find that the oligarchs linked to Fidesz are the first to benefit, and the Lőrincs Mészáros are rubbing their hands in this area as well. Overall, ladies and gentlemen, it can therefore be said that the area of use of EU funds continues to be a hotbed of corruption. But of course, if we think about the fact that the money for rich migrants is more important to you than protecting the country, and in this way the settlement bonds have not yet been issued, then we should not be surprised. For Fidesz, the theft, the continuation of the so-called exploitative lifestyle, the service of friends overrides other aspects such as the security, protection and strengthening of our country's economy. This, if we are authorised by the Hungarians in 2018, and we can form a government, we will end it, and under the governance of Jobbik, a new calculation of time will begin in Hungary. The most important feature of this new era will be the possibility of using development resources on a professional basis. We are creating the opportunity for small and medium-sized enterprises and large business operators to benefit from this, according to their merits and ability. In contrast to what we see now that only a narrow circle connected to the government and Fidesz can benefit from these, we will be characterised by a completely different approach, in such a way that the Hungarians will feel the results of this. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-11-28-205	Thank you. Dear Parliament, Welcome, fellow Members. I give the floor to Ms Erzsébet Schmuck, LMP Group. Here you go. [[16.10]]
u2016-11-28-206	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Allow me to begin with a comment. It seems that the government is not as important to use EU funds as last week, for example, the issue of labour shortages and wages, because last week, the Secretary of State of all ministries sat in this Chamber and not only did they sit here, but they also participated in the debate. However, we believe that the use of EU funds is at least as serious as the shortage of labour in Hungary, because one of the important legs and important elements of economic growth, as we know from practice, is the existence of EU funds, so what the country does with this amount does not matter at all. We believe that it would be vital for the Hungarian economy to switch to a sustainable path and that EU support could play a very important role in this. It is important that everyone can thrive, that the country evolves in income and territorial balance, so that we can maintain our natural resources and create a well-functioning economy and society based on our own resources. Compared to this, we must say that the system is fundamentally flawed, based on both the planned use and the ongoing projects. The government wants to spend the vast amount of money, the thousands of billions of forints with little idea of what they want to achieve and how they want to achieve it. There are written strategies and plans, but they are dead letters when we get to the implementation. The implementation of the plans does not have the right institutional system, feedback, professional background, so in many cases a significant part of the development programme is basically reduced to division, the original goal is lost, although the country has never had such a great opportunity, such a large and lasting external source, which would be worth living well with. However, this would require fundamental changes. We should face the problems and grab them at their roots. The main problems that the LMP believes should be resolved are the following: firstly, the main aim of using development money is now not to improve the situation of the economy and society, but to put it in its own interests. The main aim of the system's leaders and decision-makers is the acquisition of prey and the creation of clientele, and therefore much of the conflicts are being fought on the koncon. There is a strong position within the government who, through the allocation of resources, can connect more outside actors. The acquisition of prey and the creation of a clientele also distorts the objectives and the means, and shifts resources towards large projects and major investments. One of the clearest examples is the so-called transport development. There is a great deal of improvement in domestic transport systems. Some of them include investment in infrastructure with high resources, such as building a bridge, but the most important thing would be to improve the smaller elements and to make operational changes to the system as a whole. The other side of the distortion is the love of large projects, since now more than half of the EU funds are committed as targeted projects. In the area of roads, for example, there would be a huge need to renovate the network of lower roads so that the countryside does not become depopulated. The source requirement for this is HUF 10 000 billion, yet we see that 20 years after Gyula Horn, the expensive and useless motorways are built only because a lot of them can be stolen, and the development of transport infrastructure is the main tool for enriching current oligarchs. Earlier Simicska, now Lőrinc Mészáros takes those public funds home [[An intervention from Jobbik's ranks: That's right!]] Which could be used to make a proper transport. There are hundreds of outstanding examples of booty and clientship building. Corruption organised at state level has been best achieved at EU funds, as the LMP has done in recent years. Secondly, both the economy and the public sector have become fundamentally dependent on EU funds. We believe that this dependence should be alleviated and not strengthened. There is no domestic development in the public sector today, everything is converted to EU funds. This means that sometimes they do not develop what is needed, but what is applied for. Of course, there's feedback, there's something that's needed from the ministries, but the system is infinitely complicated. It is well-known that infrastructure investment in education, health and the social sphere is no longer without EU funding, but in many areas the fundamental functioning depends on it. For example, this is the case in the field of educational aids, in adult education or in support of job creation; for example, NGM received HUF 224 billion from GINOP for the programme "The Way to the Labour Market." Unfortunately, not only has the state system become dependent on subsidies. The entire domestic economy has become drugged, addicted to free money. As one third of investments are essentially made from EU funds, market participants have also adapted to this. Technically, only the improvements to which EU funds can be obtained or found will be launched. In addition, direct, so to speak, economic development aid has a number of additional problems, but we believe that they are also known to you. Another problem is that the flow of resources is incredibly hectic, unpredictable. Passive periods and dumping-like display waves alternate. In particular, the flow of resources for the development of the economy should be balanced and predictable in time, whereas what is going on is the concentration of time and potential. In fact, you want to spend two years of resources that drag the economy. This includes the fact that the payment of funds has hardly begun. Three years have passed from the 7-year cycle, and Brussels has still barely received an invoice. This shows, on the one hand, the fundamental inadequacy of the institutional system and how it hinders development if the acquisition of prey is more important than anything else, and this may not please those from whom the source is coming; we are thinking of Brussels. Now the rush has begun, they want to raise the advance to 100 percent in several places, paid from domestic sources, obviously, which is an amazing gamble with our tax dollars. In the beginning, they started planning and accepting programs too late. Of course, by the end of 2015, they were still preoccupied with the dumping of resources from the previous cycle, but this also points to the problem that even though they knew many years in advance that this overlap was coming, they were unable to handle it. In the end, the new system started only two years late, but the errors were immediately revealed. Writings and evaluations are very late. One reason is that there are too many players in the new state decision-making system. The endless negotiations of the Ministries' State Secretariats, the managing authorities and the Prime Minister's Office slow the process down. This causes problems in all areas, but there are areas where work is almost meaningless. For example, in the areas of innovation and R &amp; D, proposals will be evaluated in 6-8 months, i.e. by the time they receive the support, in many cases it will become meaningless. We believe that a well-functioning system would prepare soft landing in 2020-2022 rather than strengthen the problems arising from the wave of resources. It is clear to everyone that there will be much less support in the next EU budget cycle than there is now, if any. Therefore, the aim should be twofold: to focus on the most important developments now, which in the future could be the basis of a sustainable socio-economic system, and, on the other hand, to slowly transform the economy into living, developing from its own resources, self-power, rather than waiting for the roasted pigeon. It was very interesting when Minister Lazarus, in his introductory speech, spoke about the fact that after 2018, in the four-year term following that, there will be three years of governance when there will be no EU funds, and then what will happen to the economy. [[16.20]] Another factor of unpredictability is that an economic operator cannot plan with resources because their arrival and availability depend on the volition of the critics. This leads back to the corruption of the system, to the creation of a clientele, which is linked to the small proportion of normative subsidies, that it is not possible to know in advance what conditions should be met for accessing the source. What still belongs to this problem is that we see that there is no concept of what the government is trying to achieve. The public interest would be to use resources to help the economy by switching to higher value added production, to increase the knowledge of the next generation and to be classified. It's the government's only success figure, how much money and how fast we can put it out, throw it out. But now they might suspect that if we spent HUF 8000 billion by 2015, the foundations of the Hungarian economy, SMEs did not develop, education and health care suffer, the country is torn apart, then something is wrong. We could take the example of Burgenland, which shows that without a thorough and consistent strategy, it's nothing. Unfortunately, it follows from unconventionalism and exploitation as the main motivation that important areas are left to corrupt, cooperatives, education, office, incubators, schools. There are also problems with the institutional system. We see that the institutional system is unsuitable for the useful use of resources. Self-made power interests and not efficiency have developed and moved them, they are inadequate in size and knowledge for all the bureaucratic and professional tasks that should be performed. A grotesque example of this is the elimination of the NFÜ. I can't talk about this because of a lack of time. A new and inadequate system has been set up. The assessment and analysis of the impact of the use of resources is virtually non-existent, and the indicator system is not suitable to tell whether the investments have actually been useful for the country. Another problem is that the state is not helping people who should be, small businesses, underdeveloped regions, education, R &amp; D and the conservation of natural resources. The reason for this is partly the unbreakable bureaucratic burden and, on the other hand, the basic view, which alone considers the largest possible distribution of money to be the result. It is also typical that in many cases improvements leave great burdens for the future. The facilities shall be maintained with public funds. Some infrastructures, such as the road network, increase environmental burdens and the negative externalities have to be paid by society as a whole. Unfortunately, so-called improvements are constantly reviving environmental goods. Of course, the LMP has suggestions on which areas and how to change. Now, due to a lack of time, I will list only a few, but I hope that this will be possible later in the debate, to explain them. Predictability is very important to us. Predictability is extremely important for small and medium-sized enterprises, but also for other applicants. Effective monitoring, monitoring and transparency are very important. We would consider it important to provide small but automatic normative support to economic operators, especially small and medium-sized enterprises, perhaps civilians, and small regional development. It is important to take future burdens and costs seriously. Infrastructure developments should be rethinked and, finally, I would like to mention the coordination and priority of human development. We know this is a difficult area, because the impact and effectiveness of an educational program is even more difficult to measure than the construction of a channel. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause from the benches of Jobbik and LMP.]]
u2016-11-28-207	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. Independent Members shall not take part in the debate. I give the floor to Mr Nándor Csepreghy, Secretary of State, who will, of course, receive the floor. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2016-11-28-208	Mr President, Thank you very much for the opportunity to speak. Let me also respond to the speeches by the lead speaker on behalf of the government in order to prevent the debate, first of all by proving that the government is really looking forward to today's debate with respect and genuine professional curiosity, from which we believe that, apart from the political lounges - which, to add in brackets, there are quite a few - we can learn something, and indeed, this debate can help Hungary to make better use of the European Union's opportunities. Allow me not to waste your time responding to the two pro-government speakers in addition to the fact that I can essentially agree with their statements. This proves that these politicians were not only prepared for the EU debate day and not only drew up communication panels, but also read through the documents available to all Members of the Parliament. I would therefore like to say, first of all, to Mr Cook, that he is here, but because he is not here, so Mrs Bangóné must listen to this, because she has missed the meeting room, because today's debate is not about the "Modern Cities" programme, but about the possibility of using European Union funds. Not even because, as the congresswoman knows for sure, unlike the Member, only part of the programme "Modern Cities" financed from European Union funds, the investment package that has been signed by the Mayor of 19 cities and Prime Minister, a significant part of it is financed by the Hungarian budget. So if you have asked Minister Lazarus why you have not spoken about this issue, it can be explained for the simple reason that we are not discussing this today, but we are also readily available to conduct this debate. However, I would like to draw the Member's attention here, and ask the Member to help him convey to the Member that the Hungarian budget will spend HUF 80 billion this year and HUF 150 billion in 2017 on the investment package of the Modern Cities programme. The congressman mentioned the adventure baths. If you have already given me this opportunity, I would certainly like to jump on this, because if we read the Member's biography on the MSZP website, then everyone will know that the Member was a member of the Regional Development Council. The Regional Development Council decided on a number of bathing investments in the period from 2007 to 2013 and in the period prior to the period for which it is now calling into question the justification. If you do so, this means that the MSZP is also on the road to historical development, because there is progress, and the MSZP is also beginning to admit the decisions that you failed to make. I definitely think the direction is useful. We may be able to criticize the pace a little bit, but it must be acknowledged that someone is enlightened and can no longer identify with his previous decisions or with the decisions of the party he represents in this respect. The current government certainly cannot, since we do not condemn investment in tourism, as it is important to say that today 200 thousand Hungarian families live in the tourism sector and we are talking about a segment that accounts for about 10 percent of GDP. But indeed, bathing investments that supported settlements ten kilometers apart with this type of development without considering in your period of government what is the point of doing this when, let's say, there is no hotel capacity and no other tourist attraction, it was a really wrong decision. We certainly welcome it, and I think it is the country's salvation that MSZP Members, if only after seven or eight years, have been enlightened in this regard, after their governance. Indeed, there is also a need to learn from what has been shown in the press products of the past period that the figures that measure the performance of a country in an exact manner - I am thinking of the employment rate within the active population, I am thinking of indicators of economic growth or even budgetary discipline - do they really work together or move together with the country's competitiveness report or not. What we see is that while the first figures, the numbers in the first category, can basically be described by exact economic science, in terms of competitiveness indicators, as mentioned by Mr Cook, we see a lot of factors that reflect subjective opinions based on questioning. In this respect, I think that a government should be somewhat self-critical and draw the conclusion, which I think, by quoting Minister Lazarus, can be summarised as Hungary is not yet fully strong, but it is definitely on a growing path, and this is also shown by international figures. In his absence, I do not consider it appropriate to criticize him too much, but I would like to draw his attention to one thing. The four cities, namely Szeged, Salgótarján, Győr and Hódmezővásárhely, which has not yet signed an agreement with the Prime Minister, are also under preparation. In the case of the two cities you incriminated, I have personally discussed the details of this agreement with the mayors of Szeged and Salgótarján, Mayor László Botka and Mayor Zsolt Fekete. [[16.30]] I trust that the congresswoman will find supporters in her own faction, and the rest of the debate will not have to sit alone. But now that I'm moving on to Jobbik, I've been saving a few nice words for you. Allow me first of all to thank you for the words of appreciation concerning the organisation of the second day of debate and for the regular written report on the use of European Union funds by Members of Parliament. This was the positive part, but let us turn to those in which we do not agree with you, but I think that this is definitely worthy of recognition, that we have heard at least some professional or principle from Jobbik, which can be argued with. After all, the aim of this debate would be that these professional positions, behind which political, ideological faults lie, should be brought to light and that the country might actually benefit from this. On the one hand, Mr President, he criticizes the government's enforcement responsibility for EU development programmes when he claims that the use of EU funds is under political influence. I would like to draw the Member's attention to the fact that Parliament, as such, is composed of political parties. In the Hungarian Parliament, Hungarian citizens elect politicians every four years, so governments formed by political parties, or governments in the background of political parties, do have political commitment, and this political commitment also means a view of the world, which, of course, affects how the country manages opportunities open to it. If citizens do not agree with this, then they have the opportunity to replace this government. I think that what we have done on the issue of the use of European Union funds and the content of the programmes points in the same direction as the will of Hungarian citizens, because I do not think that the Fidesz government has by chance won a second two-thirds parliamentary mandate after four years of governance. I am honoured that, Mr President, all Hungarian businesses who have won these developments are classified as Fidesz-near businesses. In particular, we are talking about 43 thousand such businesses in the period 2007-2013, and we will be talking about a very similar number, seeing the current statistics, including in the period 2014-2020. Unfortunately, each of these businesses is not yet a fidesz enterprise, but we strive to gain the trust of these people and these businesses, and indeed to see us worthy of being able to represent their interests after 2018. I have already spoken to Mr Szakács about tourism investments, and I would certainly not like to repeat it here, but I would certainly like to mention a criticism that is regularly brought to the press by the Soros civil society organisations, but, in addition to the constant parrot-like repetition of expressions and overpriced expressions, they do not get to the topic until the practical discussion. You know, Mr. Congressman, in 2008 Hungary, however much there was a Prime Minister in Hungary who claimed that the crisis would stop at the borders of Hungary, and that Hungarian businesses would not sense it from the body, there was also a crisis in Hungary that had an impact on the lives of businesses, on the financial situation of businesses, and that it had indeed imposed entrepreneurial behaviours that we could encounter in terms of a certain description of overpriced behaviour. I think that we should be very, very careful when we use the economic problem of overpriced exclusively for corruption movements. There should be no misunderstanding, all types of irregularities, all types of abuse of EU or domestic budgetary resources, the action to be pursued, falling within the category of criminal law. But ignoring the capital situation of Hungarian businesses, ignoring the problems of lending to Hungarian businesses, I think it is more than irresponsible. Mr President, Mr President, you have mentioned the progress made in the negotiations in the European Union, which has led to an increase in resources for Hungary. You are right that the entire cohesion package has decreased in terms of the European Union as a whole, but Hungary has negotiated well, since between 2007 and 2013 there were HUF 660 thousand in development resources for a Hungarian citizen, while between 2014 and 2020 this figure has increased to HUF 712,000. I agree with you that the use of resources for the past few years will be decisive in what will happen in Hungary after 2020, because after 2020, development policy will certainly not work in this form. Whether there will still be non-refundable funds or if there is only the resources to be recovered, it raises a lot of questions today. Mr President, Mr President, you have raised the issue of priority procedures. Here, allow me to draw your attention to the fact that you are not aware of the facts on many issues. After all, if you were aware, you would not say that the priority procedure is the result of a kind of party political conviction. For example, the priority procedure means that in Hungary the Hungarian Parliament has taken a decision on the type of financing model in which the healthcare system operates, from the authority of the Hungarian people. And with the authority of the Hungarian people, the representatives of the Hungarian Parliament have decided to basically operate the single channel financing model. From this point on, when the State intends to develop the health care system, EU or domestic resources, nothing else will happen but to meet you as a source provider and the State as a source user. In such cases, the government has made use of the option provided by EU rules to deploy these development resources more quickly in a priority procedure, since we know in which hospital, in which part of the country the type of supply problems exist. But I think that the priority procedure will come up even at a further stage of the debate. You are also pleased to be wrong, Congressman, that any advantage would be given to pro-government mayors. This could be realised if all of Hungary's 3200 settlements were won by pro-government mayors. I'm afraid that's not the case. We are seeking it, just as we would like to win over the majority of entrepreneurs, but I would like to draw your attention to the fact that neither the Szeged led by Mayor László Botka nor the Győr led by Mayor Dávid Janiczák It is not due or received these development resources - we are talking about billions or tens of billions of forints - that it leads the city in MSZP or better, but because these cities are also entitled to participate in economic development and development programmes, as are the settlements run by voters and, where appropriate, Fidesz mayors, by the will of the people living there. Mr President, Mr President, you have raised the issue of transparency and predictability. Indeed, in this regard, I think that it was necessary to touch the previous development period in substance, because everything was there, and that was all that was missing. Today we are talking about seven years in advance of the goals for which applications will be launched in the coming years. Prior to the publication of applications, there is a so-called annual development framework, which the government may amend quarterly. When a tender is published, eliminating the practice of various applicants and project management organisations having the opportunity to essentially emerge in these applications and to ensure a privileged situation in certain applicant circles, we now stand to the point that no one has the opportunity to apply for it for 30 days after the application has been published. Only after 30 days can everyone submit their application on an electronic interface at the same time. If you have any other suggestions for Jobbik that create this very predictability and a level playing field, on behalf of the government, I can safely report that we are open. Finally, allow me one more clause. As you mentioned, 17 percent of the total development framework in the previous development period was what the Hungarian government intended for the development of the economy, i.e. directly for economic development proposals. Today it's 50 percent, and we promised 60. There is still a very short one year ahead of us to realise this, but I think it should be recognised that the share of applications available for the development of the economy has increased by 33 percent compared to the previous period. And I would like to respond substantially to the rest of the debate, along with my colleagues. The speeches of the LMP, allow me, Congresswoman, to include some criticism and some recognition. He is one of the Members who, I think, really devote considerable work and time to preparing for these debates. Allow me to thank you for this on behalf of the government, but allow me to argue with you on the point of principle that you have made. [[16.40]] I can see that there is a difference between us and you in political conviction. The LMP says that these funds should be distributed on a essentially normative basis throughout the country as a whole and throughout the time period of the seven-year development cycle. We think this is a bad practice, because if the government has a development policy programme that is truly well founded, then it is in the best interests of the country that this development policy programme should be implemented as soon as possible, because if this implementation period is the same as the implementation of development programmes in other countries of the European Union, then at best we will preserve the differences that exist today between the eastern and western, richer and poorer parts of the Union. I therefore disagree in this respect. It criticises or asks for non-targetness in the use of resources. Allow me to explain to you that we have two very clear goals. Continued job creation: Since 2010 there have been 650 thousand more people working in Hungary than in 2010. I know that LMP's answer is that it's a community service program and London. Allow me to answer that: two thirds of this 650 thousand people have been placed on the primary labour market, so there is a substantial contribution of EU projects to the development of job creation figures in Hungary. You are asking for large investments and you are asking for the priority procedure, Congresswoman. Allow me to draw your attention to the fact that here the Hungarian government is under constant co-operation with Hungarian entrepreneurs and various economic interests. Sit down with these actors and ask them what they want, and they will see literally the requests contained in the seven-year development document of the Hungarian Government signed with the European Commission. If these actors change their demand for the content of the use of resources, the government is willing to change this, but we are on a fixed path in this respect. The Hungarian government would have a vision of development policy in vain if it were not in line with the economic interests of Hungarian economic operators. And yes, whether LMP likes it or not, this is where micro- and small players, medium-sized enterprises, and large companies, which have an international background, are very important for the Hungarian economy. The congresswoman mentioned - let me deny her statement here - that without EU funds there is no economic development in Hungary. This year and next year, more than a thousand billion HUF of development will be implemented in Hungary, financed by the Hungarian budget, without European Union funds. For example, the fact that the development resources you mentioned are not available for small journeys, and that is due to a European Union rule. I think that it must be knocked not in Budapest, but in Brussels, if this is missed by European developments. However, I agree with the Member, that the use of EU funds has a significant distorting effect, which is the economic conditioning of access to so-called free money. There are views - this is not the government's view of EU funds - which claim that the use of EU funds and this possibility that the European Community has provided to the Member States of Eastern Europe for 14 years are nothing more than the comfort of the economic operators here, keeping the economic operators here from market processes, so that, when these resources disappear, these operators can essentially be devoured. Your fear is real, and I think that it is the duty of every member of the Hungarian Parliament to take these dangers seriously and to draw the attention of businesses to these dangers. Congressman Hadházy regularly mentions corruption issues. I would just like to reiterate here, Minister Lazarus, that when the provider of resources determines the proportion of resources used in an irregular way to around 1 per cent - not corruption - the LMP repeats very often 10-15 cases compared to 80,000 cases, it does not prove that the system does not function fairly, but confirms that there is no other ammunition in the hands of the opposition than the permanent ammunition in which, according to one, the government should be accused of either incompetence or corruption; because the first one does not work properly, so we would try the second one. Make no mistake: if there are 12 cases, it is 12 more than it can be allowed, but to draw a general conclusion from 12 cases to 80,000 applications, I think it is a serious miscalculation. In the case of innovation proposals, he mentioned the length of the evaluation, and on the other hand he said that there was no predictable development policy and that there were no informed decisions. It is necessary to decide which argument they represent. In terms of planning, I would not like to repeat the numbers given to Jobbik in response to seven years of development policy, annual development frameworks and a 30-day moratorium on the submission of applications. I welcome the criticism of the end of the NFÜ, even because I have had the pleasure of watching the debates between 2010-14, when the LMP also argued against the NFÜ. Now that the NFU is gone, it's the state they thought was ideal. I think that, given the history here, we can face a sensible professional debate. Thank you for your contributions so far. Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-11-28-209	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your answers. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary of State László Tasó. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2016-11-28-210	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Vice Minister, in his response to the comments that have been made so far, he has given an excellent summary of the clarifications that are necessary in order to see and see clearly who is watching the debate, as well as the real situation. If I may, I would like to point out a few things a little more strongly, because it definitely hurt my ears. [[Erzsébet Schmuck is leaving.]] Elizabeth is leaving... Then you will hear, my dear fellow Member, just that we are here. He said the State Secretarys weren't here. We're all here, by the way. So all the ministries dealing with the operational programme have their State Secretarys here and they are switching, so they are looking forward to the comments. It's important to keep an eye on this. [[Erik Bánki applauds.]] With regard to the better opinion, if I may say so, my dear fellow Member, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that no one at this age would like to be accused of simply stealing. On behalf of all my fellow Members from Fidesz and KDNP, I object to you accusing Fidesz of stealing. That you speak to people, to someone, or to anyone else, I'm still questioning you because you've hurt a community in this regard. Please, just keep an eye on this. We've worked so much and enough to ask ourselves these comments in this room. [[Erzsébet Schmuck is leaving the room.]] The second point is that the Deputy Minister for Economic Development replied very correctly, and what was important made clear here, too, that the Hungarian Government intends to use a 60% rate for economic development. If it affects the world of transport development and there are generally more people talking about its faction, I have heard that they are also considering the impact of transport development on economic development. I say to you that economic development is clearly affected by every aspect of transport development, and if you measure 60 per cent, you should be confident that there is much more impact on the use of EU funds than 60 per cent on economic development. So with regard to these two things, I wanted to respond in any way to your question. Unfortunately, Erzsébet Schmuck is not here, but it is also important to make it clear to the protocol that the Hungarian government can use not only EU funds for transport development, but also domestic resources. By the way, among the lower roads, just a few, in Cutegadány, at the okra-vestő road or between the New Whitetó-Nagykálló, these are four and five-digit roads. So it is clear that we are also paying attention to the restoration of lower roads, although only from domestic sources. So it is not true, either, that the Hungarian government and the institutional system of the Hungarian Parliament do not respond to it, that the road operator does not pay attention to the renewal of the lower roads. It is also extremely important to point out that in the comments, I am sure that there will be few constructive proposals, although everyone begins by wanting to be constructive. One thing is certain, however, that not only do they work in the institutional system, but the policy as a whole strives to use EU funds as much as possible and, as has been said in the expoze, to use it as much as a hundred percent. I think that no one can seriously throw anything at us in this regard, because so far we have achieved a significantly better result in use than in the previous cycle. This year, for example, on March 1st, in the world of transport development, all of our applications have been announced, each of our publications has been published, and I think that the others have come after us in this row, and they can report similar good performances. So, in essence, I wanted to respond because there are a lot of people working here to make the most effective use of the resources by truly operating a transparent system, and I thank everyone for their work, and if we hear ratings that we do not accept, we also have to say so. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-11-28-211	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, There are two-minute speeches coming up. I give the floor to Mr László Szakács, MSZP Group. Here you go. [[16.50]]
u2016-11-28-212	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I wasn't in, but everyone knows there's a closed-circuit broadcast, and I've been monitoring the reactions. Of course, I know that there is not only a European Union resource in the programme "Modern Cities" but I have the full list here, I just thought I wouldn't hold a production meeting in which I would have read it. In any case, along with what I said, it's true, except for this, which you obviously deliberately misunderstood. Yes, I was a member of the Regional Development Council, and I was even a member of the Regional Development Council who acted, so it didn't replace itself or lack it, it did, and how much more different times it was possible to decide together, between counties, how certain improvements would interact with each other that would otherwise help to develop an entire region. Not long ago, however, I was able to attend the meeting of the Baranya County General Assembly, where the regional development agency was charged, and we went about 10-11 years back in time, and we had to rely again on the loose relations of the counties, and otherwise, that county politicians and county experts would understand each other at some level. If we're lucky, they'll be like this, if we don't get lucky, they'll be bad for those counties. About competitiveness: Mr Secretary, of course this is a subjective thing. Well, it's subjective for investors to decide. They called this subject, this feeling of trust. This is what is not against Hungary today, because if there were, then investments would not have decreased by 14.7 percent in Hungary in the last three quarters. The worst part of this was the last quarter, the third quarter, where it dropped by nine percent. Well, if there's no trust, then there's no competitiveness, that's true. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2016-11-28-213	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Congressman Robert Benedek Sallai, LMP. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-11-28-214	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. All I wanted to do in the debate was to respond to two or three thoughts from the two State Secretary's contributions. First of all, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that it is not destructive to draw attention to possible public disappearances. Congressman Vejkey, the lead speaker of KDNP, has also called on us to say that it is the opposition's job to point out the problems, and that is all we are trying to do, so please forgive us. I also wanted to respond to a very important point for Mr Secretary of State, to which both Minister and Secretary of State Csepreghy reacted, and this is the effectiveness of the extent of use. They all claim that if they use the resources in full, they can only be effective, but that is not true. In many cases, the increase in the level of use alone can also have a distorting and devastating effect which is more damaging to the economy on a permanent basis. So this is only true if we treat it with the preconcept that the appropriate level of use of resources in the interest of society is appropriate; but how we closed the previous cycle and how we did it there does not mean this in itself. And now you don't have to take it personally, because some of the previous resources weren't even used in your administration. So it's not about how much we use, it's about what we use, how we use it, and how effective it is. One more thing, if I may, Secretary Csepreghy, I would like to respond. He says that the opposition is always talking about the 10-15 cases with spectacular corruption. I would like to remind Mr. Secretary of State that sometimes we talk about whole signs, where the full... So it is not true that the 15 cases should be examined in proportion to 80,000, but sometimes thousands of applications were attacked at the same time by my fellow Member Ákos Hadházy when the possibility of abuse was found in the announcement. So statistically, this number is significantly higher. However, it is not possible to know the proportion of latent abuse, i.e. the number of non-discovered and unconscionable abuses, because as in corruption, as in domestic violence, all social science research shows that these are the most hidden crimes in the country. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2016-11-28-215	Thank you, Congressman. For a two-minute speech, I give the floor to Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát, Member of the Jobbik Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-11-28-216	Mr President, Dear House, Mr Secretary of State Tasó, although he has changed his place in the meantime, fortunately he is in the Chamber; I must address him that I am not only defending my fellow Member Tibor Bana in the name of camaraderie, when we are talking about institutionalized theft and robbery within the EU tender system, not in terms of the entire institutional system, but certainly in certain segments, this is at least a statement that deserves to be investigated. And that's what a debate day like this is all about, to be specific. This includes mobile scissors purchased at double prices, presses purchased at five times the price or a company based in Budapest, which registered a branch in the third floor apartment of a rural town a month and a half before the tender was submitted, according to suspicion - let's talk about suspicion at that time - only in order to obtain the support that would otherwise have resulted only after the development outside the Central Hungarian region. Institutional theft took place. I haven't talked about the dog fitness salon in Nógrád, various wi-fi relocations in yellow bus stops, where they don't really use similar activities. Only the blind can't see what's going on. Many of the examples I have listed come from the proposals that the European Commission has also challenged. I don't usually refer to the Union, but you should account for this list of objections, because we see that we are talking about applications issued after 2010 almost without exception, and there are several companies among the applicants who belong to Bátorfi Béla's group of companies. The fact is that there is something to talk about, there is, and I didn't mention that Henkel received 317 million forints for the development of a detergent, Szabolcsi Halásztó Kft. And hold on to 67 million non-refundable resources for the development of perch breeding technologies. Ridiculous, bloody tits! That's what we should be talking about. This system is rotten. Thank you. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-11-28-217	Thank you. Dear Parliament, Since no further two-minute speeches have been made, each of the speeches will now take place on the basis of prior written notifications. I give the floor to Congressman Jenő Manninger, Fidesz Group. Here you go, Congressman. [[István Ikotity is replaced by Nándor Gúr in the notary seat.]]
u2016-11-28-218	Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Allow me to talk primarily about EU funds from an economic development point of view. Here it was said - and that is the point - that only 16 to 17 percent of resources went to economic development in the 2007-2013 development cycle, while 60 percent is planned to be part of EU funds related to economic development in this cycle. It is clear that it is crucial for our competitiveness that we use EU funds to invest in Hungarian businesses that create jobs. It has also been said that it is not sufficiently planned to apply and spend EU funds. I think that the representatives of the government have made it quite clear here, and they have also made it quite clear what the changes are compared to the previous EU cycle. The reason is quite obvious: in the previous EU cycle, it was necessary to speed up the drawdown of EU funds after 2011 in order to draw down the available framework, which, in this way, can be said to be a unique success in its entirety, so that the drawdown of funds remained largely for the last years. The difference in this EU cycle is that the government intends to write out and judge subsidies and pay them first, of course after the adoption of the EU programmes, for example, because of the consultations in Brussels, GINOP was accepted only in February 2015. But you can see that if you compare it to the data of the previous cycle, then the advert was 62 percent, now 75 percent, the grants granted were at 24 percent, now 41 percent, the amounts paid were at 3 percent, now they are at 11 percent. And if you look at this year, you can still see that there has been a significant improvement. By the end of 2017, the government plans to launch and publish virtually all applications. This is also where it was said that there are too many priority projects and fewer applications. Indeed, the Union has such a condition, and there are also negotiations on this matter, I, as a Member of Parliament, who, as a local government leader, have also dealt with EU proposals, I must say that this is not so clear and there are a lot of aspects that can be taken into account. Firstly, when EU funds are used by the public sector, so not by entrepreneurs, but specifically by the government, the municipality, the tender is sufficiently formal, and it is not certain that it serves efficiency. We have seen very many times in the previous cycle that the points systems set up by the applicants may not have been the best result. [[17.00]] These frequently presented examples, as well as individual cases, have sometimes been the result of such evaluation, where secondary aspects have been assessed and proposals have been clearly brought out, while the real government and operational objectives have been secondary. So I think that this debate must be held, and there is no doubt that the tendering procedure seems more transparent from the outside, but, I say, in terms of efficiency, this is already in question. What is most important, however, and I must say this about the GINOP programme, is that it is obvious that we know that today it is not only about creating jobs, but also about creating qualified jobs with the help of applications. And here it is extremely important in the GINOP programme, on the one hand, to increase competitiveness in SMEs, covers 17 percent of the total, the R &amp; D &amp; Innovation sector accounts for 19 percent of the total, and 5 percent of the total amount in ICT, information and communication technology. So it can be said that priority is given to areas that are designed to strengthen research, technological development and innovation. And this is extremely important, because these will be the areas where Hungary's competitiveness can be increased in the first place. So, indeed, EU funds have a significant role to play in increasing our competitiveness, in particular, so that when there will be no or less EU funds, we can maintain them. You can see that the role of tourism within the GINOP source is only 4 percent. I think it's not excessive, and many times public figures want more. The percentage of tourism in GDP is 9.8 percent, so a 4-percent improvement, I think, is moderate, but very important. Here you could see contradictions, which were discussed by representatives of the MSZP, in the plans announced by them, the contradictions that led, for example, to developments related to Gelse in Zala County, which today resulted in a closed bath. So, anyway, it would be better if they analyze their own mistakes. We have also analysed their mistakes, and I think that new developments already include them. Of course, for some areas it is also very important to have this 4 percent that tourism can use. But that is not the most important thing, but, as we have seen, research and development and IT developments. University developments are very important in this line. It can be said that EU applications are crucial for the competitiveness of Hungarian universities as well as for research. Such proposals are still under way, and it is extremely good that there is now, for example, the preparation of a $15.4 billion framework. In addition to 12 universities, I have to mention that the University of my region, the University of Pannonia Georgikon Kara can apply and hopefully win billion-dollar applications, which are extremely important for the regions, so that we can also create jobs that require higher education. I should definitely mention it here, although it has already been mentioned in the answers, but let me ask you one more question: of course, I think Members of Parliament would also very much like to have more EU resources for smaller settlements, such as the development of lower roads. Unfortunately, this could not have been achieved in a way that we think would be good because of the EU's objectives. I think the Ministry of National Development would be most pleased to have been able to achieve this. But I think that the LMP should know that it is precisely the objective of the Union that it primarily supports green transport, i.e. railway, and only the international parts of network development on the road. So, the development of lower roads remains domestic resources. So it can be said that we have the scenario, we have the payment schedule for the EU programmes, we have the targets, and indeed, then we can see that the aim is to have the majority of them written out by the end of 2017, which, as appropriate, means that these funds can be tied down and spent by approximately 2020. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2016-11-28-219	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to State Secretary Balázs Rákossy, Ministry of National Economy. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2016-11-28-220	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, On the one hand, I would like to address Mr Manninger's speech on economic development, but I would also like to take this opportunity to make a few comments on the speeches by the ladies and gentlemen who were before him. One of these comments is that I have to confirm and state that the determination and focus of the Hungarian government on the purposes for which it uses the resources available between 2014 and 20 is extremely clear. It is very clear that we want to support small and medium-sized enterprises, since the vast majority of businesses in Hungary, more than 99 percent of them, consist of businesses of this size, most of the members of Hungarian families work in such businesses, as more than 75 percent of the employees are small and medium-sized enterprises and, moreover, more than 50 percent of the added value. Experience over the past period has made it quite clear that these companies are in need of resources or that these companies are at a disadvantage to large enterprises in certain areas of activity. That is why we have decided - and it is very clear in this respect that our decision and the implementation of our strategy - to develop small and medium-sized enterprises instead of large company subsidies so far. We want the number of small and medium-sized enterprises with export potential to increase significantly, from 2 to 3 000 in the next few years to 10 000 in the EU. Another important area is the increase in employment, as the previous period has also had the experience that the use of these resources has not sufficiently contributed to the employment of Hungarian workers. The next extremely important development direction is the industrialization of the Hungarian economy, the development of the manufacturing industry, as European and global economic outlooks everywhere confirm that those companies, those countries have been truly critical in recent years in Europe or even in the world, where the added value of industry to the economy reaches a certain magnitude. Therefore, our aim is to bring the Hungarian industry's contribution to the economy from 22 to 23 percent in the next few years, taking into account the direction of the Irinyi plan, to a 30 percent contribution using EU funds. Moreover, we do not invent the Spanish wax, as one of the important economic policy objectives of the Juncker Committee in the European Union is to raise the position of European industry in the economy from 16 percent to the European 28th level, in a smaller dimension, with a smaller ambition, but above 20 percent. A next such area, which is extremely important and which has been seriously affected by the development of EU funds, is supporting R &amp; D and innovation activities. It is also our experience in recent years that, especially in the small and medium-sized business segment, this is far below the European average. This is why it is important to give emphasis to this type of activity to small and medium-sized enterprises. And by the way, this is also achieved in the economic development programmes, in the operational programmes, as the amounts spent on research and development - as has already been said earlier - have increased by more than two and a half times, and in the coming years there will be approximately HUF 740 billion in this area. And one last aspect that I would also like to consider important and important in defining strategic orientations is the importance of the use of so-called reimbursable resources and the use of financial instruments, because it has been said several times in this context that these EU funds may be reduced as from 2021. [[17.10]] There is, of course, a debate on this, because in order to reduce or even disappear significantly, I believe that there must be a serious earthquake, but it is certain that the structure of financial support itself will change and that European development policy will move away from the direction of non-refundable resources to the resources to be recovered. So Hungarian beneficiaries, Hungarian entrepreneurs and Hungarian businesses will be entitled to subsidies that will have to be repaid after a certain period of time, which are, of course, highly favourable and conditional, but they will have to be repaid at some point against non-refundable funds, so this is not about free money. In order to allow Hungarian companies to get used to this support area, we have also increased these resources more than three times in the current development period. Thus, more than three times that amount of funding will be available in the framework of grants, loan guarantees combined products and venture capital investments. I would like to respond to Mr Manninger's speech, namely to say a few words about the operational programmes which are of a first and foremost nature for economic development and which aim to strengthen the competitiveness of the Hungarian economy. In this context, I would like to note briefly, parentheses, what has already been referred to here, the portfolio calculation, that our objective is that the proportion of economic development will not reach 60% - I must reject this and shed light on the background of why this is not true and why we expect to achieve 60% at the end of the cycle. This is because it is an extremely complex way of planning and calculating, so, since these funds, the European Union development resources, are very strongly defined by EU rules - on the one hand, during the planning period, they have been determined how these funds should be used and then used, and the way they are implemented is also subject to many conditions and targets - so in many cases, the Hungarian government is also heavily tied up, and we do not know these funds in a normative way, as said here by the LMP Group leader, or, in other respects, to make them freely available to economic operators. So this is also the case during the planning period that there are so-called thematic objectives in the European Union. There are exactly 11 thematic objectives set by the European Commission, which we need to define, taking into account how resources are used. So Hungary decided to use the HUF 12 000 billion under 10 operational programmes. Then, between these 11 thematic objectives, which set the target of how these funds should be used, there are some that have economic development content and some that are somewhat further away from it. Otherwise, there is already a methodological debate on what we consider economic development, what we regard as direct economic development. There are such debates in Hungarian scientific life, but also within the government, whether or not we consider a main stoning to be an investment for economic development. Such an investment will certainly increase GDP and create jobs, so it can be seen as economic development at some level. But back to the 11 thematic goals, most of these 11 thematic objectives are for economic development and some of them are not, but obviously they also have an economic development link. So when the Hungarian government designed the 10 operational programmes, it classified these 11 thematic objectives for each operational programme and defined the content of the operational programmes on the basis of the thematic objectives. It is therefore expected that, at the end of the development cycle, the operational programmes with the economic development content, which include the appropriate thematic objectives, will provide a 59-60 percent economic development content for the use of EU funds at the end of the cycle. And I would like to turn to Mr Manninger's speech here, because we have three operational programmes with a primary economic development content based on the classification of thematic objectives. This is the operational programme for economic development and innovation, the GINOP, the TOP, the operational programme for territorial development and the competitive Central Hungary operational programme VEKOP. GINOP allows the development and support of small and medium-sized enterprises with economic development and business development content in a framework of more than HUF 2700 billion. This operational programme includes financing reindustrialisation, achieving innovation competitiveness and employment objectives, economic growth, economic efficiency, modernisation and increasing innovation potential. And in connection with this operational programme, which I would also stress once again, has a design framework of HUF 2700 billion for the Hungarian economy, I would also add that this is the largest operational programme in the European Union, the most complex operational programme, since it distributes money from eight different branches for different purposes. So far, 54 calls from GINOP have been announced; more than 11,000 applications have been received with a budget of HUF 1300 billion, in which the managing authority of GINOP and the government have decided on the assessment of HUF 1200 billion to date. In this context, more than 3436 projects were supported. The programme has paid more than HUF 380 billion so far. Thus, statements of slippage or lack of knowledge, which say that no payments have been made or that the progress of the programme is slow, do not stand up for GINOP. I would like to present a few more elements of GINOP's performance to the House, which is that to date, the increase in employment has affected more than 790 people with the money paid under the programme; the private investment corresponding to the public support of businesses has reached HUF 150 billion; private investment in the R &amp; D and innovation area matching the public support of businesses has, in addition, increased to HUF 85 billion, and the number of participants in the programmes implemented by GINOP has so far exceeded 33 500. With the sources of the Youth Guarantee - which, if I remember correctly, Erzsébet Schmuck criticized for not seeing much of the meaning of this programme - from which we finance the support of young workers under the age of 25, 32 584 have been supported so far, so I think that its importance is not negligible. The other operational programme, which also represents an economic development content and which contributes to 60% of economic development, is an operational programme for territorial and urban development, the specific feature of which is that, when planning and implementing this operational programme, the government does not allow itself to determine what territorial development needs to be carried out. We want the regional actors, the counties and the cities with county rights, whose beneficiaries are the resources of this operational programme for territorial and urban development, to be able to tell the people and their leaders on the ground exactly what investments, what investments, what developments are needed. Under the operational programme, we make more than HUF 1200 billion available to the counties and cities with county rights. The 19 counties run from approximately HUF 800 billion, with a budget broken down into counties, while 22 out of the 23 county-righted cities - except for Érd - are approximately HUF 400 billion. So far, 34 calls have been made in this operational programme out of HUF 908 billion, representing 73,7 percent of the 7-year envelope. [[17.20]] Our expectations are that the level of tendering in this operational programme will reach 80-90 percent this year. The total budget of HUF 1231 billion will be announced in the first quarter of next year. A total of 5991 aid applications have been received in recent years by the managing authority, which represents a HUF 1188 billion grant claim. So far we have been able to issue support decisions in the TOP for 525 projects after the criticisms, which is HUF 265.5 billion, and of these 292 projects, we have also concluded a contract with the beneficiaries of HUF 169.8 billion, and a payment of more than HUF 110 billion. The third operational programme is the competitive Central Hungary operational programme, which allows the Central-Hungarian region to pay approximately HUF 280 billion. The Central-Hungarian region, as has already been said here, is in an unfortunate situation, which is largely due to the socialist-liberal government, who refused to divide the region at the administrative border of Budapest and Pest county, bearing in mind in large part the unreasonable financing of Metro 4 where we know that the initial funding of HUF 250 billion has increased to HUF 500 billion at the end, and, despite this, or precisely because of this, the backward areas of Pest County have not been able to obtain adequate support. Now this HUF 280 billion is a thin consolation to the Pest county settlements, but because of this situation, the government has made two decisions regarding the Central-Hungarian region that allow us to develop the settlements and cities here. One is that, looking at the period 2021, the government decided in February this year to separate Budapest and the county of Pest from the administrative border in terms of the next development cycle, i.e. from 2021, the municipalities of Pest will be entitled to European Union development, and will be entitled to the development that the socialists and liberals have not made possible in recent years since 2002. In addition, the government also made a budget decision to make 80 billion HUF available to the municipalities of Pest county, to complement the HUF 280 billion framework of the competitive Central Hungary operational programme in the coming years. And let me just say one last thing: the issue of competitiveness rankings. Member László Szakács made a comment on this issue, who is unfortunately not here again. [[Dr. István Józsa: We are here instead!]] - the fellow Members are here, but unfortunately, Mr Cook is not - but let me say a few words about the competitiveness rankings. He criticized Hungary's position in the competitiveness rankings. The trend in our competitiveness rankings is largely due to socialist governance in 2002, since in 2002 we were at the forefront of the competitiveness rankings, not only in Central and Eastern Europe, but also in Europe. Compared to this, we are also on a rising path, following the measures that we have been forced to take in the last six years after the socialist eight years of destruction. And by the way, my question to the Member was precisely which competitiveness rankings he was referring to. I have collected a total of five rankings, the rankings of Doing Business, the World Economic Forum, IMD, the Hungarian Chamber of Commerce and Industry and the Intellectual Property Rights Board, and these aspects are subjective on the one hand, and these aspects are assessed as a disadvantage in one respect and an advantage in the other. In any case, all I wanted to say to the Member is that next time, he should clarify in his speech which one he means, because it is very difficult to put order in the ranks. [[Noise in the ranks of the MSZP.]] because in certain rankings, such as the WIPO ranking list, Hungary's classification has moved forward, there are some where we are constant, but I must stress that what is an advantage for one is a disadvantage for the other, and subjectivity and an individual approach are the characteristics of these competitiveness classifications. Thank you very much for your attention, Mr President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-11-28-221	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, We will continue with the speeches by Members. I give the floor to Congresswoman Ildikó Bangóné Borbély. Here you go.
u2016-11-28-222	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the State Secretary. Dear Members, gentlemen and ladies, I couldn't decide when Secretary of State Csepreghy mentioned to me that he was worried or started to fear that I would talk about 76 minutes myself, and then what would happen here. But you will also be so worried tomorrow, Mr Secretary, when it is the day of the debate on education, how many Members of the Fidesz will be sitting in there, and on the man's 40, because I do not think that so many pro-government Members will participate in the debates initiated by the opposition as usual. Perhaps I could have given my speech the title of the G-day margin. They'll understand why. The competitiveness of Eastern Hungary is greatly influenced by how it is turned on in the road, how the Eastern counties are connected to the road network and the rail network. On 6 February 2015, G-day had quite a negative impact on the people of East Hungary and on investments in East Hungary, on the sources of EU development. I'll quote you, Mr. President. I don't want to use obscene words, but I need to be faithful to the quote. I'm gonna go into the newsroom, and I'm gonna kick everyone out, I'm gonna fire all the Orbánists. Orbán a g... I say, you can also describe Orbán a g..... He said this about his very good friend, Mr.Orbán Simicska. And on February 6th, everything changed. Anyone who had been a buddy and won hundreds of billions of forints of EU funds has changed everything since that day and has had a very negative impact on people in East Hungary. One of these negative effects is rail development. I'd like to give you one example. If I remember the dates correctly, it was in 2009 when the Socialist Government gave a positive award to support for the railway investment of the Sayol-Püspökladány, and then the public procurements also took place. In 2010, a government change took place, and the government changed to invalidate the public procurements that had started until then, and to see a miracle, in 2011 this investment was won by Lajos Simicska's consortium, whose first decision was that at the end of 2015 a government decision had been made that the renovation of Székesfehérvár was completed by HUF 15 billion, then the HUF 137.4 billion of the Sajol-Püspökladány section was immediately increased by HUF 24.4 billion, and the investment was immediately worth HUF 161 billion after Lajos Simicska won it. We had serious concerns that this investment would be cancelled in East Hungary as well as M4, but thanks to God, it was handed over in November 2015. In this Parliament, we socialist representatives are very often communist [[Dr. László György Lukács: Absolutely.]] And I've never been to such a handover in my life, because I've been able to go through that era because I've been introduced by government representatives and Minister Sándor Fazekas to how it worked when he was part of this system. I'm telling you, Minister Fazekas at the handover. [[17 .30]] It was not enough that a special train had been ordered for him to deliver it, if I remember correctly, from Törökszentmiklós to Püspökladány for this dedication, where interestingly there was not Sándor Bodó, Member of Parliament, Member of the region, and there was no Secretary of State, László Tasó. Sándor Potter, thank God you came. And the mayors of the region weren't there either. It is true that the Minister has been presented as a representative of the region, and I said that this is an insult to Sándor Bodó, because Sándor Bodó is the Member of Parliament in the Bishop's Lady District, but it doesn't matter that it wasn't even possible to say it well in that speech. Believe me, it was one of the most shocking handouts of my life. The Desiro train came in, the special train, which we rarely see as people in East Hungary, because it doesn't belong to us, doesn't usually take that route. Then the train stopped at the entrance of the railway station, and the door did not open. No one understood what was happening, why it wouldn't open. Do you know why the door didn't open for five minutes? 'Cause the national-colored tape was dropped 20 meters away. Then the two ladies, who took the national ribbon, started running in heels, took it to the minister's door, opened the door, and the respected company came out. Well, we get it. Do you understand? ! The ominous system you spit on here in Parliament is working. Then the transfer took place, and we were waiting for this project to continue, just so you know what I'm talking about. The promise was to continue in 2016 the renovation of the Bishop-Ebes railway line and then the Ebes-Debrecen railway line. Well, you know, it didn't go on. And we got word this week that maybe in 2017, if things go that way, we can start to continue the investment. So, we were very impressed by G-day, since we can't give this investment to Lőrinc Mészáros yet, we can't give it to Simicska, so let's wait a little longer, the people of East Hungary are worth that much. They've got time to wait, they've been waiting, nothing's happening. Another such investment is to stop the M4 motorway; you know, the other very serious investment we suffer is Szolnok County and Hajdú-Bihar County. In 2013, this government already knew very well that it would not be able to achieve this phase from EU funds. They've been lying for years. In December 2014, a few more HUF 10 billion were added to the budget, and in December, the entire investment was stopped after a government decision and then in 2015 after the ominous G-day. On a quarterly basis, we have a demonstration in this section, because we believe that the people of East Hungary should be as important as the people of Central Hungary, Budapest or West Hungary. Unfortunately, that's not what we're seeing. There's more lies in the press now. I feel sorry for Mr. István Happy and Mr. Bene Ildikó when they have to stand up and defend the honour of the mundane and tell lies on a quarterly basis and another time. Although, I would add, they're already promising reduced technical content to complete the M4. Unfortunately, the people of East Hungary were wrong again, the Orbán-Simicska war was going on, and we could say at home that we suck. And the third project, I told Mr. Secretary of State, was the ESUS case. This tragic event has been going on for almost a year and a half. We're talking 2,800 families, Szabolcs County, Hajdú County and Szolnok County, about 900-900-900 families. We haven't been able to achieve anything in a year and a half, Mr. Secretary. I read on Friday in the Hungarian Gazette, there was a resolution, where the Secretary of State considers ETUSZ a key partner, I hope, and the bankruptcy law, if I remember correctly, is 65, 67 and 68. I hope that this will not mean that the workers will be the last in the line to be paid, which is usually the case in a bankruptcy procedure, but that they will be the first to receive compensation after a year and a half. Unfortunately, this is also to be mentioned because it could have been a European Union resource, a very good programme that was decided by a Gremium that included János Lázár, Miklós Seszták, Mihály Varga and Viktor Orbán. They decided that the ETUSZ had to win this project. Mr. Secretary, all four written questions I've asked you for the last year and a half have been written. The EMMI has initiated an investigation, the tax authority has initiated an investigation, we have filed a complaint on the part of the socialists, but unfortunately in a year and a half we have not been able to achieve so much that these people are compensated. Moreover, since then, it has been found that one of the reasons why this project fell into place was the state forestry industry. We haven't talked about this since how it can happen that public companies decide on a project in the European Union. How can the founders of ETUSZ get away with the news that another social cooperative has been established since then? How could one and a half billion forints be spent without counting them? We're looking into it, but who knows how it's gonna end. And 2,800 families can't handle it anymore. I know, Mr. Secretary of State will say that all workers have settled their fate. Unfortunately, I have to say they're lying about that, too. That's not true! I'm sorry that László Tasó is not here, only about 200 families from his settlement are involved in Nyíradony. I was there two weeks ago, and at least 100 of the 200 families still have unsettled employment relations. And it's the same in all the other counties. If we send the workers into the employment centre or the district office, they say something else, they lie, they chase them away, and then they don't take them to the local authorities. In fact, your Member of Parliament, who is the secretary of state to this government, does not receive open letters from citizens. Well, this is today's Hungarian reality, Mr. State Secretary, and I really hope that you will be able to say now that before Christmas, this 2800 family will be compensated in 2016. I look forward to your reply, Mr. Secretary. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2016-11-28-223	Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary of State Nándor Csepreghy. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2016-11-28-224	Mr President, Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Allow me to officially do what I said last week. Indeed, the court ordered the winding up of ETUS after a year, and as the relevant laws allow, you know, the government will now have the opportunity from the Wage Guarantee Fund. I have instructed my colleagues to launch this process without delay. The government decision you mentioned was published in the Gazette, which led the national reorg to the abolition of ETUSZ. Thus, the government can essentially coordinate the process in its entirety. This week we will discuss the documents with representatives of the undertaking or organisation to be liquidated. We will also involve district offices and government offices in the matter, so that the state of the past can really be corrected in terms of unpaid wages. The government, as I have told you relatively many times over the past year, has no influence on the court. The court made a decision later, and I personally received the ETUS-damaged. I think that they have had the opportunity to express their perfectly legitimate grievances. What I would like to add is that when the government makes a supportive decision on any project, it sees a project on paper, and this project was on paper. Another question will be how to recover the State aid paid to them. But, indeed, you are right that first the individuals who are injured here must be on some level of government, not to say to compensate, but to put them in a position to settle their own conditions of life. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-11-28-225	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Statement by Mr János Harghitai, KDNP Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-11-28-226	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the State Secretary. Dear Parliament, Believe me, this debate makes sense even if one or two Members... and of course all Members say their own thoughts. Some people approach in star sizes, and you would think that here, under the dome, this is a natural way of arguing about such a high-profile question. And some of us, of course, approach the same questions from the point of view of Kiskunlacháza; which is not a problem, that is possible, that is what we have just heard in the case of the Socialist Congresswoman. [[17.40]] We can talk about the point and talk about phenomena. Anyone who wants to talk about phenomena, I respect their opinion, but we can do better if we talk about the whole point. When we talk about the distribution of EU funds, the government's intentions and the possible results behind intentions, we are talking about very important issues in a country where there is capital poverty, where businesses have difficulty getting money, and we are living at a time when we have to strive to use this relatively existing relative abundance of resources, which is now coming in the European Union, more than yesterday. Distribution of resources serves the social policy objectives that we want to achieve through this allocation of funds. Minister Lazarus spoke for a long time about many of the essential issues in his exposé. Of these, I would like to start with what was completely new to me, although I am not surprised. The Minister said that, if the EU funds remain in the future, which the Member States can allocate to their own economic development in the next cycle, a step is expected from the European Union - because obviously he, who is a permanent negotiator to the European Union, already perceives - that he would want to allocate these funds through his own institutional system. Knowing the history of the Union, this is a natural ambition of the Union, and what surprises me is that it has not been mentioned before. Since the European Union exists and develops... - by strengthening, I always mean that the centre in Brussels is clearly being strengthened at the expense of the Member States, which was somehow understandable in the area of the economy. Recently, our debates with the European Union are there when this strengthening is not an act of economic development, because the European Union was created primarily as an economic community, and this is the area that is still the strongest. I am talking about the issue of immigration, where, in relation to the distribution of quotas, the European Union, contrary to the Hungarian government's view, wants to bring to it areas that we are debating that this is even his territory. The European Union suffers from the lack of its own institutional system to implement the law of the European Union only through the Member States. He doesn't have an infrastructure, he doesn't have a judicial infrastructure, he doesn't have a police infrastructure, and I could tell you more. That is, the law of the European Union is enforced by the Member States and, ultimately, it is controlled by the European Union through a judicial forum system. It is the European Court of Justice who ultimately decides on disputes between the Member States and the European Union, and the decisions of the European Court of Justice, when interpreting the law, also bind the Hungarian court. So, on the part of the Union, it would be a completely rational effort - I do not necessarily approve - to try to implement and distribute these amounts through its own institutions, that is to say, to create, because I understood the Minister's words, perhaps to create these institutions that do not yet exist today, or infrastructure that does not exist in one Member State, so that the money allocated in the area of economic development is more appropriate to its intentions. But it was the same natural endeavour of the Hungarian government, and it also enforced it against Brussels that it was one thing that the Gyurcsány government had set up a system of institutions for the distribution of these resources at the time, and I want to characterize this, and the Orbán government wanted to change this. The Orbán government had a real opportunity to do so when we launched a new financial cycle, then it transformed this system. In fact, the transformation has already started in the previous financial cycle, obviously with the consent of the European Union, because without the will of the European Union, this institutional system cannot be unilaterally shaped. Seeing the effectiveness of the distribution of funds, I can see that it was a key element that the government did when it took away the conductor's wand from the National Development Agency, this institution was terminated. On this institutional system, Mr Cook said in Baranya's aspects that it was a good world when they shared resources. What I consider natural is that in a county assembly, where the same different political forces appear, who, by the way, may have appeared in regional development councils, they have a source distribution role, and yet they are elected for this task, and not a regional development council, created through various referrals at that time. The fact that the National Development Agency itself was abolished by the government and brought the entire EU distribution policy into the government as one of the main policies of the government has given strength to the entire mechanism. The fact that the Prime Minister's Office coordinates, conducts, effectively cooperates with the managing authorities, so it came to the heart of the government, to the very heart of the government, to the very best of the whole issue, thus making the area spectacularly appreciated, and the distribution of money also works effectively. Comparative figures have been said here that if we compare the start of the current financial cycle with the two years of the previous cycle, then what progress can be made now. Now, for the sake of simplicity, we can say that in these two years we are moving ahead of the Gyurcsány government after the first two years of that financial cycle. Several applications have been evaluated, several applications have been made by the government, payment arrangements, agreements and the possibility of obtaining more funds. The government, and this was a very important issue, has a very ambitious aim to put out all the applications by mid-2017. Here, the Minister has already said that he wants to write out all the options by the end of spring next year. This gives economic operators the opportunity to plan ahead, to think about what resources they want to move on, and to conduct their own development. So the restructuring of the institutional system has given us a guarantee of success. I say with conviction that if this hadn't happened, so the Orbán government wouldn't have come in the middle of the previous financial cycle, didn't touch this institutional system, and the decisions would have stayed with the National Development Agency, then we wouldn't have had a chance to call off the totality of resources in the previous term. Now we are proud to say how we have done in European comparison. But it must be added that this is an unruly work for the government, I am talking about ministerial apparatus, an expert evaluation system, and obviously at the end of the line, but they are also the most important, those who fight for these resources, those who spend energy and money to realise these resources and make their investments from their resources. In the context of this debate, I propose to the Secretary of State and to the gentlemen present here that, apart from giving the Hungarian Parliament quarterly information on the progress of the allocation of funds, which is important in itself, because it encourages stakeholders to obtain funds, we also measure, if necessary - perhaps on a quarterly basis - what we have done in the past or what we have done now, what measurable benefits it has to achieve our stated social policy goals. I will say only two things: how jobs will be created in a measurable way as a result of these developments, how the company that has managed these resources and carried out the investment, its economic performance, and how these two together serve the full restructuring of the Hungarian economy, how the system has changed that the multinationals have made money, and now the small and medium-sized enterprises have access to money. We hope, of course, that this will be adapted; I will say once again how long-term effects this will have. Because we achieve results and it made sense to do this work when not only an investment was carried out in itself, but this investment also served Hungarian economic interests in the long term. Nor have I read such figures in the past in a tangible way, but it would be even more important to measure the performance of the work not only with statistical numbers, of course they are important, but also to see whether the intention that we hoped for in the distribution of money with the most fair intentions is being achieved, and I also hope that this will be achieved. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]] [[17.50]]
u2016-11-28-227	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr János Volner, Head of Group, Jobbik Group. Here you go.
u2016-11-28-228	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, One of the important lessons learned from today's debate was that the pro-government representatives are primarily trying to pursue an instrumental debate today, that is to say they want to talk as much about the institutional system that divides EU funds, and I would like to continue with a target debate, to examine the purpose of these EU grants and the extent to which the government's ambitions have so far met. First of all, there is a painful fact that my fellow Members have tried not to mention: in euros, the resources coming to Hungary in the current development cycle have decreased by 20 percent, while, by the way, the government is campaigning against its own country, its own people, by misguided by the fact that there has been an increase in resources. The increase in resources has occurred in the increasingly weakening forint, which has significantly lost its value over the past period, and as a result, the increase in resources can indeed be detected in forints, but, overall, we need to count on decreasing resources now and in the future. It is important to see that every competitive economy in the world has a countercyclical economic policy, that is to say, in the years of economic activity it is trying to accumulate, to achieve results, so that, if the recession comes, it has something to do with the economic policy of that State, because these countries are experiencing the slightest shock - and I note that the crisis is the fastest. The question is what the Orbán government has done in this context, as the Orbán government has governed Hungary over the past six years. What did we see now? We can now report an abundance of resources. The question is what the government has done with these resources, whether the possibility of living in Hungary has improved, whether our prospects have improved in the future. First of all, we can say that half the number of children currently born is what it would take to make Hungary a permanent population, and I note that there are strong distortions within half of these children, because very often children are not born with the people who do the work, who create value, they are not the ones who have the resources, and they do not benefit from economic policy. It is also important to see that, at the same time, an incredibly strong and growing emigration process has started. This has also not been helped with EU support. And, ladies and gentlemen, let us not forget that when we spend HUF 1430 billion of EU funds a year, Hungary will call for HUF 1700 billion the following year, and the question is whether the government has any meaningful results. What I see is that Hungary's economy is still dependent on this vast amount of EU funds. The Hungarian economy depends on two things in particular. One of them is the arrival of European Union funds in Hungary, and if there is no European Union resource, and with the Brexit, the British exit from the European Union, this amount will be significantly reduced, as the European Community has lost one of the largest contributors in this way, if there is no European Union resource, the Hungarian economy will sink into recession. On this, the government, which channeled thousands of billions of forints of European Union funds to Hungary, could not help at all, neither the Hungarian market advance nor the rise in the development of Hungarian products, nor the higher level of Hungarian inclusion in global value chains. I looked at a study I wrote in the first days of 2010, which looked at the role of multinational companies in the Hungarian economy, and its findings are practically minimal changes to the current situation. The multinationals receive a significant part of the subsidies, it goes to large companies, not Hungarian SMEs, there is a minimal willingness to innovate within the Hungarian economy, and basically the companies are overtaxed. It is also important to see that the consequence of this economic policy is, and here I will ask the government to respond substantially to what has been said, that Hungarian private investment is at a bottom 16 years in a quarter, within the first quarter of Hungary, and now it is a process lasting for several quarters that Hungary's volume of private investment is decreasing as compared to the previous year. If there is no European Union money, the Hungarian economy will fall into the ground and no economic policy can be achieved in this way. What's important? First of all, we should build on the Hungarian qualities on which we are entitled to build. Our geographical potential, the level of skills of the workforce, would still give us the opportunity to employ more people in some industries, in some economic sectors, and to generate more added value. Even here, despite the thousands of billion forints of EU funding, the government could achieve no results, because if it could, I would ask you to classify the large Hungarian companies who have created jobs in Hungary out of these thousands of billion forints. Ma'am and gentlemen, there are no such things. Hungarian companies are not known abroad, Hungarian companies, industrial companies and manufacturing companies are practically non-existent categories. What we are now able to do is to provide the busy Hungarian workers in the automotive industry with only 144,000 employees in Hungary or in the food industry with 140,000 employees. There is a small willingness to innovate within these sectors, as one analysis of the Supply Chain Monitor pointed out, for example, the proportion of Hungarian added value in the Audi is well below 10 per cent, while the government communicates the exact opposite. For the record, growth could not be helped in the way the government did. The numbers, the facts, unfortunately, are stubborn things. It is worth noting that, for example, four regions out of seven NUTS 2 regions in Hungary are one of Europe's 20 poorest geographical regions, half of Hungary's population and two thirds of its territories are located in these areas. So it is clear that Hungary has basically brought poverty and a break in the period since our accession to the European Union. We have not caught up, we have been cut off from Europe - unfortunately these are the painful facts. It can be seen that the government has not been able to do anything about applying both practical aspects and the aspect of fairness in the allocation of resources. Well, I myself, for example, found with my colleague György Szilágyi, a total of HUF 21 billion in public money distributed by the government to 74 offshore companies. It provided support to these offshore companies, although otherwise they were not known to own, and they did not meet the requirement of national transparency. When I turned to Minister Lazarus about naming the natural owners behind offshore companies, Mr Lázár would rather go to court, but he did not give out the details of these people, although, by the way, when requesting information of public interest, everyone, not just a Member of Parliament, has the right to know these data. It is also important to see that the government did not meet the criteria of expediency not only because of the corruption mechanisms, but also because the money was spent on things that had no multiplier effect, and although the government is currently campaigning to use 60 percent of the money for economic development purposes, it can already be covered that this will not happen, and that under the economic development goals, some small towns will be covered with concreteisation, fountain construction and all the classic dreams that are equivalent to economic development for Fidesz mayors. However, businessmen laugh at this because they know that it will not work as a permanent investment, it will not create jobs. This economic policy should be changed. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2016-11-28-229	Thank you, Mr. Group Leader. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Sándor Hadházy, Fidesz Group.
u2016-11-28-230	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, In order to talk about the use of EU funds 2007-2013 and 2014-2020, we need to look back to 2004, the time of EU accession. [[18.00]] At that time, after accession, a preparatory work, a design work, led by Etele Baráth, was initiated by the then government. Everyone would have thought that it would fall into the hands of a professional, and a very serious, well-founded plan would be drawn up on this basis, along which a very serious country development strategy would be implemented. Unfortunately, however, the truth is very far from this, since the 2006 parliamentary election was made, and then after the autumn speech a municipal election was held, and it was apparent that the MSZP and then government representatives, candidates, almost without exception, failed everywhere. Then the Minister for Development, Mónika Lamperth, reassured MEPs in MSZP and SZDSZ that she will resolve the fact that development resources, in Hungarian, EU funds, will be channeled to the right place and set up a system to serve this purpose. Those who had previously developed the development policy institutional system were customs-cleared from the consultative side, from the petitioner's side. The advisory mergers characterize the period 2007-2010. I would just like to highlight a few of these examples. One is Horváth & Partners Kft. For example, Valér Jobbágy held administrative political positions at the Prime Minister's Office, EU grants, the National Development Office, the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Transport between 2002 and 2008, and became a senior consultant at the company that contributed to the pumping of public funds during the Gyurcsány-Bajnai period. The other example may have been known to you. Klára Dobrev, Ferenc Gyurcsány's wife under Péter Medgyessy's prime minister was Deputy Chairman of the NFÜ, and from 2009 Altus Zrt. CEO, which has won several awards in the Commission's tenders. [[Dr. István Józsa: These are two different things!]] Dear Parliament, In 2010, the Fidesz government inherited a serious legacy, a malfunctioning, frozen development system. [[Dr. István Józsa: Greece! Don't forget Greece.]] The influence of economic interest groups was too great, external companies also carried out project evaluations and preparatory work. [[President Tamás Sneider, Vice-President of the National Assembly.]] For the full project values, 30-40 percent of the money exported from the system has also been allocated to project preparation and project management. The design was done without clear focus, without assessing the needs of the beneficiaries. Without a real concept, we can't talk about development policy, we can't talk about spending money. We can talk about fragmented sources. And most importantly, only 16 percent of the total resource was available for economic development. Therefore, it was extremely important to change this and bring in the lag and re-assess committed, poorly committed funds and fill these available funds with new projects. It is of the utmost importance that projects have been put forward which, under EU obligations, we have certainly had to resolve. Such is the waste water project, such as projects to protect priority water bases. And what is extremely sad is that in the municipal sector, in many cases, the tender was made available with a fraction of the required resources, and it was encoded that the municipality could choose between two bad choices: either complement this source from its own resources and implement the programme, or simply cancel, reject the previously granted development option. I would also like to set another example of the use of EU funds. One of the stories of our fellow Member Sallai R. Benedek, a successful entrepreneur in our midst, is the renovation of the windmill in Túrkeve. I can tell you that this renovation was so successful that the mill finally collapsed, in Hungarian, lived a number of long decades, and could no longer cope with the renovation, because it was not done properly, nor was its management or its implementation properly resolved; and then Sallai Benedek questioned the audit authority as to why it was even controlling this project. Dear Parliament, Today's task is to put the Hungarian economy in a position to stay on its feet even if there is a lack of EU funds in the period after 2020. For this reason, I consider it extremely important for me to benefit the entrepreneurial sphere and I am pleased that 60 percent of the resources available are available to businesses. It is also extremely important that we not only think about non-refundable support, but also develop credit schemes, such as the growth credit programme, that will give rise to the need for small and medium-sized entrepreneurs and can set them on a predictable path. Thank you for your attention. [[It's a rare round of applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2016-11-28-231	Welcome back to my fellow Members. I give the floor to Secretary of State, Miklós Kis.
u2016-11-28-232	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Congressman Sándor Hadházy highlighted a very important issue. This has been financed from the rural development programme, and this is a very sad example of how applicants cannot manage resources. Mr. Congressman mentioned it, and I think that there has been an example of this among the walls of Parliament, when the Nimfea Nature Conservation Association, represented by Mr. Sallai's name, obtained funds in a tender that had been used to create some serious problems, given the fact that it had applied for a development that would have meant the renovation of a windmill in Turkeve, an internal renovation, although it was also described in the building permit that this internal renovation would only be possible if a complete renovation were to take place, because without external work, this renovation would be useless. The saddest part of the story is that during the five-year commitment period, this building collapsed, to be exact in April 2015. Not to mention, on the one hand, the responsibility of the person who uses these resources in this way, and, on the other hand, let us not talk about the fact that this building has been visited continuously over the years, and there would have been unforeseen consequences if, by chance, a person had been affected by the collapse during the investment. But the point is this, which I think we can't let go of without saying that in the case of applications where it's quite clear that a five-year commitment period is being undertaken, and irresponsiblely using the money, it doesn't necessarily use it for what it should be, and what's even sadder is that instead of taking responsibility and consequences, the association tried to get out of it. [[Lajos Korózs: Who was the designer of this investment? Who was in charge of engineering?]] I respectfully report to everyone that, in the coming years, the Prime Minister's Office will continue to do work that will eventually and in any way exclude such proposals, because we are trying to avoid responsibility, and we cannot leave it alone. By May 2016, this building should have been placed in such a state that it complies with the current rules. Nevertheless, we can see how irresponsible the use of resources has been. I think it is natural for the paying agency and the managing authority to take the necessary legal action in such a case. This has also happened in this case, as the then president of the MVH filed a complaint on suspicion of committing fiscal fraud. [[18.10]] This example shows that it is not enough to apply for EU funds, to do so in a responsible manner, and to make improvements that can indeed be maintained and sustainable in the long term. The second is that it shows that the political sentences are beautiful, but at the same time it has to be seen what performance is behind them, and it is clear from this that every single EU resource that is directed at business development and the economy can in any case be more successful than such an irresponsible use of CSO money. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-11-28-233	I give the floor to Congressman Ákos Hadházy.
u2016-11-28-234	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Minister Lázár said that Secretary of State Csepreghy was very prepared for the cases that I have been presenting for virtually several years now. There are dozens of such cases, not just a mill, but a lot of other things, I do not know how much you are prepared for this, but I think that there may not be a need to keep such a list here, because last week, Minister Lazarus acknowledged at a conference that there were structural problems in terms of corruption, not just some cases. You're in a lot of trouble because you're saying there's zero tolerance to corruption, so you're probably pretty nervous, because there's corruption. In addition, today was a quite amazing sentence - sometimes it is worth sitting here in a boring debate because there are gems in it - here Minister Lázár acknowledged that he was right for the Mayor of Szekszárd when he said that today in Hungary, it seems that the distribution of European Union funds is happening, that a company will appear from Budapest, saying that I have brought you a project, I will arrange everything, I will make it happen, I will make it happen, I will only ask that I be the contractor and in the end I will receive the money. That's what the mayor of Szekszárd said, and we started the corruption information sessions with this, and we've basically been doing it for weeks or months a week to prove it. Today, a very important sentence was said here, as Minister Lazarus said that these companies, these tendering companies, are already hanging around the tender area at the time of the announcement, and at the time of the announcement, you can practically know who will be the winner. It was a very serious confession, it's something to look back on, very serious sentences. In fact, if anything, then that was the result of this day, we could actually go home. Which is why you have to talk, because they say something else. It is said that everything will be different from now on, so that, on the one hand, they acknowledge how things have worked so far, but they say that everything will be different from now on. We believe that this is not the case because we see that there is a draft law, there is a draft law on public procurement, in which you claim that the public and then transparency - so they say - will grow, and it is true that, on the basis of the draft law on public procurement, this can be said, but there will be much less public procurement, because they increase the limits, the thresholds below which there is no need to hold public procurement, so that a nervous representative or a nervous veterinarian or anyone can look for these data. The other reason that I think there's a problem is that we see projects that continue in the same way, they're reflections of all the stories that have happened so far. No one can imagine that the HUF 15-20 million issued for flexible working hours per company, from which deep interviews were carried out, for example in bakeries, funeral homes and pubs, how to introduce flexible working hours, we do not believe that this would be such a terrible success experience for Hungary, but these projects continue, the national flexibility plan continues. We also see that social cooperatives, fraudulent social cooperatives, Nimfas of Care and similar social cooperatives continue to form in a large industry. It is true that you say that we will now include the municipalities, and how good it will be, but I believe that if something is not a guarantee that there will be no corruption, it will be the involvement of the municipalities. In the end, we do not think that everything will be different either, because these two percent are still proud because only two percent of the cases found the European Union problem in the projects. The very big problem is... [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: A percentage. István Jakab: One percent is two!]] Yeah, they say one percent, now they say one percent. The big problem is that they can say this because they know very well that there is no control, that the European Union does not control these projects, and you know it very well. You know that there are a total of six people in OLAF, the European Union Anti-Fraud Office, who are supposed to be dealing with Hungarian affairs, although now that there is a very big problem, according to press reports, there is now a group of 20 people, and you know it very well. They also know very well that in the operational program of TÁMOP, the social renewal, in which it was supposed to have been 200 billion forints - we do not know how much of the 200 billion forints - they were in it for Flórian Farkas, which would have been in it if they had dared to ask Flórian Farkas for his billions, the Belts program was in it. A lot of money is gone, almost the most infected is the social renewal program. You know very well that there is a man in Brussels who checks this out, and you know very well that there are 300 people who should be checking it, but not checking it. You know very well that so far, Hungary has been subject to a subpoena check by entrusting private companies. They also raised a dozen billion forints from the European Union in order to control these projects by private companies, private companies that taught Széchenyi Programme Office employees something for 600 thousand forints on gold Sunday, for example, before Christmas 2015. What we don't know is what, because they missed the appointment, and then the contract was that they were supposed to be teaching people for 600 thousand forints a day for four days. Obviously, such companies have checked the projects so far. You admit that this was a problem, and that's why you've come up with the idea that three thousand civil servants are going to double-check these projects from now on. It was a very difficult thing to do, and we understand that civil servants were not very fond of having to participate in these swindles for double their money, their salary so far. They know very well that if they start working, they will be fired, and if they do not work, they will also have to assume criminal liability. I do not think that the fact that these projects will be controlled by civil servants and Hungarian civil servants would be a greater guarantee that there will be no theft than there was a guarantee that private companies would have investigated it. We know very well that civil servants have been watching the projects so far, so there must have been civil servants everywhere, unfortunately, but you know very well that these civil servants, civil servants, depend on you, depend on the local authorities, your workplace, your existence depends on politics, and you are very confident, and you know that these civil servants may not be brave. There was one on Szekszárd, too. I read an envelope opening report after which, when I looked at the envelopes, they were closed. There was an envelope-opening report, but the envelopes were sealed, and it even had the blank sheet with the return card on it, so it couldn't have been that it was accidentally closed, but the opening report was beautifully completed. The envelopes were written with the same hand, with the same typography, supposed to come from three different places. The civil servants there calmly saw this, but apparently they didn't say anything about it, tried to assist him. We also need to say that it sounds a little strange two years before the change of government, that amnesty must be declared, these people must declare amnesty, you must be punished for it, for those who are truly responsible, not for the people who have been forced to assist. It is clear that the three thousand civil servants who will control these EU funds will not be the main criminals. We think that you have repeatedly said proudly that we should not just criticize, we should also make suggestions about what can be done to stop these thefts, this series of thefts and frauds, which, I believe, is one of the biggest organized frauds in Hungary; you are sitting here, and you are practically on top of it, so that this series of fraud can be stopped. I can't say anything very clever about it. So, if you have the civil servants depending on you, and the private companies, we've seen how private companies work, where, once again, they go in and check the project on Monday, and then on Tuesday, they go to theft themselves, and I can't do it between the two, the truth is to dissolve it. The only thing we need is a change of government. So I cannot expect you to stop this process. Obviously, stealing enough does not mean that it will not be stolen in the next period. [[18.20]] Obviously, if regulation were to be proposed, it would be more likely to be said that the tendering system should be made more normative, so that there should be as little subjective as possible about whether or not one should receive that support. You're obviously not interested in this. Moreover, in public procurement, there is a tendency to include subjective elements rather than bid. The only role the opposition can play in this case is that we will continue to show these filths in the way of its controlling role. When very often money taken from the poorest people or money given to raise poorer people is stolen, unfortunately, this is indeed a mess. We'll show you these. The opposition's task may be to slow down the process that you said you wanted to spend or seize these funds within a year. Yes, we have to say that we have to slow down, the same way that when we heat up the fireplace and suddenly the whole thing blows up, it's worth a lot less than heating the place up all the time. This is something the opposition must undertake. We need to stop you from spending practically this amount of money for the next year and a half. He had another sentence for the Minister, and I got stuck on it. He said that because the European Union does not know so much what is needed in small villages, counties and cities. It's a very commonly used communication slip. It is not the European Union that tells us what to spend it on. The European Union did not ask the Roma Municipality to rent Opel Corsa every month for 600,000 forints. He didn't say he wanted to pay $750 million for 25 social cooperative networks at the social cooperatives linked to Roland Mengyi. He didn't say that the Office of Government Control would do organizational development for HUF 25 million, and the end should be that they would receive a study, a two-page study, that from now on they would have to go around the office cars before someone picked them up. He did not say that children's poverty programmes, for example, have to spend 20 million forints in Mátészalka. The press publicity... that's not what the European Union said, that's what you came up with, and that's what you said. One more thing: it has been said many times today that most of the money will go to economic development, and most of these money will go directly to economic development. I think it's a very well-sounding sentence. In practice, when you divide, not on objective terms, but on subjective terms, and the company close to you organizes, a network of companies divides it, as the mayor of Szekszárd, these tender companies have quotas, and they distribute them to who wins and who doesn't, then this money for economic development is much more harmful than it is useful. You have to understand that very well. Technically, if there is, let's say, a veterinary office - I know this a little bit - and next to it is another, and the other veterinary office, let's say, gets an X-ray machine with the company coming up and saying that there is nothing else, we value it to double the price, we don't have to mess with the part, and then everyone's lucky, the other veterinary clinic didn't get it, so the Hungarian economy won't get any further ahead, but this competitive position has been pushed away in an unhealthy direction. I could give you other examples, when one of the shipping companies receives a hundred million forints, that they will start wine boats in Tokaj, and in Győr museum shipping services, they have received that money. He hasn't started the flights, but he's moving much further than the boat company that hasn't started this scam. The hotel that gets free money to make a wellness centre in the hotel didn't get the hotel next door is obviously far ahead of us, and our economy is nothing further ahead, but we've only taken advantage of companies that can get into these grifters. Finally, one more sentence: European Union money is more likely to hurt in such hands than in yours to do more harm than to use. Let me give you one more example, if you have given such architectural examples: a lady called me in Szekszárd and told me to tell you, Congressman, where is the road to Rome, what happened to the road to Rome. I didn't know what to think, and he told me that in Szekszárd's main square there was a very, very old road of gnarly stones, and he said - everyone knows that - this was the Roman road. There's also a sign there that used to be on the Roman road. Everyone knew that, and this older lady said that everyone knew that a long time ago. Unfortunately, very few people know now. When I went to Rome, I saw that the journey was really the same. This trip was grounded, and the museum could only say, the museum colleague, that unfortunately we didn't realize it was very old, perhaps not Roman. So the European Union's money in your hands can bring such benefits. Thank you very much.
u2016-11-28-235	Ladies and gentlemen, Now it is possible to make a two-minute comment. I give the floor to Vice-President István Jakab.
u2016-11-28-236	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, I do not wish to respond to the slander you have listed. I think that you have slandered not only the members of the government, not just the representatives, but the entire civil servants' staff here in the House of the country. I think you should consider whether or not it is possible and worthwhile to continue this way. [[Dr. István Józsa: He just wanted to protect him!]] However, during the day, I would like to reflect on some of the issues raised during the debate. One is that it is a joy and a result that Hungary has been able to draw the subsidies even after a background that we have witnessed. Secondly, it was said in relation to opposition speeches why this haste is taking place. Because, ladies and gentlemen, if an investment is made earlier, the benefit of it in the operation of the national economy will come earlier. There was another excuse why motorways are needed, why they are built. The answer was said to be yes, it is an EU standard. I think there's another side to this. We are part of Europe, and Hungary has the advantage of this in its investments. The third one, which was an excuse, was that Hungary was late to announce the applications. Dear Parliament, I would like to make it clear that the European Union has been more than a year late in drafting legislation, adopting its own budget. I think that there, in Brussels, we should really knock and not object to those who have really worked very intensively. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-11-28-237	I now give the floor to Congressman György Szilágyi in two minutes.
u2016-11-28-238	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Congressman Hadházy said that he listed how much money the MSZP had stolen from EU funds. Congressman, just because the MSZP stole money from the EU doesn't give you the right to steal it. The question is, during these six years, how many MSZP cases were discovered and how many people were accounted for. That was their job, and that was their job. One more thing I regret to see in this debate is that I do not see Fidesz's EU experts, the representatives, so I do not see Professor Simonka or Professor Mengyi, nor even Dean Rogán offshore, unfortunately. [[Defiance from Jobbik's ranks.]] Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2016-11-28-239	Ladies and gentlemen, We're going back to normal speeches. I give the floor first to Parliamentary Congressman Zsolt Becsó.
u2016-11-28-240	Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, Slowly, not a week goes by before any opposition party announces what it will do after their election victory. Of course, the elections are relatively far away for the time being, and the current polls do not anticipate the opposition's chances of winning, but this does not bother the opposition's representatives, they are pushing for their truth, while they are trying to discredit the representatives of the ruling parties with all kinds of cases pulled out. In the beginning, it is absurd when discrediting and accusing comes from the MSZP or DK, since we have had the opportunity to learn about their methods, their eight-year-old country-destroying and squeaky-cleaning activities are not at all. [[18.30]] However, there is also a discreet charm when Jobbik makes comments and stigmats similar to MSZP or DK. We have read from a better-looking politician, and this may have been confirmed in the debate that their experience of using EU money in Hungary remains a hotbed of corruption in the past and in the current cycle. [[György Szilágyi: That's right!]] It could mean, of course, the launch of economic growth, the realisation of creative entrepreneurial ideas, job creation, innovation, the development of our settlements, the growth of our regions, but Jobbik focuses on something quite different when it comes to EU money, while perhaps it should be swept around their own house for the first time, because there is something to sweep. I would like to highlight one case out of many cases, perhaps the biggest case that has to do with Béla Kovács. [[Defiance in Jobbik's ranks.]] Until the spy business was released, the politician's name was almost unknown in the country, which, of course, is not surprising, as he was not the campaign face of Jobbik, he didn't give interviews very much, he didn't do much publicity. He's a grey, but not an insignificant politician of the party. Soon after his return to Hungary, he joined Jobbik, formed the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the Party, and also served as treasurer of the Association of European National Movements, founded by Jobbik. In May 2014, it was announced that the Supreme Public Prosecutor's Office initiated a suspension of the immunity of Béla Kovács, a better EP representative, at Brussels on suspicion of espionage against the institution of the European Union in favour of Russia. At the beginning of April 2014, the Constitutional Protection Office filed a complaint against the politician. If it turns out that the accusations were true and Kovács did work for the Russians, he could get eight years in prison. Béla Kovács is the party's grey, but not stingy politician. Perhaps the most interesting finding of the State Audit Office's report on the management of Jobbik in 2009-2010 concerned membership fees. According to the certificates, 98,6 percent of the membership fees in 2009 and 93,6 percent of the membership fees in 2010 came from one member. This means that in 2009 3.7 million forints and in 2010 more than 8 million forints were taken to Jobbik by one person, a single party member. In the latter case, this individual was Béla Kovács accused of espionage. Even Gábor Vona acknowledged his generous support. In September 2016, the Attorney General made a further motion to suspend the immunity of the President of the European Parliament, Béla Kovács, a better MEP. In addition to espionage, the politician was suspected of significant financial disadvantage by fiscal fraud and the use of false private documents. The deadline for the investigation against Béla Kovács on suspicion of espionage was extended until January 2017. To sum up, back to the original starting point, sweeping or not, but it is clear that the representation of Hungarian people in Brussels cannot be left to Jobbik. And if you'll allow me, in the spirit of constructivity, I'd like to move on to Nógrád county questions, because perhaps this is closer... In the spirit of constructivity. I'm sorry, but everything I've said has been connected to the subject. [[Defiance, interruptions in Jobbik's ranks.]] So I'm gonna go back to what I started. The county of Nógrád is one of the most disadvantaged counties in Hungary, but there is high unemployment, few well-functioning, prosperous companies in the county, the lowest GDP per capita nationwide, and many still earn a living abroad or in more developed regions. Following the change of regime, almost every cycle, there was a government decision that tried to help the county and supported the opening of the catching-up process. There were more favorable periods, and there were depressing periods in the county's life. It was a joyful period of confidence between 1997 and 2004, when our county received special support, industrial parks were created, major greenfield investments were made and jobs were created. Unfortunately, six years after 2004, it was not about catching up, it was about breaking down, getting down. 2010 gave us the chance to redesign more bravely and successfully complete the 2007-2013 development cycle. In the previous seven-year EU development cycle, after a few years of localisation, events accelerated from 2011 onwards, a larger number of proposals were opened and the system accelerated. Thanks to the efficient use of EU funds, the four-banding programme of Route 21 has accelerated, our cities have been renewed, significant flood protection, tourism and urban development projects have been implemented. In other words, the economic convergence of the county of Nógrád started, and the continuation of this was a key issue. This is why we are pleased that we have received unprecedented attention and support for the 2014-2020 development period. Within the framework of the operational programme for territorial and urban development, Nógrád county received HUF 41 billion for HUF 130 million and Salgótarján county legal city received indicative development aid of HUF 9 billion for HUF 200 million. The aid granted to the county and the county seat is the most specific compared to the other counties or cities with county rights. This will also be linked to the agreement with the town of Salgótarján, which will facilitate the implementation of several important programmes, within the framework of the programme "Modern Cities" we hope that this will be realized at the beginning of next year. Overall, we can say that we have received real and tangible help from the government, and that we do not have to expect any loss of resources in my narrower country. I would like to share some important data with my fellow Members. At present, about 75 percent of all county sources are opened. I would just like to point out that, in the 2007-2013 development cycle, much less resources were opened at regional level. I would add that the processes accelerated at the height of 2011-2012, with a larger number of sources being opened. Currently, 17 calls have been issued in the county of Nógrád and about 300 applications for aid have to be processed. We can say that there is no need for resources, whether it is an industrial area, building energy development or an employment pact, which will not be fully used. Of course, we are counting on the resources of the TOP as well as other government support. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-11-28-241	Thank you. I would like to warn the honourable Member that he has talked for several minutes about a subject that really cannot relate in any way to this item on the agenda. I'm just asking everyone to keep an eye on the agenda and talk about it preferably. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of Jobbik and MSZP.]] I now give the floor to Congressman István Józsa.
u2016-11-28-242	I respectfully welcome the debaters. Dear fellow Members, It is surprising that this debate took place for a very long time, and at the end of the debate on European matters, the question of Béla Kovács was included. I don't understand how the congressman thought of that either. Mr Hadházy may have felt the need to bring in a similar tromf as a result of recalling some of his cases. I think in football, they say that if someone can't kick the ball, they kick the baby. So, he found a doll to kick a good one. Back to the beginning of this, back to the professional presentation, I think the government is quite proud to have wiped out so much money, only if we look at the other part of it, what it has accomplished, the balance may not be balanced. So it is true, and generally the public is not aware that, after the conclusion of the cooperation agreement, the Hungarian government has a very limited margin of discretion as to what type of tender it may issue. Therefore, I would not really blame the bureaucracy in Brussels, because this amount of money for certain development purposes must be spent by the government in some direction. I think it would be much worse if Hungary could not adapt this EU methodology. I think that the government touched it correctly, so it didn't go like the asylum case, that we wouldn't want to hear anything then, and we'll tell you how to give us this 8200 billion forints: so by the time we count three, they'll give it to us, and then Hungary will arrange it. Fortunately, this is not the case in the EU. Therefore, the frameworks that Hungary has adopted and entered into the cooperation agreement should go along with them. What is less understandable here is why, in the case of the Polus programme, in the case of priority cities, it was previously concluded as a Prime Minister's promise or sometimes as a treaty with the priority cities, that it was withdrawn in one summer, as my fellow Member quoted, by a government decision of 29 July. That's hard to understand. [[18.40]] What Minister Lazarus said about the development of public administration is that overall HUF 290 billion is available for development, including 160 billion for IT, a very important and encouraging thing. The Secretary of State may have interpreted the opinion of the five different companies or companies assessing Hungarian competitiveness as being good at it, but almost all of them agree that one of the main areas of the deterioration of Hungarian competitiveness is government activity, namely legislation and lack of legal certainty. If at least information technology can make some progress, I think it will improve Hungarian competitiveness. The other extraordinary mistake I'd like to refer to, and I'm not asking for understanding, is just a little professional correctness. So when the last eight years are being scolded, don't forget that it was the first almost full budget period to be launched, so it's about creating a new system, and your system hasn't actually decided whether it's gonna be good or not. There's one thing I can tell you that they can wipe out the money. In 2015, which was the last payment period of the previous financial cycle, EU money equivalent to 6 per cent of GDP was allocated. I am not saying this in a pejorative sense, it is a great achievement that this 1800 billion could be imported for development purposes, but in order to look at the other part, that only 3 percent of economic growth could be achieved from this inflow of 6 percent of GDP, and it is presented as a success story of the last period, then I would not be so professionally satisfied. And how long this deadline was 31 December 2015, as long as it was possible to bring in or use the funds of the previous financial period, it also shows how much this had an impact on Hungarian investments, showing the investment figures of this year that in the first three quarters of the year the level of Hungarian investment dropped by almost 15 percent. So it is far from being said that the private sector, where there is trust, would be so much in favour of this economic policy or government work, even in the EU area, which you are pursuing. So if the money is distributed on a protectionist basis, then the meliorational companies that go forward in a natural race may not be able to show themselves. If they are working for the world market, then probably if they are working for the domestic market, then the protectionism that you are enforcing will turn back. There is also a significant rise in state corruption everywhere in the deterioration of our competitiveness perception. And here I don't want to judge the work of those who share the money, but those who cheat and those who won't let it be discovered. So as long as the Hungarian prosecutor's office so figuratively refuses to investigate any evidence of obvious crime, we cannot expect to be seen as a fair country and a fair partner. I do not want to debate the improvement of macroeconomic data, but I would also like to draw attention to the contradiction of their established text. You like to say that in 2010, we had to get the country out of a catastrophic situation similar to Greece. Let me tell you the fact that something is bothering you. Our debt rating was better then than now, after the rating. So you are very pleased - I too - with this qualification, but what you should know is that in 2010 Hungary was in an even higher grade at the time of the change of government than you managed to achieve in the second wave of the crisis. So don't say false, because it's a self-destructive prophecy. So when we do not go to him more critically criticising the use of EU spending, it also includes the fact that, according to Keynes, the market confirms the expectation of becoming a mass. If the opinion of you in bulk is that there is only a corrupt way to obtain European Union funds in Hungary, then this prophecy may justify itself and not be such an EU resource after 2020. According to all normal estimates, cohesion funds will not cease. Thus, Europe shares a broader view that this twice 12 billion What Hungary received, or twice seven years when EU funds were received by the catching-up countries, was not enough to make a substantial contribution to the settlement. So I am sure that there will still be cohesion funding after 2020. It is our responsibility to ensure that this use is done in a fair and fair manner. So in the spirit of this, I would protect the government from the one-sided prognosis of success, and I would urge that what they see as an experience, possibly an opportunity for abuse, will be corrected as soon as possible so that the whole country can benefit from these resources. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2016-11-28-243	I give the floor to Secretary of State Balázs Rákossy.
u2016-11-28-244	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Let me add some data to the 2010 and 2016 parallel. Employment accounted for 55.5 per cent of the population in 2010, while it stands at 67.1 per cent in 2016 today. Unemployment was 10.9 per cent in 2010, which is now below 5 per cent, 4.9 per cent. The level of public debt was 83.7 per cent in 2010, while now it has decreased by more than 6 per cent to 75.6 per cent. The general government deficit was 4.5 per cent, currently 1.9 per cent; while GDP growth was 0.5 per cent, 2.6 per cent in the previous quarter, 2 per cent in the last quarter, and we expect annual average economic growth to be between 2.3 and 2.5 per cent by the end of the year. And then let me add that the rating rating that I had in 2010 was reinstated by Moody on 4 November and Standard and Poor on 16 September and by Fitch on 20 May. [[Dr. István Józsa: Are we now on the same level with Greece?]] an investment category. [[18.50]] By the way, in May 2013, after nine years, we came out of the excessive deficit procedure, where, thanks to the socialist government, we have been staying since 2004 when we joined the EU. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-11-28-245	I now give the floor to Congressman László Földi.
u2016-11-28-246	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, On both the opposition and the pro-government side, EU funds have already been used at macroeconomic level. As a representative of Pest county, I would like to deal with the central region of Pest county and the county very briefly. As you know, until 1 February 2016, the Hungarian Government sent Brussels to separate the central region into two parts, Budapest and Pest County. It has to be stated that when 184 municipalities of Pest county decided to become a separate region of Pest county, the 1 million 300 thousand people living here did not speak against the capital and not the capital, and the 12 county representatives did not speak against the people of Budapest, but for the people of Pest county, because in recent years the county lost hundreds of billions of forints of development resources due to its membership of the central region. In this respect, the central region was the capital, it is clear. What can Pest County mean for us if Pest County becomes an independent region? On the one hand, I believe that if there will still be serious EU funds after 2020, the county will be able to obtain serious funds, and on the other hand I would like to highlight it separately, and I think it is very important to state once again that the Hungarian government has not failed the county, as it provides HUF 80 billion in funding to the county due to the lack of EU funds. The use of this will obviously take place in 2016-17-18-19-20, and I think it is very important to note that if we follow the principle of this division, as is the case with large EU funds, that about 60% of the population goes to economic recovery and 40 percent to other tasks, then the county's economy can prosper well. It should also be noted that in the county of Pest four areas, the district of Szobi, the district of Nagykáta, the district of Cegléd and the district of Nagykőrös are small regions that belong to the detaching regions, and these districts can receive an additional source of this HUF 80 billion, according to our current knowledge, forints 1 billion per district. However, I must also say that despite the fact that the county has very few EU funds, there are serious developments in the county following the measures taken by the Hungarian government. I would like to highlight the construction of the M4 road, where the works have already started, as archaeological explorations have begun at Cegléd's border, and the actual construction work will start in spring, and we hope that the Abony-weapon section will also be built from domestic sources, some of which are already finished. In addition, the government has contributed to major industrial developments this year. In Cegléd, a serious local entrepreneur received a HUF 1.5 billion non-refundable grant, two weeks ago the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade announced the settlement of a Japanese company Nagykőrösre, to which the state also contributes HUF 1.3 billion, and now a company will arrive at Cegléd in a Hungarian joint venture, which will also receive serious public resources in a non-refundable form. Thus, improvements, if not to the extent that in regions that have a significantly higher amount, are also in this area. At the same time, it should be pointed out that farmers in this area, our small region, can, of course, also have access to the agricultural subsidies that farmers can obtain in other regions. I think, and I sincerely hope, that in the coming years, 2017-18-19, the county will be able to make serious progress using the development money received from local Hungarian sources, and we are very confident that if we become an independent region after 2020, we will also have access to EU funds. Thank you, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-11-28-247	Thank you. I now give the floor to Congressman Márton Gyöngyösi.
u2016-11-28-248	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I came here in the hope that we could have a meaningful debate on an important issue that could shape the direction of Hungary's economic policy development, and that we could discuss this in a meaningful way, and that we could have a professional debate. In a spiritual sense, there was quite a quality debate until my fellow Member, Mr Zsolt Becsó, stood up and said what he had to say, which was not even touchingly related to the subject. You might as well have been talking about endangered species of animal and plant species in Nógrád County. He had little to say on this subject, and I do not know if this will go on in this area thanks to my fellow Members who have been fidesz. I hope not. Turning to the subject, we are talking about European Union development resources for the second time, a few months apart. Last time we discussed the fate of the previous economic development cycle here in Parliament and the results that have been achieved. At the time, I heard Minister János Lázár with great interest, and it is certainly commendable that administration has accelerated in drawing funds and some kind of structural changes could be made in order to allow these calls to be channeled to the Hungarian economy more quickly over the next few years. However, I am convinced that drawing on tender funds is not the main priority. This is also a very important thing if we know what priorities there are in the area of economic development. Only when there are clear economic policy development priorities will it be worth applying for such resources and contributing to such resources, and this will be repaid most effectively. However, Minister, he said then, and I deeply agree with what was said at the time, in order to be able to make a successful use of the European Union's funding, we have to evaluate it in any way, so before we begin to discuss the 2014-2020 period and the tender money, we have to evaluate the previous cycle and see how much money has been received, how it has grown and how it has been used, what means have been assigned to it. If we look at our membership in Europe, we can see that both the way there and the time since 2004, so in the period of our membership of the European Union, we have a very uneven picture of the impact. Our accession to the European Union has indirect effects and has direct effects. When we talk about the effectiveness of our membership of the European Union, we usually focus on the direct effects, and we look at how much money has come from European resources to Hungary from the European Union, and what the balance of payments is, what the balance is. When comparing these, we can conclude that the balance is positive. This is when we sit back and say that everything is okay, that it is worth the membership of the European Union, and that everything is on the right track. But we believe that the formula is much more complicated than that, because we also have to add - I know that these are more difficult to measure - that with the accession of the European Union to the Hungarian economy, certain markets have opened up to the Hungarian economy, but the Hungarian market has also become much more open and more exposed to Hungarian economic operators. [[19.00]] The scope of the Hungarian economy has narrowed with EU accession, so let us just think that the instruments of market protection and investment promotion... - or the promotion of investment as an objective of European Union membership have virtually ceased. Think of the effects and negative results of forced privatisation, liberalisation and deregulation on the Hungarian economy. The EU accession balance is only positive in terms of direct impacts, if we look at indirect effects, it is not nearly as rosy. If we look at who the EU funds to Hungary actually support, for example, in many cases when a particular EU resource can be used for machine purchases, it is very often an additional demand for the net contributor Member States. So in this sense, it would be worthwhile for the Ministry of National Economy and the Prime Minister's Office responsible for allocating EU funds to look at what this formula is really like and what goals we really need to set in order for the Hungarian economy to benefit in its entirety. In terms of measurements, I see there's a kind of self-disguise, a kind of self-deception. I have already repeatedly said in the Hungarian Parliament that, when we measure the results of the Hungarian economy, it is not certain that the measures that other Member States use to measure their own economy, such as GDP, are used by Member States with a fundamentally strong economy, strong economic operators and an export-oriented economy. Or, for example, as regards exports in Hungary, there are a lot of numbers that do not fully cover the performance of the Hungarian economy. In terms of the objective, Minister János Lázár also said that the aim is to keep Hungary on track within a few years, thanks to the EU funds, and Hungary should be able to stand on its own, so to speak, self-propelled. I think that if we look at this goal, we are very far from self-propelled and independent Hungarian economy. We are still very much dependent on EU funds. If we look at the location of the Hungarian economy or domestic businesses in the value chain of international division of labour, if we look at whether we have managed to solve and eliminate employment anomalies, if we look at whether we have managed to eliminate territorial inequalities in Hungary and how much we have managed to invest in research and development, or in Hungarian agriculture, which I believe is a comparative advantage for the Hungarian economy, and we should be more concerned with raising the Hungarian food industry and putting agriculture on its own feet, if we ask these questions, then we need to establish that we have not managed to maximise and make good use of European Union funds. I believe that this poor economic structure should be rethinked. Now that we are entering another economic development cycle, I believe that the direction of our economic policy should be redefined, we should rethink where these resources are best used in order to ensure that Hungarian businesses receive adequate capital, not to continue the practice that has been practiced here in the past 26 years, that Hungarian multinational companies are benefiting from tax incentives, subsidies, EU funds, and thus increasing the competitive disadvantage of Hungarian businesses. In my last sentence, I would like to express my hope that further speakers will contribute to a constructive debate. I very much hope that my next Fidesz fellow Members will not be dealing with side-by-side topics and disparaging their political opponents, but will make substantive findings on this subject. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-11-28-249	Ladies and gentlemen, I declare that the Christian Democratic People's Party has renounced its remaining timeframe for the benefit of the Fidesz-Hungarian Civic Alliance Group. I now give the floor to Secretary of State Nándor Csepreghy.
u2016-11-28-250	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Let me also respond to Mr Józsa and Mr Gyöngyösi in my speech because it is very important here to separate the challenges and results of the 2014-2020 period from the 2007-2013 period. If I want to sum up with a word picture of what we have achieved in the period 2007-2013, it is about how we were able to change engines in a speeding race car while we were driving, so that this race car will actually pass through the finish line by the end of 2014 and bring all the money home. If we look at the operationality of the development policy system in Hungary from this point of view, then it can be said that we have been successful, because we have made our commitment in 2010 for the period 2007-2013 that we will not leave a single cent in the Brussels register. This does not mean that, for the period 2007-2013, the government would be satisfied with the content issues, i.e. where we used them, what we used development resources for, and how they contributed to increasing Hungarian competitiveness. That's what's in the other frying pan. You gotta be absolutely clear about this. This is different from the 2014-2020 period, where it is important to talk about content. But since Congressman Volner has brought up discussions on the purpose and instrument, what are the goals to be set? If we ask this question, then I think the single answer to how the Hungarian economy can operate, a ten million-dollar internal market, compared to its potential, as a sovereign market in the new world economic order, the existence of which is not called into question today by any of the parliamentary parties or by the economic-spiritual moonyard behind the parliamentary party. In this regard, it can be seen that a very serious strategic change was required compared to what I would like to use now, not the last eight years, but what the Socialists have done and what we are doing in the previous planning period. What happened then? There was a fundamentally favourable global climate before the 2008 crisis. During this period, the political question arose as to whether, when development loans can be obtained at a rate of 0.5-1 per cent, and EU funds had non-exclusive development opportunities for Hungarian businesses, it is worth taking up political and economic conflicts in order to really implement a targeted development policy in Hungary, whether it will tell which industries it hopes to develop long-term Hungarian economic growth, and thus also state which sectors do not receive these funds directly. At the time, the political decision was made, and I think it is safe to say, in retrospect, that development policy lacked this focus. It was a more convenient political decision to make a promise to everyone, and something will come out of it at the end. And we can see that this calculation was completely undermined by the 2008 global economic and then financial crisis. The most important question now arose from the fact that we are able to give the Hungarian businesses the support that the Austrian, German or French companies received in their own country before the enlargement of the European Union to the east, and, in some respects, they are now receiving measures that the European Commission will stamp as a restrictive measure on numerous occasions in the case of countries that joined the European Commission after 2004, and on numerous occasions criticises whether the new Member State of the European Union, now 12 years ago, has been able to do so in order to position its own economic operators. And indeed, what Congressman Gyöngyösi said is a perfectly legitimate debate, because although EU rules exclude that European Union funds are available either to foreign or domestic large companies, these companies' services and products are present in these markets, at the end of the line, when we talk about the implementation of a development, they still have these resources. There is a statement that says that at least 50% of the different cohesion and catch-up sources coming from the European Union are going back, because if a small enterprise is given the opportunity to buy a machine, it will be more than likely to buy machinery that is produced on the German market and then spends on imported products or services the excess production of this machine and the resulting additional income. [[19.10]] Indeed, this is the most important question of whether a self-patriot government, among the EU competition rules, can use instruments that are instruments for the application of EU competition rules, but still try to position domestic players. To do this, you need to define the focus where this is possible. This is why the government has decided not to leave access to these resources primarily in the service sector, for example, because it wants to push these resources in the direction that, on the one hand, Hungarian economic operators can meet domestic demand to the highest possible extent - if I speak from another area where cohesion resources are not involved, but, say, rural development, that is exactly what the debate on small estates is about: how we can support areas with high labour intensity for employment - how we will be able to recapitalisation economic operators in Hungary thanks to the capital programmes of the European Union and the domestic budget, so that those in the regional market can actually play a ball, and that there should be a few construction players, a few operators who can really support the Carpathian Basin, but also be able to provide a type of service competitively, and how we will be able to have a few IT, health and pharmaceutical players who can be competitive in the global market. This is the Hungarian economic reality in a ten million-dollar market. If, by 2020, these resources can be used at a rate similar to the previous period, but along these goals, the situation can be created by 2020; we cannot decide today whether there will be any resources or not with Mr Józsa; we may agree that, if there will be, they will be distributed in a different form than they are now, but if a responsible government speaks here in the Hungarian Parliament or in the eyes of Hungarian businesses, then we must say that we need a development policy that will decoupling Hungarian economic operators to the highest possible extent from these resources. If, after all, such resources become available, this could be an advantage that could be used for further expansion and growth. I would have added so much thought to the speeches. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-11-28-251	I give the floor to Secretary Bence Rétvári.
u2016-11-28-252	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, I'd like to speak to him very briefly. Before the announcement, I pressed the word-calling button. I would like to respond to Jobbik's speeches and the LMP's speeches. Jobbik's speech highlighted an identity crisis for us, since Jobbik had been a pro-EU fighter for five to six years before, then became a pro-EU by 2014, and was now in a position between the two, and said that these EU funds were good, but how much of a disadvantage the other side of the pan actually has. It would be nice to hear a clear opinion about this once. There will be an opportunity for Jobbik to speak up to resolve this kind of identity crisis, and not to go left and right, as he has spoken about church law, about fundamental law amendment [[György Szilágyi: A few years ago you were a liberal!]] In connection with constitutional judges or even on a free Sunday, he sometimes supported it, sometimes opposed it. We still feel the rhetoric of this duality in Jobbik's speech. Do you really have to decide where you are going to vote: would you give up these resources, or would you imagine Hungary's future in this logic? The other, which I would reject for my part, when very many of the lines of the LMP, but also of Jobbik, are making speeches about catching up sources in which they are almost overindulged, they say that they are not used for a good purpose, and that we should use them for other purposes. Let us not forget that the number of disadvantaged students, especially Roma students, has doubled or even tripled in higher education, that 9 000 have received scholarships for their secondary school and primary school studies, so that they can complete them, and apparently more people can get qualifications, more jobs, hundreds of thousands more than six years ago. The results of these sources are here. [[György Szilágyi: Flórian Farkas family!]] You can see here what we have done with these money and, of course, in other ways. I am not talking about the fact that many people obviously agree with the European Commission's idea of taking these sources of catch-up away from the disadvantaged people in Hungary and handing it over to migrants, immigrants, which is under pressure in Hungary. And let us admit that, in many cases, the attacks on the sources of catch-up in Brussels are likely to result in Hungary's refusal to take this away from the disadvantaged people in Hungary and to hand it over to migrants, as has been repeatedly discussed and even invited to conferences in Brussels. In this, the Hungarian government's position is clear: it will not reduce resources to catch up under pressure from opposition parties or pressure from Brussels. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-11-28-253	I now give the floor to Congressman Mihály Witzmann.
u2016-11-28-254	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, I think that in that debate, perhaps we all agree on both the opposition and the pro-government side that the effective use of the 2014-2020 funds is of great importance for the country, we can say that it is a strategic task for the country, and what we need first and foremost is development and investment that can lay the foundations for sustainable economic development in the long term, especially given the fact that we cannot yet see exactly what the country can expect after 2020. There has been a lot of talk about 60 per cent of resources for economic development, and I would not like to detail this. However, with regard to the drawdown of funds, I think that these unnecessary opposition concerns are also incomprehensible to me because the current government, the Fidesz-KDNP government, has already demonstrated in terms of drawing funds for 2007-2013 that, despite all the delays and timing shifts, it is able to draw these funds at 100%. This is what Minister spoke about in his expozee, and I am very sad to see that there are many of the Hungarian opposition, who are very often on the side of Brussels bureaucrats, Brussels politicians in drawing European Union funds, and are trying to find a connection, for example, between the attitude of illegal immigration or migration in Hungary, the attitude of government and the drawing of EU funds. I think it is good to make it clear that the European Union's development resource is neither a charity nor a gift for the country. In order to achieve this, Hungarian people had to be able to endure a great deal of change before, during and after our accession to the European Union, in fact, we had to adapt our legislation to the European Union, and let us not forget that our markets too. It is true that Hungary is a ten million-dollar country, but we have opened up our markets to European countries and European economies. If we are on the basis of the results, I think that we can, of course, often have feelings - and I must admit that this is how I am - that there is not enough development for what we want to do, but we can say that Hungary is in the sixth place in the 2014-2020 cycle with regard to the announced, supported, contracted or paid amounts of the 28 countries of the European Union, and that it is in the first place among the V4 countries. I think that this shows, in any case, the effectiveness of drawing European Union funds. We have heard a number of opposition criticisms today, and concrete cases have been mentioned by pro-government factions when some opposition politicians have been mentioned in terms of the use of EU funds, and their manifestation or intervention has been exemplary. That's what I want to do. I am sorry that the co-chair of the LMP, Mr. Ákos Hadházy, is not in the room. [[Sallai R. Benedek: Listen and listen!]] But fortunately, Sallai is R. Benedek's colleague, so I guess you'll be able to tell him. The corruption info, which has been introduced by the Member for many months now, if it were factual, I think we could say that there would be nothing wrong with it, and I even think that it is exemplary and even a substitute for an opposition representative to take on this, as Minister said, that he regularly investigates and even speaks out in the context of a press conference. Although these accusations are apt, the problem in general is that we can only find half-truths in us, and often these statements are discredited by ignorance or political motivation, or by some political malice. For if you really were serious about these press releases of corruption, you would not only be holding a press conference on these matters, but you could also turn to the authorities or to the institutions with the right competence to investigate these matters, because I think that transparency and efficiency are very important, and this is not even questionable to us. I can read from the material collected in various ministries - there are 15 pages of material, I am obviously also aware of the time-framed comments of my fellow Members, I will not read it, there are 15 pages of material about how the facts on corruption have been refuted and what is true about them. [[19.20]] I do not want to deal with these in detail now, but since Mr President mentioned a number of concrete examples of the use of European Union funds, I would like to mention one, which he clearly forgot to mention: Mr Ákos Hadházy, Member of the Council years ago, by the way, even as a municipal representative, Szekszárd... [[Dr. Zsolt Legény: Fideszes municipal imager.]] - Yes, he sued a restaurant in Szekszárd with disabilities, and if I had good information, the congressman asked for millions of forints from the restaurant-running foundation, the so-called Blue Bird Foundation, to agree to the expansion of the restaurant, which, by the way, is located in the vicinity of his own house. This would have been a development from European Union sources in order not only to expand the restaurant, but also to expand the former staff and the number of employees, so in Hungarian, they can provide jobs for as many Hungarian people with disabilities as possible. You've been interfering with court cases for years. The picantria of the case, by the way, is that even as a municipal representative, you voted for the transformation of this restaurant. In this respect, I would just like to ask the honourable Secretary of State - I think he will be able to answer - how many people with disabilities I have mentioned have been put at risk in their jobs and how much EU money has been involved, or how much EU money has been in danger because of Mr Hadházy's individual conveniences, that he has tried to prevent the expansion of the restaurant next door by all means. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2016-11-28-255	I now give the floor to the Secretary of State, Dr. Eszter Vályos.
u2016-11-28-256	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, I am very sorry that Congressman Hadházy has already left, but what can we expect from a tabloid politician, he has only been involved in the debate as long as his appearance has taken place. Words instead of actions - in short, I think that this is how Congressman Hadházy describes his public work. His sentences do not convey the whole truth, but actually reflect a desire to act. As we can see, Congressman's indiscretion is confirmed week after week. I would also like to mention one of these cases, which concerns the evaluation system for applications. I did not quite understand the gibberish that Mr President said about the evaluation, but one thing is certain: more than 5200 government and civil servants have already applied to the new tender evaluation list, we have more than 2,600 new colleagues working on the tender evaluations, and since both colleagues and the managing authorities are anonymised about how they are doing their job, so we are finally only notified of the fact that the evaluation of the application is carried out, we do not know how the evaluator appreciates it, because it is only given to the managing authorities. I can therefore also say that this system is in any case safe, transparent and transparent, as the Prime Minister's Office cannot monitor the evaluation of the proposal by the individual evaluator. However, it is clear that the number of eligible projects has reached more than 7700, more than 7200 projects have been allocated to colleagues for evaluation, and these work is progressing well. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2016-11-28-257	I now give the floor to Congressman Sallai R. Benedek.
u2016-11-28-258	The cat's gone, the mice are squeaking. [[Defiance. Dr. Bence Rétvári: Be modest!]] Thank you very much for your valuable contribution. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, I do not know if this has already been said, so that someone can thank the proponents of the governing parties and Minister Lazarus for taking up this debate. For my part, I am very, very pleased that we have been given the opportunity to open a debate on this as well. The opposition parties, like all other Members, have a limited opportunity to do so, so thank you very much for talking about these issues. I also think that we need to address very, very important strategic issues. Since I would like to remain on the ground of Constructivity, I would like to begin my speech, if I may, in the manner that I think you know very well, Mr Secretary of State, by bringing up the example of Burgenland. Burgenland - I say to my fellow Members, who are less familiar with it - Austria's Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg county, so the easternmost part, its most backward county in 1995, is a part of which virtually its backwardness is reflected in incomes, earning half as much as a Viennese citizen. Exactly, they received almost as much money each from the Union as Hungary. This could have been used by roughly EUR 4800-4900 per capita, and Hungary should have managed a little bit more, so it should have been better, and with the use of this money this 280,000 province has roughly doubled the income of the people living there in the last decade. Mr Harald Ladich, responsible for international relations for the Managing Authority of Burgenland, and Managing Director Balázs Barta of the Pannon Economic Network have prepared a study to present this example. This is important to get to know as many fellow Members as possible, because, in practice, I know that it is incredible in Hungary, just as Micimackó thought because of Gida Robert, that the only way to walk the stairs is to knock his head on the stairs, and Hungarian Members also think that EU support is to steal it. No, this can also be used for the benefit of society, and for example, this is typically good - let me tell Burgenland his specific indicators. There was no higher education throughout the region. The innovation capacity and export share of higher education were very low. The skills of the workforce have fallen short of what is desirable. There was virtually no substantial revenue in tourism, and there was a strong North-South development gap, so there was very uneven development. The first priority is where to put EU money. First priority was R &amp; D and innovation. This is what has been reduced in Hungary, and a significant part of it will also be stolen. The second question - I think your government is putting this among the priorities - is the internationalisation of businesses, so that they can produce abroad. The third priority - also with very bad results - was education and training. I'm sure Secretary of State Rétvári would be able to talk about this for a long time, but, in fact, it's a fact that it's about... We spend half as much on education as, let's say, the Netherlands. And it obviously has an impact on our competitiveness. At the same time, economic results can be compared. In addition, tourism and sustainable energy were also the priority areas. It is now interesting to learn that one in eight jobs is directly or indirectly linked to an EU programme. Businesses are constantly increasing their labour market needs by a thousand per year, and their economic performance has increased by 10 percent in the period 2007-13, and each EU euro has generated a 2.3-fold investment from the economic private sector. The two researchers drew lessons from the experience that should be taken into account when we talk about EU developments. The first was to have a stable institutional system. Well, we can talk about everything in Hungary, but not that the institutional system is stable, they transform not only the licensing authorities every year, but they are slowly redefining all the legislation. The product awards bill was here for the seventh time in front of Parliament last week. This is not legal certainty, so obviously we do not have it. The relationship between a strategy and calls for proposals, and cooperation with practically the population: here it can be said that the government dictates, the population adapts, and obviously, those who do not adapt do not have much chance. Forward-looking and ambitious planning and the implementation of related funding to achieve greenfield higher education and energy independence. Hungary doesn't just do that, it connects itself to Russia in energy. The Paks direction obviously has nothing to do with EU funds, but it is not trying to use the potential of EU resources to create real independence. Predictable tender financing, combined with bank resources, quickly evaluated and paid aid. We have already had the opportunity, and we have had the opportunity, to exchange ideas about why the use of EU funds in Hungary does not reach the most deprived and most needed target group. And this is basically a question of funding, because most of the time, the self-strengthening of the EU tender system is not guaranteed in the small and medium-sized enterprises sector and the private sector. Similarly, there is no guarantee of all the resources needed for pre-financing, in which, of course, the government has taken steps to make this change, but at the moment, if we look at the successful outcome of the tender, we see that it is by no means reaching the little ones and the low-capital ones, where we should make the greatest progress. And it's unbelievable - it's not me, it's those two independent researchers who write it - that putting party policy considerations in the background was also a key factor in success, according to their own declaration, and policy successes could be turned into party political capital. This meant that, in the example there, they were practically trying to establish a national consensus on where development policy should go and, if possible, how development directions could be set that would help. [[19.30]] And then we see that EU funds, apart from being stolen, can be used completely usefully and can be used to help people live better. But if we look at what the real indicators are in Hungary and allow me to refer back to Minister János Lázár's introductory exposé, who basically said that the use of all these subsidies cannot specifically measure whether the countryside will be closer to life in Europe and how it can achieve it, because we can measure the impact it has on our GDP, we can measure how much development we have achieved. That's the problem! That's not what we're supposed to measure. Overall, if it does not bring about social development during a development period and does not achieve a better life for people, healthier living, less work to live on, if possible the economy to be secure and hope for a good and healthy life, then the whole development period is worthless because we have not made people's lives better with economic numbers, GDP growth and statistics. Obviously, this is where you can think about it, and it is worth discussing and even discussing the extent to which the direction of support can contribute to it. The problem is that when this government has defined all these directions of support, it does not take into account the basic state of affairs, and here the party policy aspects are important. I would like to thank my fellow Member Hadházy for bringing the matter of the Molnár windmill in Turkeve to Parliament, because it is typically the result of the unconceptuality I am talking about. During the previous development period, for example, during the MSZP governments, a lot of rural tourism development was implemented from the European Agricultural and Rural Development Fund. I believe that Mr Zsolt Kis Miklós remembers the third axis, which could only be used for tourism, and could be supplemented by his fourth axis, the development of LEADER. As soon as you took over, you took over the country's governance, within the six months, you stopped accessing EAFRD funds to settlements above 5,000 people. This was the first measure. In the source of the EAFRD, this resulted in my count of 40 when I collected them, so there must have been hundreds of applications in the first or second period, which had reached a level of development, and you threw them into the trash with all the resources used. To date, there are a multitude of tender developments in the country that have been made for half or two thirds of the time, or perhaps a tourist development, and never, let's say, marketing or something that would facilitate the reservation, has not come to it. A multitude of these abandoned programmes will result in us practically going out and seeing that we have thrown out the window the money we have used from EU sources in some way. The case of the windmill in Túrkeve is typically such an example, with three others that have been left behind, and the first phase has been completed, and Fidesz has come, and Fidesz has said that there is no need to finish, no matter if it collapses, it doesn't matter, because so far the renovations have been financed by the government of the MSZP, and the rest doesn't need to be secured. I can say to Mr Secretary of State, and I am available to look at such resources or such developments, but this is the first great responsibility that cannot be given to the past eight years, because these measures, that we have not looked at where we have put the money and how they could have been used, obviously have led us to use European Union funds in a virtually unintelligent and unnecessary way. [[János Pócs intervenes.]] If we complement this with where the money went, then despite the fact that the negative experience that we are bringing up is not enough, I have already reacted in two minutes. At the same time, as my better colleagues have responded, we are currently in the third place on the blacklist of OLAF's funds. So right now, we're giving the third worst performance in most of the corruption cases we've discovered. This is a problem because, God forbid, you don't care after 2018 what happens, but the country doesn't care. If, as it seems, the development resources that are now being signed up to 18 and some of them lose their public assets, some of them will be applied to the settlements at the end of this budget cycle, in 2020, and will collapse the Hungarian economy in the next two years when the repayment obligations come. Obviously, when you ask, Mr State Secretary, what are the constructive proposals that can be changed, I spoke in strategic directions about the example in Burgenland, but for example, a typical example is the case of our fellow Member, known as Voldemort. I'm not saying what he did, I'm saying that his lovely wife made a kft. with a person in 2014. This is a profit of 13 million in the first year, a profit of 193 million in the second year, and now, when it's been shut down, it has 254 million forints in its account. The problem is, you can do the same in the current system. In the same way, tender firms and all kinds of logistics and other marketing companies take a significant part of the source that should be used to make as much money as possible for more people in the Hungarian countryside and in Hungarian society. These resources should be about the backward regions that my fellow Member Volner spoke about when he mentioned in the statistics of the European Union, in terms of GDP per capita, the North Great Plain, Northern Hungary, the South Great Plain and the South Transdanubia, where we are worst involved, how money can be brought there. And the only way to do that is to implement a development policy free of any kind of centralisation. Kecskemét, Gyöngyös, Győr, Szentgotthárd, these are all centralized jobs, and they are unfit to keep the population of the countryside and create jobs on the ground. That is why support for small and medium-sized enterprises could create a decentralised support system, even with a wise energy policy, which can achieve a wide range of benefits for as many families as possible, so that we do not finance some major improvements. These service companies, the exploration of which is obviously an important task, and it is important because I have seen them stop now, I think that Mr Zsolt Kis Miklós, Secretary of State, is a written tender system because there is a possibility of abuse that the social monitoring of this, what my fellow Member Hadházy is doing, is terribly necessary. Only this should not be done by an opposition representative, because you may well be questioning objectivity. But basically, it would be your job to shed as much light and point out as possible. That is why, for example, our fellow Member Flórian Farkas should not be sitting here for a long time, but sitting somewhere else. It's obviously very, very much... When you look at these different cases, you can give specific examples of bad ones. My fellow Member Pócs is making a lot of noise here and shouting enthusiastically. For example, if we look at the ETUSZ that was announced to the mayor's office during your mayor's office, and they gave HUF 2.6 billion to a company that was well formed then and had no turnover the previous year, then they rightly raise the question of wise decision making. Was it allowed to be given to a company that was formed at the time, HUF 2.6 billion, so that they could stick their tails out? Obviously, these are the choices. A lot of tourism development can now be said about a lot of things. Rakama is now one of these flagship settlements in Hungary, where silly and unsustainable development policy has put a lot of money in so that it will never have a result that can sustain itself and sustain jobs. But there is the case of Tiszafüred, where 6.6 billion was dedicated to the dredging of Lake Tisza, to leave the tourist destinations, and then the contractor piled this whole pile together in the lake bed, and the water took its course, what it did to it: it washed the whole thing back into the bed within two years. Sixty-six billion gone. People who are involved in this monitoring and do not notice such professional inadequacies obviously have to take responsibility for these decisions sooner or later. When a Fidesz local government leader in Poroszló, a mayor, makes a good development, and from the first year he makes 150 million traffic and becomes one of the most important local marketing tools, I am talking about the ecocenter, this is a good example. When they make a useless bike lookout for the same amount of money in Tiszafüred, eight kilometers away, that's a bad example. How is it that making decisions doesn't tell you what one is entitled to, and what makes the other completely unsubstantiated? The fact that government and government officials and civil servants are able to make this system of decision-making possible, please excuse me, but I am fundamentally skeptical, because basically it would have been necessary to acquire wisdom so far, but, as we know, experience is something that you get after you need it, because these resources, such as my fellow Member Ákos Hadházy pointed out, at the moment largely not only as a result of the work of the Fidesz government, but also with the pre-confidentity that led to the disintegration of society, and in many cases they have put into competition those who will have an eternal advantage in the natural race. That's why they've done a lot, a lot of harm. We need to talk about how we can change this positively, and I trust that in the 50 seconds that I have left, I will still have the opportunity to change my mind. Thank you, Mr. President. [[It's a rare round of applause from the Jobbik benches.]]
u2016-11-28-259	I now give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2016-11-28-260	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, He spoke to me, and with a chest swollen with patriotism, he said that because Hungary spends half as much on education in proportion to the total national product as the Netherlands. We are very lucky, because every year the European Union compares the education expenditure of each country. If I look at how much the Netherlands spent on education in 2012 and what the European Union says about it, it is 5.5 percent; it has decreased to 5.4 percent in the Netherlands by 2015, i.e. from 5.5 to 5.4 in three years. [[19.40]] In the same period Hungary raised its expenditure on education from 4.7 to 5.2 in proportion to GDP. Thus, while there was a much larger difference in the past, there is now only a 0.2 percent difference in the percentage of GDP between the education expenditures of the Netherlands and Hungary. Of course, a Dutch school infrastructure is obviously different from a Hungarian school infrastructure. That's why they didn't have 40 years of communism, and then [[The intervention of Lajos Korózs.]] They were also more stable; but you like to forego the performance of the Hungarian people, and you like to forego the expenses of the Hungarian budget. But it's not double, it's only 0.2 percent different here, but fortunately ours is going up, and unfortunately the Dutch are going down. We hope that Hungary will continue to have a government, the Fidesz-KDNP government, which will not reduce but increase educational expenditure. The facts in this regard also contradicted you in this case, Congressman. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the benches of the governing parties. Gyula Vantara: Not the first time!]]
u2016-11-28-261	I give the floor to Secretary Nándor Csepreghy.
u2016-11-28-262	Thank you very much. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Allow me to join you in what you have said for three reasons. On the one hand, I know that, in the eyes of the opposition, OLAF will be filmed as a stick on a carnival or a farewell. I would like to note this, and in essence he was the Director-General of OLAF, who testified to this at a conference in Budapest last December, when I asked him what was behind the numerous or significantly higher number of OLAF investigations. The director's reply to this was clear that much more complaints were coming to Hungary. He could not, of course, answer the question of who did this by name, but we know this, because many members of the Hungarian opposition, including your former fellow Member, Mr Jávor Benedek, are regular reporters of OLAF to Hungary... [[On the sign of Sallai R. Benedek:]] Sorry, he was an LMP party partner here in the Hungarian Parliament. He denounces his country on numerous occasions, despite the fact that these charges have failed. Therefore, I would not draw too much of a conclusion from the number of OLAF investigations. But I agree with you that the interest in project management and project management was a very serious interest, which was indeed one of the key players in the use of EU funds in corruption. They were not only present in this system as project management and as outliers, but as external outsourcers. What do you know, we've always found the same concentrations when we've looked at the ownership of the tender evaluators and when we've looked at the exit organizations. For the 2014-2020 system, despite all government efforts, the role of these could not be reduced to zero. What we have achieved is that we have maximized the amount that an applicant can spend on these services in terms of EU or budgetary resources. Taking into account all the so-called soft services involved in project management, legal advice, public procurement advice and so on, you can use a maximum of 12.5 percent of the project's total cost. This is still a very high number, but it is much lower than the occasionally occurring 40-50 percent that we saw as an example in the 2007-2013 development period. With regard to Congressman Hadházy, allow me to say that I regret that the Member does not invest as much energy in his own work as you do to at least get to know rural development programmes, because he regularly confuses the figures for 2007-2013 and 2014 - I see that you acknowledge this by nodding... [[Defiance. Sallai R. Benedek shaking his head: No, note...]] He regularly uses documents published in the press without looking at the background of exactly what was said at a conference. So if, if you would like to quote what Minister Lazarus said at the conference last week, it would be worth reading the full, literal description of this material, not just the summaries published in the news. And you could teach one thing to your colleague, Congressman, that if he doesn't spend enough time on this, that where the police or any law enforcement authority has duties for any public use, the government doesn't have a place for any public body, just as long as he is a reporting agent in these proceedings. So the evidence that these cases are police and prosecutorial investigations is proof that the idea that you are trying to build as a opposition party in the eyes of Hungarian voters and media consumers, according to which this system is designed to cover up this type of abuse, is not true. The opposite is demonstrated by all the procedures that are underway today, regardless of who is subject to this. In such cases, the government has only one task: to operate a system that learns from these mistakes, learns from these abuses. Two: provide the competent authorities with all information that allows those who have been framed in such a case to be either clean at the end of the procedure and to prove that they are innocent or, if they are guilty, to receive their worthy reward. It's the government's responsibility. This is a fundamental system of separation of powers, which I believe would have been time to learn in Hungary since 1990. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2016-11-28-263	Now we have two-minute comments. First, I give the floor to Congressman Nándor Gúr.
u2016-11-28-264	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, I see that you are fond of using the various employment data, and I am talking about this because I would like to know if, say, you can properly sum up the number of new, tangible jobs created to meet the so-called mandatory indicators behind these funds. Because the data you're talking about in addition to economic data is naturally not derived from these development sources, but rather from public work, foreign employment data, student employment and much more. In the same way that unemployment figures, which are used with a good heart, were born from the fact that many of the unemployed went abroad, or found their place in public employment, or were thrown out of care systems, since they reduced these benefits from 9 months to 3 months. So what the question really concerns - and I would like you to answer that on the move, because it could build up the common thinking in this regard and help us to identify what needs to be done - is how much new jobs with tangible employment expansion have been brought to life in the context of the events of recent years, based on the indicators required and undertaken by the improvements. Mr. Secretary, I'd be happy to have you answer that question and give me an exact number. Mr. President, thank you very much.
u2016-11-28-265	I now give the floor to Congressman János Volner.
u2016-11-28-266	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary. It is worth looking at how infrastructure investments are going, the biggest infrastructure investments in Hungary. The typical model is the same as when colonial power cooperates with certain members of the economic elites collaborating with it in that country. This is achieved in Hungary by asking my fellow Members, for example, who it is in the immediate environment of the Prime Minister, that today the two great stars of the construction sector are Lőrinc Mészáros, Mayor of Viktor Orbán's favourite village, and the other person is the owner of Tibor Garancsi, Viktor Orbán's favourite football club. So these people begin to cooperate with the largest construction companies established in Hungary, Strabag, Swietelsky, Colas and the like, in implementing the largest and most valuable snacks, the largest orders together, as consortium partners. The result of these cooperations is that in Hungary it can cost 1.5 times, 2 times, 1 km of motorway or 1 km of railway, as in a neighbouring country. As a result, these large entrepreneurs, whom I mentioned, are, where appropriate, more profitable in terms of turnover than their own consortium partners than the best-organised companies with similar profiles in the same region, in the same sector. So if we ask why money is not used properly and why it costs so much, then we can very easily find the answer in these cases. To the Secretary of State of Rétvári, I reply that your party president was the secretary of the Communist Youth Association, and then became George Soros's scholarship scholar, listening to the history of liberal philosophy, when [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Shemén?]] The change of regime took place in Hungary and immediately sat at the Opposition Round Table as a negotiating partner, and then [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Until 2000, he was Vice President of the Liberal International. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: He doesn't even know that about himself...]] So this is a nice way of life, Mr. Secretary. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2016-11-28-267	I now give the floor to Congressman Sallai R. Benedek.
u2016-11-28-268	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr. Secretary. I just wanted to make it clear that my colleague Ákos Hadházy did not deal with development policy himself, he did not deal with applications, but even though he may not know the system of operational programmes, it may still be factual whether a car should be rented for HUF 500,000, for example, by the Roma municipality. [[19.50]] It can still be factual that if it's more expensive in the machine catalogue than in the market, it's not healthy. If you charge a million forints a square meter for a simple renovation, that's a lot. Therefore, it does not need to know the entire system of the Structural Funds and cohesion funds at this depth, because theft can be recognised even if something is overpriced to this extent. This basically indicates the purity of the system even if someone does not otherwise rise and lie with how we distribute Hungary's resources in these tendering systems. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2016-11-28-269	Ladies and gentlemen, We're going back to normal time frames, normal speeches. I give the floor first to Congressman Sándor Bodó.
u2016-11-28-270	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Indeed, such a political debate day is an excellent opportunity to talk about the development of the European Union over the past period, and it is clear that, in addition to values and positives, possible future adjustments will be made. I consider that recent developments in the European Union have produced visible results in Hungary, whether it is a local government or a state investment, but either in the context of institutional renewable programmes or in the entrepreneurial sector, economic operators have very good examples of this. It may not have been pronounced enough, but it is particularly kind to me, under material conditions, the professional renewal that we also owe to the development of the previous period in the European Union. I cannot help but not reacting to what my fellow Member Ildikó Bangóné Borbély mentioned in relation to public investment, namely Hungary, in any case in connection with the biggest rail development in Eastern Hungary. I consider, my fellow Member, that, by the way of this programme, it is not a very important aspect of who and how many people are present at the ceremony, where the hostess ladies holding the tape are standing, is not really relevant. I don't think it's really important to know who or how the host is naming a slip of the tongue. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: I was just defending the congressman.]] Please be patient. So I don't think these are really important aspects. [[Ildikó Bangóné Barbély: Yes, you can!]] From our point of view, I think it is much more important - and by us, I mean the people who live there - that the noise barrier wall was built in Bishop's Lady for hundreds of meters, under the railway passage that has so far separated the city, an underpass was built, and the station's building is equipped with a platform with a wheelchair lift. For me, these are the main messages for this investment. But back to the analysis of development processes, I think that for each programme, whether this is our everyday work or a very serious, complex process, there is a place for the control process. It has a place, and everyone rightly expects it, and this is how I have lived as mayor, as county general meeting president, to consider it a process that helps each inspection. Obviously, sometimes we felt that there were too important roles in this, when an inspector is overestimating his role, but I think that this is still a good part of the process, as they say: the end justifies the instrument. Obviously, the control processes were carried out under the auspices of the Hungarian Government and its related bodies, and the control processes in Brussels. In this world, the Corruption Research Center has appeared as an interesting actor in recent years. Indeed, his involvement is interesting in many ways. One is that it does not research and analyse EU cycles, but it just puts it right in the middle and intends to carry out analyses and audits from 2010. It doesn't open up its work for 2007-2013 or for 2014-20, it just puts it right in the middle of it. I could not find a meaningful written study of the periods before 2010. Although most university teachers and university students make up this staff, their work often points to the fact that they collect their data from one of the tabloids. Well, that's interesting. One of their senior colleagues was Klára Ungár, a politician from SZDSZ, who repeatedly spoke with hatred about the activities of the Orbán government. So I really must say that both professionalism and impartiality are legitimately questionable. In October 2016, another scientific analysis was published in their publication "Societal Report, 2006" according to which public procurement tenders are considered to be a hotbed of corruption in Hungary. They write these - they think - facts without any particular justification. It would certainly be worth polemicizing how and how such an organization could not be accused of such unbiasedness. Most importantly, it is the government's job to continue to do everything in the future to ensure transparency in public procurement. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Dr. István Józsa: We agree with that! A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2016-11-28-271	I give the floor to Congressman Nándor Gúr.
u2016-11-28-272	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I was curious to see if Mr Rákossy, State Secretary, would answer the two-minute question, which is attached to the subject of mandatory indicators on employment competences, and others. I was about to shoot myself into the sense that this would be the answer to what happened, so that he wouldn't say anything, because whatever he would have said, which would have grazed the reality, we should have realized immediately that all the sentences he had said before about employment issues were clearly not born on this path and not on those sources. Obviously, the consequences of that can be unfolded. But I wouldn't do that now, because I'm left unanswered, so I don't want to answer my question to myself, just like a few times, some secretary of state can do it inside the government benches. Rather, I would like to draw closer to the approach to this subject from the dangers, risks and the need to face with regard to the use of resources in this period. As far as the programme of the modern cities is concerned, Viktor Orbán's conducted trips brought with them where he promised 20, 50 and 150 billion forints, as if government funds were own resources, with such degrees of freedom, without any special negotiations or negotiations. I would rather talk not about this part, but rather about the risks it has and will unfortunately have, in terms of the use of these resources. World Bank surveys, other studies support and show that Hungary is unfortunately one of the most corrupt countries to be considered for the use of resources. Unfortunately. Unfortunately, factually, I'm telling you, world surveys and other research support this. It is said that on an annual basis, when they make use of HUF 1200-1500 billion in public procurement, it is about HUF 300-400 billion due to over-pricing that virtually slips away in the system. The order of HUF 300-400 billion exceeds the order of HUF 2000 billion in a seven-year period. That's a lot. My fellow Member says it's a lot; I say it's a lot. It's a lot, because this money, if you really think about it, is 10 percent of our budget this year. I think it is perhaps also a coincidence that, while 49 percent of Hungarian businesses can not exceed the turnover of HUF 5 million per year, during this period around 5600 companies were born with a turnover of HUF 100 million per year, with a maximum of one major employment. [[20.00]] Do you understand? More than 5,600 such companies were born. Many call them such bag companies, and this somewhat confirms the fact that there is a direct risk of corruption. I don't want to talk about offshore companies, I think it's pointless to dissect them, but I'm giving you the headlines of the risk and the risk. If it is true that these overpriced annual resources of between HUF 300 billion and HUF 400 billion are not being invested in development, but precisely that they avoid development and fall into other hands, then that we can very simply train this, this appears to be equivalent to the construction of a hundred stadiums in Felcsút on an annual basis. Or to make another type of comparison: in terms of equity pension determination, if I remember correctly, they will use HUF 700 billion this year. Well, if I do quick calculations and about what I do here in my head, I have to say that this HUF 400 billion corresponds to the financing of a 570-year, 570-year equity pension at the scale and rate of the year you provide for 2016. It's the money they let slip from the system, which, technically, I could say, with a calm spirit, as a corruption risk factor, is involved in today's processes. If we look at the story a little from the public procurement side, then we see that public procurement where public procurement is one-playing - it is interesting to see public procurement - is 30-35 percent in the whole procurement set. Well, it's easy to get Rogan's neighbor a communication source of HUF 17 billion! But it wasn't difficult for Simicska at the time, either through the Public Machine and its consortia or for Lőrinc Mészáros. And other people, not naturally. I think the fundamental problem is that not every penny and not every forint is used where it should be used. Think about the use of R &amp; D and innovation resources. If I remember correctly, there were some HUF 68 billion free money sources, non-refundable funds, and there are oligarchs, not far from the government, close to the government, whose interests take more than HUF 3 billion out of this order of magnitude. What I'm trying to say is that I don't think this story is going the right way. It is not on the right track for waste and thoughtlessness. I'll give you an example. In the case of railway development, if my memoirs do not deceive me, such funds will be used in the order of HUF 1200 billion, which has taken place in the past and on the basis of the proposals adopted here. Lőrinc Mészáros - as everywhere - can be found with regard to developments in South Balaton in this regard, but others too. As I understand it, 120 billion forints is over the development of Sajol Bishop, which, if my memories are not cheating again, was accompanied by a three-minute, three-minute time reduction. There are other numbers, which are not over 120, but 160 billion, in this respect, but 120 is a pretty big number. With the development of the 44 billion HUF railway in Esztergom, in three years, it was also possible to achieve a 5 minute time reduction in the use of resources. In the meantime, there are unblessed conditions, say, in the main railway stations, you can see it here in Budapest, who is taking the train, of course only those who are taking the train can know what is going on at the South Station, at the Eastern Station or at the West Station. The ones included in the renovations until 2020, but were removed from the IKOP in the context of the development of 2020. Or if you want to go deeper, you might want to review the involvement of relatives. If nothing else, take as a basis, let's say, Direkt36's processed work in 2015, which revealed nearly a thousand documents, collected from the LED-lamp investments that Elios won, which, according to their description, were extremely high prices, not afraid of price competition, as I said, in many cases accompanied by one-playing public procurements. But you can ask the towns of Zalaegerszeg, Pécs or Kecskemét, how they appreciated it. So-so, if I could add another sentence to this, then I would say that, of course, you always had your current favorites, in 2013, the Public Machine was on its peak, and after Simicska's facade had ceased, others came, Mészáros or the Duna Asphalt came, just last week, if I am not mistaken, enriched with a HUF 150 billion public procurement opportunity for M4, M44. And the case of ETUSZ, mentioned earlier by my fellow Member, Ildikó Bangó, in which the public companies decide the processes, is being destroyed by 2800 families, the State Secretary said about the claims, how, how, but about what happens to these families, no one really talks about it. In fact, my last sentence is nothing more than that which can be reflected from the whole thought: we should put a brake on all the processes that are about that these resources are not small resources, billions, hundreds of billions, hundreds of billions of forints of resources, they should not be used to steal, not to satisfy individual goals, but to develop the economy, to serve people's better existence. Well, that's what you should be doing, secretary of state, ministers, when you're in the room. Mr. President, thank you very much.
u2016-11-28-273	I now give the floor to Congressman Attila Szabolcs.
u2016-11-28-274	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr. Secretary of State! Ladies and gentlemen, It was interesting to listen to Mr Sallai's reaction here about the Turkish mill, because he practically held the current government responsible for not getting enough money or getting money from another application later on. I'm not a Craftsman Kelemen, but if an old, probably broken-down building has to be renovated, then I'm not starting with the room, I'm going to start with statically checking that building to stay stable at all, and I'm not spending 16 million forints on a building that will collapse in a few years. Dear fellow Members, In the 2007-2013 development cycle, thanks to the effective measures taken in the last years, Hungary was able to use the financial framework, but this was not always without problems. Many attacks on the Hungarian public procurement system, many developments, as it turned out later, were not economically justified, which later was a heavy burden for the stakeholders, especially for municipalities. Due to the backlog of the tendering system and standards, 16 percent of the EU support framework for the country has reached economic development. Let me give you a concrete example of this: Budafok-Tétény, Budapest XXII. The district won 680 million HUF for the rehabilitation of Nagytétény's city centre in the tender, which required an additional 230-250 million to be added as a part of itself according to the tender. [[20.10]] The tender was required to identify public area development, Community and job creation objectives. Yes, but while the first two goals were supported by 85%, most importantly, job creation was only 15%. This was not a problem in the given example, but could have been done more rationally there, and there were many examples. Is it possible to judge the municipality that, because it doesn't matter how much part of the development it has to put into it, but tries to produce results, chooses a solution that costs him less? In addition, the evaluation of applications was slow, too bureaucratic. Often, the cost of design costs included in the tenders has increased by the end of the evaluation and, in many cases, of the procurement procedure under appeal so as to jeopardise the implementation of the project. Dear Secretary of State, Given that economic development is the most important task in Hungary today, after or in addition to stopping population loss, and given that the future of EU funds after 2020, is uncertain, I ask Mr Secretary of State what the current changes in the Public Procurement Act are and how it helps to develop the economy, especially the competitiveness of Hungarian businesses. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-11-28-275	I now give the floor to Congressman György Szilágyi.
u2016-11-28-276	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Allow me, fellow Members, to start by responding to one or two things. Zsolt Becsó's speech caused the greatest uproar. I would like to protect my fellow Member, because we know that this was not Zsolt Becsó's speech, the propaganda museum wrote to him, and he read it. All I ask of my fellow Members is that you tell the Habony Media and those propagandaists who write these speeches that important professional issues should be discussed here. We're not talking about a Fidesz killer in Dunaújváros who was a congressman, nor are we talking about the Fidesz mayor in Germany, who we can safely say is a corpse robber now because he's convicted, and we're not even talking about a professor connected to the Orbán family, Ghaith Pharaon, who we know is wanted by the FBI and Interpol. We do not want to talk about these, but we do want to talk about important professional issues, and then I would like to talk about these questions. János Lázár said in his speech how bad the European Union reports are and how much damage they can cause. Unfortunately, the Minister did not add that he was indeed a responsible thinker - because he spoke about the opposition, so en bloc - the Jobbik Hungary Movement never filed a complaint with the European Union, precisely because a responsible thinker opposition party knows precisely that his complaint to the European Union does not only harm Fidesz, but also to the whole of Hungary, and a responsible thinking party does not want to harm Hungary as a whole, that is clear. Turning to what we should now be talking about, there is nothing but a mere equality of opportunity and pretense sovereignty in the Member States when designing and awarding structural and investment funds, because the aspirations of the Member States must be the same as those of the EU and the governing background powers. Unfortunately, we are not only meeting equal opportunities in principle in the EU, as we cannot speak of real equal opportunities in the institutional structure in Hungary when allocating resources. The best way to ensure equal treatment in the aid scheme should be to ensure that, when accessing resources, potential applicants are treated in the same way by the distribution system, i.e. all applicants should be measured by the same standards and ranked in the same assessment system. Unfortunately, today, our support system in Hungary, thanks to our government, has been subjected to such harsh distortions as the result of which is that more resources will be announced under so-called priority procedures than ever before. In practice, this means that priority beneficiaries do not compete for resources, they do not try to convince decision-makers that the best use of funding is made by implementing their development vision. In these cases, it is simply the decision maker, who knows what information makes it possible for one or another economic or institutional actor to receive a specific amount. The project will be drawn up after the decisions have been taken, so the amount of aid awarded is already well known and is treated as a complete fact that the undeveloped project of the beneficiary will be supported. The direct consequence of this is that the beneficiary is not interested in cost-effective management, nor in the thorough and detailed development of the professional content of the project, so it will spend as much money as it has been promised. Ladies and gentlemen, This practice is a serious violation of the principles of equal opportunities and cost-effectiveness. This problem has also been identified by the EU Commission, which has led to the request of Hungarian bureaucrats to give at least two evaluators an assessment of the projects they intend to support according to the priority procedures outlined above. So far, there has been no real evaluation of the selection of priority projects. The selection procedure and the transparency of the system are essential requirements. Otherwise, the support system will become a hunting ground for Lord Voldemort and people with bags. Unfortunately, the situation is not much more favourable for open tender schemes. Recalling the pre-2010 NFÜ-led and supervised system, it is a fact that there the institution's overall 75-day selection process required by the relevant legislation was broadly able to comply with it. The situation gradually and steadily deteriorated after 2010. At present, the evaluation of the applications submitted takes more than six months, but there is an aid scheme which was completed on 29 February and has not yet been decided. If I count it correctly, it's 9 months, which is 9 times the current 30 days laid down by law. That is why it would be important, however, what Minister Lazarus also said, that speed should be strengthened, and that would be an important aspect for applications. That's not what we're experiencing here. When at the beginning of the year several people complained that the evaluation system was slow, the government replied that it was because the valuers of the old system were sabotaging the work. Of course, everyone has been reassured that by May this year the new evaluation system will be set up, which will surpass the old one both in its expertise and in its capacity, and everything will go as it will. Months passed, summer passed, autumn passed, but the new evaluation system just didn't want to get up. Minister János Lázár announced just last week that 5,000 new evaluators have now been registered in the new system. I can only congratulate you on this, but I have to ask you, what have you done, these good valuers do? Why aren't the cases moving forward? If they've gathered so many, why can't they just make up for almost a year's delay? Does anyone even work here? In the past, management authorities have defined the essential requirements that all evaluators had to meet by design. These were: professional qualifications, professional experience in the field and others; furthermore, during the period of operation of the NFÜ, regular training was given to evaluators in relation to the design to be evaluated. You don't even hear about it today. Previously there were evaluators who worked in the distribution system, which were called internal evaluators. There were some who were contracted partners in the institutional system, they were external evaluators. According to the practice at that time, a tender was evaluated by an internal and external evaluator, the two evaluations were combined and, in the event of significant differences between the evaluations, a third evaluator was requested. All of this was within the 75-day deadline at the time. In the permanent transformation of the institutional system, the experienced workforce capable of internal evaluation has been driven away and more and more external evaluators have been involved in the evaluation tasks. The transformation of the evaluators' system has, in fact, become a burning problem due to completely flawed institutional changes. The primary reason for the restructuring of the evaluation system was the government's identification of corruption. Corruption should not be sought among ordinary administrators or lower level managers. [[20.20]] In the past, it wasn't the administrators who took the liberty of giving preference to those who weren't entitled to do so, filling the pockets of their friends under a priority procedure, but the political leaders above them. During the MSZ-SZDSZ governments, there were also those Corifes who, as it were, called down to the offices to do things. These cases have now been forgotten, because the Fidesz governments were not interested in revealing them, and even the system of ragging down from the top and top political level has been fully completed under Fidesz control. Ladies and gentlemen, Do you think that the small railway project in Felcsút would have been considered by a sane evaluation as a real tourism development and, as such, would it be proposed to support it? We all agree that we probably won't. In the system of state evaluators, professionalism is completely dissipated, but implementation without criticism on instructions is strengthened. Will a public employee who is existentially dependent on his job and carries out evaluation tasks in addition to eight to ten hours a day refuse his superior's request when assessing the particular application? An excellent example of the model of evaluation with public employees is the practice of handing out tramps, where thousands of applications have been quickly and effectively thrown to the pals. The result is well-known and speaks for itself, and it's a shame to throw it away. The fuzzy work provided to state employees is the worst time in Kadár. In order to carry out the evaluation tasks in a thorough manner, the evaluators should be familiar with the call for support, its annexes, the legal environment and the legal and professional standards for the development ideas or projects covered by the tender. This knowledge can be expected from a person if he considers it his main task to evaluate. In addition to day-to-day work, none of this can be expected. We are deeply concerned about the future, both the activities of the evaluators and the functioning of the institutional system as a whole. Inappropriate institutional governance for years and open corruption from the top of the policy will require a heavy price for Hungary when the settlement of the 2014-2020 cycle has to be submitted to the EU Commission. As the closure of the previous cycle is currently facing serious problems, I fear that it will be no different for this cycle. I just hope it doesn't get any worse. Thank you so much for listening. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-11-28-277	I now give the floor to Congresswoman Ildikó Bangóné Borbély for a two-minute comment.
u2016-11-28-278	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'm sorry the congressman left. I do think it is very important who is involved in the handover of an investment of more than 160 billion dollars from government parties, local representatives and mayors. The problem is that when the local council mayors didn't show up, Sándor Bodó himself knows very well why they didn't come. Because of the corruption cases surrounding the Bishop's Lady Mayor, they didn't show up for the handover. Let's be clear. I was there because I thought it was important that this investment was carried out, which was a very important matter for the people of Sárrét and Bihar. I travel on the railroad, but I can't stand to have a transfer to my head in Parliament when they are constantly communisting inside the walls of Parliament, and they have handed over such an investment in ways that even the Communists themselves would have envied, as was the case with this transfer. I think that at this time a Member should be a little self-absorbed, and that Sándor Bodó, as a Member of Parliament in the region, should have been present at this handover. I think there is nothing more important than a 160 billion-dollar investment - although I might add, once again, it was you who immediately increased the costs by HUF 24 billion - to be achieved, especially after the M4 project was shut down, precisely because of the Orbán-Simicska War, and there was also a danger of this, we feared that this investment would not be completed, as it seems, that no further renovation of the Bishop's Lady-Ebési or Bishop's Lady-Debrecen railway has been continued since then. I think that sometimes they should act a little more modestly as pro-government representatives.
u2016-11-28-279	I give the floor to Congressman Dániel Z. Kárpa in two minutes.
u2016-11-28-280	Mr President, Dear House, Uh-oh, it's heard from the right-wing and opposition benches, precisely because the representatives of the ruling parties sometimes try to protect the unprotected with a breast so big that it's amazing. Well, there's a performance they can put on the table. There is a painful lack of a calculation or a series of calculations that summarises how much EU grants have returned to the net contributors, to the Western Member States whose companies or other multi-network companies may have operated in Hungary, how much has Colas brought home, how much has Swietelsky brought home, how much has Swietelsky, how much has Swietelsky, how much has been returned, let us say Strabag, how much has been transferred to companies that have, in some cases, been able to contribute to the functioning of the national economy only through VAT payments or otherwise. [[To Gyula Vantara:]] It's not on the market. We're in the nation's church. Push a button. This may be a market for you, because you're dealing with a settlement bond even in this House, but for us, it's still the church of the nation. Press a button, you can do it, don't shake. The fact is that we should look at how much recovered payments have been made from the number of applications concerned, so how much of this weight has been returned to the Member States to which the net contributor is referred. Such research was not put on the table by the governments of Hungary - I would add, the previous ones, and therefore not only by the Regents since 2010 - we do not have such a statement for the period 2007-13. We can refer to only one Polish research, according to which up to 60 percent of the aid received could have flowed back to Western companies. We have a strong assumption that Hungary is not able to produce much better indicators at systemic level. But we should at least know what the Hungarian Parliament is arguing about. And that is not opposition responsibility, it is a hard-core government responsibility to create a base at all by researching and providing the necessary mass of information. And I miss that in a painful way, which is why I feel there is absolutely no reason for you to lecture me. Thank you for the opportunity. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-11-28-281	I now give the floor to Congressman Gyula Vantara as a normal speech.
u2016-11-28-282	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, I would like to talk about a subject which has already been mentioned in substance, namely the implementation and the state of play of the Modern Cities programme. [[Noise on the opposition side.]] The main issue of Hungary's development is, of course, not exclusive, but of paramount importance, so that cities with county rights and regional centres can be developed into modern cities. For the development of rural cities, the government has set up a programme called "Modern Cities" with additional EU funds, TOP and other development resources, county and county-rights development resources. In this context, the Prime Minister has so far visited 19 cities with county rights. It is only in parentheses that there has not been a trial in areas such as Győr or Hódmezővásárhely. At these visits, you agree with the leaders on cooperation and cooperate to contribute to the development of cities. Of course, in addition to many similarities, there are significant differences between these settlements between the situation, conditions and problems of cities. In addition to the common target system, the agreement on modern cities must therefore set different development directions for each city, which should be tailored to that city. Of course, the focus is on economic development everywhere, as its success can create a sustainable and progressive modern city. Dear Secretary of State, I would like to ask you which are the most important elements of the programme, and what are the expected results. The next question is also interesting, and I would like you to address it in your reply. Agreements with cities are important to ensure that the resources needed for progress and development are not used in the way and for the purposes of the Budapest desks, but what the locals, the inhabitants and the leaders of these modern cities see as necessary. Do you agree, Mr Secretary, with this thought, and do you meet this desire? Finally, allow me two more remarks. I would like to say to Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát that 30 percent of what Minister Lazarus said when he amended the Public Procurement Act. [[20.30]] Now I'd tell you to push a button. So this figure is 30 percent; once again, I say slowly so that everyone can understand. The second point is that Mr. Ákos Hadházy is not here, but Madam Secretary of State has already pointed out that she has made such unprofessional remarks regarding the criticism and verification of applications that, consequently, she is questioning the credibility of the Member. Finally, allow me to thank the Prime Minister's Office and the specialised ministries. In the course of the audit of the EU Court of Auditors and Eutaf, which I was able to experience, I have been a bit interested in this debate because I have had the pleasure of carrying out an investment of 35 and 17 billion, and on the basis of this experience I would like to thank the Prime Minister's Office and the specialised departments once again for the collegial assistance they have shown in the investigations launched on the basis of the reports. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-11-28-283	Nándor Csepreghy, State Secretary, has already responded. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2016-11-28-284	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Allow me to answer your question to several Members. Mr Gúr missed the number, but I have since found out that 120 thousand is the number that is partly linked to the projects carried out by the European Union's development. I didn't forget, that's all it took me to get it together. Mr Attila Szabolcs raised the amendment of the Public Procurement Act and how it contributes to enabling as many Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprises as possible to participate in these investments. It knows three ways; on the one hand, by making it compulsory for the contracting authority, i.e. the company or the municipality, to keep the entry criteria as low as possible, regardless of whether we are talking about a European Union procedure or from domestic costs, less financial references and a lower level of technical references. The lower the reference level, the more Hungarian companies can participate. It is necessary to find a balance point in the system so that we can reduce this level without compromising quality, but it puts domestic players in the EU competition rules. Congressman Vantara has mentioned the programme "Modern Cities." I told you that this is only partly linked to EU funds. However, it is important to say that the programme "Modern Cities" is an additional programme for the operational programme for territorial development. There has not been such a thing in Hungary's post-system change history that a government should not only talk about providing significant financial assistance, but also make sure that it is really providing serious financial assistance to Hungary in the countryside. With regard to the operational programme for territorial development, both the 19 counties and the 23 county-righted cities received such additional funding, which was complemented by the programme "Modern Cities". Our goal was to create three conditions. Firstly, there should be a job in these cities; what really makes it a market job, created by the primary labour market. Two, if there's a job, there's everything. How can people live there spend their free time meaningfully and meaningfully? This is what cultural and sporting investment is all about. Three: what type of public services can we provide in what capacity? Hungary will be a truly prosperous country if the quality of supply in the capital and the quality of supply in the countryside are of equal quality. Modern Cities and more resources serve this condition. I do not have an exact number in the debate that you asked me about how much you will get back, but I am sure that it is ten percent higher than that which should be optimally returned to these companies. Because we have actually seen that if a small company in Hungary receives money to buy, say, machines, a significant part of these machines will go back to German industrial companies even if these industrial companies cannot apply themselves. But at the end of the line, they're the beneficiaries. This is also the case if a company is able to deliver higher volume production after an acquisition of machinery, it can generate more revenue. On the one hand, the Hungarian state budget will also benefit better, as it will be paid more taxes, but on the other hand, these additional revenues will generate additional import demand. Mr. President, thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-11-28-285	I give the floor to Congressman Imre Horváth.
u2016-11-28-286	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, I have previously objected to the fact that certain GINOP applications, despite the fact that a government decision was issued on the deadline for the call, were issued much later, hindering or putting at a disadvantage SMEs that wanted to apply. I ask the Secretary of State how the situation is at present. What I wish to say is that of my narrower constituency in this regard. GINOP should be an extremely good opportunity to renovate residential homes, shouldn't it? The problem is that he cannot play this role. The reason for this is that the loan is not completely free, 10 percent assumes a share, which many people will not be able to take on. After all, a loan of a minimum of HUF 1 million is required for the renovation of the apartment, with an extra share of at least HUF 100,000. Where can a person come up with a 100 thousand forints portion where the average income is 114 thousand forints? Nowhere. For them, this will not be a solution. I would also like to indicate that housing cooperatives that have spent several years raising money for renovation, modernisation, have lost hundreds of millions of forints in various brokerage companies, Buda-Cash, Quaestor bonds, these people, these cooperatives are unable to compete. However, this can be a solution for the rich, as they can even be used to renovate and modernise holiday homes. The European Union's declared objective is to turn these resources into catching up more backward areas. However, according to this scheme, it will not be used to renew the less developed regions and crumbling panel houses, but to renovate the resorts of the rich. In addition, they ask for a guarantee in addition to the credit, which is likely to be mainly the property to be renovated. It is questionable how those who may already have a mortgage on their property will receive funds. Probably didn't. Thus, once again, the most vulnerable layers will fall from the use of an extremely beneficial EU resource. And it is not certain whether the properties in smaller settlements will otherwise be eligible cover. Thus, the residents of the small settlement may not even have access to these funds. This development resource is also a huge slap in the hands of the governing party, specifically its policy on solar elements, as the Fidesz government has imposed an environmental product charge on them; one of the main advantages of which is that it is environmentally friendly. Now, with regard to GINOP grants, it turns out that they also provide an opportunity to purchase solar collectors in order to modernise the property. This shows how pointless Fidesz's policy on solar cells is. Everyone knows that solar panels are beneficial, and we need them, except for the government. Thank you very much.
u2016-11-28-287	I now give the floor to Congressman Gábor Riz.
u2016-11-28-288	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, A country's condition is also determined by its circulation. One of the most important standards of this is that the development of the road network and the rail network is European or possibly not European. Allow me to think of a return to the previous period. The underlying study of this year's development period presents some important data that might be relevant for road conditions, for example. Our high - traffic highways are in overused condition, at a distance of approximately 228 kilometres, and at 6640 kilometers, they are in normal condition. On the other hand, our small traffic side roads were over-used for 6632 kilometers and were normal for 12,079 kilometers. This is important because it is just as important for people living in the countryside to go to work, and it is as important to approach school, kindergarten, and workplace as it is for people living in the capital and agglomeration. Therefore, it is far from indifferent to the amount and resources of this development period that will or will be associated with this year's development ideas. [[20.40]] Let's look at the state of 2000. In 2000, only 456 kilometres were the main road network with motorway or expressway characteristics, which only reached the Austrian border. Between 2001 and 2015, the development of two EU development cycles was already 946 km, which represented six in the number of county seats concerned, while the Croatian, Slovenian, Romanian and Serbian access to the border was ensured. During this period, some HUF 2477 billion was used. The planned developments between 2016 and 2022 are governed by a government decision, 1371, which defines the inclusion of roads in the development package. The development of around 920 kilometres is foreseen for this period, the number of county seats affected by the development is 12 and the country border concerned is Slovak, Romanian, Croatian, Austrian. Typically, a two-track, so-called motorway network is developed over 637 kilometres. What is the source structure, in particular the Integrated Transport Development Operational Programme, Priority 1, 4 and the European Network Development Instruments and the addition of domestic funds. Some EUR 1075 million of European network development instruments, i.e. HUF 300 billion, are at stake. This represents 37 projects from domestic sources, which we can add, and in total HUF 1279 We use domestic resources to improve roads. To tell you the amount, this is similar to the previous period, HUF 2463 billion, which will be used in this period. It is also important to say, in connection with the development of roads, that there are several sections of the road that may be important for me and for us as people living in Northern Hungary. One of these is the implementation of the cross-border section of the M30 road between the Tornyosnémet border, but it also concerns Nógrád, Heves, and it is very important to make it possible for time to make road 21 a high-speed road that makes the county seat from Hatvan to the border of Salgótarján much faster, and through it several settlements of North Hungary, Borsod and Heves. A little bit narrowed down to our county and a few thoughts about our local affairs. As a Member, I have a relatively good view of my territory, so let me give you some experience from the previous period as well as from this period. In the previous period, there were very often point-like and spot-like developments, which did not match, were not linked at micro-regional and regional level, and also at sectoral level. Unfortunately, these developments have resulted in either not being able to make full use of the expenditure or not being able to produce the performance they were expected to achieve. For this reason, it was of particular importance that there were more than two hundred visits in our area, with the help of the Széchenyi Programme Office and the help of the staff of the Chamber of Agriculture and Industry, where mayors - and in this, they were policy-free right-wing, former MSZP, former independent mayor, and even fidesz with good numbers - tried to combine ideas that should be implemented at micro-regional and regional level in the future. One last thought, and I myself will join those who regret the departure of our fellow Member Hadházy, because on 3 November, in the evening talk programme of the ATV, Ozd, the problem of my constituency, the realization of the digital power plant, the film history experiential park or the non-execution of the event. My information goes back to my fellow countrymen, saying that perhaps Congressman wasn't there, so he doesn't have accurate information, he has only heard information. He had a vision that the investment hadn't been carried out. Well, both the paces of the investment, the power plant and the blower house have been completed, so that the architects recommend the so-called media architecture award, and according to the international jury, the first six are the two renovated industrial monument buildings. As of 17 July, which was also a vision of Mr Hadházy's statement that they could not even deliver the indicators, the number of registered visitors was 3500. 8,000 a year must be completed, and from 17 July until mid-November MaNDA, the two institutions of the National Digital Archive, was able to complete this. I would suggest that we get local information first, and then we have to go to the public of a television, maybe say inaccuracies, and try to burden the country's population with the vision that they are cheating, stealing, lying, even though we may just be short of information. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-11-28-289	I give the floor to Congressman Dániel Z. Carpát.
u2016-11-28-290	Mr President, Dear House, We must say that when we made a few comments in a two-minute speech on the abuse of EU projects, Jobbik's faction was accused of incompetence. The fact is that the certificate should be and should be explained by the person who has not interpreted, interpreted or tried to see these specific phenomena, specific facts, specific numbers at systemic level. What are we talking about? Very rarely, we refer to investigations by the European Union institutions, all the more often, especially in State Secretary's replies, in the hour of immediate questioning and in the course of interviews. Therefore, if we look at, say, the cases that the Commission objects to, we see, for example, a 2012 bioavailability project, adopted by the Authority, where in the winning offer a person's monthly labour fee was HUF 14,4 million, while another person working in a completely similar job, in a field of activity, had a salary of HUF 625 thousand. The explanation is that there was so much difference between the two persons that one concerned livestock and the other concerned domestic animals. It is explained that this justified a 20-fold wage difference and a pay difference in relation to this draft. Interestingly, surprisingly, the Commission did not consider it a complete explanation to quote press news. In another case, a metal scrap cutting mobile scissors were purchased for HUF 222 million by the winner in 2013. The EU inspectors themselves, but the Hungarians could have found the same device on the market for exactly half of it. If we continue with the series of scandals, we have also mentioned today the press that was purchased by a successful applicant, which, according to him, would have been worth 62 million forints. The fact is that these inspectors could have bought the same machine on the market for 12 million, as this was the cost. So we can see that there is a series of quite amazing abuses that have led this system to about HUF 10 000 billion coming from the EU to Hungary over the last 12 years. Of course, this should not be considered as a donation; Hungary has also suffered a direct loss of membership and a series of indirect losses. The lack of an EU balance sheet is also a criticism of the current government. But this amount of up to HUF 2 billion a day, if not enough to work out an economic miracle, should have been enough to achieve measurable progress. But the fact is that, as the EU payments stopped at an intermediate stage, Hungarian growth also suddenly stalled, so you created an amazing infusion economy. This is true, even if Secretary of State Csepreghy rightly said that there was an open space and opportunity for infrastructure investments separated from hundreds of billions of domestic budget resources, but, on the basis of the assessment of the investment rate, we must assume, on the basis of the deterioration of productivity indicators, that the Hungarian economy, without this infusion, cannot operate on its own feet in its present form, if only it could. Where appropriate, to give you tips, a public-based home-building and rental-building program could be started from a few ten billion forints not only for the CSOKs, and not with NOK, state pilots and others, but also by creating a mass of real apartments, providing the domestic resources and the domestic construction industry with order volumes, it would certainly be possible. However, we can also see that the really large amounts that could arrive in the budget cycle concerned from the second half of 2008 due to the global economic crisis, let's say they were negligible, and at the time of the change of government of 10 you wasted about a year to convert the system. So we can say that from 2011 onwards, it is worth counting around the utilisation of the budget cycle concerned. But how many forints are we talking about? Socialists would say that it would be possible to build, say, 20 subways of subway 4, and I don't even know how many incubators, because that's what they're doing. We say that a lot of meaningful investments could have been made. With Mr State Secretary, we have a pending debate on how many of the sources of applications that have arrived here have flown back through multi-enterprises or other intermediaries to Western European interests who have allegedly given up these funds, whether it is road construction or a simple rural tender, where smartphones are acquired and thereby enriched by foreign manufacturers. [[20.50]] So we need to see what is worth looking at, whether there has been quality job creation, whether there has been added value in the long term remaining, what multiplier effects we can expect, and the investigations in this regard have been sabotaged by this government. We can also see that campaign-like, many successful companies have recruited people, but this has hardly been associated with the introduction of new technologies. The number of patents and certified patents shows perfectly that the same has happened in R &amp; D, project funding has been made, but there is no substantial breakthrough in R &amp; D based on any statistics. Although the beneficiaries temporarily recruited more people, the number of patent applications did not increase noticeably. There are two scenarios for EU money. In one case, companies will receive subsidies because they would not be able to move forward without them and would not be able to finance investments. In the other case, it will be spent on something that would be spent on anyway, but EU funds will be pulled down in order to work with an even higher profit margin. In Hungary, this second scenario has been implemented. And what is truly amazing is that in the case of public procurement in Hungary, the period covered, the total, was about 30-35 percent of the calls, the proportion of public procurements where there was only one starter, or, let's say, for the sake of form, two, but actually one background. So it's suspicious that these were written in the first place so that only a company, a company, a circle of interests, a circle of friends could kick the ball. We could give examples by morning, but we need to see that there are a series of spectacularly annoying investments. We have mentioned the dog's fitness salon in Nográd, but we could also mention the 40 centimeters [40 cm] of the tens of millions, or the renovation of a hospital that was closed and disabled in the next financial year. So there's nothing to be proud of. The next is the last EU budget cycle, when it is expected that larger amounts of money can be moved. If you look at the period with such an attitude and are unable to draw the necessary conclusions, you will bring a financial disaster to Hungary. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-11-28-291	Now it is possible to make a two-minute comment. I give the floor to Congressman Zsolt Bailey.
u2016-11-28-292	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to respond to my fellow Member, Gábor Riz, who highlighted the importance and priority of road and rail development in his speech. We don't question that. We are aware that infrastructure improvements are very much needed on the one hand and essential conditions for the start-up of the economy on the other, but my fellow Member Nándor Gúr highlighted precisely the problems that exist with regard to road and rail development, which can be summarised briefly in the fact that a complete system of corruption has been established for who will win the sources of road and rail development; and then how and where they are distributed, of course, depends only on the colour of imagination. My fellow Member pointed it out precisely, but I would like to say again, just to be safe, what they were thinking. For example, the reconstruction of this section of the Sayol-Püspökladány for more than 120 billion forints in railway development. The fact that the journey time was down by three minutes is one thing, the interesting thing is who the contractor was. That was the Public Machine. The Public Machine they practically couldn't tell us how much money they had won in 2013. Or, for example, there is the line development in Esztergom. That was a 44 billion-dollar renovation, and it's barely a few minutes to go-time improvement. What we see is that in road construction, it was the Public Machine, which, for a very, very long time, was able, let's say, to play a prominent or beneficiary role. Then came this particular G-day, which was mentioned, after which they did not favour the Public Machine, but now the Danube Asphalt. Just in the last few days, Duna Asphalt has managed to achieve a larger, perhaps such a 150 billion-dollar volume of funding, which applies to the M4 and the M44. I think that's the point of the whole thing, that the real problem is that the hotbed of corruption is both road and rail development. Thank you.
u2016-11-28-293	I now give the floor to Congressman Dániel Z. Kárpa in two minutes.
u2016-11-28-294	Mr President, Dear House, Gábor Riz is a kind of muse because he inspires opposition representatives to react. Indeed, he should understand that in Hungarian people's souls it is already a cliché that there is a great deal of money being spent by the local authorities and others involved - obviously not by the Ozdi, but it is generally the case nationwide - for capital building, fountains, baths, investments where jobs are sometimes created, let us say, only temporarily during the stoning process, but the multiplier effects on the economy are very difficult to report and it is very difficult to quantify and measure. But what we can see is that when I think about maintaining these, and not on the trails, it could also be Polemized here, but let's say, the maintenance of visitor centres or baths breaks down on the communities involved, then Gábor Riz will no longer be so brave, because he can't tell us how these communities can sustain these often - let's be honest - completely meaningless investments in the long term. So we want to see meaningful, meaningful jobs in Hungary. What we want to see is that about a third of public procurement does not allow a start-up or not a start-up to win orders that are very often overpriced. And we would like to see, say, in the case of higher education, to mention one more example, that this government does not try to make up for the huge amounts withdrawn by winning EU tenders with the relevant higher education institutions, and then there, with various administrative tricks, this government is actually trying to sustain the entire departments of universities with the funds it is supposed to receive for research, but they are basically making up heating and salaries, which I don't think is normal, but this government is doing this on a systemic basis. What you do around EU funds stinks in all areas. However, intelligent investments and, where appropriate, a rental housing programme could be used in a targeted way, but this would require courage and courage. Thank you. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-11-28-295	We will now return to the normal speeches and give the floor to Mr Zsolt Tiffán.
u2016-11-28-296	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, I have some brief comments on agricultural developments, rural development and procedural changes, in which I would like to add an important part of my own constituency. As we know, in the 2014-2020 programming period, the new rules of procedure for the co-financing of the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development and the European Maritime and Fisheries Fund have been established and applied, which have been harmonised with the other European Investment and Structural Funds. This means, in fact, that the former strict and bureaucratic system of administrative procedures has been replaced by a much more flexible, customer-friendly, civil-law regulation in the 2014-2020 programming period with a certain government regulation of 272/2014 on the order of use of aid from certain EU funds. On the basis of this Regulation, calls for proposals have been issued instead of the previous title regulations, which should be published on the www.kereskedény.gov.hu website, thus ensuring the visibility and transparency of the call for proposals. Of course, in case of a positive assessment of the aid application, a supporting document or a grant contract will be issued, depending on the selection procedure and as specified in the invitation to tender. It is clear and clear that the system is simplifying, thanks to God, and please allow me to stress the importance of this through my own constituency. There is the Ormany we all know, one of the most backward regions of the country, and the region of which is the Ancient-Drava programme, which I am responsible for coordinating, is intended to sort out and help the fate of the people who live there. [[21.00]] Dear Secretary of State, Let me give you some data comparing the two terms between the period 2007-2013 and the period 2014-2020. The resources arrived in the period 2007-2013 were extremely low, they did not contain the specifics that really allow regional treatment, and therefore the major intervention at national programme level was mostly carried out in the context of national public employment projects. No integrated territorial approaches have been implemented in this Ancient-Drava programme or in the Ormanship. To give some figures: out of the resources of the 2007-13 period, the municipalities of the programme area received only HUF 12.06 billion worth of development funding for operational programmes, which is 0.11 percent of the total. Even more devastating is the percentage of applications submitted and won, which is only 46 percent of the programme area, while the national average was 59.7 percent. Agro-rural development funds received HUF 5.88 billion worth of development resources, which is 0.24% of the total. In comparison, the coordinated implementation of projects is necessary for the complete development of the region in the period 2014-2020 in the following ways. The Ancient-Drava program represents 43 settlements. The districts concerned are: Siklós district, Szigetvári district, Sellyei district, Barcsi district, without exception disadvantaged or multiplely disadvantaged. The primary objective of the 1321/2016 Government Decision is to promote the implementation of the EU co-funded basic programmes through funding. 94 percent of the programmes to be implemented from domestic sources in the EU, which are very important for this backward region. Ladies and Gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, I am talking about an area that, almost a hundred years ago, at the time when the only child program started, and when we know that after the birth of the firstborn child, the second, third-born children or fetus were stabbed in the womb in order to maintain some concentration of property, we expect the decline of the Ormania from now on. Then the nationalization after World War II realized this, and since the TS failed and failed, practically this neighborhood became completely poorer. These people barely have any work, are completely opaque to them, or they were inaccessible to the call for a rural development resource for the period 2007-13. I welcome the fact that the Hungarian Government is working to simplify this in the new period 2014-2020. I ask the honourable government not to change this intention and its objective, because it is in the interests of all of us, the interests of the people who live there, and at last why what cannot be done must be replaced by what can be done as a task solution, because we must not see problems, but see tasks. And if this is what we see, and for those people who have not been able to figure out in the sets of paper, it is a huge help what the Hungarian government is doing now, and as it simplifies the system of source calls, simplifies and helps people better, it helps rural development and agricultural development more effectively. So on behalf of the people of the Ormanes, I would like to thank you and ask the honourable Government to continue this work. I would like to ask the honourable Secretary of State what elements, which make life easier for farmers, exist in the new call for funds system. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2016-11-28-297	I now give the floor to Secretary of State, Miklós Kis.
u2016-11-28-298	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, I wanted to respond in any way to what Mr Tiffán said, because I think we have also done a very serious job in the last two years, and there is also a very serious result of a completely new procedure being drawn up. For many it may not be known, the draft procedure for the period 2007-13 was regulated in 2007 by the then government, and it must be said, based on the experience of the last seven years' cycle, that this system was a very inflexible, lifeless and indeed over-sensory procedure. I think that anyone who is an active farmer, or even a municipal representative, mayor, and who should be talking about the management of applications for the previous rural development period, would in any case only be able to report on difficulties and, indeed, often on rigidity. I believe that we have already thought about this within the walls of this House. [[István Jakab, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] Recognizing this difficulty, of course, we have decided that, in contrast to the period 2007-13, where the legislation on administrative procedures provided for this legal background, we will break off from this, and we will develop a more flexible system using all EU funds in a single framework, Government Decree 272/2011. You are already the few terms in these laws, if someone reads it, who can read it, it's not a client anymore, it's a beneficiary at all. Thus, a partnership is established between a candidate and a tender control, which does not mean that it is subordination of an earlier period, but that it is a partnership with applicants. In addition, we have put a lot of innovations into this new procedure, which, at least, we believe, greatly helps applicants' lives. The fact that all of our calls for proposals before each call for proposals come through a very wide-ranging socialisation is already a help. In addition, each of our calls is available to everyone for at least two months. So after a call comes out, everyone can prepare for that for at least two months. I think that this is also the basis for getting proposals as prepared and as high-quality as possible. In addition, we have also interrupted the practice that, where appropriate, an application had to be suspended within a day or two because such an application had been submitted. We also broke up because it is not good and it is not fair for someone to be able to apply successfully because, let's say, they have a faster internet or they can submit their support application faster. So we broke up. Each of our calls for proposals is open for at least one month, and this is plenty of time for everyone to submit the applications they have already prepared. What is also new, and this has not been the case in the previous period, it was almost difficult for a farmer to find the option in the period 2007-13 and he did not even see what tenders would appear and what amount. Although there was an accepted New Hungary rural development programme, which was about the framework, they did not see it in such detail. For this reason, we have introduced, as for all other operational programmes, the establishment of an annual development framework, and everyone can see in a single sense when about which calls for proposals will appear. We think that, moreover, we were able to publish this framework at the maximum in 2016, and even by the end of the year, every call for proposals we have proposed and planned for this year is likely to be able to publish it. What may still be important is that we launch these calls with the full framework. So we do not want to follow the structure of dripping subsidies into the system every year. We announced our calls with the full framework at the beginning of the year and in the coming years. We are convinced that this will actually help economic development if these investments are made as soon as possible, and that these proposals obviously need to be announced with a full development framework. Of course, we do not dare to promise that, and we have never promised to introduce a terribly simple and demented tender system. By the way, we have tools for this, from flat-rate grants to very many things, but I do not want to use the time frame fully. And we do not dare to promise that it will be possible to obtain funds with an invitation to tender of the size of a beer mat and an application for aid of the size of a beer mat, especially with aid of up to hundreds of millions of HUF from rural development. At the same time, we dare promise to develop and fine-tune the simplest possible procedures if necessary. However, it is important to know that the framework, the conditionality, as it is EU aid, is, after all, defined by the European Commission. We have tried to adapt Hungarian legislation to this by declaring a much more flexible, much more efficient and a simpler but still well accessible resource through quality tenders. We also think, based on the feedback, that we have been able to achieve this in the past. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2016-11-28-299	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Mr Attila Mesterházy, MSZP Group, has applied for a speech. Congressman, you have the floor.
u2016-11-28-300	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, From many aspects, MEPs have approached this debate today and its subject. Perhaps I would focus less on criticism now, but rather I would like to point out that those countries in the European Union have been successful in using these European Union funds where there was some kind of political consensus surrounding these ideas and plans. [[21.10]] There have been countries where such political consensus has not been established for a long time, and this has been reflected in the development potential of these countries. For example, Ireland is referred to as such a country. Then, when politics realized that these were one-off, non-repetitable opportunities for Hungary, and so was politics approaching it, so that a kind of national minimum or a national consensus could be created around the country's development resources, then, of course, they could achieve much more efficiency, much better results or achieve much better results. So for my part, I wish for the Hungarian political life that we are trying, in some way, to exclude the use of these resources from the full range of party political battles. Of course, this government has an important responsibility and responsibility in the first place. I believe, in principle, that in this period 2014-2020, the government's objective is to spend a higher percentage on economic development resources, I think it is a good objective that the government's objective is 60%. It is not certain that this percentage may be exactly available, but regardless, it is important that Hungary spends on improvements that will benefit from this resource. So it is often mentioned that a number of things could have been spent on before, which were not productive uses. I heard from László Parragh that he referred to the funeral home that they could be improved. I would add that this is also an important goal, because it is probably a problem in that community, and therefore it may also be a good use of the source, but it is a fact and it is true that the source will benefit even more if it can then have another and more multiplier effect. So I think the aim is to devote these resources to as much economic recovery as possible, to as much economic development as possible. They say it's very important how much money we get, but the second most important question is how effectively and how we spend it is at least as important. What I see from the statistics is that roughly 30-35 percent of companies that use EU funds are losing money, and the Minister talked about around 54 thousand companies that actually sustain themselves from these EU funds. At a conference, the Minister stated that the aim was to get these resources as far as possible, not only to large companies, but also to the small and medium-sized enterprises sector, which is a good objective, but also to get these resources to those which are capable of developing. I would argue a little with the Minister in this, and he somehow said that companies struggling to survive could have fewer EU funds. I think it is precisely in the SME sector, if not elsewhere, but this is where it makes sense to maintain certain companies - now let's put the fraudsters aside and those who do not use these resources fairly - because the SME sector is the largest employer in Hungary. So I do not consider it a wasted resource if we also spend on goals, at the small and medium-sized enterprise level, under the heading of economic development, who, where appropriate, can maintain their functioning or employment rates. And of course, if these companies can even develop and make a high-quality leap, it's certainly the best use. What is the issue, and perhaps when these resources are spent by the government, it is worth defining what will happen after 2020, when similar resources may not be available on this scale, then, of course, there will be money from the Cohesion Fund, and the rest, agricultural subsidies, but perhaps not this magnitude that can be used for such economic development. Now there is an opportunity for the current government to determine the target areas or points of break-out in the Hungarian economy, which will enable economic growth to produce a sustainable growth level even after the EU's resources have been reduced. What I see is that the Hungarian government has not yet found or defined, together with the interest representatives and professions, the areas that are going to be the driving sectors that in Hungary mitigate this monocultural production a little. So don't let the Audi plant stop again or switch to the production of A3 Audi, and immediately the Hungarian GDP data will fall a great deal, or if they can't pay the EU funds, the Hungarian GDP will also suffer. So in Hungarian, what these break-out points will be, where, by spending these resources, Hungary will be sustainable in the long term, and, preferably, it will be able to achieve a significant economic growth of at least twice the EU average, and it is certainly worth thinking together, because we are not talking about a government cycle, we are talking about government cycles. So there will certainly be more governments involved in these questions and these matters in Hungarian. So in Hungarian, the question is how to compensate for the decline, how to guarantee that Hungarian competitiveness and Hungarian economic growth are on a sustainable growth path, and how to ensure that European Union funds do not have a restrictive effect in Hungary, because in many cases investments are left out of so-called private resources because it is much simpler and cheaper to develop them from European Union sources rather than from borrowing or from own resources. So, overall, I would suggest or advise the government to seek some kind of political consensus in these areas, since the next ten years can be determined by how and in what form these funds are spent. I would like to ask Mr Secretary of State that Minister has announced that - I believe that KPMG is the leader of the consortium, which will prepare, by the end of the year, a study evaluating the events of the past period, in terms of effectiveness. Minister said that this material would be made public. I would suggest to the Secretary of State, Minister, that this should also be discussed within the framework of the Hungarian Parliament, as it can certainly provide lessons that are useful and important to all of us. If it weren't published on the Internet, I would ask the Ministry to send this study at least for me, and I would be happy to work with my colleagues to see where we have come and where Hungary might have to go. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2016-11-28-301	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary of State Nándor Csepreghy. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2016-11-28-302	Mr President, Thank you very much. Honourable Congressman, Thank you very much for your thoughts, and allow me to advance here, as Minister has announced, that if the study is available to the government, the government will be willing to discuss this study with the parliamentary parties, but I think that this study should indeed serve the country's growth, so there is no reason why this should not be discussed publicly, but, of course, my colleagues, as this is done, will send it to you, and we would like to see it as a basic document for the next spring's debate. In any case, I am pleased to see, sitting for six hours in the debate so far, that there is no disagreement between Parliament's parties about the objective we are going towards and the focus of which is economic development in the development period up to 2020, everyone agrees with, rather, the question of what means we want to serve economic development. Allow me to answer some of your specific questions or, where appropriate, to give you a basis for discussion. When you asked what industries the Hungarian economy could hope for, let's say, to get its own feet on its feet or to create its power, because after 2020, we calculate that, even if there are cohesion resources, their rules of use will be significantly different from those under which we are now using them. Before I answer the question, however, I would also like to share a principled dilemma with the public of the Parliament, because there is a view that, essentially behind the intentions of the European Union's post-2004 Eastern enlargement, net contributors, economic operators in the Member States, who had to have an isolated market expansion without having to face this closed market with their competitors in South-East Asia or, as the case may be, in the United States of America, having an advantage of nearly 150 million. [[21.20]] It is not a problem, because this has brought a huge advantage to this region, which has not only integrated or continued towards the Western European political alliance for political reasons, but also for economic reasons. Indeed, it raises a serious question as to how the competitiveness and more competitive spirit of Hungarian businesses are affected by the fact that, quoteably, there are these free money in the market, which, if they run out after a while, these businesses are going to be in this classic competition, and they are really going to be vulnerable or become vulnerable. I said this as a front-runner because, without understanding this issue, I think the issue that you have been pushing for cannot be interpreted, and it is that these funds must only reach the undertakings that are truly capable of productive work, or indeed this financial opportunity must also support the undertakings that we are essentially helping to survive during the first period of support. This is also a big debate with professional organisations, such as the President of KAVOSZ, President László Krisán, on numerous occasions expressed his view that the Hungarian government should not follow the Taigetos principle and only support undertakings that have a genuine product, but rather put more businesses in a position in which it can actually produce a meaningful product in the long term. This is indeed an important debate, and I see that economic operators have not come to terms with each other on this issue either, but it is certain that the possibility of a self-patriot government should be taken up by means of this money, figuratively speaking, to pull itself out of the swamp by its own hair, and to create the basis for the growth that, after 2020, Hungarian development policy can be based on the tax revenues generated by Hungarian businesses. The congressman asked the industry questions. This is why there are defects in the case of Hungary. I do not consider the dominance of the automotive industry to be problematic if, in addition, there are still some sectors in which Hungarian businesses really deserve and have room for manoeuvre. With regard to the automotive industry, I would like to talk about two segments: the four large automotive manufacturers in Hungary, the employees they employ, who are very important, but in their case, perhaps even more important is the supply chain that has actually become a first-line supplier in these factories in the last six or eight years, and not only in these factories, but also in the case of Hungarian exports, these companies - we are talking about dozens of businesses - have been able to become automotive suppliers in the regional and global markets. It's an area worth taking seriously. Another such area, I think, is agriculture. The restructuring of agricultural subsidies was precisely about how we can strengthen small and medium-sized family farms. We are meeting with a significant free workforce capacity in Hungary that, due to the lack of skills, is unable to find employment in the peripheral areas of the country where agricultural employment was very dominant prior to the change of regime. Based on them, with smaller technological developments, we can generate a significant labour absorption effect. I think there are serious opportunities for outbursts in agriculture. We need to find a healthy ratio between the estates and the small estates. If you ask a number, Congressman, I think it is 80:20 per cent in terms of size of property, so 20 per cent in terms of large estates and 80 per cent in terms of small and medium estates. As I said earlier, it is certainly worth considering two other industries. The Hungarian pharmaceutical industry has a very serious past and has a historical tradition. This is an industrial area where Hungarian businesses really have the opportunity to appear and develop on the world market. Finally, we are talking about two levels of IT, but we are also talking about information technology, because the lack of IT - there are ten thousand vacant IT jobs in Hungary - means not only IT experts trained after the classic five-year university course, but also the so-called new blue-collar IT technicians who, after a few months of re-training, are able to fill a job where IT skills are needed. If we can only capture these four areas, then I think that we have managed to find the four areas of Hungary's economic development where the Hungarian economy has the potential to grow in independent sectors. And the debate that is in front of Parliament, and the documents that the government makes available to Parliament - I am thinking here of the statistical report that comes into your hands every quarter on the use of European Union funds and the debate that will be held twice a year, and the conferences where we are also looking forward to it - indeed, they all give us the opportunity to discuss development programmes that go far beyond the parliamentary mandate of a government, potential governing parties, or even parties outside Parliament, which compete for the confidence of voters, to receive substantial information from the government, and to put substantial ideas on the table of the government, because they really affect the future of the entire nation, whether these resources or their use. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-11-28-303	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman János Kerényi, Fidesz Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-11-28-304	Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, Ladies and gentlemen of the State Secretary. Let us not forget that we inherited a decided tender system in 2010, so that the roads to which EU grants could go were practically marked, there were operational programmes, paying places, and that would have been extremely difficult to change at that time. I remember the period 2003-2004 when the so-called countries of bezzeng, i.e. Ireland, Portugal, Spain, which made the best use of the EU's tender money, were the role models before us, and then these countries were hit pretty hard by the crisis, so they have barely been able to come out of this situation to this day. I would like to respond to one of Mr István Józsa's comments. Perhaps if the payments of EU aid had been accelerated in the period 2008-2009, we might have been much less affected by the economic crisis. I would like to make two comments, which were not given enough emphasis during the debate. One comment concerns cutting red tape. Around 2011, I was curious about a follow-up to an EU proposal carried out by three inspectors for ten hours. The amount applied for was HUF 10 million and the gross amount was HUF 40 million, which meant that the tender was in intensity of 25 per cent. The three inspectors basically cut the hairs four ways. There is, of course, another side of the medal: at the time, the primary task was to get as many applications as possible, and unfortunately, many businesses have abused it during the given period, so they have been phantomized, these businesses have disappeared; I think there are still a lot of outstanding cases to come to the end of this. In this respect, it would be appropriate to monitor companies in the tendering process whether they are able to take on or use the relevant EU tender money, so that they are able to carry out the investment. The second point concerns the executions and the participation of Hungarian companies as main contractors in public procurement. It has been almost impossible to win a Hungarian business over the past period, as foreign businesses were much more prepared than Hungarian businesses. Of course, even if a large foreign company has won public procurement, the construction has already been carried out by local companies, of course with minimal profits or losses. I hope that this will also change, and it is a special pleasure that more and more Hungarian businesses will win major projects as main contractors. We are thinking about development policy in a seven-year cycle. It is important that the government accounts for the progress of EU funds twice a year, and it is welcome that the government will report quarterly and hold a debate on the use of resources. Of course, this will increase transparency by the government. [[21.30]] The last political debate date was on 2 May 2016. I would like to ask the honourable Secretary of State what the results of the period since the previous day of debate are. I believe that the use of EU funding for applications is vital to all political forces in Parliament, so it is in common interest that this second two-year cycle be successful for all of us. Thank you so much for listening. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2016-11-28-305	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mrs Loránt Hegedűs, from the Jobbik Group. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2016-11-28-306	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr. President. Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to make an introduction to what Viktor Orbán said not so long ago here in Parliament, and this was confirmed by János Lázár, that the money from European Union funds is our money, our taxpayers' money, just making such a turn to Brussels and getting it back from there. So to the last penny, you could say we're spending our own money. So I think that is why it is particularly important that we treat it in such a way that we can account for it as worthy of our constituents. Our fellow Member from Kerény has just told us what you government politicians have inherited from the previous government administration. I'd like to add a little bit to your statement and color it. First of all, I think that we should mention the regional system itself, the territorial unit completely alien to Hungarian history and historical development, which has no tradition, no one is obliging us to take on exactly this type of region size in Hungary, and in fact, let us say that this was a major obstacle to territorial development in the previous 2007-2013 funding cycle, as well as to the senseless development goals; in this we absolutely agree with our fellow members of the Government. There have been a number of goals that have already pre-coded the misuse of EU funds. However, what was no longer an inheritance, and what could have changed was the Orbán government, the diseases of children that it would have been good to grow out of and go beyond for the current programming cycle. I'm the one who made a quick summary of what I'm thinking. For example, there's a question of overinvoicing right now. It goes beyond the argument that all the European Union proposals that we usually criticize and examine seriously are the first and toughest points that we think will cause problems. Let me give you the latest example: acquisition of assets in Tamás as part of an EU proposal. Simple pillows for chairs cost 12,000 forints. Kitchen furniture, a perfectly simple shelf of 600,000 forints. And in some way, it goes through the control filter you set up. Then the other child's disease is sloppy execution. I've been to a number of rural settlements where they've been renovating public spaces, and there's a wavy surface like the angry Balaton. For some reason, this has not been noticed by the bodies monitoring the EU tender. Why not? Sloppy execution, I could mention many, many examples of this. I will give such examples later. The other one is such a very big problem, we think, is personalised public procurement. We don't have to go too far to give you an example from here, Rogania. We are here in District V, in connection with the Main Street project, we are talking about a 15 billion-dollar project, and OLAF would have demanded 10 billion back because the public procurement was written out in the image and likeness of a single friendly enterprise, and we know that these were also spent in an extremely sloppy construction. But we also need to say a few words about irregular accounts, or then, during the period of the maintenance obligation, that nothing is being done in order for the funds spent from the tender to actually prevail or work with results. Let me mention just one example here as well. Also recently I was down at Bükkönd, Baranya county small settlement, and a stone plant was built for HUF 50 million. Later, I also asked for a separate post-control, because every time we were in that settlement, there was never work in this stone plant. When we were there, we had to experience that the construction there could cost the Hungarian state a maximum of HUF 2-3 million, but somehow they managed to bill HUF 50 million. According to the people there, they did not create new jobs, but simply public workers. And so on. Unfortunately, this inspection was unsuccessful. I don't understand why. We also need to mention the vet horse of the sewer investments, let's say. Why? Because KEOP resources will now be spent and used as COHEP resources. And this is a particularly sensitive problem, because most of the time, there is a private part involved, and that is why it is important that it is accounted for in a particularly accurate and fair way. I could say dozens of settlements where they acted in a completely incorrect way, still refusing to account for the population. I'll give you some examples, just for the record: Baks, Christmas, Kistelek, Jánoshalma, several settlements from the county of Békés or the county of Hajdú-Bihar. It was Minister János Lázár himself who, in his own constituency, drew attention to the fact that certain water utility companies, which participated in these proposals, should account for how the works were carried out here. Nothing happened on this matter. And allow me one more sentence, because the next round of applications has begun. Here's the case for the M3 subway. This is one of the most fragile issues in Hungarian public life today, although 500,000 people travel on it every day, we know that there is virtually a life-threatening state of all the technical capabilities of this subway now, and we also know that although the Hungarian state is willing to give 50 billion, according to some calculations 137 billion, but it will cost more than 260 billion. Of what, if they don't provide the resources? Thank you for listening. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2016-11-28-307	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, We now have two-minute speeches. I give the floor to Congressman Attila Mesterházy. Here you go.
u2016-11-28-308	Thank you very much. I pressed a two-minute button for the Secretary of State's exposé. I agree with Mr Secretary of State, and at the hearing of Minister Mihály Varga, we also had a debate about the fact that, indeed, EU funds seem to make Hungarian companies a little lazy, and they are not prepared in Hungarian for the period when these resources, as Mr State Secretary said, are available to a lesser extent. Here the debate came from the fact that Minister said that the Hungarian business sector is already sufficiently prepared to stand. I thought that was an over-optimistic approach. On the other hand, this dilemma, which Mr Secretary of State has spoken about, has not been delivered today, and I have been left behind in this debate as an approach to the SME sector from the employment policy perspective, which I was talking about. So, then, the professional belief that they wanted to support only companies capable of developing, I don't know how much development they wanted to support. That's pretty much the part of the program that drowned, so the companies couldn't produce the figures that the government expected at the time. The crisis must have played a part in this. What I'm trying to say is that the debate is not new, what you referred to as Secretary of State. The other is that the areas that he said are hopeful, so we did not define the potential areas before 2014 where Hungary may have an outbreak point. I might add that I am not an expert on the question, but that specialization and cooperation or integration are important to it, because it doesn't matter if everyone - I'm a bit excessive now - buys a combine when it comes to machine support, or there is some kind of agreement about who develops in what, and then how they provide to the surrounding farmers. Both IT and the pharmaceutical industry or the health industry, as I used to say, I'm pretty sure that's a breakout point. [[21.40]] One more interesting thing, I'm sorry if I can have a little patience for automation in small and medium-sized enterprises towards micro-enterprises; I know that they are in agriculture, with small amounts of subsidies, where there is not enough capacity to write applications, it is worth thinking about. And to my fellow Member of Kerényi, I would like to recommend that you pay attention to the provisions of Article 56/2006. Parliamentary resolution when the previous government set up an ad hoc committee to monitor the development plan with the opposition president, so that was the only thing better than the current system in terms of controlling money. Thank you very much, Mr. President, for your patience.
u2016-11-28-309	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Erik Bánki, Fidesz Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-11-28-310	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, During today's debate, opposition representatives have often found themselves concerned that large companies will benefit from small businesses, which I do not understand because it has been clearly said, both in the exposé and in the speech of the members of the government and in the speech of the pro-government representatives, that the government wants to focus the majority of the economic recovery proposals on the small and medium-sized enterprises sector. The GINOP, which is perhaps the largest package of this economic competitiveness-enhancing tender system, has set itself a specific objective for exporting companies to come up with these grants. And as State Secretary Balázs Rákossy said, the state that puts small and medium-sized enterprises that can be exported in around 2-3 thousand today would like this number to be the number of government and parliamentary party factions if they could rise around 10,000 at the end of this development cycle. Another important issue, which has also been discussed several times in today's debate, is the further strengthening of industrialisation. I think that Hungary has been able to attract a number of investments since 2010 that have proved that these companies are coming to Hungary not only because of cheap labour, but because of well-trained labour force, and that they bring innovation and improvements that will also enable the development of the small and medium-sized enterprise sector. They are also forced to make use of R &amp; D resources, for example, to implement technological developments that enable them to connect in the domestic field as subcontractors or suppliers and to undergo technological developments that make them exportable, and that product can be sold elsewhere in Europe or even in other parts of the world. This will therefore create synergies that will help the development of the entire SME system. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2016-11-28-311	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman György Szilágyi, Jobbik. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-11-28-312	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would just like to say this because there have been several instances of strengthening small and medium-sized enterprises here, and that they will be able to take part in public procurement and such. Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to offer you a piece of data. In 1995 there were 17 pages and 97 paragraphs of the Public Procurement Act, in 2015 115 pages, paragraph 201, plus 20 pages of annexes, and six executive government decrees. This is why small and medium-sized enterprises cannot start, because in order to start a small and medium-sized enterprise, they would have to use a public procurement guru to see through this whole messy and otherwise very complex procedure. And then I didn't even talk about what kind of punishments and how bad it could be if something went wrong in public procurement for a business. This is a big problem, and this should be changed and simplified at some level so that small and medium-sized enterprises can really speak on this issue. Thank you. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2016-11-28-313	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We will now continue with the speeches by Members. I give the floor to Mr Lajos Korózs, MSZP Group. Here you go.
u2016-11-28-314	Thank you very much. Dear House, Dear fellow Members, I would also pick up where my fellow Member, Attila Mesterházy, stopped saying that, yes, those countries were successful after the change of regime in the Central and Eastern European region, but also in the current Western European countries, where they could create some consensus on the strategy and on the use of resources. If we are approaching from the source side, it is clear that the development of the economy, the recovery of the economy, must be a priority, including infrastructure development. Allow me, fellow Members, to mention two things. I understand exactly what Secretary of State Csepreghy was talking about, the areas of development that he indicated. These aren't new. This kind of thinking has been present in Hungarian politics for years, and I think it is well positioned. Whether the automotive supplier side or the development of digital infrastructure or information technology or the development of the pharmaceutical industry, these are priorities that can really determine an outbreak point in Hungary. The problem is, Mr. Secretary, that's not what they're doing. I mean, if they do, they're only doing it in part, and now I need to bring you two cases that both are tragic and both of them deserve to be mentioned in connection with the investment in Heves County. One of them, I must tell you, is the subject of tragedy. There was a development in the area of Hatvan, where they built an adventure park, a related bicycle road. They have seen it in the media in the past few weeks, otherwise it is almost two years of history, where a bicycle route has been handed over or inaugurated that leads nowhere. This bike path should be happy out of 60; it is 7.2 kilometers; I would like to stress that it is a thousand million-dollar investment, with more than one billion forints in investment. This bike path doesn't reach the village next door. It's over there, somewhere on the soft lap of nature. In addition, in a few weeks following the transfer of the bicycle route, it showed that the whole thing was done in such a dilettant manner, there were cracks on this bike road, Mr. Secretary, that a bicycle could be set up like a bicycle compartment. I've been there myself, so I'm not basing my opinion on press. What I'm talking about, I've seen all of them, and I've even been outside the scene several times. We wanted to measure the depth of the crack with measuring tape, and I stress that it's not just about the length of it, it's about the depth. The only reason the measuring tape didn't go lower than 72 centimeters is because it has a sole that's stuck. On another occasion, the coyotes fell into this crack, and my acquaintances couldn't get it out. I think this does not need to be explained in particular what technical content and in what technical condition this bicycle route was delivered. Then, when it was a public scandal, they ordered it to be corrected by the investor - I forgot to say, this bicycle route was created in the investment of the company Mészáros and Mészáros - and was then poured out with pitch. But they didn't think that it could still be warm in the summer, and then the pitch melted into this 70-75-80-inch crack. This is where the adventure park that belongs to the joke category is connected. This was built in Zagyva's outpost, under Zagyva Bridge. I've been there myself. There's a mountain bike bike bike road on this one, and you can't go into it unless you sign up. If there is something unnecessary in the life of a city or in the use of an EU resource, then this investment certainly was because in two years there are no 40 people registered. They say it's 39. Think of it as an investment that cost over a billion forints, and there were no 40 people who had used it. I forgot to tell you that at the first tilting bridge, a boy in a mountain bike suffered an accident that almost killed him. His spine is ruptured. Thank God this young man's recovered. This whole adventure park looks like a playground from one of Chernobyl's homes that's been empty. Now, I brought these two things up because if there's something this country doesn't need, it's these two investments that are certain, and the two projects that have been built in connection with one investment. [[21.50]] The other is also connected to Hatvan, the so-called sugar factory lake. Here, out of 186 million forints, a school path should have been created where the local ecosystem is presented by the school path, animal life, flora, fauna, but this path cannot be visited. When we were there, there was a security guard blocking the way for the visitors, and there wasn't even a trail showing the area's flora or fauna in this place, or if there is, they're pretty good at hiding it, but there was only one dead crow on the road. I'm guessing this isn't the interactive playground or showground that you were talking about in the competition at the time. Summa summarum, if these investments had not been made in this way, if they had paid attention to the technical content in time, if there had been a consistent assessment and verification, then this would not have been possible, and if these had not been made, then my speech would not have happened now. Thank you very much.
u2016-11-28-315	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary of State Nándor Csepreghy. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2016-11-28-316	Mr President, Thank you very much for the floor. Honourable Congressman, After all, what you have said proves what I have said about why you had to tap into the development system in substance. Both investments - and I did not speak out on the grounds of responsibility - relate to the period 2007-13, which had fundamental problems with their content issues. With regard to the Zagyva Adventure Park, all I can say is that every project that is partly funded through the European Union must take on various indicators. If these target indicators are not met, the State has no other task than to recover the aid paid from the beneficiary. I'm sure, but I'm going to look at this project, and I'm going to do it here, too, in case the reservation period hasn't expired. Thank you very much.
u2016-11-28-317	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Ander Balázs, Jobbik Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-11-28-318	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, In the context of public procurement for development from EU funds, the faces of my fellow pro-government Members generally show a welcome smile when a ribbon is cut through some initiations. For us opposition representatives, however, it remains that if we see you pushing the bike overboard, we do draw attention to certain anomalies, even if you consider it oppositional yelling, or just say that we are saying this because the grapes are sour. However, in this case, we should refer, say, to Transparency International's study, in which it was explained that 90% of public procurement is overpriced in Hungary, 90% of projects are overpriced. Or I could refer here to the exact and mathematical study of the Corruption Research Centre in Budapest, which has clearly demonstrated that sometimes there are huge problems. But if that wasn't enough, I can refer to Lajos Simicska's offer, who, in cooperation with Italian Itinera, made an incredible offer on the M4 motorway that less than 30 kilometers of the section to be built from the border to the new village of Berettyó would be built for HUF 58 billion, although the next cheapest offer contains some HUF 83 billion. So they could build it with 25 billion forints less. We are talking about an amount of almost HUF 1 billion per kilometer, and this is the amount of overpriced we are talking about here for hours. Obviously, such a phenomenon is not new either in space or in time, we have met it elsewhere, we may have met it during the socialist regime, we can think of the fake tunnels that were drilled under the 6th freeway with the face of a mole, which have consumed huge sums of money. We certainly agree that the resources are scarce, even if we are talking about 1200 billion in money here, I will do so in terms of infrastructure development. However, in view of the size of the task ahead of the country, these resources can still be considered small. We also agree that transport is of great importance. In terms of catching up disadvantaged areas, the mobility of the rural population must be ensured, and this should be very, very carefully taken into account in order to ensure socio-economic coherence at all, and infrastructure developments play a very important role, as well as they also have an important role to play in increasing the competitiveness of the decommissioned regions. However, it is only because I fully agree with the words of Minister János Lázár, who outlined that we did not receive these funds for free. You can't even say we're not a colony in a peace procession. Of course, we are a colony, a colonial economic structure typical of Hungary, and for these development money the country paid for with bloody sweat. That is why they cannot be squandered, and therefore, if we meet with an overpriced price, we will speak of it; because every overpricing, every life force in the slammer, sucks away from such important projects as I was just talking about, so the catching up of rural regions could fall into a well. It can be called rural destruction when some projects consume an awful amount of money that there will be no other development resources left. Secretary of State, we should respond in this case to the fact that we are encountering some over-prices, such as rail construction, about the fate of the 1,500 kilometers of wing lines the future of which somehow hangs in the air. An answer should be given to the fact that even if all the improvements were to be made to the railways, there would still be a thousand kilometres of the main line to which we simply do not see the source of the funds. There should also be an answer to the fact that there is a constant speed limit on the railway network in Hungary for 3400 kilometres. If these funds were taken better, they could be used better, and if so, the problems that exist here could be alleviated, and we would not have to face the shameful data that I do, 30 percent of the main lines that fit into the European core network have a constant slow signal, because we cannot meet the objectives of redirecting the enormous damage, the annual heavy goods vehicle traffic for the infrastructure to the railway, which is around HUF 350 million, because it is rightly said by carriers that they do not want to take advantage of such an opportunity. The same is true of road development. You can't squawk there either, because if I start from my narrowest Patriot, Somogy County, you're here giving me victory reports of 30 kilometers of new travel this year. However, I would add that there are 1,700 kilometres of roads in Somogy County, half of which should be refurbished immediately. This is when we give the full truth to Zoltán Pokorni, who said that when someone mixes public money with a meat pot, it should cut off his hand. But what we see is that all the fidesz oligarchs should be fed well, and the foundation's train is rumbled, and the thing is that the boiler is loaded and heated with public funds. It would be very easy to bring up here the Prime Minister's favourite, one-to-one-scale toy train, the small train in Felcsút, but I would prefer the role of Lőrinc Mészáros, the role of the Lőrinc Mészáros, who took 3.5 billion forints of dividends out of his own company in 2015, even though his workers hold a ridiculous amount. And it is this Lőrinc Mészáros who, after getting into the railway electricity, jumped from 9,5 billion to 13,3 billion from Szombathely-Zalasentiva, when the Kőröshegy-Balatonszentgyörgy and the Fonyód-Kaposvár section were refurbished, they could somehow push this with an additional HUF 25 billion, which would certainly have to be somewhere else. We believe that these overgrown greedy little balls want to feed themselves, only until there's money for such important improvements as I've been talking about, we simply can't stand it and let it go. We should also talk very briefly about what will happen by 2020. A few weeks ago, we discussed a salad law here, in which you also wish to amend the 2005 Rail Law, which would make technical data related to the safe operation of public rail vehicles secret, making gigae stretches about easier. Here they refer to a terrorist threat, but I'm telling you that Szilveszter Matuska didn't have to know, let's say, the technical data of the Budapest-Vienna train to blow up the viaduct of Biatorbágy. Or here the 2006 law on speeding up and simplifying investments of major importance for the national economy is also intended to be amended, which could be briefly summarised in such a way as to shut up for frogs. From then on, communities will have no say in such projects, and it will be even easier to give friends market preferences or even to fill beneficiary multinational companies with huge businesses. And we don't want any of this. Without the business barriers, it's not Jobbik's project, it's your project, it's what we see. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]] [[22.00]]
u2016-11-28-319	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, There are two-minute speeches coming up. I give the floor to Congressman Nándor Gúr, MSZP. Here you go.
u2016-11-28-320	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I am sorry that my fellow Member of Kerényi is no longer here, because I wanted to tell him the same sentence, and I will tell him that, of course, they will never forget that they have been ruling for the seventh year. So let's say, all the events in the period 2013-2020, but most of the previous ones are related to you. Mr State Secretary, with regard to the project mentioned by my fellow Member, Mr Korózs, I would just like to mention to you that it will be easier to find back that the transfer took place in 2014. Therefore, do not assign the phase of implementation to the 2007-2013 period, only to the fact that there was a decision on the source, but look for implementation and Mészáros' involvement in the period 2013-2014. What I really want to say is that the real risk is the risk of corruption. The real risk is that there is a tremendously high proportion of single-playing public procurement. Awesomely large, and not random, unfortunately, with a calm spirit, and a terrific way of overpriced. And overpriced is obviously considered a hotbed of corruption, as an opportunity for downsizing. So if there is something to be done somewhere, then there is certainly something to be done in this regard, and not in the need to change the public procurement law to multiply the written surface of this, but simply in the context of what I have said, in terms of eliminating public procurement and overpriced. My last sentence, I am sorry again that Erik Bánki is not here, because I would like to point out to him that he should talk a little more to the employers, perhaps to the leaders of the Hungarian Chamber of Commerce and Industry, and ask them whether they also see that the availability of skilled workers in Hungary today is really okay. Mr. President, thank you very much.
u2016-11-28-321	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We will continue our work with our speeches. I give the floor to Mr Zsolt Legény, MSZP Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-11-28-322	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, My fellow Member, Mr Gúr, said a few things about corruption in his previous statement. I'd like to continue that a little bit. In recent years, this entire procurement procedure and the whole corruption has been centralised as an institutional system. This is what the latest research on purely descriptive statistical methods tells us. You could say that ordinary people meet him less than a few years ago, but the volume of this is constantly increasing. A total of HUF 1500 billion of public procurement per year is estimated at between 350 billion and 400 billion. If we project this for seven years, it's already in the order of 2,500 billion. Of course, the numbers here would be very, very good at throwing. We believe that this will, on the one hand, choke the potential for economic performance and, on the other hand, be a very, very serious problem. Several people from the MSZP fraction have already mentioned, in our comments, either the road, railway, road and rail developments, what there was to see about or what abuses could be encountered. In order to say this, we find it reassuring that the system would now try to correct itself in some way. It's enough for the Fidesz Members of Parliament to highlight, let's just say, his dubious dealings, such as the case of Lord Voldemort or even the case of Congressman Simonka. There was also a use of EU funds in these, but we know that the events did not go exactly as they had planned. We trust that justice will actually be able to go through these cases, and that it will not prevent the fidesz power machine from going through them. We could also mention, let's just say, the MVH case in relation to maladministration or abuses. There has also been a criminal-organized stretch of more than 80 players and to the top management of the MVH. This has also nuanced the use of EU funds, let us say. We think it was a very harmful, bad part of it again. Let us hope that the procedure will go through here as it should. And I am sorry, but Mr Zsolt Kis Miklós is not here, Secretary of State, so I do not know how much Secretary Csepreghy will be able to answer that, but, of course, we will try to clarify that at a later date. Today's information, and I'm not sure it's correct, so I'd like to ask. There is this certain diversification option, which would be about supporting winners of young farmers' applications, and that would mean not only dealing with agriculture, but also, let's say, standing on another leg, and also helping them with some kind of economic activity with an opportunity of EUR 40,000, which is not linked to agriculture. So it is expressly forbidden for a young farmer who is engaged in agriculture to once again receive funds for agriculture. It would be a completely different leg. We thought and welcomed this offer and source that this is a very good tender option. Then, I could say, unfortunately, in the usual way, Fidesz has found that they arrive in the system by mass, so not in the order of a few tens, but hundreds of thousands of applications made for the same scheme. Therefore, perhaps the system correctly and correctly indicated that there was a problem here, and perhaps that is today's information, but I am not sure, and that is why I intended to ask you that this form of application or opportunity has been suspended now. If it is true that these applications have come into practice on a scheme, then we think this suspension was correct, but we think that this must, of course, be found in some form by the system itself. Because once again, the invitation to tender, title and purpose are noble, to be expressly supported. For those living in rural Hungary and young farmers who have won the tender, if we can create another kind of opportunity, when they are standing not only on one foot, but on several feet in the economy, that is a very welcome goal. And if the system can get that out of you, if there's such a problem, I'll say it again, we welcome it. That's what I wanted to ask you. Mr. Secretary, I'm not sure you have any information, but I have this information today, too. If that's the case and you can answer it, thank you, of course. Thank you, Mr President, for the opportunity.
u2016-11-28-323	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary of State Nándor Csepreghy. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2016-11-28-324	Thank you, Mr. President. Yes, Congressman, I understand that this is why the application was suspended. But I asked my colleagues because I am really not up to date to give you written information about this in the week. Thank you very much.
u2016-11-28-325	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, We will continue our work with the speeches from our representatives. I give the floor to Congressman László György Lukács, Jobbik Group. Here you go.
u2016-11-28-326	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen of the State Secretary. For my part, I would like to focus on the EU's health resources, although time is going to put me under some limits. I think that it is worth going over, first in a few words, where it was going and what has become of the health improvements made in the 2007-2013 plus the two-year accounting cycle. In fact, the first article in a fine publication reported this recently, a few weeks ago. In summary, we can say that what the government calls 500 billion forints as money coming into health care is more like 450 billion. [[22.10]] Or if you actually take it into the language of numbers and investment in health care, this is HUF 407 billion out of 437 applications according to this statement. TIOP, TÁMOP, ROP and KEOP were mainly concerned. It can also be said that this development resource, which was at the disposal of healthcare, was specifically focused on restructuring and infrastructure improvements. I'd put it in parentheses that it was available to health care, because it actually affected most of the construction industry. As the common language says, these investments went into concrete, and these funds were built in concrete. This means that the majority of the institutions have been implemented in the outside and in the development of the institutions, and a much smaller number has gone to what is actually linked to health care. For example - and this was a painful deficiency - the fact that the priority of oncological development was finally left out and replaced in the system, and that Telemedicina's 20 billion-dollar development funding was essentially withdrawn from the period 2007-2015. It may also have been decided that Budapest did not receive a source. Uzhok Hospital, St. Imre Hospital, got it. The Szent Imre Hospital alone received a HUF 7 billion EU development resource. If we convert this to a bed number, we received 40 million HUF per bed, compared to the national average of 12 million HUF for development money. So I have now reported that the development source that came to health care is about 12 million forints divided into beds. The question will be what will be in the next development cycle. Here, Budapest would be the priority, but if we look at the fact that there is about HUF 100-110 billion, for example, as defined in the EFOP Government Decree, and we would distribute this around the 18 300 beds we want to treat as the target area, which means chronic and active beds in Budapest, then we will be financed in abundance under HUF 12.1 million/bed. By the way, the EFOP programmes do not apply to Budapest in this case. This may come from another source. What are the highlights going to be? The reason why it is worth knowing about health is that many times - and the expression that goes into concrete - the profession itself interpreted and saw that these goals were not defined in accordance with professional priorities, and they were not used where they should have been most in health care, whether it was the human resources crisis, its part of the wage, part of the migration or, where appropriate, the renewal of the supply system in Budapest. So he went where he was needed, but he didn't make full use of it. I find it critical, and I would like to draw attention to the fact that oncology is once again not included in these development plans, as I see it. I beg you, in the case of one-day surgery, do not use the HUF 8 billion development money as Sziksón succeeded in implementing the project until 31 January, it had to be maintained, and on 1 February the project was shut down. Don't make one-day surgical investments like this, because one-day surgery is worth a lot more than that. On the issue of health information, perhaps the Secretary of State knows better what this is about. They've come up with multiple companies stealing it, mopping off this system. I dare hope that the next nearly HUF 8 billion development will not end up in someone's pocket again, nor will Balázs Sonkodi or the Telekom lobbyists determine where the medical resources are going and what they will translate. That's all I wanted to say for myself. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2016-11-28-327	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary of State Tamás János Schanda. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2016-11-28-328	Thank you very much. Congressman! Mr President, It must be said in any case that, as Mr President pointed out, improvements from the EFOP in Budapest will not be feasible in the next period. So he asks us what improvements we are planning from the EFOP in Budapest, but we will not be able to implement infrastructure improvements in the field of healthcare under the EFOP framework in Budapest. At the same time, resources are available for health care in Budapest, partly for VEKOP and partly for domestic budgets. These resources will give Budapest the opportunity to make improvements that, as Mr. Congressman said, have already been made in the countryside. I think that there is no need to underestimate how much work has been done to improve the functioning of the care system in the rural health care system. I think that when we go down to the countryside and see how these health institutions have been renewed there, they should be our common successes, and we should be proud of these improvements. I ask you to continue to support health improvements from the EFOP and other sources. Thank you. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2016-11-28-329	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Attila Mesterházy, MSZP Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-11-28-330	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Listening to the debate, I have now seen for a long time that one thing may be overemphasised or overemphasised by the speakers, and that is why I wanted to comment on it for a sentence. Everyone stresses the importance of the SME sector, which is very right, and Mr Secretary of State has also referred to this. But even larger companies have something to look for in this area. Of course, the proportions can be debated about what is right, but it may be worth noting that it is not from the devil that a large company receives an EU development resource, because these companies play a major role in terms of innovation and many others. So in Hungarian: not the larger companies versus the SME sector, but probably the right approach, with the right rates, of course. The other, which has been emphasised several times by the secretary-general, has been mentioned repeatedly that certain applications are over-subscribed, and this shows how well these proposals are targeted. I would like to draw attention to the fact that this is not the kind of evidence I think it is. So it may not be a good aim for a tender if there are many candidates, or at least it is worth asking what they are aiming at well. Fact and truth: I'm sure it's better for more people to come forward than if they can't use the framework, but it's worth discussing, reviewing and evaluating on the basis of other aspects. The third thing I have written for myself is what my fellow Member Szilágyi spoke of on behalf of Jobbik. I think that was a very important thing you mentioned. That's what I was trying to say in my two-minute period, but I just didn't have enough time to make public procurement so incredibly complicated, and the different rules are still so complicated, perhaps, that these rather micro- and small entrepreneurs are really unable to meet these conditions. There were some entrepreneurs who probably had a little bit of an exaggeration, but they said they could bring in the application material with a forklift, because they could really use a pallet to drop off. That is why I have referred to it, as there are several cases of extension or consideration of so-called automations, how a certain amount of tender, under certain size of company, can be automated, in what subjects, in which calls for proposals could be automated in the sense that if someone fulfils a set of conditions, a simplified set of conditions, they could receive such EU grants. This is definitely worth considering. The fourth point, which I was also able to mention briefly, and the Minister also said several times at various conferences, Mr Secretary of State, is the debate day twice a year, and the various statistics that are being produced, what a good opportunity it is to monitor this development plan. I'm not saying this for the sake of a joke, I'm actually recommending the 56/2006 parliamentary resolution to the pro-government representatives and the government. This was a case-by-case committee which was set up within the framework of Parliament. Pelczné Gáll Ildikó was the president of this, so he had a fidesz leadership during the socialist government. This was trying to strengthen the confidence that there should be an ongoing parliamentary oversight of these resources. When Parliament was formed in 2014, both with Minister Rogán, he was a faction leader, and with Minister Lazarus, who was a State Secretary, I talked about how we should consider moving on this tradition, this opportunity, because it is better than a political debate every six months, not hurting my fellow Members, but now the House is not pounding, it is true that it is now past ten o'clock. [[22.20]] These debates are not very suitable for a professional type of debate. The opposition is always right to raise its critical comments, and they are getting denser during the day, as this is the only way to put them in writing, but if there is a regular committee meeting, it can also provide professional and political support to the government, the various officials, and the opposition may also feel, where appropriate, that it has a stronger driver's license or a larger view of these resources. And if everything that the Secretary of State and the ladies have been saying today is true, that there is complete openness, transparency, there is no government to hide, and otherwise the goals are correct, and the corruption points are just mistakes or misunderstandings, then I think it would be safe for the governing majority to think about re-establishing such a case-by-case committee, be its opposition leader, and then indeed this confidence building in this area could be served much stronger and better. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2016-11-28-331	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I now give the floor to Congressman György Szilágyi, Jobbik Group, for a two-minute speech. Here you go.
u2016-11-28-332	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. All I would like to say at the end of this debate is that if I see a consensus being reached between the parties of government and the MSZP and Jobbik, that we should change and somehow make this overly complex system simpler, we on behalf of the Jobbik Hungary Movement may be ready for a five-party consultation, we are willing to offer our professional assistance, and then we should start working to make it really available, to small and medium-sized enterprises and to micro-enterprises as well. Thank you so much for listening. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-11-28-333	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I wonder if any of my fellow Members would like to speak. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. We have therefore reached the end of the speeches by Members. I give the floor to the government's representative to say the closing word in a 20-minute time frame. Secretary of State, you have the floor.
u2016-11-28-334	Mr President, thank you very much for the floor, but after a relatively long debate, I think that there is no point in repeating what has already been said in this debate. On behalf of the Government of Hungary, I would like to thank the parliamentary parties for participating in this debate and confirmed that it makes sense to initiate a really professional debate in the Hungarian Parliament. Allow me to confirm our commitment to re-acquiring the usual materials on a quarterly basis and to organise debates on a quarterly or semi-annual basis. I'd like to make an amendment. It is also clear from today's debate that the use of EU funds depends not only on legislation supporting the use of EU funds, but also on the fact that other types of legislation for the use of resources, I am thinking of the Public Procurement Act, the regulatory question of different industries, how they are, or even on how public bureaucracy makes access to these resources more difficult. For this work, I wish the Parliament good luck and sufficient intellectual ammunition to really bring the Hungarian economy to a state in which it will be able to stand on its own feet by 2020. Thank you all very much for participating in this debate.
u2016-11-28-335	Dear Parliament, I would like to thank Mr Nándor Csepreghy, Minister of State, for his very active participation in today's debate, and the political debate is closed. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the discussion of our agendas today. We will now continue our work with speeches after the agenda. I give the floor to Mr Zsolt Becsó, Fidesz Group:. Will there be a modern city in Salgótarján? It's an address. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-11-28-336	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, The seat of the county of Nógrád, Salgótarján was a very important industrial city a few decades ago. Thousands of people were employed by the mine, with factories with significant traditions, such as the steel factory, the Cove glass factory, the Salgótarján Iron foundry and the Fireworks, the BRG's installed unit, the Steel Factory, the Flat Glass Factory or the Mining Machine Factory. Champagne cultural, public education and sports life characterized everyday life. He had a first-class football team in the city, the hospitality was famous far away on earth, and then they didn't go, but the young and intellectuals came. The city was, according to the then concepts, a modern city, actually a modern socialist city. The change of regime has also created a new situation in Salgótarján. Due to the start of privatisation, the change in the economic environment, some industrial enterprises have ceased or changed, a significant proportion of those employed have lost their jobs, and newcomers have created far fewer jobs than necessary. The number of inhabitants has decreased steadily and the decrease has exceeded the national and Nógrád county average. The scale of migration has increased dramatically, especially by qualified professionals, intellectuals and especially young people, leaving the city and seeking prosperity abroad or in more developed areas. The city started the restructuring programme too late, because after the change of regime, it took almost 10 years for the first stage of the industrial park to be set up, and 11 years for the four lanes to start on the first 2.6 km of road 21. In a quarter of a century, the tourism infrastructure has fallen, higher education has ceased, the city's sports and cultural life has faded, poverty has become palpable and segregation has accelerated. Salgótarján is less modern today, but given the social, economic, social situation of the settlement, the political and cultural environment, the real question is whether it will be a modern city again under such conditions. This does not depend on the government, because its assistance is reflected in concrete measures to help the development of the city and its region: the government has declared Salgótarján district a free business zone, which could provide investors with significant benefits. It has freed the city from its debt, and it also provides the city with significant additional social and extraordinary support. The four lanes of road 21 are built with steam, so the city will be able to join the country's economic circulation shortly. The government supports the establishment of a community college in the city. The city received HUF 9.2 billion of direct use of land and settlement development resources, which is the highest in particular among county-righted cities. And the non plus ultra, that within the foreseeable future of the modern cities program, the government will also agree with the city, which will bring new investments to the local people. The government is aware that in maintaining Hungary's economic growth in the long term, the results of county-righted cities such as Salgótarján in employment and the expansion of the local economy are of particular importance. It is clear that certain levels of development cannot be achieved without the government, but visions can be set up, planned, local forces combined, product developed, and the task force is already needed on the ground. The delays, the lack of creativity, the political give-and-takes, the growth of untalented people, the unprofessional appointments have already caused significant damage to the city. There's no more time. We can't change the past, but we can still influence the future. The conditions for success, such as a favourable economic environment, development resources, government attention and support, as well as the continuation of infrastructure developments, are available. Whether or not the city can take advantage of the opportunity is only essentially dependent on the ability and preparedness of the city's directly elected leaders. A modern city will be once again in Salgótarján if you do not miss your options now. Thank you for listening.
u2016-11-28-337	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, After the agenda, MEP Ádám Mirkóczki, Jobbik Group asked for a speech:. 18 November 1956. Bydgoszcz. I'll give the floor to Congressman.
u2016-11-28-338	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, In these days, I had the opportunity to meet a very joyful and very grateful invitation from Poland, which was due to the 1956 Revolution and War of Independence and the 60th anniversary of the events in Poland, in 1956. We have talked so much about Polish-Hungarian history, and we talk about it all the time, fortunately it is a very live and very close relationship, but when it comes to the events of 1956, it is almost always and exclusively Warsaw and only Poznań that both Hungarians and, in many cases, the Poles come to mind. [[22.30]] What I would like to talk about now is a very different location and a slightly different date than the date of Hungarian or Polish events before October 23. The venue is the city of Bydgoszcz, and the date is 18 November 1956. On this day or on this day, a very serious tension and very serious emotions were gathered and gathered in the souls of Bydgoszcz's city and its inhabitants, and on a Sunday 60 years ago a demonstration, perhaps a first-time peaceful one, took place in the city, perhaps the loss of its peaceful character, was made by the excessive and disproportionate presence of the Polish Communist leadership, the Home Affairs forces and the Polish Communist leadership. By this time, the Poles were also aware of the bloodshed of the Hungarian War of Independence and Revolution, and they also protested against it, sustaining the Hungarian War of Independence, the Hungarian revolutionaries and, of course, democracy and solidarity, and therefore marched into the city to a location that they may know little about, the location of a disturbing station, the Dabrowski Hill. From such a jamming station there were 250 throughout Poland, and it was a symbol and symbol of the communist dictatorship. The purpose and task of these jamming stations was to cut the Polish people off from the sound of truth in Poland, that is to say, Radio Free Europe and all other channels that talked about truth and facts. On this hill, the Polish protesters finally broke down this jamming station and the buildings around it, set it on fire, and knocked it down, with all their anger and protests. The location was symbolic, the Dabrowski Hill, named after a person who basically wrote the Polish anthem, and with this huge crowd they could not do anything about it, and if only for a short time, the truth won in this city, and our Polish friends expressed their protests and their love of freedom and their Hungarian sympathies. After that, of course, retaliation was not missed. Terrible judgments have been made in circumstances that have, in essence, been felt by murderers until then, and many have been imprisoned for many years. I've had a chance to meet the survivors who are still alive these days. It was a very uplifting and very grateful feeling that as the only Hungarian representative, I could convey the Hungarian nation's love and gratitude for the solidarity and the stand that the people of Bydgoszczi did on 18 November 1956 in favour of the Hungarian revolutionaries and the Hungarian freedom fight. I promised those present there - even in Hungary they didn't know much about it, if there is anyone who knows about it, and Poland doesn't even have a place for this event, which, by the way, should be a worthy place in Hungarian and Polish textbooks - that I would do everything to ensure that Hungarian society is aware of what happened in this city 60 years ago, and if anyone is there, tax with humility and sacrifice to the inhabitants of the city who took such a risk and such punishment 60 years ago in favour of the Hungarian freedom fight. Thank you so much for your attention. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2016-11-28-339	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to the Secretary of State, Balázs Rákossy, who wishes to reply on behalf of the government. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2016-11-28-340	Thank you very much. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Polish-Hungarian friendship and brotherhood have long been legendary. This is particularly evident during our national celebrations, when the two peoples hold commemorations at each other's festivals and attend each other's memorials. It is especially true that not only do we support one another in commemoration, but we have also demonstrated millennia of friendship and help each other in need through actions throughout history, because friendship is based on the fact that the parties can count on each other. For example, when Polish generals stood on the side of our revolution and freedom fight in 1848-49, and sometimes at the head, and even when Hungary adopted Polish refugees fleeing war and occupation in 1939. The situation was similar in 1956, and it was also mutually supported by both Polish and Hungarian. It is relatively, although not well known, that our 1956 revolution also emerged from a demonstration of solidarity with the uprising of the Poles from Poznań. Our Polish brothers then supported our revolution and our freedom fight with financial means. Through the Red Cross, food, medicine, bandages, blood and plasma were sent to Hungary. Just to show their willingness to sacrifice more, a blood donation took an average of three to 3.5 hours at that time, and some had an appointment at 2:00 a.m. During the initial period of the revolution and around November 4, this Polish blood saved the lives of many Hungarian wounded, and we note that in Hungary. Another great phenomenon of this series of relief actions was spontaneous street collections. But on their part, they didn't miss the show of sympathy. For example, a Hungarian flag was erected on the tower of the Town Hall of Wrocław. On October 30, 1956, one of the naval units included the Hungarian revolution in the demands of the state party, saying: "Who is with the Soviets, freedom for Poland and Hungary! In the streets, the tearing dove, as the symbol of the Hungarian revolution, appeared in many places, and on the banners, the red stard, bloody hand also became a known motif. In Olsztyn, on 30 October, at the initiative of university students, ten thousand people walked on the streets with Hungarian and Polish flags, and the Red Army space was renamed as the space of Hungarian rebels. The state power didn't dare to rename it either, so it finally became Bem József Square in 1957. In Krakow, the day after the Soviet invasion, thousands protested with silent protests, covering the tomb of the unknown soldier with a red-white-green tricolor. The last mass demonstration took place in Gliwice on 11 December, when 5,000 people marched and protested against the bloodshed of the Soviets in Hungary, including the second secretary of the party committee. Many believe that the great gestures of showing solidarity with the Hungarians ended at that time, but that is far from true. In 1958, in the days following the execution of Imre Nagy, when the Honvéd played in Warsaw, 100,000 people stood at once silently in honor of the Prime Minister of the Revolution. During communism, they wanted to break the resistance of nations in Poland and Hungary, and tried to destroy the middle class. Today's Polish and Hungarian governments aim to strengthen citizens and families. Honourable Congressman, Thank you for highlighting a Polish city and remembering Polish-Hungarian solidarity again. It is good to see that Polish-Hungarian friendship is important to Jobbik from among the Hungarian opposition parties. The events in Bydgoszcz are really special, as Radio Free Europe has always been iconic for Hungarians in these decades. The commemoration you mentioned was also supported by the Hungarian government. The Government of Hungary, of course, remains committed to a distinguished friendship with the Poles and intends to continue close cooperation with Poland, its current government, within and beyond the V4 relationship system. It should also be pointed out that the Hungarian government has found a particularly strong partner and ally in the current Polish government, as they also represent and cling to real values in our currently uncertain European world of value crisis. Today, we can safely say that the renaissance of Polish-Hungarian friendship and cooperation is underway. Not only does this manifest itself in the fact that crowds from the two peoples attend each other's memorials, but the relationships between our young people are already developing dynamically, thanks to the open borders and excellent learning opportunities at each other's universities and colleges. We believe that Polish-Hungarian friendship has not only a great past but also a great future, and we also dare to say that Polish-Hungarian friendship is one of the main foundations of the future of Central Europe. Thank you for listening. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches. János Pócs applauds.]]
u2016-11-28-341	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Speaking after the agenda, Mr László György Lukács, Jobbik Group asked for a speech:. Who removes the shark from the Jászság applicants? - How many János Pócs are there in Fidesz? It's an address. I'll give you the floor in a five-minute time frame. [[22.40]]
u2016-11-28-342	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, It's a good thing that the sound of her voice is recorded after all, because the title has been read a little anemic...
u2016-11-28-343	Congressman, I'm asking you, if you've made it this far, don't criticize the sitting. Go on.
u2016-11-28-344	Mr President, I would just like to reiterate that in the title, it is correct to say that there is a clause for János Pócs, which is indeed due to the fact that we do not have the habit of personally touching any of the Members in this House, but János Pócs has been persistent for the past few weeks, so we can say that he has earned a few words of his activities with an amateur, otherwise character-killer attempt. I am very pleased that our fellow Member has stayed here and listened personally to the speech after the agenda, even though his comradely community has left him alone now, although he actually has fellow Members on the stand, but you may have to stand these questions on your own. Obviously, you still remember what Viktor Orbán said about not only being a lad when he gives it, but also when he has to stand. Dear Mr Pócs, You have asked for the credibility and integrity of a community and a better representative and a related circle here not for the first time, perhaps three times, three times. If a criticism is well-meaning, I think that the right-wing Members and the right-wing affected community will accept and act as such, but I think we are facing rather a petty, small-scale, amateur character-murder attempt. Now, let's see how you stand in the way of credibility, integrity, and integrity. My fellow Member, when I looked into your activities, I found the first interesting task or question to be solved around the school programme of 168 Hours, in which it would be good to clarify your role, or if the companies associated with you have anything to hide in this connection, such as tendering mergers. I think that it should be made public that, when you specifically say how bad the previous application firms were in the Jászság and recommend new ones to a community, you should be aware that it was a European Union debate day that such an intervention and such a tendentious proposal might not mean the purity of local public life. It would also be good to know what the situation was with ETUSZ, which, if all is true, could have been with your mayor's office in a building, perhaps on the other side of your study or in the next room, and could have caused the enormous damage to about three thousand people, which at present seems to be not going to pay off, and which means not only the bankruptcy of an EU application, but also the end of many people's livelihoods. I think that after a year and a half, we should definitely answer that question. On the other hand, it might also be worth looking at who lives on the other side of the office of its current representatives, or to whom this whole office itself belongs, which, as we understand, was found not entirely in line with market conditions, but rather in accordance with some kind of personal attachment. By the way, I was lucky to be there in Jászberény. Your office is in a pretty good place. Congratulations on finding an office in such an excellent place. Perhaps there would be another question to avoid if we should not advertise on the spot the services offered by tender firms, as this would perhaps avoid the harmful perception that was repeatedly said here on the EU Development Day. On the other hand, I think it is time to stop playing dirty games here in Parliament with the better Members who cannot answer here, because they are not here. It would be time to stop playing these games, even if I understand - as your fellow Member, István Happy, about whom János Lázár said he was a latent Jobbik - that you too are a latent Jobbiker, but the criticism of Jobbik is not the way that you are attacking the wall or the door with your head. Sit down with us, discuss the problem, draw attention to these problems. I think you should take care of your own work, there's plenty of work to be done in hospitals, roads, public employment. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] in public security, and you don't necessarily want to look down on a community [[The president's ringing again.]] You don't want to look down on everyone who didn't vote for you...
u2016-11-28-345	Congressman, your time is up.
u2016-11-28-346	... or you don't want to look down on those jasies who don't imagine their future with you or with you. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2016-11-28-347	Dear Parliament, Mr Sebestyén Vágó, Jobbik Group also applied for a post- Agenda address with the title of the preservation of the professional and cultural, material and intellectual value of mining in Tatabánya . I'll give the floor to Congressman.
u2016-11-28-348	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, I had the pleasure of attending a great event on Friday, a professional event organized by the Tatabányai Association of the National Hungarian Mining and Kohászati Association. He couldn't have given the ballroom a better and more worthy environment than the Tatabánya Industrial Skanzen. I already knew that there was a deep tradition in miners, former mining workers, because I could see it in the city, in mining communities, or in mining settlements, so that there would be any celebration, whatever event, or even mining day, the old miners would wear their miners' uniforms, polish their buttons, and so appear at a prestigious event. I have always been an ethnographic interest in history, and it has been a pleasure to see at this faculty how the old mining traditions come to life, how the traditions that have been passed on from Selticana have come to life. In 1735 the Institute of Mining in Seltiaványa was founded, and soon after its formation students revived these traditions, the interesting fact of which is that they are all based on medieval customs, medieval traditions and traditions. Of course, fate wasn't kind to the Banská Štiavnica, and later to college and college. In 1920, after the Trianon decision, he was transferred to the then Czechoslovakia. Then the university was transferred to Sopron. I would like to note here in parentheses that it is important that Sopron could stay in Hungary. It is due in large part to students from the former Štiavnica University, then they have already taken part in the fights as students of Sopron University and have achieved that, among other things, Sopron is not attached to the country. So these traditions are being kept alive by members of this association, among other things, with such professionals. It was a pleasure to see how the old rhymes, which were taught in college, college, or as active mining workers, were said to be old and retired. It is also important to know that this year's professional, the professional organized by the association, was able to become more festive by joining a special anniversary, since 120 years of coal mining in the Tatai Basin. In the autumn of 1896, they began to deepen the first underground mine in the then not a city, but since then in the vicinity of the city. This count was Ferenc Esterházy's mine, where the first chili coal was brought up on Christmas 1896. It is also worth knowing that this mine worked until 1923 and until 1923 more than 4 tons of coal were recovered from this mine. So this special anniversary of this event also raised the light. [[22.50]] Although we know that there has been no mine in Tatabányány for a long time, and that there has recently been a lock on the last underground mine in Hungary, the Márkushegy Mining Plant, but still the former workers and former mining workers keep these traditions. As I have said, the tradition has been tried and almost broken by the unfortunate and terrible Trianon peace dictatorship, but we are pleased to see that the work in these associations continues, the tradition is continued, and several universities have already joined this organization, this alliance, this tradition preserve. Among other things, the primary institution, the University of Sopron, the University of Miskolc and now the Faculty of Mechanical Engineering of the University of Óbuda joined this movement. Within the university, these traditions are maintained, and in mining towns and mining settlements local associations there try to maintain with similar events what the miners have always been proud of in Banská Štiavnica and ever since. Thank you for listening. Good luck. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-11-28-349	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Mr Balázs Rákossy wishes to respond to what has been said. Secretary of State, you have the floor.
u2016-11-28-350	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, The maintenance of the traditions of mining trade culture is not only a professional, human obligation, but also a legal obligation for the mining industry and the government. The Mining Act deals with the moral and financial appreciation of miners in a separate chapter, including their traditional celebrations, the wearing of the miner's uniform and the use of their own anthem. The Hungarian mining edge and the cultural monuments of the profession are collected, processed and presented by the Central Mining Museum in Sopron and the Hungarian Oil Museum and the mining museum network coordinated by them. Within the framework of the network there are countless mining museums, mining monuments, exhibition halls and collection sites in Hungary, a list of which can be found on the website of the Hungarian Mining and Geological Office. The Ministry of National Development and its background institutions participate in various mining conferences, their organisation and financing, supporting mining, metallurgy and geological publications, in compliance with their legal obligations. In addition, the Association of former and current mining settlements, the National Association of Mining Places in Hungary, also serves as an important goal for the maintenance of mining traditions. Fortunately, there are good examples in Hungary of the traditions that you mentioned about your visit to Banská Štiavnica in connection with the professional festival there. Let me just mention that Tatabánya, a town with 120 years of mining culture, still lives with mining when mining activities no longer take place in the region. In addition to the structures, the mining profession is shown in sport, education, culture, health care, which are complemented by religion, since earlier the mine built the old town church, the hospital, the power plant, and we could continue the line. In all mining towns, in settlements, the St. Barbara's Day celebrations are held, and the evening Masses are celebrated according to mining traditions. The municipality of the city has accepted the miners' proposals that 2017 should be the year of good luck! A commemorative year in Tatabánya, where a number of programmes can be expected. Among these, it is important to highlight the renewal of this, in its original state, of the former Bánász Tiszti Casino, which the Tatabányas call only a tulip house, which can be achieved by means of urban and European Union funds. The Memorial Year starts on 23 December 2016 and ends on 10 October 2017 on the Memorial Day of becoming a city. During the Memorial Year, the national central mining ceremony will be held in Tatabánya, as well as an open service. The preservation of the profession appears in the Open-air Mining Museum and in mining machines, structures such as mining houses, mining schools and other equipment. On the opening sections of the city, miners chills will be placed, next to them the, good luck! With a miner's greeting. Cultural events are also expected to address school students through various mining competitions. It is necessary not only to preserve the memories of the past, but also to look into the future, so the government has launched the oar training in order to revive the mining profession, and has begun the renewal and modernisation of the mining administration, as one of the oldest state administration activities, which is currently under way. Good luck. Thank you for your kind attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-11-28-351	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Thank you for your work. The Parliament will resume its work at 9:00 a.m. tomorrow morning. Meeting day's closed. [[Meeting ended at 10:55 p.m.]]
