u2016-05-17-0	Good afternoon and welcome. The 27th day of the Spring Session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that István Tiba and Ádám Mirkóczki will be attending the meeting to help me. I welcome all those who monitor our work. Dear Parliament, Today we begin our work with speeches before the agenda, from 11:50 a.m. to 13:20 a.m. for questions, then from approximately 13:20 a.m. to 14:20 a.m. for instant questions and answers, and then, finally, general debates will take place, and, as a conclusion, we will complete the Parliament's session with speeches after the agenda. Dear Parliament, István Ikotity, representative of the LMP, applied for a pre-meeting speech:. Who does the conversion of vocational training serve? It's an address. Here you go.
u2016-05-17-1	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, The drafts of the framework curriculum were published to the public in the last few days. The reduction of public knowledge could also be more harsh than previous government statements. Physics, chemistry, biology and geography are completely banished from the majority of schools. The subjects related to the so-called sector are further taught in the secondary vocational school, but it is not true that there is at least an increase in the number of hours, since in four years the education of the remaining subject of public knowledge will only increase by one hour. We think this is a bad joke. What they do after vocational schools with vocational secondary schools will completely take away the possibility of a later career change, a later career change, a possible non-professional further education. The transformation of vocational education and training highlights again how Fidesz-KDNP does not understand the scope of Article XXI. The operation of the century. Concepts such as the knowledge society, lifelong learning or innovation tell them nothing. The Prime Minister himself exposes himself in this regard when he talks about, for example, the importance of innovation. When speaking at the general assembly of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences, he considers it important, but when he goes down to Békéscsaba, for example, he says that this is not the future, not innovation. Not to the future, but to the past with the reform of vocational training. What they're doing now is bringing back the vocational training model of the early '70s and '80s: you don't have to teach unnecessary physics, geography, chemistry, biology, you just have to teach the profession. Of course, it wasn't enough in the Kádár system, let alone these days. In a very fast changing world, jobs and professions also change very quickly. Young people need to be prepared for these changes. Without continuous learning, continuous training, no one can succeed in his profession today. In fact, in the course of an active life of a Western European worker, he finds himself facing the challenge of changing his profession six or eight times, having to do a different job. This is precisely why public knowledge which provides basic knowledge of civilization and develops basic skills must also be taught. It can also be seen that the Fidesz-KDNP government represents only the interests of some economic operators. There are some mates, there are some oligarchs, who are perfectly suited for this system, that young people come out of school, come out of dual training, and spend a few years on very low wages, throw them away after a few years, come next generation; learn the profession somehow, there is no need for anything else, so wages can be kept low. There will be no moving forward, there will be no more complicated jobs, no career paths - they are the disposable labour force. Orbán does not want to compete with quality knowledge and high added value, he wants to serve the various interests, the interests of the multinationals and the interests of the oligarchs with reduced wages and demented education. Fidesz-KDNP envisaged a country that does not invent things, not with its innovation and entrepreneurial ability, but with the final stage of the workflow: we put together, assemble the products of others; instead of a knowledge-based economy, we build the assembly Hungary. Under these circumstances, it is not surprising that they leave Hungary with a crowd of young people. Last year, the number of commuters and permanent immigrants to neighbouring countries reached a record. Young people don't want to live in the past, they don't want to live in the industrial society of the '70s. The Prime Minister claims that there is a shortage of workers and that this is a problem for many professions. Yes, today it is difficult to find a good mason, envelope, electrician, but there are few social workers and nurses, many professions are empty. Are you sure it's the vocational training problem, and not the fact that whoever can do it has already gone abroad, because there's no way to make a living at home from 80 to 90 thousand forints? Orbán said this recently, I quote: "The open and background powers are building a system in the world, including around us, which actually serves brain draining with other goals. Let me ask you a question here at the end. Who consciously keeps wages low, who takes away workers' rights, who brings back socialism's nationalization into education, who destroys the quality of vocational training, doesn't rather support brain drain? [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Isn't that what serves open and background powers alongside its own home oligarchs? [[Dr. András Schiffer applauds.]]
u2016-05-17-2	Thank you very much. State Secretary Péter Cseresnyés responds on behalf of the government. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2016-05-17-3	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, I am in a difficult situation because you have confused everything here, and you have brought up inappropriate things in your speech before the agenda, although your question, or the subject you have been trying to put your thoughts on, was about who is being served by the transformation of vocational training. Nevertheless, I would like to respond to some of the points at the beginning, and I regret that they are not paying attention to any statements, articles, or to my reply or reaction to the Parliament last week, when I told you about the form in which the conversion of vocational training will take place, and in which I completely refuted the points that you raised; as if you had not heard, or worse, you do not want to hear how we imagine the transformation of vocational training. But, of course, I would also like to say a few words about this. But as a question - I know it is not my place to ask a question now, but rather a rhetorical question - I would like to say: have you spoken to small and medium-sized entrepreneurs? Have you talked to people who have high - quality professional skills and would like to employ such skilled workers? [[István Ikotity intervenes.]] What problems do they face? How do young people get out of school today with a professional worker's certificate? How much more do they need to teach them to do the work in a way that suits their expectations? It is likely that if they had spoken to them, they would talk to such people every day, then these points, these questions are not formulated, but they urge that we be able to introduce the current form of vocational training as effectively as possible, more precisely, which will start on 1 September 2016. Because the economy requires well-trained professionals, it is in the interest of the economy to transform vocational training, we are trying to meet the needs set out there, and not what you are trying to suggest that we are trying to bring unskilled people into the workplace, but this is precisely the economy that requires well-educated, IT-educated professionals with certain language skills who are masters of their profession. Once again, try to talk to employers and employers, and they will understand their problems and find out why we are transforming vocational training in its current form. [[Dr. András Schiffer intervenes.]] Because properly trained professionals have an essential role to play in creating the economy. Let's look at the concept of "Professional education in the service of the economy," which was adopted by the government last year, what it is about. The main objectives of the concept are the following. [[Dr. András Schiffer intervenes.]] First: serving economic needs, training more skilled workers and technicians than currently, strengthening dual training, which means acquiring practice-oriented knowledge, reducing drop-out through practical training in real conditions. Then: to increase the attractiveness and prestige of organised vocational training; to choose vocational training in the future; to improve the system of vocational training; to improve the quality, efficiency and effectiveness of training. [[11.10]] Thus, as I have already mentioned, as from 1 September 2016 in the academic year 2016-17, the professional qualifications will start along this concept, so that, by the way, despite you trying to suggest that there is no further way from the vocational schools, there is every possibility of further education for children coming to the school. He believes, in addition to the fact that graduations will be studied in the same number of hours as in high school, other public knowledge items that you have listed, such as the main subject, as an additional subject, which you will learn in full hours, and then another, which you will learn in reduced hours; and, although there is no decision yet, there will be a subject that will give you a basic knowledge of science, which the head of the faction will now constantly interrogate here, for example, the fundamentals of basic geographical knowledge and the knowledge of geography. So again, what you're saying is not true. So, in fact, everyone from the vocational school has a straight way to higher education. Of course, our plan is that if someone wants to study in a major, we try to support their professional further education with an extra point or with a discount or with an extra opportunity. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] So it will be easier to get into the professional higher education institution. We could talk for a long time, but I would very much like to inform Mr President of the details so that he does not ask any further questions in this area in the coming weeks. Hopefully, if you're willing to have a personal conversation, you'll understand what we want to do in the next period. Thank you very much. Thank you for your patience, Mr. President.
u2016-05-17-4	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Congressman Bertalan Tóth, Deputy Head of the MSZP Group, applied for a pre-meeting speech:. What's next? It's an address. Here you go.
u2016-05-17-5	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, What's next? Nearly a month ago, more and more details about the scandals of the Matolcsy Foundations. Almost daily, we were able to learn more about the fact that the wolf of the central bank, György Matolcsy and his associates, transformed public money, all of us's money into private property of their friends and relatives. We learned that billions of public funds were spent on building their own media empire. Tens of billions were spent on acquiring their own commercial banks. Unnecessary assignments have led to massive hundreds of millions of relatives and friendly companies. For a few billion forints, they also thought about the companies of people close to the Prime Minister, and they also gave them serious orders. It turns out that the National Bank, led by György Matolcsy, financed the Hungarian budget through the foundations with an amount equivalent to 0.7-0.8 percent of GDP. In fact, some government officials have even confirmed that the National Bank has acted in an illegal way here and has also violated the prohibition of monetary financing. It also turned out that public funds were spent in breach of the rules on public finance management, since the foundations now admitted that no construction project had applied the public procurement rules. They thought they'd figure it out. Ladies and gentlemen, What we've learned so far also raises suspicions of a number of criminal offences. The activities of György Matolcsy and the central bank managers are embarrassing Hungary before the world, the consequences of which can only be estimated yet. However, it is quite unprecedented what one member of the board of the Matolcsy Foundation talked about on a commercial television. In fact, Csaba Lentner, in an amazing way, linked the purpose of the MNB foundations to the election role of Fidesz in 2018. He said that the 2018 election will depend on whether the Matolcsy foundations can successfully change public thinking. Ladies and gentlemen, What does Matolcsy's foundations have to do with Fidesz? What do the Matolcsy foundations have to do with Fidesz's 2018 election role? Did I understand that Fidesz's election campaign is being paid with the stolen money of the Fidesz Feds? I did not see any objective in the Foundations' statutes or in the National Bank Act. However, in the three days since the interview, no one stood up either from the Hungarian National Bank or from Fidesz to deny Csaba Lentner's claims. If Csaba Lentner was telling the truth, then these foundations are faking their written goals and engaging in direct political activity. In fact, the Matolcsy foundations are Fidesz party foundations, working for the success of a specific party, Fidesz. This is illegal and raises suspicions of illegal party financing. This entails the termination of the foundations, and the public money comes back. If Csaba Lentner spoke untruely, then Csaba Lentner misinterprets the duties of the Foundation's board member and is therefore unfit to fulfil his duties. And it's all the more painful that Csaba Lentner is also the PhD leader of György Matolcsy. Any version is true, György Matolcsy and Fidesz must speak, answer the question of what is the real function of the Matolcsy foundations: to enrich cousins and friends with our money? Or is it the illegal funding of the budget? Or, in parallel, Fidesz support? Ladies and gentlemen, This scandal is the greatest national banking scandal of all time, in which there is still no clarity. We do not know what may come, but we will continue to do everything we can, we will do everything we can to expose this scandal in its entirety, and to eliminate the illegal and harmful activities of the wolf of the central bank. Someone has to answer for this scandal. Thank you for your attention.
u2016-05-17-6	Thank you very much. I'll ask if anyone wants to respond on behalf of the government. [[For signal:]] Secretary of State Tallai, please. Excuse me, before I give you the floor, on your behalf, I welcome the students of Lónyay Street Reformed High School and the teachers, and I'm glad you're here. Good afternoon. Secretary of State, please.
u2016-05-17-7	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, Once again, the role of the government, the role of the Hungarian National Bank and the Hungarian government, which is regulated by law, must be clarified. These laws - the Fundamental Law, the Act on the Hungarian National Bank - state that the Hungarian National Bank is an independent organization, independent of the instructions and expectations of all governments, its decisions cannot be influenced by the government, its decisions must be made in such a way that the Hungarian economy, the Hungarian National Bank, serves its basic tasks. I think that we should also clarify this in this case, because it is a pre-meeting speech that I have to answer on behalf of the Government. So here the role of the government and the Hungarian National Bank must be fundamentally clarified over and over again. Secondly: the role of the Hungarian National Bank must be clarified [[Dr. András Schiffer: That's what we're going to clear up.]] the core task of the Hungarian National Bank, which is essentially to ensure price stability and to implement monetary policy. I think that the Hungarian National Bank can basically meet these objectives, these objectives and these tasks. In recent years, the role of the Hungarian National Bank has been demonstrated in order to discuss today that the Hungarian economy has recovered, that the performance of the Hungarian economy is at the forefront of the European Union. [[Dr. András Schiffer: This is what we have seen from the most important data.]] We also need to clarify who and how the Hungarian National Bank can be controlled. The National Bank of Hungary is accountable to the National Assembly. According to the law, the President of the National Bank of Hungary does so to the Economic Commission twice a year, or makes a report to the National Assembly, which is discussed and accepted by the Parliament. The management of the Hungarian National Bank is not controlled by the State Audit Office for its core tasks. [[11.20]] It is also necessary to clarify the role of the foundations of the Hungarian National Bank and who can carry out their legality and management checks. The foundations set up by the Hungarian National Bank serve the tasks of the Hungarian National Bank which are not the core tasks of the Hungarian National Bank. Legality supervision is carried out by the Public Prosecutor's Office and the State Court of Auditors is responsible for the management. If a foundation commits lawlessness, neither the government, the Parliament nor the Hungarian Socialist Party can say it, but only the Hungarian authorities, who are entitled by law to control the foundations. As for the statements made by a public figure, Csaba Lentner, in connection with his media declaration, I think that perhaps we should read the person's literal statement first whether he has said things that you have just put in his mouth. I've read it, and I can say that the person didn't say that, but the particular media you quoted has put those statements in the person's mouth and in your mouth. So before we say something in Parliament and accuse people, we should read the person's statement accurately first and it should be clarified and interpreted. And what you are talking about is the scandal of the Hungarian National Bank: well, at the time of your administration, the scandal of the President of the Hungarian National Bank, András Simor, elected by you, is not comparable to the current political storm that you have caused, since András Simor, President of the Hungarian National Bank, set an example of keeping his money in offshore companies abroad, has made the Hungarian National Bank's management loss for years and has bankrupt the entire country. András Simor has reached here, and Hungary has gone bankrupt. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-05-17-8	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, On your behalf, I welcome the students of the Evangelical High School of Stehlo Gábor in Budapest and the teachers who have just arrived. Good afternoon. I'm glad you're here. Dear Parliament, Mr Péter Harrach, Head of the Group, representative of KDNP, speaker before the next agenda:, Miercurea Ciuc, with the title of the largest religious and national meeting. Here you go, Mr. Group Leader.
u2016-05-17-9	Mr President, Dear House, Forgive me if I do not join the early campaign, but I am talking about a national event that is actually partly religious and partly, let us say calmly, of national political significance. When hundreds of thousands of Hungarians together experience the joy of being together with an elevated voice, I think they should have a seat here in Parliament. Before talking about the issue that matters to us, the national nature of this, I would like to talk with a few sentences about its religious peculiarity and nature and its history. It began in an era full of struggles, over four hundred years ago, when János Zsigmond turned violently toward the Szeklers of the Strip, and in 1567 he went to war against them. Then the striped Szeklers, who wanted to preserve their ancient faith, held arms around the men, the old, the children, and the women, praying around the chapel. After the victory in Harghita, they vowed that they would go on every Saturday at Pentecost to the Virgin of Stripes, and this was held for over four hundred years. This is the religious nature of this event, but today we are not living in the age of struggles, but in the time of cooperation. Those who claim to be Christians today can experience this only in the spirit of the Ecumenian. Perhaps that is why I know many Reformed people and people of other religions who participate in these events, not only them, but also non-believing Hungarians. Its unique national nature and significance are given by the arrival of people from all parts of the world, not only from the place, but also from the motherland and several regions of the Carpathian Basin, and hundreds of thousands of people together celebrate this day as Hungarians with one heart. The event therefore goes beyond its religious nature in this sense, and it is partly due to the composition and part of the shared heart that it has become the largest national meeting of Hungarians. Regardless of everyone's religion, faith or worldview, they join the events, and remember when they sing together the Anthem, the anthems, what an uplifting experience it is not only for those present, but also for those who watch the events through the Danube Television. This is how it becomes a tribute to all participants in the era of cooperation before Patrona Hungariae. This event has been celebrated every year for more than 400 years by Hungarians, and its significance is not only due to the encounter, but also due to the fact that it is happening in Transylvania. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-05-17-10	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. Secretary Bence Rétvári responds on behalf of the government. Here.
u2016-05-17-11	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Chief of Staff, Dear House, Everyone is searching for the points in their own individual life when they do something or part of something that goes beyond his life, his sixty-seventy-eighty years that he spends here on Earth. And when a person participates in the pilgrimage in Szíksomlyo due to his faith or his Hungarianism, as a Catholic or other Christian, or not because of religion, but because of national belongings, he can be a part of exactly such a thing. Since 1567, there must have been such a pilgrimage there, which has been accomplished in the past Pentecost, although there may not have been as many as there are now, since in recent years the Hungarians have been pilgrimageing hundreds of thousands of times from all over the world, but this is an event, an uplifting moment that was even when none of the members of the current parliament were alive, and there will be even when none of the members of the parliament here will live. This is a kind of pilgrimage, meeting, event, church mass, with a message beyond our own lives, which shows everyone something more about their lives than you can see in everyday life. And it is a little strange that people who might even meet each other, because they live only a few streets apart, a few towns or a few districts, go to Csíksomlyo, and there they live their faith on a far-off festival of the Hungarians hundreds of miles from here. But perhaps this distance is exactly what it takes to get close to it, perhaps this distance gives it, as the proverb says, to see the forest from the tree, to see who can sort out what they need in their own life, or to be as strong in their Hungarianness as they could not find in their own home or in their neighbourhood. Of course, all of this was formed around an old Catholic shrine, a statue of Mary, a statue of grace, the formation of which was established in the 16th century. They're putting him in the next century with a story, more precisely a historical series of events, which Mr. Group leader mentioned. But this statue of Mary, surrounded by a beam wreath, standing on a globe and on a lunar sarlo, with a crown or glory of 12 stars around her head, seems to have done much more and had a much greater radiance than any other. Therefore, even in 1993, after the change of regime, a whole new altar had to be built to fit the pilgrims there. What may be a difference between the present pilgrimage participants and the participants of five or ten years ago, especially for those who go near them, is that now everyone who is there has the opportunity to become a Hungarian citizen. The nation's community was symbolically shown to everyone by the joint pilgrimage from Pentecost to Pentecost in Stripsomlyo. [[11.30]] This Hungarian legislation, if you like it, only followed it when it opened up the possibility for the Szeklers living there to join not only a sacral community of the Hungarian nation, but also as part of the Hungarian nation in public law. For in all other respects, this pilgrimage also demonstrates that it has been a part of this for a long time. It is very important that the triple pile altar, which was created there, is part of the Makovecz heritage, as the construction plan was made by Imre Makovecz, but Ernő Bogos was also helped by a strip-szeredai architect. It is also important that every year Hungary and the Hungarian government care for and care for this place, not only in words but also in actions, and its professionality. It is therefore important that, in recent years, the Hungarian government has provided support for either the emergency renovation of the altar, the planned renovation of the altar, the setting up of the flag base, the aid of pilgrims there, the establishment of a training center, the strengthening of the Maria road or the creation of the exhibition of the suffering history. He did so because he believed that Hungarians, Hungarian nations, or Hungarian Christians would serve the cause by providing these conditions to as many people as possible, and that everyone could be strengthened both in their Hungarian identity and in their Christian faith. I think that even if we see such events, which were created 400 years ago, and the holidays of the Hungarians, even if there is a supportive government, the holidays of the Hungarians, even if they are not supportive or persecuted governments, whether in Romania or in Hungary, this shows that such matters should be mostly addressed in the voice of respect on the part of politics. After all, if we see something that comes from the soul and heart of the Hungarian nation, and it survives under all circumstances, then we must only support it with respect, and in no other way can we agree with it than in the voice of respect, recognition and support. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-05-17-12	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Representative János Volner, representative of Jobbik, speaker before the next agenda:. What is going on in the Hungarian National Bank? It's an address. Here you go.
u2016-05-17-13	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear fellow Members, It is safe to say that the activities of the Hungarian National Bank, in particular the activities of its foundations, are accompanied by increased public interest because of the scandals surrounding it. However, it can also be said that it is important to examine who has a moral and professional basis in order to criticize or classify the activities of the Hungarian National Bank. However, I would like to remind my fellow socialists first of all that, during the socialist governments, the Hungarian National Bank was able to hold a basic central bank interest rate of 7-8-9 per cent, sometimes above 12 per cent. In doing so, the Hungarian State's budget was burdened with significant interest expenses by the activities of the Hungarian National Bank, which resulted in an average annual loss of as much as the total amount of money has been invested in the foundations of the Hungarian National Bank. So I ask the socialist fellow Members to be more modest in these criticisms, because, once again, the average annual loss of interest during socialist governance was as high as the Hungarian National Bank suffered at present in the Matolcsy Foundations. It is also very important to see how the socialist government financed the foreign money world and whether it is due to chance that there were constant praises to András Simor and to the socialist government at the time. Well, please, if you put hundreds of billions in someone's pockets, you can expect praise from someone who takes in the money. That's what happened in this case. However, it is not right either, as the government is currently managing these central bank funds, or as the management of the Hungarian National Bank manages these central bank funds. The first and very important principle is that public money can only be used for what is legally authorised. The main activity of the Hungarian National Bank is not to buy castles, to operate wineries, to carry out various cultural projects. Thus, since this is not a task that fits with his main activity, we call on György Matolcsy, the head of the Hungarian National Bank, to complete this attitude. It is also very important to see that the Hungarian National Bank is so independent of everything, of the government, of the state as well as of its owner, which is unprecedented in Europe. My fellow Members, there is no such central bank independence. The Minister of State Tállai defended the mundé's honour earlier by saying that the Hungarian National Bank is acting according to the law, in the spirit of the law. On the one hand, it is doubtful that the National Bank of Hungary is currently facing a very serious investigation and, on the other hand, it must also be seen that these laws, by my fellow Members, were passed by a fidesz majority of Parliament, and voted by a fidesz majority of Parliament. I ask you, on the other hand, that the government side should also show a very high degree of restraint when we look at this. What is important to see is that there has been a very serious debate about whether the public money that György Matolcsy and the Hungarian National Bank's foundations are being invested is a public money. In this regard, I turned to President János Áder, and asked the President of the Republic to request prior constitutional rule on this law, because I can prove that this money remains public money and does not separate from the nature of public money, not just by putting it in a foundation. The President of the Republic has considered my letter, sent the text of this law to the Constitutional Court for normal control, and, of course, the Constitutional Court has given me the truth. Turns out this money is public money. It's worth checking out what you've come up with from this public money. You can see that György Matolcsy's cousin receives a large amount of money, receives a HUF 20 billion central bank source, György Matolcsy's book is supported by HUF 70 million, and another board member's book is also supported by millions. András Lánczi, who founded the Fidesz Századvég, said that what the opposition now calls corruption is the essence of Fidesz's policy, it is its central core. I can promise you that, before we get to government in 2018, I will convene the Supervisory Sub-Committee of the Economic Commission next week and we will explore what happened at the Hungarian National Bank in a very thorough investigation. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-05-17-14	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr András Tállai, State Secretary, responds. Here you go.
u2016-05-17-15	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, If I may, I would like to continue with the beginning of your speech, which you said in the first two minutes, in which you compared the activities of the Hungarian National Bank before 2013 and after 2013. I'd like to continue this line. Indeed, it is, as you say, that before 2013, the Hungarian National Bank, led by András Simor, was usually loss-making, placing a significant burden on the state budget indirectly. National bank management after 2013 continuously generates profits. This is so true that after its 2015 result, it will pay HUF 50 billion to the state budget this year. But if we look at the impact that the Hungarian economy had on the Hungarian National Bank, led by András Simor, before 2013, we can see interesting contexts and contradictions. The high base rate you mentioned slowed down the economy, did not help recapitalisation of Hungarian businesses, did not help investments, slowed down and stopped economic growth. Not so is the Hungarian national banking activity after 2013, which, for example, invented the growth credit programme, which is unique in Europe, but is also accepted by the European Central Bank, and now other countries are following this type of financing, which helped to boost the Hungarian economy. We can see your achievements in recent years. But it is interesting to compare the practice of collecting and encouraging foreign exchange loans to the Hungarian National Bank, but at the same time the Hungarian National Bank after 2013 was involved in one of the biggest problems of Hungarian society, in the recovery, repair and liquidation of foreign exchange lenders. But we can look indirectly at how the level of public debt increased during that period, how it rose above 80 percent of GDP, and how the Hungarian National Bank helped to reduce public debt at present. [[11.40]] And now we are talking about achieving a debt ratio below 75% compared to economic growth. But it is true that if we look at the size of inflation, because inflation was significantly higher in those days, we failed to achieve the fundamental objective of the Hungarian National Bank, price stability, and to reduce inflation. It is not the current Hungarian national banking policy, which has achieved that, in essence, there is no inflation in Hungary, or at least it is extremely low. But in those days, foreign reserves also decreased significantly, in recent years the Hungarian National Bank has been able to increase foreign reserves. But it is also important to mention that the Hungarian National Bank also has significant results in the transformation of the financial regulation and control system, since the National Bank carries out effective and effective control activities by merging the State Supervisory Board of Financial Institutions into the Hungarian National Bank. This was also after 2013. As regards the practice of the Hungarian National Bank in relation to its main activity, which the Member criticises, I believe that we must primarily uphold the laws and laws here too, they say that the current activity of the Hungarian National Bank is legal or illegal. I think that the same is true of the management of foundations, as is true of the Hungarian Socialist Party, that it cannot say to any foundation that it is illegally managed or corrupted. Similarly, Jobbik cannot say in Parliament or anywhere else that it is legal or illegal, especially that it is illegal to operate. [[Dr. Gábor Staudt: May I speak?]] The question is whether the assets of the Hungarian National Bank are public money or not public money, it is a pseudo-debate, in essence this question has already been made clear. The assets of the Hungarian National Bank are also part of the Hungarian national assets, and the foundations of which the assets of the Hungarian National Bank have increased, are part of the Hungarian national assets, so it is natural that the source of the Hungarian National Bank is public money. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2016-05-17-16	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Member, Mr Richárd Hörcsik, representative of Fidesz, speaker before the next agenda: Who is beating up the European Union? It's an address. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-05-17-17	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I have been dealing with EU affairs in Parliament for nearly a quarter of a century, and as the current chairman of the committee, I am saddened to find that there are more and more indications that the European Commission is losing its reality, and more importantly, its relationship with European reality, with European citizens. By decision of the Hungarian Parliament of one week ago, he raised objections to the European Commission's proposal for posted workers. This parliamentary decision, along with other parliamentary chambers, has contributed to stopping it, i.e. showing a yellow card to Brussels [[He's showing me a yellow card.]] , the Brussels administration. Ladies and gentlemen, The yellow flat procedure [[He's re-exposing the yellow card.]] a signal that at least one third of the Member States' parliaments find that the Commission is expanding beyond its powers under the Treaties and that it is violating the sovereignty of the States. I am pleased to inform the House that 22 national chambers, representing more than 100 million citizens, have taken the same position on this proposal in Brussels, which is enough to open the yellow flat procedure against the Brussels Commission. I note that out of the 13 Member States that have joined since 2004, 10 have rejected the proposal, to which Denmark has joined among the old Member States. What are we talking about here, fellow Members? Nothing more than the fact that the European Commission, hiding behind the principle of equal pay for equal work in this proposal, wants to make a positive decision for a certain group of old Member States, but thus disregards the citizens of the Central and Eastern European Member States, putting thousands of small Hungarian businesses and about 70,000 Hungarian jobs in jeopardy. During the already mentioned plenary debate before the Parliament, the fate of this 70,000 Hungarian citizens seemed to be important for all parliamentary parties. Compared to this, we saw in the vote that the MSZP and LMP have now turned against them. The question arises, my honourable fellow Member: what has happened? Has the telegram from Brussels arrived? Ladies and gentlemen, While the Parliament has dealt with this proposal, the bureaucrats in Brussels also came up with a more stealthy legislative process, suggesting - the lack of labour and the demographic problems of the rich Western Member States seeking to solve immigration - that more than one million economic immigrants who are not required by them should be introduced into the EU. And if a Member State refuses to do so, write and say that it will have to pay a penalty of EUR 250 000 per migrant. Just to note, ladies and gentlemen, Brussels funds have a budget cycle, i.e. EUR 2512 for a Hungarian citizen in seven years. In the eyes of Brussels, therefore, a migrant is worth a hundred Hungarians. No one has ever expressed such strong propaganda against the majority of the citizens of the European Union as the European Commission has done with this proposal. It is becoming clearer to me how they have no idea of the world that the Commission should represent. In addition, I feel that they are sitting backwards on the horse when they imagine that the Member States must bow to their often impossible proposals. And their job would be to serve us, not the other way around. Against the will of European citizens? Well, I must conclude that this process also shows that the European Commission, unfortunately, is the greatest threat to the unity of the Union. Mr President, Forced introduction is a real threat to us. The Commission's proposal, the third draft Dublin regulation, is already on its table. The Hungarian Parliament must carry out the inquiry again with this proposal, but given the Commission's previous attitude, I believe that this will not be enough for Brussels to stop it. In Brussels, they only understand from the referendum and we need to send a message that they understand. That is why the 2016 referendum on forced resettlement is needed. Thank you for listening. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2016-05-17-18	Thank you very much. Secretary Csaba Dömötör responds on behalf of the government. Here you go.
u2016-05-17-19	Congressman, you were just talking about, among other things, the referendum in 2016. I think that it is worth asking before every referendum why a referendum is needed and why a referendum is needed now. There are two fundamental reasons for this in this case: on the one hand, Brussels has accelerated preparations to introduce the institution of forced resettlement as soon as possible, which would be a permanent mechanism. They want a quick decision, they denied it earlier, then they called the proposal with all kinds of soft names, but the point is, Brussels wants forced resettlement. This means that it would be said from Brussels that millions of immigrants coming to Europe should settle down, overwriting practically the principle of free movement. He would do this without consulting Member States and citizens. Just to show the proportions, only one and a half million immigrants arrived in Europe unchecked last year. The other reason that makes the referendum extremely timely is that Brussels has taken on unprecedented blackmail maneuvers. It threatens to impose a fine of HUF 78 million each in the event that a Member State rejects compulsory resettlement. Meanwhile, for a Hungarian person - it is good to record this - there is a million forints of EU funds. This ratio is 1:78, so that for a fine of 78 million a Hungarian person will have to work for 40 years. [[11.50]] This blackmail, we think, is outrageous and completely contrary to the democratic principles that are referred to so often in the Union. It is no coincidence that the proposal was rejected by the Czech Republic, Slovakia and Poland. Unfortunately, the left-wing parties are constantly torpedoing the referendum. First, the initiative was attacked at the Curia, then they want to include questions on the ballot paper or on the reference sheet, for which sufficient signatures could not be collected, and then they attack with all kinds of legal maneuvers. However, the point is the same, each party must decide whether to vote for or against unlimited immigration. The socialists are consistent in this regard, as they have done so far, and they are now taking a pro-immigration position. [[Interruption from the ranks of the MSZP.]] There is nothing to be surprised about this, as already in 2007, a million immigrants were proposed to be displaced, and it is also talkative that there are two parties in the Parliament that collected signatures a few months ago in addition to the resettlement quota. By the way, I wonder where both these parties and the MSZP would get the HUF 78 million each that would result in the rejection of forced resettlement. The government's position remains unchanged, we do not give in to blackmail, and we insist that the Hungarians decide who they want to live with and who they don't, we insist that the Hungarians decide on a matter that determines their future. For us, this democratic right, if you will, is about a fundamental European value in the forthcoming referendum on which we expect the participation of all Hungarian citizens. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-05-17-20	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Now, at the end of the speeches before the agenda, I would like to ask Mr István Tiba to present the list of speakers after the agenda. Mr. Messenger!
u2016-05-17-21	Dear Parliament, László Varju, independent; Balázs Ander, Jobbik; Loránt Hegedűs, Lorántné Jobbik; Gergely Farkas, Jobbik; Tibor Bana, Jobbik. He applied for a speech following the agenda tomorrow: Mónika Bartos, Fidesz; Bernadett Szél, LMP.
u2016-05-17-22	Thank you very much. At 11:52 p.m., we'll begin the discussion of questions and immediate questions. First, the questions; first of all, I would like to call on Mr István Tukacs, representative of the MSZP, who would like to ask the Minister of Human Resources: 'The Elders and Patients'. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-05-17-23	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Dear House, Typically, the Secretary of State for Health does not have a programme or a vision of health, but has points. Among these - like the chancellorial system, like the Budapest super hospital - are hospital chronic classes, known as the elimination of shelters. The Secretary of State wants to do something that doesn't seem to have any real benefits, but it can definitely hurt, because when they talk about it, they say that the people there just need care. Secretary of State, that is not true, these people, who are unfortunately old and sick at the same time, require care and treatment. The public talk about this is very confusing on the part of the government. They now say that they should not be placed in hospitals, but that certain parts of hospitals would become part of the social care system, in Hungarian: that part would lose the nature of the hospital to live with your favorite figure of speech. Mr. Secretary, your claims do not make much sense even when they say that care will be as free as it has been before. In some of the hospitals, not even in a small part, they are now asking for money in some form for care and treatment in these chronic departments. So putting money from one pocket to another, from health care to social care, and on the other hand, it doesn't make much sense if you have to pay the same amount. The question is therefore justified, Mr Secretary, what will happen then, tell us already, with these unfortunate people, whom you seem to be able to put in a much worse position with a very cold heart than you have so far, and tell me, Mr Secretary, how you will be able to sew the last eight years into this issue, which you have always liked to do in the course of questions. Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary.
u2016-05-17-24	Secretary Bence Rétvári responds. Here you go.
u2016-05-17-25	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, This is a question concerning the establishment of nursing homes, which has not been 5 years, not 10 years, not 15 years, but perhaps longer, because many people see that certain parts of hospitals are not operating with a hospital function, they are not operating with a hospital function, but are much closer to the need for services and public services to the social institution than to a hospital, because they do not need immediate medical intervention, they do not need continuous medical supervision, but they need interim medical supervision, but they usually need the provision of social care, which means not only health care, but also other social services for the whole person, for their physical and mental needs, for their support, and for a longer condition where they are not expected to heal more quickly within days, weeks or months. It is not the hospital features that represent patients on these beds and the benefits they require, which is why the government started a dialogue with the professionals, and several weeks ago or perhaps months ago, when it invited the leaders and experts of social and health institutions to a joint meeting, a conference to start with, according to which grades, in which patients on beds we could implement what is an advantage for patients, it is obviously not a negative situation for anyone. There is a special moment for this because it is not the savings approach that should guide decision-makers in previous decades, because both health resources are expanding and resources are expanding in the social field. So no one will be motivated by where to save, but at last everyone from the extra resource will see who needs specialist care. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] He doesn't need hospitalization, and they're the ones who can do the most good by transforming this system. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-05-17-26	Thank you very much. Congressman István Szávay, representative of Jobbik, wishes to ask the Foreign Minister of Foreign Affairs and Trade a question:.Protect the Government of Transcarpathia Hungarians who are threatened by Ukrainian authorities because of the inclusion of Hungarian citizenship. It's an address. Congressman!
u2016-05-17-27	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, In Ukraine, on 1 May, an amendment to the law that, if a State employee is found to be a dual citizen, his superior must release him within three days. Hennady Moskal, Governor of the county of Transcarpathia, gave László Lengyel three days to fire the head of the education department of the district council of Beregszász, because according to the authorities, Polish also holds Hungarian citizenship in addition to Ukrainian. Apart from the specific case rooted in the struggles of the change of power in Transcarpathia, the case raises a number of serious problems, but in recent weeks it has not been possible to read about the protest of the Hungarian State in connection with this outrageous procedure. This provision is suitable for political repression, but, where appropriate, for intimidation of Transcarpathian national communities, including local Hungarians, and it seems to be used by the Ukrainian authorities to get someone out of their way. According to Jobbik, Mr State Secretary, Hungary should not continue to be loyal to Kiev, stressing the importance of the country's territorial integrity and balancing the EU's accession, while, in fact, we are asking for nothing in return, but should act decisively in order to protect the Transcarpathian Hungarians. In addition, the Ukrainian authorities do so by the fact that the hand-operated Ukrainian government from Washington and the public administration are also known to be crowded with Georgian, Israeli or American dual citizens who are said to be their friends. I would also ask you, Mr Secretary of State, on behalf of those involved, to do everything possible to protect the Hungarian citizens of Transcarpathia. I would like to ask you: did the matter of citizenship occur during the meeting of Deputy State Secretary Csutora with Ukrainian Foreign Minister Pavlo Klimkin on 6 May? Is the Secretary of State aware of other similar matters? And most importantly, how does the government intend to protect Hungarians in Transcarpathia who have been subjected to official harassment because of the admission of Hungarian citizenship? Thank you in advance for your reply. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-05-17-28	Hungarian Secretary of State Levente responds. Here you go.
u2016-05-17-29	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, The institution of dual citizenship is a legal standard adopted at European level, and the Hungarian position in this regard is known, and it has been made clear in Hungarian-Ukrainian and other international forums on several occasions. However, Ukraine is not known to recognise the institution of dual citizenship, but we hope that their European integration efforts, the approach to European standards, will also lead to a review of the current position on dual citizenship in Ukraine. [[12.00]] In Transcarpathia, it has not been typical to put anyone at a disadvantage because of their dual citizenship. These well-developed Hungarian-Ukrainian relations and our multifaceted support for the development of Transcarpathia obviously play a role. The deepening of our relations is in the highest interest of the Hungarians in Transcarpathia, and our actions are naturally coordinated with the Hungarian organizations in Transcarpathia. Hungary has neither issued nor issued any data on persons who have acquired Hungarian citizenship with simplified naturalisation. I can assure you, Mr President, that in any case, in which a Hungarian citizen is offended by his Hungarian citizenship abroad, Hungarian diplomacy acts as decisively as possible at all levels and forums. In the case you mentioned, the Hungarian organisations in Transcarpathia did not raise their voice, nor did the person in any way ask for our help. However, it is, of course, our duty to investigate the case, but I ask you, Mr President, to help us do our job by not discussing such and similar abuses in public at political level, because this does not contribute in any way to the successful closure and resolution of cases. Furthermore, I welcome the fact that our successful naturalisation policy for six years does not suffer from similar issues, at least not in large numbers. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2016-05-17-30	Thank you very much. Member István Ikotity, representative of the LMP, would like to ask the Minister of Human Resources: why do they continue to limit the limited choice of textbooks? It's an address. Here you go.
u2016-05-17-31	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, At the end of April, the news was published that the Klebelsberg Institutional Maintenance Center has in several cases overwritten and changed textbook orders compiled from the books on the textbooks by the professional working communities of schools, which are not exceeding the budget and have already been signed by parents. There have been several signals about the problem, probably not a unique case. The arbitrary pull of the CLIK means that a new filter is used after the already narrowed textbook list. They limit textbook selection not only by administrative means, but also by power. Now they want to cut out the books on the textbook book, which are consistent with the curriculum or revised, with new aids and syllabus. According to LMP, the fact that KLIK has overwritten the textbook order of teachers proves again that it is harmful to KLIK's operation. Not only can he not perform his duties, he is heavily indebted, but even consciously restricts the freedom of teachers. This confirms once again that schools must be returned to the municipalities, the better owners of the settlements to the institutions. The state system has failed, its arbitrary abuse is bad for teachers and students alike. Dear Secretary of State, Restricting textbook order by KLIK raises a number of questions. Why continue to limit the limited textbook selection? You don't trust teachers that much? What right does KLIK have to restrict the textbook order of teachers? How many cases did this happen? How do they remedy the misuse of the CLIK and correct the errors? Thank you in advance for your reply.
u2016-05-17-32	Mr. Secretary of State of Rétvár.
u2016-05-17-33	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, The textbook for 69 publishers is currently available on the textbook list, and you can choose from a total of 3546 textbooks. I don't know if you know how much of this 3546 is state textbook. About one-third and two-thirds of the others are not state textbooks, so you can choose from them. In addition, the budget of schools that is available for the selection of the school textbook package for each class has increased noticeably from last year's school year to this year's school year. There are different levels of annual grants, from which schools, more specifically the classes, can draw up their textbooks within the legislative and budgetary framework, according to their own ideas. On the lower grades, this is 6,000 HUF, on the higher grades 15 thousand HUF; there is also an increase of 3000 HUF in this year's school year compared to last year's school year. You know that while last year 650 thousand students can receive free textbooks, since not only the first four students, but the first five classes are free of charge in Hungarian schools. In order to become a textbook and order it for the class, there are basically three conditions that need to be met. On the one hand, the entire order must fit into the budget, but the school has the opportunity to transfer between grades from the entire textbook budget. The publication of the textbook must have taken place after the publication of the draft framework regulation and should be included in the textbook list. These are precisely defined by the legislation, the EMMI regulation on school textbook provision, and its 30th edition. Paragraph 5 contains these requirements. The person who ordered your textbook will, of course, be delivered. Those who have failed to fulfil one of these three conditions may be bound by law. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2016-05-17-34	Dear Parliament, Congressman Attila Petneházy, representative of Fidesz, would you like to ask the Minister of Human Resources a question: It's an address. Here you go.
u2016-05-17-35	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen. As you know, Nyíregyháza was handed over at the end of last year the buildings of the block hospital, which was made out of more than HUF 15 billion, in which XXI. Under century conditions, the citizens of Nyíregyháza can heal. This historic investment deserves a special word, but this is not what I want to talk about. Back in the days prior to the December handover, a local representative of Jobbik made a shocking statement. He claimed that radiation from the breakdown of the former oncoradiological array was not treated properly, so there is a radiation hazard in the hospital. Of course, the hospital denied this immediately and in support of documents. But it didn't affect Jobbik's politicians. In March, István Apáti spoke about the fact that they would be forced to press charges, because they certainly believe, despite the facts, that they are right. A month later, my fellow Apáti did not repeat this again. Although I do not dispute, of course, my fellow Member's right to express his opinion, it would not have hurt to handle the matter with some caution, since he said that there was uncertainty in sick people and that the experts working in the project were called liars and fraudsters. And two weeks ago, official documents have come to light which, of course, show that construction and demolition have been carried out in accordance with strict regulations, and the examination of the National Public Health Centre has confirmed that there is no danger in the hospital. I think there's two things that we can definitely get out of this. It means that if better representatives talk about health care, at least the credibility of their words is questionable. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] The other is that it's time to apologize. Dear Secretary of State, I'd like to ask you, in the future, [[Gergely Farkas: Don't ask me anything.]] how to eliminate fear from party members and party people [[Gergely Farkas: Sit down!]] Forging political capital. [[Lajos Korózs: Can you talk for three minutes? A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2016-05-17-36	With all due respect, I would like to ask you all to comply with the house rules, which also applies to the time frame. [[Attila Petneházy: Thank you for your patience.]] Now the Secretary of State of Retvári responds. Here you go.
u2016-05-17-37	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Even more so, I think it is irresponsible, because Jobbik's local representative turned to the National Chief Medical Office on 8 January, which he received, but the Jobbik continues this campaign. In that, many facts were written and sent to the representative of the municipal council. Among other things, the experts of the National Institute for Radiation Biology and Radiation Health of the National Public Health Centre have carried out radiation protection measurements in several rooms of the hospital a month ago, including in the area where linear accelerators were previously operated, and no evidence of radioactive contamination was found during the investigation. In addition, the Member has been informed very long about the procedures he has conducted here, either under the Government Office or under the Nuclear Power Act, by other offices and the hospital, precisely so that everyone's safety can be guaranteed. Nevertheless, Jobbik continued this kind of press campaign, really inspiring many people, because it is a question that can scare everyone if they read in the newspaper that there might be such pollution. The competent government office carried out an inactive procedure in the case of the on-coradiological department of the on-coradiology department of the hospitals in Nyíregyháza, Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg county and university teaching hospital, which was organised by the Nuclear Power Act, which carried out an on-the-spot check on 19 March, in which it was found that the values of radiation protection measurements carried out on the appropriate layers of the raised socket concrete and on the surface of the components put up from the accelerator equipment did not refer to radioactive contamination. [[12.10]] In order to determine possible radioactive contamination, sampling was also carried out from the ground, which did not reveal any radioactive contamination during the official laboratory test. That's why we're asking Jobbik not to try to collect votes. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] or make false accusations to intimidate patients. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-05-17-38	Thank you. All right, that's a good one. And now, Mr Lajos Korózs, representative of the MSZP, who wishes to ask the Minister of Human Resources, when will the limitation of work on pensioners who are concerned by the age limit of the Court of Strasbourg be deleted? It's an address. Here you go.
u2016-05-17-39	Thank you very much. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, I would like to ask you about the ban on the employment of pensioners who have reached age, all the more so because there has been a recent case in Strasbourg, the precise definition of which was that, in relation to the ban on double financing of civil servants and civil servants, an applicant who was, moreover, retired but who worked for a local government, ceased to pay his pension. As a result, he was brought before the European Court of Human Rights with his motion - Fábián v. Hungary, there is a very long registration number here - as a result of which the Hungarian government was condemned. It is because, according to the judgment, the right to enjoy property in a undisturbed manner was taken away from the gentleman working in the municipality, and the Court of Strasbourg held that it was also discriminated against, all the more so because the law of the Government was infringed. With reference to the fact that the person is receiving a public benefit under two terms, the Government has terminated the payment of his pension and has not been granted by the Strasbourg court and has also granted compensation of EUR 15 000 to that person. I would therefore like to ask Mr State Secretary what the Government intends to do to correct the regulation that the Strasbourg court has condemned, and I would like to ask when the draft law which reverses this unworthy situation will be presented to Parliament. I'm looking forward to your reply.
u2016-05-17-40	Thank you very much. Secretary Bence Rétvári responds.
u2016-05-17-41	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Dear House, The only small circumstance the Member forgot to state in his speech is that this is not a final decision, because Hungary was able to appeal against it and appeal against it. This is called in the Strasbourg language of procedure by turning to the Grand Chamber, Hungary turning to the Grand Chamber. There is a panel-named pre-certification body that examines whether Hungary has a thorough appeal. This panel examined this and, moreover, adopted this appeal to Hungary by its decision of 2 May. So this is a decision that is not final, yet to be made. Hungary wishes to prove its truth at second instance, which it wanted in the first instance. Article 43 (1) of the Convention gives us the opportunity to do so. The aim of the government was to introduce this measure in order to create jobs for as many active-age people as possible. The pension, as you know, Congressman, you know this area, is a replacement allowance. It comes from the presumption that a person is entitled to a pension because he is no longer able to pursue a job because of his or her health, because of his or her advanced age, and because he or she is no longer able to pursue a job, he or she receives a pension from the pension fund in exchange for his or her former contributions. If, therefore, a person works as a pensioner and takes up a pension, then the basic principle of the pension system has a conflict with the practice, since he is capable of working, but still receives a form of incapacity, presumably incapacity benefit and pension. That is why the government introduced that it is not possible in the public sector that someone is working and is also retired. That's why we introduced age limits. Obviously, there were some exceptions, university teachers, researchers or health workers, where exceptions were needed for other reasons. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] in these areas, but we trust that the government's position will be shared by the court at second instance. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2016-05-17-42	Thank you. Mr Lajos Kepli, representative of Jobbik, would like to ask the Minister for National Development:. What does the Government have to hide in the contracts of state energy companies? It's an address. Here you go.
u2016-05-17-43	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, We found that 99th in the bill setting up next year's budget. Article 5a, which states that, in future, the contracts of state-owned energy companies will not be available as public interest data. Of course, as we have been accustomed to this by Fidesz, it was not brought here openly, in the form of a bill, but smuggled into the law establishing next year's budget 99. However, the press also heard a great deal, and, of course, we have noticed this bill. Knowing the events of the previous period, similar measures have been included in the bill at the Hungarian National Bank and the Hungarian Post; however, neither the Hungarian National Bank nor the Posta's contracts can be requested and recognized as data of public interest. Public-owned, public-owned energy companies are now taking place. What is the purpose of this government? Why do they want to hide contracts concluded by energy companies? There have also been a number of scandalous incidents in recent years. Do you want to hide these in the future? We do not know this, however, we have asked for the contracts of all state-owned energy companies exceeding HUF 5 million for the last ten years, while we still have the opportunity to do so. We did this as a public interest request last week. We wonder if there was something to hide in these contracts in the past. Of course, if so, we will take the necessary legal action. With regard to future contracts, we will no longer be able to do so, so I ask Mr State Secretary what the government has to hide in the contracts of energy companies. On this path, do you want to continue shoveling public money out to your own businesses in the Prime Minister's environment, or is there something else behind it? I'm looking forward to your reply. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2016-05-17-44	Secretary of State András Aradski responds.
u2016-05-17-45	Thank you, Mr. President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, CXII of 2011 on the right of information self-determination and freedom of information. According to law, as regards public data in the public interest or in the public interest, it has been laid down as a general rule that, in the event of such a request, it may be known to anyone. At the same time, the same info law allows certain restrictions to restrict the right to access public data in the public interest by law. For example, in relation to an undertaking controlled directly or indirectly by the State under the law prohibiting unfair market conduct and restrictions on competition, the data which, on the basis of a central financial or foreign interest, a national security interest in the State's assets or in relation to its economic activity itself, would prejudice the economic interests of the data register, the disclosure of the data or those interests. There is nothing else in the bill to make this picture clearer and clearer in relation to energy businesses. Of course, there is also the possibility of redress against these negative decisions. However, I think, honourable Member, that there is certainly a consensus between us that if we expect a state-owned entity to operate effectively on the market, we should at least approach the opportunities that other non-public-owned enterprises have, whether in the area of data protection or in the field of business secrecy. In this respect, there is a practice of the Mansion, but I think it is possible to follow more clear and consistent legislation. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] if this is specifically regulated by law. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2016-05-17-46	Thank you very much. Member István Ikotity, representative of the LMP, wants to ask the Minister of Human Resources: what does health insurance without insurance bring? It's an address. Here.
u2016-05-17-47	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, Grinding the National Health Insurance Fund and integrating it into the structure of the inoperable mammoth administration poses a serious risk to patient care. The government is conducting this restructuring in the same way as it has done in the last six years. Even now, there is a rush, a lack of resources, and a lack of thought in the ideas we've had so far, so we don't expect a lot of good. [[12.20]] By eliminating the OEP, the government is not only destroying one of the state's basic social security policies, but also making a fatal mistake at a professional level. We remember the lack of resources at KLIK, or how late the textbooks were, how difficult it was to get a chalk or replace a light bulb. Education is not a game either, but such a thoughtless, irresponsible restructuring in health care is absolutely unacceptable, because the lack or slow arrival of a device in hospitals could cost people their lives. At present, OEP is in a contract with healthcare providers. That is, if the OEP is liquidated, there will simply be no one to pay for the drugs, who will pay for the treatment costs, who will finance the health care operation. The Treasury that took over OEP's duties, which was forced to explain at the beginning of the year because, in addition to its current tasks, it was unable to make timely payments to health workers, among other things, how would it cope with the additional task imposed on them by this insane transformation? Dear Secretary of State, Do you really want to save pennies by eliminating a low-cost institution in an international comparison? You really don't see a bigger hole and unnecessary expenditure in the budget? Would you rather endanger the care of patients than give up a stadium or two or do something about offshore money pumps? It's a good time. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] clearly and clearly tell people what kind of benefits they can expect in public health insurance without insurance to be built. I'm waiting for your answer.
u2016-05-17-48	Secretary of State Bence Retvári.
u2016-05-17-49	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, There's been a lot of untruths the congressman's been saying in the last two minutes. For example, he did not mention - he must have forgotten - that in the last two years the 17 health institutions had become 12 as a result of the reorganisations, and this did not have any operational problems. 17 turned into 12, and no one felt it anywhere before anything got stuck, anything wouldn't have worked out right. You know, honourable Member, there are many opposition Members who say that bureaucracy must be reduced in Hungary. And when the government starts to cut red tape and says that cutting red tape means fewer bureaucrats and fewer bureaucratic institutions with less bureaucracy, then suddenly it takes a turn to defend bureaucratic institutions, how important it is to keep this and that institution, and not to accidentally, wherever the administration is smaller, to lower the burden that citizens or the institutions that come into contact with these offices. However, we said that if it was successful in reducing from 17 to 12 in the first two years of the government cycle, it is worth going further by cutting red tape, and it is worth reviewing and reviewing several health institutions, and from this we have concluded that some of the former functions of the OEP could be transferred to the Hungarian Treasury, which is primarily a reference to cash benefits, the tasks of the authorities, which are not a big part of it, will be transferred to the government office, and the remainder of the tasks, and quite a significant part, will be transferred to the Ministry. The details of this are, of course, in progress, since this, as well as the previous transformation, is scheduled. What is the value of money and resources, say, honourable Member, a year out of the last six years when the health fund, the E-Fund, would not have increased more than inflation. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] the sum of the sum of You can't say that because every year you've grown above inflation. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-05-17-50	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, On your behalf, I welcome the students and teachers of the Székács József Evangelical High School in Orosház and Giorgio Perlasca, Budapest. I'm glad you're here. Good afternoon. Congresswoman Mónika Dunai, representative of Fidesz, wishes to ask the Minister of Human Resources a question about the development of the rescue system in Hungary. Congresswoman, please.
u2016-05-17-51	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Dear Parliament, Dear Guest Students! On the 10th of May 1887 in Europe, the Budapest Voluntary Rescue Association was established on the initiative of a doctor, Géza Kresz, which operated until 1948. In 1948, or 68 years ago, the National Rescue Service also took over the management of rescue organizations on 10 May. May 10th is the day of the ambulance. On the occasion of the day of the ambulance, 127 people took credit at the Parliament. The Batthyány-Strattmann László Prize, which is a lifetime achievement award for those who have contributed to the development of health care, social care and family protection through their professional or public service work, has been awarded in a festive framework. The extra prizes for a heroic rescue could be earned by exceptionally brave behaviour in the exceptional situation. In addition to the above, the medals for the Hungarian rescue, the memorial medals of Dr. Béla Orovecz, the medals of Géza Kresz, the Compass Awards and the praises of the Minister and Director-General have been recognized by the Hungarian people for their physical and psychological integrity and health. Dear Secretary of State, We also have to say that there has been, unfortunately, a period in Hungary when unfortunately there was also a crash that threatened rescue provision. For example, between 2008 and 2010, no new ambulances were ordered, and virtually no substantial preparations were made for this. Thanks to all this, the rescue car park has grown old and is in a terrible state. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] That put the backup in jeopardy. On this, the Fidesz-KDNP decided to change. We have made improvements thanks to which [[The president's ringing again.]] the paramedics can operate at an increasingly high level. Dear Secretary of State, Please inform me exactly what improvements have been made in the rescue system. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-05-17-52	Please, I and my fellow Vice-Presidents have been assigned, among other things, to abide by the rules that you have made, so I would ask you all very much to respect the time frame. Mr. Secretary of State can set an example. Here you go, Secretary of State of Rétvári.
u2016-05-17-53	Thank you very much for this opportunity, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Indeed, we must pay tribute to the life-saving work of all paramedics, because in Hungary there are 1 million 100 thousand cases per year in 253 rescue stations and 7 air bases, which is why it was important to ensure that the operation is as much as possible and to provide resources for the development as possible. Out of 11 billion HUF, a key TIOP project helped to build 22 new rescue stations and to dynamicize, modernise and renovate 60 new rescue stations, but we also spent money from national sources to build and renovate a rescue station, so in the last few years 27 new rescue stations have been built and 85 rescue stations have been renovated in Hungary. In addition, we bought 467 ambulances, new ambulances for rescue safety. This had to be done because the Socialist Government did not really buy ambulances, investments or procurements in the area of rescue in its last years. Obviously, this was also reflected in the budget of the rescue service, since while in 2006 it was operating from HUF 24 billion, by then it melted to HUF 22.8 billion by 2010, so the amount spent on rescue was reduced by four years under socialist governance. In recent years, we have not only put back the money that was missing from the National Rescue Service, but we have done a lot more, so compared to the 22.8 billion in 2010, it is now 32.7 billion forints, which is the main amount of the operating budget of the rescue service. That's a 31 percent increase from which you can save. And the trend that was halted at the end of the socialist period was that outsourcing, involving private service providers, were trying to generate profits from health care, and that's why the new ambulances were put in order. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-05-17-54	Congresswoman Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Minister of Human Resources:. Why does the government absorb all the money? What is the need to eliminate OEP? Why do you put the system of sick pay, child support, disability care at risk? Madam Congresswoman, please.
u2016-05-17-55	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, Dear fellow Members, A recent decision was made to reorganize the OEP. János Lázár explained that most of the tasks, such as the payment of benefits in kind, would go to the Treasury, and the rest would go to the Ministry in one or two steps. [[12.30]] On this basis, for example, cash benefits - child rearing benefits, sickness benefits, disability benefits - will be established and referred to by the Ministry. What guarantees do we have that there will be no political influence in deciding professional issues, in determining different benefits and grants? To whom will an appeal be sought? Will the Minister decide the decisions that need fairness? But there are even more questions unanswered. It is no coincidence that the OEP and several of the heads of the wallet have expressed their concerns, Mr Secretary of State. True, according to Minister Lazarus, a compromise can only be made as to the rate at which the restructuring takes place. So they don't give a rat's ass about their own people's opinions. Not to mention that as part of this process, HUF 2000 billion could become invisible from the budget of public finances. For all these reasons, Mr Secretary, what is the purpose of the abolition and restructuring of the OEP? Where will the budget be for HUF 2000 billion? Who's gonna be the high-ranking expert who's gonna tell you how to reschedule? Is it possible that the government is preparing a serious withdrawal from the already catastrophic health care system? Please, Mr Secretary of State, reassure us that this is not what the government is planning, and that there is already a big problem in the area of health, and that there is no need to increase this with more measures. I look forward to your reply, Mr. Secretary.
u2016-05-17-56	Thank you very much. We're hearing Bence of Rétvári's voice again. Mr. Secretary.
u2016-05-17-57	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, You were worried about the health fund's expenditure. Well, let me give you a couple of numbers on how much the E-Fund's expenditure was. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: The questions, Mr Secretary of State!]] This amount, for which you are afraid, may decrease to HUF 1691 billion in 2006. [[Dr. Wind Bernadett: Let's not compare to that.]] In 2010, this melted down to 1424 billion. [[Bangóné Borbély Ildikó: And why should it be reorganized?]] Then you weren't worried about what would happen to these hundreds of billions missing from the health budget. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: I was not a Member, Mr. Secretary of State!]] We didn't just put back what you took out, because we didn't just lift it from 1424 to 1691, where you melted it down, we raised it further. As you said, you are now talking about HUF 2000 billion, that is HUF 2000 billion, because during your administration it was not even 1500, now it is HUF 2000 billion. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: What about this 2000 billion, Mr. Secretary of State?]] This year's budget will increase to HUF 1964 billion, and next year's budget will increase to HUF 2000 billion, and the health fund budget will increase to HUF 2059 billion. This represents a 27 percent increase in health funds during our governance. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: Now, answers to questions, Mr Secretary of State.]] Every year we added much more than inflation, so the Health Insurance Fund can now manage a larger amount of money, so the health fund should not be afraid of us. On the one hand, we had it under state control, as opposed to what you had planned earlier. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: You have twenty seconds to answer the question, Mr. Secretary of State.]] that this huge cash register will be put into the hands of profit-making operators. We've got this under state control, and we've increased it by 27 percent. And as a result of the reduction of bureaucracy, we hope that both patients and hospitals will be able to obtain this amount more smoothly and easily. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. Bangóné Borbély Ildikó: The answer is missing again!]]
u2016-05-17-58	Thank you very much. Before I give the floor to Congresswoman Dóra Dúró, on your behalf, I would like to welcome the students and teachers who have arrived. And now, Congresswoman Dóra Dúró, isn't the Film Fund deliberately sabotaging the production of films with national themes? We can hear your question. I would like to inform you that the question will be answered by Minister Zoltán Balog, Minister of Human Resources, on behalf of the Prime Minister. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2016-05-17-59	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, The Hungarian National Film Fund, led by Andy Vajna, has supported the production of 65 movies for nearly six years, with a cost of up to billion for each work. At the same time, he did not support the production of any cinema film processing the glorious period of Hungarian history, and he rejected such screenplay contests without justification. Andy Vajna's state film production refuses to support films with appropriate public spending processing the rich history of Hungarians. However, we can see a number of international examples of this trend. In recent years, there has been a series of films made throughout Europe, and they are still making grandiose historical films in France, Turks, Poles, Russians and Swedes. The Hungarian film world, driven by Andy Vajna, has completely withdrawn from this international process. The vast majority of the films supported by the Film Fund are accompanied by the public's lack of interest, and thus by a huge financial failure. As an example, I can bring the movie "Venues," which was made out of nearly one billion forints, but only less than ten thousand viewers wanted to see it. It is clear that the public money wasted on the work would have been repaid only if every spectator had left a hundred thousand forints at the cinema. In the same way, the 200 million forints of public money with three thousand viewers failed badly, and in a strong analogy, the Movie Fund threw 320 million out of the window, which also moved only a few blocks of people. I could give you a lot more examples, since we can only find four out of 65 works that have brought back at least one third of your budget. On this basis, I ask the Secretary of State when the government's cultural policy will be part of the film presentation of our legitimate national historical themes. You don't mean to sabotage the Film Fund's production of films with national themes, do you? I look forward to your substantive answer. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-05-17-60	Thank you very much. Secretary Retvári responds. Here.
u2016-05-17-61	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, You forgot to mention the only thing, Congresswoman, thanks to this new support system, films that later received, let's say, the Oscar Prize, which I think is quite a glory for the Hungarian film industry or for Hungary as a whole, can be welcomed together. It should not be a more unsuccessful year for Hungarian film production than when Hungary was able to bring an Oscar award for the first time after decades, and many other awards for films supported by the Film Fund. There must have been movies among them that wouldn't have been made without the support of the Film Fund. But this also shows the effectiveness and correctness of the operation of the new Film Foundation system, that the film, which, on the other hand, emerged internationally, could be supported by the government from home. Obviously, I think that all of us, who are here in Parliament, would like to see as many good Hungarian films as possible, including as many films about Hungarian history as possible, because many of us were obviously raised on the golden man, the Egri stars and many other similar movies, which even defined how people relate to politics, but may have been helped by the Bridgeman or the Bánk. But in recent times, who has watched such films, the Berni envoy, the Liberty - Extraway, has seen films that are of quality, develop important topics and illuminate the shadows of a historical era or the positive aspects of Hungarian history. We hope that, both in connection with the commemorative year of 56 and in connection with the commemorative year of political prisoners and forced labour brought to the Soviet Union, there will be films that will also be able to carry this theme, which she said she could. And the five members of the film committee are, you know, a variety of screenwriters, film-making experienced professionals with international film-making experience who cannot be instructed, but clearly since this system was established, the Hungarian film has received many awards and awards. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-05-17-62	Dear Parliament, Congresswoman Bernadett Wind, representative of the LMP, would like to ask the Prime Minister's Minister:. How many years of foreign currency debt is an unnecessary nuclear power plant worth? It's an address. Here you go.
u2016-05-17-63	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister, Dear Parliament, At the beginning of their governance, you named the fight against sovereign debt as the prime political objective of the Orbán Cabinet and declared a separate fight against foreign exchange debt. It now seems to me that both struggles will be given up at the same time, and that the influence over Hungarian energy will be handed over to Russia on all the battlefields, and that the next Hungarian government and of course the Hungarian people will be able to set up an inevitable currency trap, which will charge about one million forints of foreign currency debt to each Hungarian family due to the expansion of Paks. The balance sheet figures for 2020 have been made public and appear to have dramatically increased public spending on wealth. That's what the numbers say. This year, HUF 303 billion will be spent for this purpose, but in 2020 this will be HUF 900 billion, which is approximately 2 per cent of GDP, and we also see that every analyst suspects Paks expansion, regardless of the fact that it was already made at a professional conference last year, based on thorough calculations, that enlargement will require a budget payment of HUF 400-500 billion per year in the actual years of construction, with tax increases or restrictions of the same magnitude. [[12.40]] However, I would like to remind you that we used to scold the Bokros package a lot, it had an annual effect of HUF 130 billion, compared to this we are talking about 400-500 billion a year. In view of this, I would like to ask the Minister to inform Parliament and the public in the country of what tax increases and withdrawals we should expect in the context of the Paks enlargement. And I would also like to ask you that a hundred billion HUF has now been saved in the budget for Paks II, and I would like to know exactly what you intend to use it for. I would also like to ask exactly what kind of goals they have for this year in relation to the Paks enlargement, given that the situation in Brussels seems to be not looking good for the entire construction.
u2016-05-17-64	Thank you very much. Minister János Lázár responds. Here you go.
u2016-05-17-65	Thank you very much. Your Honour, Mr. President. Dear fellow Member, Firstly, I would like to start by saying that the European Commission supports the maintenance of nuclear power plant capacity in its energy policy, the European Commission says that 30-35 percent of European electricity consumption must be obtained from nuclear energy continuously. This means that the capacity of nuclear power plants in Europe must be maintained at least. So Hungary's nuclear policy is entirely in line with the European Commission's vision. On the other hand, in the last seven years, the National Assembly has negotiated a national strategy on the maintenance of nuclear technology on a number of occasions, and in part the energy strategy, where we have received an overwhelming majority of the principle of obtaining a significant share of our electricity from nuclear energy, thereby reducing emissions, since it does not pose any risk, and on the other hand, the independence of the country can be significantly increased and dependence is reduced. As far as independence is concerned, let me note that the interstate loan taken out of Russia can be pre-reimbursed. At the moment, Hungary's assessment of the financial market has improved significantly, Hungary is ready and able, even in the near future, to replace this loan with market credit, if the financial conditions are in line with this, and we can provide an adequate source in a more favourable structure than the current one. This is a business loan, which means that the nuclear power plant created by the investment must be able to finance the money it cost and the loan it received. This means that the investment must be repaid, it will be a profitable investment by the Hungarian State, not only for social policy purposes, which we believe is reflected in cheap electricity, but also because Paks II. The nuclear power plant can operate in a business model in which it benefits, even if it pays the loan and the costs. So our calculation is that after paying the loan and paying the costs, there's even money left on it. Therefore, it does not affect the debt path, with debt levels falling from 75 per cent to 65 per cent in 2020 according to the convergence plan. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2016-05-17-66	Thank you very much. Member Sándor Szabó, representative of the MSZP, would you like to ask the Minister of Human Resources a question: "The Student Loan Facility or a Trap? It's an address. On behalf of the Prime Minister, Mr Lázár, Minister of the Prime Minister's Office, who is responsible and competent on the subject, will answer the question. We are now listening to Congressman Sándor Szabó. Here you go.
u2016-05-17-67	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister, It is always a big dilemma for students to apply for student loans, many hesitate to take on or not take on loans, because some think that it can be a huge help and investment in the future, but others say it is an early debt that obviously puts young people who start their careers at a disadvantage when they enter the job. Dear Minister, To date, until 17 May, the application for credit could be submitted to students entitled to a student loan who would like to borrow in this academic year. Students' loans with 3.9 percent interest rate are available at 15, 21, 25, 30, 40 and 50 thousand forints per month. The State-supported Student Loan 2 can only be used for training fees with an additional fixed interest rate of 2 per cent with State aid. The maximum amount of student loan for captive use may be the sum of the student's training fee. I respectfully ask, Minister, how many contracts have been concluded since the operation of the State-owned Student Loan Centre in 2001, how many students have used the loan and how many have started to repay it. I also respectfully ask what your experience is of the amount of repayments taken into account in the previous year's student payments. What is the interest income recognised for student loans? Exactly how much debt has been accumulated over the last six years, and what percentage of borrowers is affected? I'm waiting for your answer. Thank you.
u2016-05-17-68	Thank you very much. Here you go, Minister.
u2016-05-17-69	Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I have to present a series of numbers in two minutes; if I do not get to the end, I will also send it in writing to my fellow Member. Between 2001 and 2016, until 31 March 2016, the Student Loan Scheme 1 received 351 092 persons, in the Student Loan 2 introduced in 2012. 21 110. In the case of Student Credit 1, the repayment was closed until 31 March in the case of 156 563 contracts, so 156 563 contracts were concluded and on 31 March 2016 we have 131 110 repayments. In the case of Student Loan 2, 549 contracts have been concluded and on 31 March 2016 there are 2899 repayments. During 2015, the total amount of repayments was 169 per cent, as required by the mandatory instalments required for them. This means that many people continue to make use of the possibility of a one-off lump sum repayment. In 2015, 30 billion bn was repaid and the student loan was HUF 16 billion in the previous year. Repayers were 28.9 percent at the end of 2015. In this backlog, there's everyone in this row who's in more than one day's backlog. He doesn't repay at all 2 percent, about 2-2.1 percent. The interest income on student loans is 14 billion in 15 and the interest on late payment is 1.3 billion. By student loan, it depends on what you mean, if you mean the total amount, it is 279 billion, the amount of overdue loans is between HUF 24 billion and HUF 18 billion. In total, I can provide you with these data. I'll send you this in writing. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2016-05-17-70	Thank you very much. Congressman Balázs Ander, representative of Jobbik, would like to ask the Minister for National Development:, Are you really determined to dooze the South Railway Station? Wouldn't there be room elsewhere for billions to spend on this? It's an address. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-05-17-71	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, We in Jobbik regret the fact that the desire for government ideas and exploitation can manifest itself in individual budget lines in the field of public transport. For example, the government's intention to close the South Railway Station, which was immediately found at HUF 5 billion. Of course, they say that there is no closure, only planning and the destruction of the rust zone, but why do they spend billions on something, the end of which is neither known nor accepted by society? Why don't you talk about where the idea came from, how much is this area worth to build a mall? If taxpayers' money has a surplus of 5 billion to improve the capital's rail transport, why not spend it on such a visible and meaningful purpose that has immediate and positive benefits? Such an area could be the South-Pest region, which is completely neglected from the point of view of suburban transport, with the HÉV of Ráckeve and the suburban trains returning to Köki on the grounds of coercion. Yes, you've heard well, it's an absurd Hungarian traffic management absurdity that the train comes in from Kunszentmiklós-Tass, doesn't stop at the Közlőhíd, affects the empty Ferencváros railway station with no inner city traffic connection, crosses the Üllő road over metro line 3, then departs from the city and goes three kilometers to Kőbánya-Kispesti. If you land there, you can take another three kilometers back to reach the Népliget, which is left behind. Out of 5 billion, missing stops could be built, a connection could be established with Metro 3 and the modernisation of the track, which is currently not used for transit to the East, and the construction of insurance equipment would allow these trains to arrive in the East. Why not spend the solution to this deficiency, which might give meaning to who knows how and how to pay back, even in the lower voice, to a paying-place-suspecting Budapest-Belgrád railway project? Are the tens of thousands of people in the area worth as much as, say, the small railway station? I'm looking forward to your reply. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2016-05-17-72	Thank you very much. Secretary of State László Tasó responds. Here. [[12.50]]
u2016-05-17-73	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, In the Kelenföld railway station, changes have been made in recent years which fundamentally affect the structure and technology of traffic. Among other things, Metro 4 has been completed, suburban transport has been developed in several areas, and modern motor train purchases have also been carried out. In addition, we planned to move the area and tasks of vehicle maintenance, because this will enable the railway to operate more efficiently. So the first and most important step we need to know is what we've taken to look at the possibility of that. This has happened, and nothing else happens but to eliminate our rusty area. The part of the railway which is no longer used is therefore not necessary for the operation of the railway. I suppose you agree that it should be a green zone rather than a rust zone; that is clearly our intention. The Hungarian government has commissioned the development portfolio to examine the needs of the transformation. This is how we started and started planning on the function of transferring the South Railway Station. So we will start and finish preparations, and a comprehensive railway development concept will be developed in Buda. The government has also prepared very important investments in Budapest. I would like to inform you that this is the construction of a three-track link between Kelenföld and Ferencváros, and, as you mentioned, the development of the Ráckeve HÉV line. And do not forget that there will be a new suburban stop between Kelenföld and Ferencváros stations, and the stop from Népliget will be built for metro line 3. So what you mentioned and brought up as a polychemistry is indeed true, but the idea, the concept, treats them. The Hungarian government plans to build the missing stops together with the transformation. We are scheduled to make the investment by 2017, but we still need to look at the proposals, evaluate them, and this will happen again this year. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2016-05-17-74	Thank you very much. Congresswoman Erzsébet Schmuck, representative of the LMP, would like to ask the Minister of National Economy a question: "Does the government consider elderly care to be a private matter for families? It's an address. The question will be answered on behalf of the Prime Minister by Mr László Trócsányi, Minister of Justice, who is competent on the subject, Mr Pál Völner, State Secretary. Here you go.
u2016-05-17-75	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, The government wants to force its maintenance obligation to the needy parent of an adult child by amending the civil code. According to the amendment, either the neighbor, the acquaintance or the elderly's home could sue for the child to reimburse the cost of caring for the parent who was in need of maintenance for reasons other than his own fault. The law would give you a limitation period of one year. This would mean, in effect, that the costs incurred in connection with the provision - which could be an institutional fee, a purchase invoice or regular cash support - could be reimbursed to the child otherwise obliged to support it. Since this concerns the reimbursement of a certain amount, ad absurdum may also be suing the elderly home annually with the elderly woman's child. It's no coincidence that this rule doesn't work today. In many cases, it is not realistic to assume that families who earn a child will fail to pay the parent out of bad faith. The government starts with this, even at the cost of falling apart families, deterioration of parent-child relationships. With this, it is tuning generations against each other and taking a further step towards abandoning social solidarity. Instead of harming families with a multitude of court cases, the supposedly family - friendly government, it should be more against poverty in old age. In recent years, a number of measures have been taken to reduce self-care and public engagement with older people. The government is increasingly viewing elderly care as a private matter for families, solving it among themselves. I am asking Mr Secretary of State why the government is not doing something against poverty in old age and why it is not helping self-care to prevent poverty in old age. I'm looking forward to your reply.
u2016-05-17-76	Thank you very much. Secretary of State, please.
u2016-05-17-77	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, Article XVI of the Fundamental Law This article expresses the children's sense of responsibility for their parents when they need to care for their parents in need. But also, with the consent of the parent or parent, the district office can enforce this claim in court. The amendment of Ptk. submitted to the Parliament did not change the rules of kinship, so the children's obligation remains and has existed before. The amendment to the Ptk. tabled to this House aims to ensure that anyone who has carried out such maintenance in place of the child may demand reimbursement of maintenance costs from the child for the past, i.e. a claim for reimbursement. Of course, only reasonable supply costs and only maintenance children can be charged. The guiding standard remains that it is not obliged to support a parent who would endanger himself or his family's children. The reimbursement is not automatic, the court decides in such cases, taking into account individual circumstances. In fact, this regulation strengthens the moral obligation within the family, not only for parents against children, but also for children against parents. On your question, Madam President, you also said that the government is not acting effectively enough against poverty in old age. The Hungarian national commitment includes a 5% reduction in the proportion of the population at risk of poverty or social exclusion by 2020 in line with EU objectives. We can do that on a pro rata basis, so it is not true that circumstances would not change in a positive direction. In addition, the preservation of pensions, which we undertook in 2010 and 2014, is in place. Pensions increased by 8.4 percent, compared to 8.5 percent between 2007 and 2010. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-05-17-78	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, István Tukacs, representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Prime Minister's Office a question with the title "Acquisition of Government." Before I give the floor to the representative, I will give the chair to Vice-President János Latorcai. Thank you very much for your cooperation. I'll give you the floor. Talk to me. [[Dr. János Latorcai, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]]
u2016-05-17-79	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Indeed, this exchange does not have to disturb me at all in asking a question, Minister, because, as you remember, and I am sure my fellow Members remember it, I have raised a problem in the last year that affects countless cities, namely that if Budapest and its zoo can manage tens of billions on development money, then why will the other cities of the country not have this opportunity as well. I did not do this completely unselfishly, because Nyíregyháza's animal park is a wonderful and proud city, bringing our reputation across borders and borders from here. It also refutes the rule of fist rule that an animal frame is visited by about as many people as live in the locality, as about 300,000 people turn to Nyíregyháza Animal Park. And I wish the same good things to all the cities where there is a similar facility. I was then given more than a satisfactory answer to my question by an opposition representative, namely that you are calling for consultation and that you are trying to clarify how to help a situation that should not be at the expense of Budapest, but to the benefit of rural cities. At this meeting, where representatives of the cities involved were present, we agreed on a lot of things, namely the need to have a development concept, and the job of the profession to inform us, to plan as much as possible, and over the years, as you promised, to keep this matter on the table in budgetary planning. There is nothing left for me but aftercare, namely, to ask if budget planning is really happening, what money will be available in 2017 and what was the reason for these decisions or the background to development opportunities. Thank you very much.
u2016-05-17-80	Thank you very much, Congressman. The answer will be given by Minister János Lázár. Here you go, Minister.
u2016-05-17-81	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Congressman Tukacs, It is a matter that, I think, is of particular importance to all of us, and we can easily cross the boundaries or gaps between the parties that separate us. This is the issue in which we can agree with our heart, given the fact that 2.6 million people, 2 million 680,000 people visited the Hungarian zoos last year, 1 million of them turned into Budapest's Capital Zoo, and 1 million 600 thousand people turned around in the rural zoos. The home country of my fellow Member, Nyíregyháza, Tukacs, is at the forefront, and this is the most visited Hungarian zoo in the country. Indeed, we have convened a meeting and collected the development proposals of the rural zoos. We did this because the development of the Budapest Zoo is under way for HUF 27 billion. So the Metropolitan Zoo can be viewed by the National Assembly as an orderly question. The main question is what happens to rural zoos. [[13.00]] We've asked every zoo in the country for a development plan. The development plans have been thoroughly reviewed, reviewed, discussed with the parliamentary representatives of the constituencies, the municipalities, and we believe that these are justified development ideas. We have a great interest in the development of these zoos in relation to domestic tourism. Almost without exception, all of them are viable, even worthy of development. We have examined the availability of EU funds, as the first survey clearly showed that in the period 2007-13 we had significant resources, which we could partly devote to zoo development. We can now support investments in zoos through the tourism appropriation of the Territorial Operational Programme. Therefore, support for zoos is not among the main figures of the 2017 budget, but we will come back to this question. Now that the tourism appropriation is being reorganized within the framework of the Territorial Operational Programme, there are internal discussions with the Ministry of Human Resources, the NGM, and I am also at the disposal of the Member to provide details of these discussions. We'll get inside the government the resources needed to develop zoos. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-05-17-82	Thank you very much, Minister. Member Gergely Farkas, representative of Jobbik, would like to ask the Minister for Agriculture: å Why hasn't more than ten thousand farmers received support under the agri-environmental management programme? It's an address. On behalf of the Prime Minister, Mr János Lázár, Head of Prime Minister's Office, who is responsible and competent according to the subject, will answer the question. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-05-17-83	Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Dear Minister, The five-year AKG is one of the biggest measures in the rural development programme, where farmers could apply for some HUF 210 billion. The aim of the programme is to preserve and improve the state of the environment, in order to enable producers to assume an additional obligation and in return to receive additional subsidies. The announcement of the winners of the tenders has begun, but there is enormous indignation among the producers. I've had a number of complaints from my constituency, but the problem is national. The reason for this is that for some unknown reason a new scoring theme was created, so farmers could face the fact that the MVH rejected every second applicant; even those who had always won in the previous years, so they had no reason to doubt that the same honest work would now be supported by the same support. As this is known, the Prime Minister's Office has defined the points on which it has decided who can receive subsidies. Unfortunately, this was completely unfair. In practice, the winners of the AKG applications were also selected with a controlled scoring, ignoring the manual labour-intensive sectors. According to the scoring table, total scores of different sizes could be reached in each thematic set of specifications. Accordingly, for example, almost all the claims made at the Kunság were rejected, especially in the grape-fruit sector, but also cattle, slaughter cattle and sheep farmers could be mentioned. The beneficiaries of the controlled scoring are, of course, owners of ploughing areas close to the government, who, in many respects, did not meet any conditions. Dear Minister, I ask why more than 10,000 farmers have not received support under the agri-environmental management programme. Are decisions on AKG proposals reviewed? I also ask whether there is a statement available to the public about the number of candidates and winners, the area sizes and amounts requested and approved by thematic standard groups. I look forward to your substantive answer. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-05-17-84	Thank you very much, Congressman. We will hear the answer from Minister János Lázár.
u2016-05-17-85	Thank you, Mr. President. Of course, all statements are available, and these statements clearly contradict the statements made in my fellow Member's questions. First of all, there are 8700 farmers who did not win in the AKG, and the simple reason for this is that the HUF 158 billion announced received a HUF 450 billion demand. We cannot satisfy 450 and 455 billion HUF demands from a $158 billion framework, so it is only natural that there are losers. There are two groups of losers, which, I think, deserves special attention: livestock losers and fruit and grapes planters. We are working on setting up frameworks to compensate these losers and to define new applications. But I'd like to take this to the end. The essence of what I have to say is that 9500 farmers report the number of winners in the case of AKG. In the AKG, 441 thousand hectares are the size of the area we support, and this comes with organic farming, where we supported 99 percent of the 2200 clients on 133,000 hectares. At AKG, the winning ratio is over 50 percent. I would also like to say that the tendering conditions have been fully public and have been available since 7 October 2015. In fact, there have been social consultations on the existence of tendering conditions in several cases. The scoring was objective, so, even if we couldn't change it, I wouldn't recommend that an objective scoring system be applied either by the legislative power or by the executive power. Mr President, you are not right, Mr President, given the fact that higher work needs, such as livestock and other aspects, have been fairly criticised in the notice. However, you are right that the plowing victory rate has increased. From 2007 to 13, 80 percent of the arable land was a loser in the AKG, now 50 percent of the plough applicants have won. And there's still more lawn and plantation winners than plowers, I'll add. We are ready to open a framework for planters and livestock farmers, which is being discussed at the moment. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-05-17-86	Thank you very much, Minister. Dear Parliament, Ms Erzsébet Schmuck, representative of the LMP, wishes to ask the Minister for National Development:. When will the National Climate Strategy be presented to Parliament for the coming years? It's an address. Here you go, Congresswoman, you have the floor.
u2016-05-17-87	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, Reducing the adverse effects of climate change and adapting to the expected changes are the key strategic issues for most countries. Although the Paris agreement is far from fulfilling the role it should play in the area of climate change control, it does not excuse the government from creating a strategy to deal with the situation that has arisen, and it is also approved by the Parliament. With regard to the expected impacts of climate change, our country belongs to a range of highly sensitive and vulnerable countries. This is why it is incomprehensible that the government presented the Parliamentary resolution proposal on the second national climate change strategy last June, but it has not yet been on the agenda of the Parliament. There's something to be done. According to the national building energy strategy developed in 2015, the energy renovation of 700 thousand residential buildings would achieve a primary energy saving of 38,4 petajoules by 2020. This could also open up the possibility of boosting a new green economy sector and employment, with significant reductions in emissions. The increasing frequency of extreme weather situations that are already threatening our daily lives, death due to summer heat waves, drought crop losses, storm damage and the increasing risk of floods also calls for action to be taken. I ask when the negative effects of climate change on our daily lives will be taken seriously. When are the economic losses that have occurred and occurred that could be avoided by appropriate steps? When will the National Assembly see the National Climate Change Strategy for the coming years? I'm looking forward to your reply.
u2016-05-17-88	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. The answer will be given by Secretary of State János Fónagy. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2016-05-17-89	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Dear fellow Member, Last December, all UN member states in Paris unanimously adopted the new climate agreement, signed by the heads of state and government of 175 countries in New York on 22 April this year. So the political will to respect the power of the agreement and its objectives, I suppose, is not disputed. Such joint signatures have not been used in the case of international treaties. On 2 June 2015, the national climate change strategy submitted and revised to Parliament meets both EU and international requirements, as it has been given a separate chapter on issues that are important in the Paris Agreement, such as the national adaptation strategy, the domestic defurbanation plan and the action programmes for climate approach formation and partnership. The schedule for further discussion of this document, which you asked, may be decided by the Parliament. However, it is important to take into account that all countries in the world, including Hungary, want to actively shape the detailed rules of the Paris Agreement in international negotiations until 2020. However, we are also waiting for the Commission's new legislative proposals, which include rules on agriculture, transport, building energy and waste energy in the non-emission trading sector. [[13.10]] It is therefore necessary to prepare for more flexible strategies after 2020, which can respond to the global challenges you have mentioned. In the national building energy strategy, however, more than HUF 550 billion [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] Refundable and non-refundable aid will be spent in the coming years. Thank you, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-05-17-90	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Congresswoman Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Minister of National Development:. How could a solar cell factory in Szolnok disappear by nearly HUF 1.5 billion? It's an address. On behalf of the Minister for National Economy Mihály Varga, who is responsible and competent on behalf of the Prime Minister, Minister of State, Balázs Rákossy will answer the question. Here you go, Congresswoman. You have the floor.
u2016-05-17-91	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, According to news released in the press, the A.-Solar Solar Factory in Szolnok has not been operational since February, and the company has not paid its bills since November. The plant was shut down without prior information at the end of February, the locks were changed on the doors, and the workers had not shown up at the premises since. The utility and rental bills have not been paid by the company since November, and the solar company owes more than HUF 25 million to the company where it rented the necessary workshops for its operation. The solar plant was ordered to be abolished by the Szolnok Tribunal for almost a billion dollars. The solar cell factory was founded in the summer of 2011 and started its production in the autumn with 64 employees. In 2012, the company produced three more shifts, by 2014 the number of employees already employed in one shift was almost halved. The company, which is mainly exporting to European markets, received three EU grants: 121 million forints, 282 million for technology development and 154.5 million forints for the assembly plant. The company's investment is partly carried out by Magyar Export-Import Bank Zrt. He financed it. The bank has an unsuccessful claim against the company of more than EUR 3 million, some HUF 930 million. This situation is particularly remarkable because solar industry is growing in volume in both the world and Hungary. I respectfully ask the Secretary of State where nearly 560 million forints of EU funding disappeared and almost one billion forints of Eximbank. What support systems do you operate if it is simply possible to dispose of HUF 1.5 billion in Hungary today? [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] Where's the money? What about the factory, Mr. Secretary? I'm looking forward to your reply.
u2016-05-17-92	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. I give the floor to the Secretary of State, Balázs Rákossy. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2016-05-17-93	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Agulhas-Solar Kft. on 15 April last year, he filed for bankruptcy, on the basis of which the Szolnok Tribunal ordered bankruptcy on 28 April last year, but the bankruptcy proceedings ended on 12 October last year, and Agulhas-Solar Kft. is currently in liquidation proceedings and liquidation is now under way. Data and information related to banking transactions are classified as bank secrets, so I can now provide you with information about the projects applied for by the company. In the framework of the operational programme for economic development, the company received nearly HUF 437 million in support of technological development, but a citizen's suspicion of the beneficiary was reported. The procedure was concluded with a finding of an irregularity, which resulted in the termination of the grant agreement. The reason for the withdrawal is that the beneficiary has failed to fulfil its duty of cooperation, tolerance to control and has not carried out any economic activity on the implementation site and has therefore failed to fulfil its obligation to maintain a project. The Szolnok Tribunal ordered the opening of winding-up proceedings and therefore the Deputy State Secretary responsible for the implementation of economic development programmes, as managing authority, announced its claim to creditors. The winding-up proceedings are ongoing, the confirmation of the creditor's claim and the interim balance sheet have not yet been received from the court. The second aid that the company has won has been implemented in the framework of regional operational programmes. The grant agreement entered into force on 5 September 2011 with a grant of HUF 121 million. On 15 July 2015, the intermediate organisation withdrew from the contract, as the beneficiary did not fulfil its obligation to notify, provide information and make a declaration, the project did not submit its maintenance report No 2 [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] , the opening of bankruptcy proceedings has not been notified and the continuation of the project has been put at risk by the absence of a report. As a result of the withdrawal of the contract, the company has a repayment obligation, including interest, in the power of the principal amount of HUF 121 million, which is in the process of being recovered. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-05-17-94	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Congressman Tamás Sneider, representative of Jobbik, Vice-President of Parliament, wishes to ask the Minister of the Interior a question: "What needs to happen in Mátraverebély, in order for the government to see it? It's an address. Mr. Tamás Sneider has the floor. Here you go, Mr. Vice President.
u2016-05-17-95	Mr. President. Dear House, Mr. Secretary. On 16 December 2014, I first tried to draw your attention to the illegal conditions prevailing in Mátraverebély-Szentkút. In my speech at the time, I mentioned that in the vicinity of the village, the pine trees were devastated, burglaries were commonplace, houses were destroyed, or I mentioned a horde of fire in the middle of the road. I could have mentioned young people in a state of intoxication who are already using drugs at school, if any of them were at school. Before anyone starts to mention better propaganda, I would like to say that the TASZ, never accused of Better Friendship, has acquired similar experiences in Mátraverbély. The drug use has always had a far more devastating impact on the lives of poverty communities, the ones who live on the edge of society, for whom the future seems bleak and hopeless. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. That's how liberal defenders put it, with whom you can't really argue this time. Here in the building of the Hungarian legislature, I say that someone may hear that the law does not always reach Mátraverebély-Szentkút, and that lawlessness is even preserved. In about two thousand enthusiastic settlements, full families settled for criminal life - styles, but it is common to commit crimes in Salgótarján, Pástón, or Hatvan. The last known incident occurred just a week or two ago: armed, grouped, nine people assaulted in the late hours in a family house in Mátraverbély, two men and a woman, the house's equipment, were completely beaten up. What's the solution? We have been saying this for a long time, and unfortunately, the worrying news confirms us: crime is a major focus [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] Like Mátraverebély, we should set up police or gendarmes, and that can't be saved. I look forward to the Secretary of State's reply as to whether they are finally doing something for the people of Mátraverebély. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-05-17-96	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. The answer will be given by Secretary of State Károly Kontra. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2016-05-17-97	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, First of all, I would like to say that the law also rules in Matravere. Today, I contacted Mayor Attila Nagy and asked him what the security situation in Mátraverbély was like, what public safety was like. The mayor told me that since there has been a 24-hour police presence in the settlement, which was introduced by the police on 1 July 2014 in the framework of the 19/24 series of actions, there has been an improvement in public security since the 24-hour police presence in Mátraverebély. That is what Mayor Attila Nagy said to me today, Congressman, and he said that the group of kmb in Mátraverebély, consisting of three people, a commander and two principal district agents, is performing a public service in the settlement. In addition, there is also a vigilante in the settlement, he himself, the mayor, is a member of the Civil Guard. I would also like to thank every vigilante in Mátraverebély and Bátonyterenye for their service, as this has also contributed to the fact that the Mayor could say that there has been an improvement in public security. So the police, together with the vigilante, the local government, are doing everything in their power to improve public security in this settlement. As regards the specific infringement you have raised, I would like to inform you and this House that the perpetrators have been detained by the police, the investigation is ongoing. [[13.20]] I would also like to say, honourable Member, that we would like to see a greater order in Mátraverebély, so the police are strengthening the public service. We trust that, in conjunction with the vigilantes, the local government, the police will be able to provide even greater security to all residents of the settlements in Mátraverebély and the surrounding area, as the police will be able to provide security in all the settlements in Hungary. [[Tamás Sneider intervenes.]] with all offenders [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] take decisive action against people's security of life and property, public order and public security. Thank you very much. [[Tamás Sneider: Police Station! Applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2016-05-17-98	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Congressman President Novak, representative of Jobbik, would like to ask the Minister of the Interior a question: - If even a schoolboy can find drug dealers, why can't the police? It's an address. Congressman Novak has the floor. Here you go.
u2016-05-17-99	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, In Hungary, one in five school-age young people has taken drugs in their lives - KSH wrote in its publication "Hungary, 2015" and there are even worse data, as according to a previous survey, a third of 17-year-old students have been using drugs. According to the current report of the KSH, between 1995 and 2003, the proportion of drug users among schoolchildren quadrupled, and after a small decline in 2007, it started to grow significantly again from 2011. The composition of used drugs and the use of drugs by school-age people have turned in a very negative direction since 2013. If you would like to be informed, I look forward to my Budapest representative office, where Dr. Gábor Zacher will be a toxologist at Jobbik Youth now on Thursday. However, the government's drug strategy adopted in 2013 does not include resource allocation linked to targets, but rather nicely-sounding phrases, although drug use should be curbed through governments, promoting the stable functioning of the relevant organisations. The funding for prevention has been reduced in recent years to a fraction of previous years, so a budget amendment is now awaiting the decision of the Parliament, which we have submitted together with Tamás Sneider and some of my fellow Members in order not only to be a phrase but also a dedicated resource. Law enforcement activities dealing with drug abuse should be strengthened, with the provision of a separate source to law enforcement bodies. Anonymous announcements should also be allowed and greater control of entertainment venues should be introduced. Foreign persons who are found to be involved in the production or distribution of drugs should be deported from the country with immediate effect. That's the Jobbik's position. What's yours? Dear Secretary of State, Why are they unable to reduce the availability of drugs? Let's just say it doesn't take a Thomas Deutsch or Árpád Habony to get drugs. In fact, even if a schoolgirl can [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Find the drug dealers, why not the police? I look forward to your substantive answer. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2016-05-17-100	Thank you very much, Congressman. The answer will be given by Secretary of State Károly Kontra. Here you go.
u2016-05-17-101	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, First of all, I have the answer to your question: the police will not only find it, they will find it, and they will bring to justice the drug distributors you spoke of, because they are a huge threat to all of us. That is why Parliament adopted the national anti-drug strategy on 13 October 2013. The main aim of this is to significantly reduce the use of drugs in Hungary by 2020. [[Martin Gyöngyösi intervenes.]] In this very important task, everyone must do more than we have done so far - the police, the government, Parliament, municipalities, schools, families, parents, everyone. I would like to say that our government is determined to achieve results in this very important struggle. The police have launched several programmes to this end, such as the DADA, the Ellen-szer and the new programme launched in September 2014:, Parents and family members are key partners of the police with the title "Prevention of Drug Crime." The aim of this is to provide direct information on the risks of drug use to parents and family members who are 12 to 18 years of age. This initiative underlines the role of parents in prevention. Moreover, it is important to mention that the school crime prevention and advisory network launched in 2013 is also achieving better results, but, Mr President, as I have just said, everyone needs to do more to do so. And I would like to give you the good news: in the 2017 budget, significant resources are available to the police in order to further reduce crime in Hungary and thus effectively continue to combat drugs. And if you really care about the fight against drugs, then [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] support the 2017 budget. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from the benches of the governing parties. Defiance from the Jobbik benches.]]
u2016-05-17-102	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, It's 13:25. We're at the end of the question. Under the Rules of the House, it is now taking place, if any, a speaker's speech or a condition of a question of opposition. Alexov Lyubomir wishes to ask the Minister of the Prime Minister's Office a question of the Serbian ethnicity:. Is it possible in the future that the restoration of monument-protected buildings and other objects belonging to the culture of nationalities should take place with the involvement of professionals from the countries of the mother nation? It's an address. Speaker Alexov Lyubomir. Here you go.
u2016-05-17-103	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear House, Dear Minister, The question asked in the title is justified by the fact that Hungarian nationalities have been organically integrated into society during their centuries of presence in Hungary. The encounters of different cultures affected one another infertilely. As a result, the Serbian community in Hungary developed a unique unit in all branches of culture that is typical of us. Our centuries-old churches combine Gothic or Baroque architecture with Eastern ecclesiastical style. Protecting and restoring this treasure is our joint task. The Hungarian state will help to preserve this cultural heritage in accordance with its potential. Serbia would also participate in the works, undertaking the restoration of several important Serbian monuments in Hungary. Not by providing resources, but by the most specialised restoration workshops there, the task would be carried out at its own expense, and we would only be able to tolerate it effectively. The 2001 LXIV. Law 75/A Article 4 of the Act lays down the conditions for the use of the expert and Article 439/2013. The government decree contains further detailed rules. Although we fully identify with the intention of the legislator, ensuring the highest possible level of professionalism, we believe that it is necessary to amend this domestic legislation. We ask for the possibility of restoring and preserving buildings and other objects belonging to the culture of domestic nationalities, which are protected from monuments, to be realised with the assistance of the state monument protection institutions from the countries of the mother nation. Professionals who actually work in Hungary should be exempt from registration in Hungary if they have an adequate level of professional qualifications in the institutions of the mother country. Waiting for your reply, thank you for your attention.
u2016-05-17-104	Thank you very much, Mr Speaker. I give the floor to the Prime Minister, Mr János Lázár. Here you go, Minister.
u2016-05-17-105	Thank you very much. Your Honour, Mr Speaker, my dear fellow Member, First of all, I would like to thank the Serbian National Municipality for its work on behalf of the Hungarian Government and all my fellow Members, in particular their priority social mission and mission to preserve the built heritage or tangible heritage. In recent years, the Hungarian government has been paying particular attention to the protection of the built heritage in Budapest or the settlements of the country, or even the preservation of tangible monuments. There are well-known programs that we are trying to provide either with the help of local governments or with the help of the National Serbian Municipality or with direct church support. The local governments in Hungary, where there is a group of buildings, which has a memory of the past hundreds of years, are either ecclesiastical or secular, the Serbian social group in Hungary, the national minority, or a group of buildings, whether it is for the protection of the merchants working in Hungary or the built heritage of a religious type. I see no reason for this kind of cooperation. I understand and blame you, and I consider what you have suggested to be justified. I asked the management of our Forster Monument Protection Institute to contact the Serbian State Monument Protection as a matter of urgency, and in the case of investments and developments undertaken by the state or local authorities, we are ready to invite experts from Serbia, of course we are able to provide the necessary state support for the involvement of experts, and we would be able to renovate these buildings in addition to their professional knowledge. I consider this particularly important, because buildings with religious implications, given that there are several religious community buildings with an empty church type or no longer religious life, deserve special attention, because I also speak on behalf of one of our most important built heritage, my own city, where there is one of the oldest Orthodox churches in the Greek East, which deserves special attention and protection, even for the sake of: [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Because Miklós Radnóti modeled some lines of the Eighth ecloga from the Saint Naum icon. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the benches of the governing parties.]] [[13.30]]
u2016-05-17-106	Thank you very much, Minister. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, Now we move on to immediate questions. Congressman Gergely Bárándy, representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the President of the Hungarian National Bank an immediate question:. It's an address. Congressman Gergely Bárándy has the floor. Here you go.
u2016-05-17-107	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear President of the Bank, I suppose you're familiar with the classic work called Relatives, which could have been written about you. Or I'll ask you another way: when is the expiration date of this work here in public life? You will remember, Mr President, that the so-called VS scandal first exploded, when it turned out that your cousin Tamás Szemerey had received more than half a billion forints of funding from the foundations of the Hungarian National Bank. The New Wave branch also received about HUF 630 million in public money, also indirectly from the Hungarian National Bank through the foundations. But we can go a little further, you have another cousin, his name is Szabolcs Szemerey, he did not miss out on the Hungarian National Bank's money distribution, he received a HUF 400 million MNB loan. And to stay in the family, his wife, the mayor of Kecskemét, did not receive this money personally, but for the city's benefit, so to speak, the foundation paid about HUF 12 billion in public money for the construction of the dual education centre. But you weren't small-handed yourself, Mr. President, because for the book Chess and Poker about you, the foundation handed over more than HUF 20 million to the Kairos Publisher and bought 2,500 copies of the volume that contained your weekly responses. By the way, we could continue this line on how much money was spent on small banks in Tamás Szemerey's interests, banks that, by the way, loaned your son, or how it cost Lőrinc Mészáros HUF 3.5 billion. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Do you think that's okay, Mr. President? Shouldn't you resign after this? Thank you very much.
u2016-05-17-108	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to President György Matolcsy, whom I salute.
u2016-05-17-109	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Your Honour, Mr. President. Dear House, Honourable Congressman, You, Balliberal opposition, have been under political attack for three months, taking me against the Hungarian National Bank, the Hungarian Central Bank. That's outrageous. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély intervenes.]] You're using bluffs as a trick of political attack. What you just told me is a bluff without exception. But perhaps we should start with the first one, the biggest one, when you accused - not even relatives - the Hungarian National Bank that it was not even authorized, the Central Bank Act did not authorize the creation of foundations. It proved to be a bluff, after reading the Act on the National Bank of Hungary, it is clear that there was a mandate. They also said the fortune was gone. It turned out to be a bluff, it turned out that the foundation's assets were 830 million forints more than they were. In the meantime, 700 good research, scientific and educational projects were supported by foundations worth 3.3 billion forints. After you have run out of political bluffs with the Hungarian National Bank, you are now taking out relatives in connection with an otherwise excellent novel. Well, he's listed bluffs all over the place. You have been saying for months that Tamás Szemerey owns VS.hu, it turns out that it is not owned by Tamás Szemerey, bluffing, not by Tamás Szemerey. You said that the Bank of Hungary is distributing its money to the Bank of Growth. They were bluffing. Each bank, with its own decision, distributes its own money, decides on good projects, and then takes responsibility for it itself. All the examples you've brought up are part of the same political campaign, bluff, bluff and bluff. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-05-17-110	Thank you very much, Mr. President. A one-minute rejoinder from Congressman Gergely Bárándy. Here you go.
u2016-05-17-111	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Mr President, I could say this isn't a poker game, although that's what your book or the book about you is about. But I can see that you're very good at using the term. You know, we're not attacking the National Bank, Mr. President. We're attacking you and your actions, and that's a huge difference, you know? ! Because it wasn't the National Bank or the National Bank that stole the public money, it was you and your environment, and your family. That's all I can say, there's no bluff in this, Mr. President. Unfortunately, I can tell you that these are the facts. By the way, VS.hu, let's say, doesn't belong directly to someone's property, but belongs to a company owned by someone, which means the same thing, Mr President, I think it's a game with words. But since Csaba Lentner's statement, we've pretty much known what these foundations were created for in addition to stealing. About promoting your views in a violent way, and basically rewriting the principles of economics. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Well, that's a shame, Mr. President. So if it's not for anything else, that's why you should resign. Thank you very much.
u2016-05-17-112	Thank you very much. With all due respect, I would like to draw the Member's attention to the fact that he has used a rating which has not been issued by a judicial body. [[György Szilágyi: Bluff. Defiance in Jobbik's ranks.]] A one-minute rejoinder is due to the President.
u2016-05-17-113	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Your Honour, Mr. President. Dear House, Honourable Congressman, You continued the bluff series, because the book chess and poker is not about me, fortunately. It is about Hungary; Hungary's war of freedom, 2010 and 2013 with its glorious Hungarian campaign of freedom. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: Oh, my God.]] It is primarily about Hungary, about the success of the government, about the Prime Minister, and after I was there, it is also about me. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy intervenes. Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] Honourable Congressman, You, once again, are part of a political campaign. This has a clear purpose: the weakening of the Hungarian National Bank, Hungary's central bank. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: No, your resignation.]] But you have not achieved this in the past two experiments in 2011-12 and 2014-15. You will not achieve a single goal in the future. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. Lajos Korózs: Someday you'll be very ashamed. Dr. Gergely Bárándy: You won't be ten years old.]]
u2016-05-17-114	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Congressman János Volner, representative of Jobbik, would like to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question:, who is Árpád Habony? It's an address. The Prime Minister has appointed Minister János Lázár to respond to an urgent public task. I respectfully ask the Member whether he accepts or waits for the Prime Minister. Here you go.
u2016-05-17-115	Mr. President, I'd like to wait for the Prime Minister. Thank you very much.
u2016-05-17-116	Thank you very much. Representative Zoltán Magyar, representative of Jobbik, wishes to ask the Minister of Agriculture an immediate question: "Where is the limit in looting the countryside? It's an address. Congressman Zoltán Magyar has the floor. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-05-17-117	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Mr. Secretary. This is not the first time we have talked about this issue; for decades, well-functioning economies have been destroyed on Hortobágy. It was thanks to the poor farmers and the press that, after all, the Government Audit Office ordered an investigation. We politicians could see the results of these investigations earlier, but we have only just come to the public about a lawsuit. The Kehi report is now public, and you wanted to encrypt it for ten years, and it would also be worth answering why in a democracy here in the middle of Europe in 2015 we should have waited ten years to learn about the conditions under which the public property, all of our lands, was rented. So it's typical and weird that we needed a lawsuit to do that. Some of the applications were withdrawn there, however, for example, they wanted to take the blame to the director of Hortobágy National Park, which is also a typical Fidesz solution, very typical of you. By the way, Kehi compared the data provided in the tender with the data in the various state institutions, such as the MVH numbers, and it turned out that 1040 out of 1072, data were different from reality, i.e. 97 percent of them discovered errors, including serious errors, which also raised suspicion of fraud. It is absurd, but for example, the reality of applications is not controlled by the national park that rented its own land at the time. This is also unacceptable to us. Who lost in these applications? Typically, animal keepers, family farmers, who, by the way, have been constantly encouraged to support their communication. [[13.40]] These are data and facts, Minister, which suggest that a national comprehensive investigation is necessary, even now that these lands have been sold, since they have previously been rented under lease conditions that have not been verified, so fraud has practically been covered by the State. I look forward to your substantive response to these. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-05-17-118	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Minister Sándor Fazekas. Here you go, Minister.
u2016-05-17-119	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, I've listened with interest to what you said, and I've been thinking that this debate has been going on here for about two years, and in that time, you've certainly worked hard enough on land. Well, honourable Member, this is the end of it, and it turns out that you really don't know at all what kind of land disputes you're talking about. For you were kind enough to say that the Hungarian state sold these lands, whose lease was in dispute at the time. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, I would like to reassure everyone that these are national park fields, which are not covered by the land for farmers! We didn't sell any of these lands, not a single square meter. So, Congressman, those who edited your speech didn't see that this was a land lease or a land sale. So I suggest that you please study, let's say, what has happened since then, compared to the investigation two years ago, and then try to ask me a question that will at least reveal that you know this subject, that you are prepared. Because I think it means both the deception of the National Assembly and the deception of voters, that if someone comes in here and, for a few words, in order to achieve poor political success, they throw at the fate of people, whether they are national park workers, whether they are applicants for land or those who have won and used these lands there. So, honourable Member, two years ago this investigation, the debate, the national park debated Kehi's report, and the government took a position on this. More articles have now appeared in this context, some have taken up this topic; they obviously think that nothing has happened in the meantime, and that everyone has forgotten. So the national park has answered the questions a long time ago, corrected the errors, won all the lawsuits against it anyway, and a number of complainants have since [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] He won a lease application, so these lands can be cultivated. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-05-17-120	Thank you very much, Minister. It's a one-minute rejoinder, Congressman. Here you go.
u2016-05-17-121	Thank you, Mr. President. I also called for a comprehensive national investigation in cases where land was sold. In the case of Hortobágy, of course, they are still rented, and also tenants, of whom 34 winners, for example, only after winning the land, took agricultural work and agricultural activity into their field of activity. All you have done in this case since then is that investigative journalists have been allowed dogs by these new winners, and the already famous fifty ducks have been able to rent and win state land for 20 years or ten years. Tossing people's fates? Do you have a picture, Minister, to address this to us? You're throwing people's fates at me! Twenty-five years ago, existing family farmers were destroyed and put on the brink. You've destroyed some serious livestock, Minister. That's what I was looking for, and we weren't looking for your cheap accusations. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik. Intruder from Jobbik's ranks: That's right!]]
u2016-05-17-122	Thank you very much. A one-minute rejoinder, Minister. Here you go, Minister.
u2016-05-17-123	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, You can see how he's trying to clear his mistakes here in front of the National Assembly. Honourable Congressman, Take a look at the signs, please. The government helped the new farmers, young farmers, by not requiring livestock to exist, for example, in the tender. The existence of livestock on the move is a condition that can be met. There is a two-year deadline for this, precisely to give land to people who have not otherwise been given the opportunity to farm before. I deny that so many producers would have been in difficulty here, because, as I said, many later won lands. And I would also like to remind you that there are about 10 to 15 cases here, but at the time, two years ago, hundreds of farmers protested alongside the government's land-use, land-owner's policy on Hortobágy, Member. Remember that, too. It's worth reading the whole story from the beginning, and I'm sure you'll see it more clearly. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. György Szilágyi: Let's have coffee...]]
u2016-05-17-124	Thank you very much, Minister. Dear Parliament, Member István Ikotity, representative of the LMP, notary of the Parliament, wants to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question:. What is the success in the operation of the round table for public education? It's an address. Mr. Minister has appointed Mr. Bence Rétvári as Secretary of State to respond to an urgent public task. I respectfully ask the Member if he accepts the person who is responding. [[Ikotity István nodds.]] Congressman says he'll take it. Congressman's got the floor, please.
u2016-05-17-125	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, Minister Zoltán Balog recently said that the first period of operation of the round table for public education was a success. Let us ask what kind of success it is when the government cannot put all the relevant actors involved in shaping education policy at the same table. He doesn't know, but he doesn't want to. With hundreds of communication and power tricks, he tries to share the characters in the background and remove the protest while, of course, he says he's waiting for everyone at the round table. Secretary of State, what success is it when important questions are decided over the head of the round table, often without asking the participants of the round table? Just one example: first they talked about the termination of the KLIK, you spoke about the elimination of the KLIK, then about the creation of 57 small KLIKs, then the model of total nationalization, and finally, Zoltán Balog referred to further negotiations on the change of the maintenance model. A decision is made, and then a whole new version is announced the next day. The draft budget for next year will continue to include the CLIK. What success is it when the steps announced by the Minister are, at most, replacement actions, half-solutions? Instead of restoring 200 billion forints annually missing from the operation of the school system, 77 billion was returned to the KLIK, which is called the surplus needed to carry out a balanced task with few euphemisms. Zoltán Balog also told us that a means of reducing the burden on students would be a minimum requirement, but they did not mention that age characteristics and XXI. The new basic curriculum will be needed as soon as possible, according to the needs of the 20th century. Instead, they subtract public knowledge from vocational schools. Dear House, What's the minister talking about? What kind of success are you talking about?
u2016-05-17-126	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Here you go.
u2016-05-17-127	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, The work of the first stage is clearly successful in the case of the round table of public education, since it created the possibility, confirmed the foundations that Hungarian youth is a XXI. Learn in a 100th century environment, receive modern knowledge, and have teachers participate in a system of continuous training adapted to changing circumstances that is in the interest of children, which is precisely to achieve the same level of knowledge. Not only children attending elite schools in Budapest or large settlements can expect to gain a certain knowledge, which will help them to thrive in the future, but also to provide it to all in smaller settlements and disadvantaged settlements in Hungary; more modern knowledge, with more modern tools, XXI. It's a model of the century. You mentioned three or four things, so let me disprove them one by one. On the one hand, he said that the government couldn't put the players in the sector at the same table. Tell me a character, honourable Member, who has not been invited by the government to the round table for public education. Whether parents' organisations, student organisations, educators' organisations, trade unions, faculty, higher education institutions, academics representatives, employers' representatives - everyone is invited by the government. Say in your rejoinder an organization we didn't invite. That they didn't show up because they wanted to question the legitimacy of the round table with their own absence? It's a different political battle, but the government's been calling everyone for the past few months. The decisions were made above the head of the round table. Today, the round table for public education is still in session, precisely so that in every decision you make, one or the other of the different models will take the vote and support it towards the government. Now you're saying that 200 billion forints is missing from the public education system. A few months ago, you said you were missing 100 billion forints, next year's budget amounts to 100 billion forints in surplus, and now suddenly you're demanding another 100 billion in public education. Looks like you guys would always give me 100 billion more. [[István Ikotity: That's true.]] We would be happy to give you up to 300 billion more, only you know that there is a certain framework for the budget, but progress and growth are continuous. I'll continue from here. Thank you very much.
u2016-05-17-128	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. István Ikotity, Member, notary, has the floor for a one-minute rejoinder. Here you go.
u2016-05-17-129	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, I would just like to give you one example of why anyone who has been invited by you is entitled to view this round table as frivolous. Secretary of State, for what happened exactly on 5 May, when your minister announced before the meeting of the Round Table on Public Education on 5 May what would happen. [[13.50]] Well, Mr. Secretary, what's frivolous if it's not? ! This round table meets every two weeks, not after a meeting with the minister, but two weeks later, before a next meeting. The minister will tell you in advance what's going to happen, and he won't even wait for the person he wants to talk to. Mr. Secretary, what you're doing with the public education round table is obviously just a tool to justify yourself. But some of the reminders of the round table of public education came into our hands, and this includes, for example, the aforementioned maintenance system, where the working group on school maintenance stated that it would like to have a greater role for municipalities. You're doing the opposite of that.
u2016-05-17-130	Thank you very much, Congressman. A one-minute rejoinder from the Secretary of State. Here you go.
u2016-05-17-131	Thank you very much for the floor. I'd like to record that you couldn't say an organization in your one-minute rejoinder that the government wouldn't invite to the public education round table. So you've admitted that more people are making a political circus out of them not leaving, but there was no one who wasn't invited. You've distorted me again, you said the Minister reported on 5 May. But what did you report? You forgot to tell me what was said at the government meeting about public education. Because we said that we would always firsthand inform the participants of the public education round table about the decisions that the government has made. Therefore, the meeting began with the fact that the minister, who attended the government meeting, went personally to the school principals, the teachers, and told them in person what government decisions had been made, and what additional tasks, what additional work stood before the round table. And don't use a figure of speech to get us a record. You know as well as I do that we will post the materials on the kormany.hu website in connection with the public education round table, and we will send them to all Hungarian schools through the internal public education IT system, because they are completely public. There is no need to use such vague, vague ....words in this matter. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2016-05-17-132	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Congressman János Pócs, representative of Fidesz, wishes to ask the Minister of Agriculture an immediate question: "Why is the windmill in Túrkeve not spinning? It's an address. Congressman János Pócs has the floor. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-05-17-133	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Minister, Dear House, It's a downpour, corruption, mushy, thief gang, and we can still brag about the quotes from opposition speeches in the last few months and years. If we were to make a summary, how many times and from whose mouth these terms have been spoken lately, our fellow Member Robert Benedek Sallai would certainly be in a prominent position. Of course, we know that no one is stinging with signs or actions when it comes to criticizing the government's work, it is such a genre, and we can also be glad that last year's ominous manure was not placed in the velvet chairs here by Congressman Róbert Sallai from Benedek's platoon. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: He might have had a better place.]] Dear Minister, But let's see how the opposition works in Jász-Nagykun-Szolnok County. As we know, earlier, our colleague from Sallai spent nearly HUF 20 million in applying money to renovate the Túrkeve mill. Dear Minister, This mill would have needed professional maintenance work, whereas nearly 20 million forints were spent, and the mill collapsed in this way. [[He's showing two pictures. Intercom from Jobbik: Forbidden Objection!]] ; as our fellow Member Robert Sallai says, for reasons beyond his understanding. The association and our fellow Member Sallai spread their hands, as if he were not responsible for the renovation. Dear Minister, The question arises: the public money, the responsible use of the tender money, is the responsibility of all of us. Dear Minister, Where's the cement from the collapsed mill? Where's the lime? And where is the investor and trustee's responsibility? The question arises: whose side was the windmill in Turkeve? I am also asking, Minister: if the LMP were to rise to power, would Hungary's rural policy collapse like this windmill? [[Interjection from Jobbik's ranks: Hold it upside down, turn it around. Anita: You're holding the picture wrong! A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2016-05-17-134	Congressman, I would like to point out that you have used an unannounced illustration. [[It's a rush from Jobbik's ranks.]] For which I warn you and remind you that at other times, if your speech requires an illustration, please report it. I now give the floor to Minister for two minutes. Here you go. Minister Sándor Fazekas has the floor.
u2016-05-17-135	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, This is a sad and unfortunate case, and I do not understand why the Members and ladies here are so cheerful, when a valuable monument building of the town of Túrkeve was destroyed, for which one of the associations there - the Nimfea Association, the president of which Róbert Sallai Benedek - was responsible for trust rights, for which he took out tender money, and which was a serious treasure for the city, or at least a serious treasure. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: Insubordination!]] I think we need a more serious approach to the work of our representatives, to the values of Túrkeve, to this problem of the town of Túrkeve at all. This is not a matter of the Rules of the House, honourable Members and ladies, because, by the way, it is a question of whether a Member of the LMP or the organisation he manages used EU funds, which are indeed limited in quantity. This mill collapsed after the renovation, with the use of HUF 15 million by Róbert Benedek Sallai and the Nimfea Association he led for the renovation. The mill's gone, it's collapsed. The question is right, where is Róbert Benedek Sallai, the brave country developer, who will never cease to whip the government's rural development policy. [[Z. Kárpát Dániel: Sallai R. Benedek works in what ministry?]] Why is he hiding behind a five - year - old maintenance obligation that no longer has any responsibility? Did they think that after five years, this mill would disappear? And what kind of rural development work is this? Róbert Sallai Benedek continues to abuse the government's rural development policy, but at the same time he can be seen at what level he does his own business. He's done damage to the city that, I think, is very difficult to repair. So you have to account for every forint, every penny, with these tender money. I am convinced that this construction was a hoax, that the monument was destroyed, and that must be answered. [[György Szilágyi: The lease contracts are fine! A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2016-05-17-136	Thank you very much, Minister. A one-minute rejoinder from Congressman János Pócs. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-05-17-137	Minister, thank you for your reply, and I would also like to inform you that Mr Róbert Sallai has taken the liberty of texting on Facebook at these moments, but he has not come to Parliament at this item on the agenda. Ladies and gentlemen, I think it is clear to all of us which stage the opposition is throwing manure at the government for its work for Hungary. It can be seen that in addition to the outrageous cases of the representatives of the socialist, liberal and far-right parties, the LMP now carried a scandal. The MSZP and Jobbik earned inexhaustible merit in various scams, let's see the amount of subway 4 in social pockets , as well as the extreme right-wing schizophrenic action organizing doctors abroad. Ladies and gentlemen, We have to admit, the LMP's career begins with a small party, a little scandal. We hope that the Ministry will take appropriate action on this matter. Thank you, Mr. President. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2016-05-17-138	Thank you very much, Congressman. A one-minute rejoinder, Minister. Here you go, Minister.
u2016-05-17-139	Dear Parliament, Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Dear Interrogators, I think this case deserves a little more serious than that. [[György Szilágyi: Well, in this comment indeed!]] Yeah, he deserves more seriousness. I can see that LMP and Jobbik are in full agreement. [[Dr. Gábor Staudt: You're pathetic!]] Right now, we're all here on this case. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: Very weak, Minister!]] We need to look at all the money that has been spent illegally on rural development. In this case, too, the MVH initiated the investigation, there was a report, and I am confident that these investigations will clarify where 16 million forints were lost, that they have caused an irreparable damage to a city value that will certainly be repaired by years of work. Róbert Benedek Sallai must be accounted for and the use of this tender money by his association. [[György Sziagágyi: The Bitay, the Butcher Lawrence and all your friends!]] They need to rebuild this mill to restore this city's value. It seems that Róbert Benedek Sallai was primarily interested in tender money, not in the work he did in a sloppy way. Thank you. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2016-05-17-140	Thank you very much, Minister. György Szilágyi, Congressman, don't be offended if I warn you. [[György Szilágyi: Right, Mr President!]] Dear Parliament, Congressman László Szakács, representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Attorney General an immediate question: When will the first trial be held in the Quaestor case? It's an address. Congressman László Kács has the floor, please.
u2016-05-17-141	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Attorney General, There is a great public interest in the failure of the prosecution and the court in the Quaestor case through each other's arguments as to why or why this prosecution cannot be initiated. Is there an accusation that has been brought before the court that the prosecution can begin itself? [[14.00]] I believe that the unfortunate death of Mr. Prosecutor has not helped us in the last week, which we have heard several times that this will not, in any case, hinder this matter, but you have actually said to everything that you have said so far that you will not hinder this case, and you will discover it with tremendous efficiency and terrible speed, and so far everything has been holding it back. I believe that the very unfortunate death of Mr Prosecutor will also have an impact on this, and I also believe that it will be affected by the fact that the prosecution will finally be able to draw up an indictment that will enable the court to begin the trial. It is very important here, Mr. Attorney General, to point out that it is not your opinion that the prosecution believes that the indictment is correct, but that the court considers that the indictment is correct. Did you like to settle, and when will the court set the date of the first trial? Two more specific questions: Attorney General Tibor Ibolya said that there were 11 VIP clients who held sovereign debt in this company, but received cash back because they were afraid of the scandal. I'm asking if there's a government player, if there's a government player or any of his backup institutions or companies that could get cash back. And my next question is, Csaba Tarsoly said that because of the Buda-Cash situation, billions of deposits have disappeared in the last few days. Who they are, because they certainly weren't the small investors. Does the investigation cover this? Thank you very much for your attention.
u2016-05-17-142	Thank you very much, Congressman. To answer, I give the floor to the Attorney General Peter Polt, whom I respectfully welcome. Here you go.
u2016-05-17-143	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Honourable Congressman, In the Quaestor case you mentioned, an extremely conscientious and swift investigation was carried out, resulting in an indictment filed in January of this year, and it was submitted to the court. I would add that you mentioned it, and the memory of the deceased colleague requires me to say here too, that Mr. Group Chief Prosecutor has done a very conscientious and very excellent job in this case, and that during the last period of his life, he has been extremely offended by the baseless slanders that affected the prosecution's indictment and previous work. I had to tell you this in his memory. As for the sequel, there was, indeed, and there is a professional disagreement between the prosecution and the court. I gotta tell you, the prosecution's legit. No one's arguing that. The prosecution's in law school right now, prep school. The court issued an order against which there is no legal remedy. Accordingly, if the D.A. has complied with this order, it has already partially complied with it, the correction of the deficiency will take place by the deadline, and there will be no obstacle to the court, which has jurisdiction to negotiate, to do so as soon as possible. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-05-17-144	Thank you very much, Mr. Attorney General. A one-minute rejoinder is the word of Congressman László Szakács. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-05-17-145	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Attorney General, I have received a reassuring reply; although so far the head of the Metropolitan Attorney General, Dr. Tibor Ibolya, has said the exact opposite, but I believe you, there will be a deadline for filling the gap, and the court will be able to set a trial date. I am very sorry about the death of prosecutor, just as I regret the death of the victim who committed suicide because of what happened in this case, and now the family needs to sue to get something at all. But I had two very specific questions, and I would ask Mr. Attorney General to answer those questions. Who was the 11 VIP clients? Were there any government players who held sovereign debt there and received cash back? By "government," I mean the government company. Or Csaba Tarsoly's statement, that billions of deposits were missing in the Buda-Cash situation - who could have taken out their money at the last minute, whether the investigation covered it? Thank you very much for your attention.
u2016-05-17-146	Thank you very much, Congressman. A one-minute rejoinder, Mr. Attorney General. Here you go.
u2016-05-17-147	Thank you very much. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, It's just that the indictment itself covers over 1,500 pages, a lot of events, data, fact. I would like to say that, unfortunately, although I think this is happening under the law, it is not done by the Attorney General, nor does he represent the case in the specific case. Therefore, I cannot answer the two questions that have now been removed from the 1500 pages, but, of course, as this has been said here in Parliament's walls, you will receive this question, if it can be answered, the answer in writing, as we will have all the questions answered, and I am sure that criminal liability will also take place at the end of this matter. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-05-17-148	Thank you very much, Mr. Attorney General. Dear Parliament, Congressman Lajos Kepli, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Prime Minister's Minister's immediate question: for what reason did Csányi's 16 billion-dollar rubber burner, forced to Kaposvár, become a priority investment? It's an address. Congressman Lajos Kepli has the floor, please.
u2016-05-17-149	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister, On April 1, Károly Szita, mayor of Kaposvár announced that the rubber waste recovery facility that had already been looted from Százhalombatta will be implemented in Kaposvár. Unfortunately, it turned out that this wasn't a April joke, because last Friday the government decree that you declared this investment to be a major business of the national economy, despite the fact that since the announcement there has been a constant protest from the local population, because they are afraid of the environmental effects of this facility, afraid of the political will to force on Kaposvár city's neck the investment that had already been rejected by Százhalombatta. To date, the investor has not been able to prove to be credible that it is an economically sound, profitable investment from an economic point of view and that it does not pose any security risks to the people living in the area or to the people living in the area. For this reason, the local civilian population and the local opposition political forces have been united. It is clear that this is a political decision, but we do not understand why an investment that is considered to be of national importance is an investment that does not create a large number of jobs, does not offer great economic benefits, has already been rejected in several municipalities, and there is also a much more environmentally friendly way of recycling tyre waste. I hope that you have consulted the Minister for the Environment over the last few minutes and will be able to give me a meaningful answer on why he has become a priority investment in the national economy, all of which can provide a reassuring answer that the local population is not in danger, because you will hopefully not make this investment, at least if you ask the local population and they are able to express their opinion, then there will certainly be nothing from this investment. I'm waiting for your answer. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-05-17-150	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Minister János Lázár. Here you go, Minister.
u2016-05-17-151	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The investment that can be made in the territory of a local government is, I believe, a decisive influence of two actors. One is obviously the residential community in the settlement, the voters living there and the Hungarian state. The body of representatives representing the voters of Kaposvár in a legitimate form since autumn 2014, if I quote correctly, took a decision in 2016, which was a decision of the body of representatives, a decision by the majority body of representatives to give place to the investment, i.e. in the city of Kaposvár, on 27 April 2016 at 55/2016. The decision was taken by decision of the General Assembly No.3 by those who represent the electorate in Kaposvár as a result of a democratic election that this investment is necessary. According to the rules of democracy, we have no right and no opportunity to question this decision. The State must ensure that the investment itself is carried out in accordance with the existing Hungarian and European environmental rules and construction rules. During the authorisation procedure, we will comply with all laws and, of course, during the authorisation procedure, stakeholders will be involved as customers in the authorisation procedure, as will be the case for each such investment. In the context of an obvious public observation of this size, as you have just stated, the use of experts to conduct the proceedings cannot fail, and in the framework of the procedure we can examine precisely the impact of an investment on the environment, the human environment and the built environment. [[14.10]] I do not recommend that the decision of the Kaposvár body of representatives be questioned by the Hungarian Parliament in any form. I do not suggest that we withdraw from the city of Kaposvár the right to make a HUF 16.2 billion investment in the city of Kaposvár, but it is possible to create a 50 to 100 people working investment. The procedure declared as a priority means that the government commissioner directly supervises the case. I think, if it's a matter of such a high priority, which people are so interested in, it's better that the government commissioner has the authorization procedure in hand. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2016-05-17-152	Thank you very much, Minister. It's a one-minute rejoinder, Congressman. Here you go.
u2016-05-17-153	Thank you very much. Dear Minister, I do not recall that in 2014 in the election campaign Mayor Károly Szita campaigned to bring such an establishment to Kaposvár. So, as a legitimate source, I think that the locals would have chosen the body of representatives, the majority-fidesz body of representatives, with this knowledge, is not entirely correct. On the other hand, the declaration of priority national economy and investment means that the procedure is simplified from certain points of view, it can be avoided by the public's comments, and that you have appointed the government commissioner of the Pest County Government Office, Richárd Tarnai, as responsible in this government decision, also means that you want to move this matter further away from the locals. I agree that the city of Kaposvár is the only authority to decide whether or not they would like to have such an establishment, but not the representative body of Kaposvár, but the population of Kaposvár. So in this case, by declaring it a major investment in the national economy, you have taken another instrument out of your hands, even though we believe that the public should be asked by means of a local referendum. This is the only legitimate way that this facility will be implemented. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2016-05-17-154	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr. Secretary will take the floor for a moment. Here you go, Minister.
u2016-05-17-155	Thank you very much. According to the rules of the Fundamental Law and democracy, local popular will is expressed by the local body of representatives. This means that if in Ozdon and Tapolca or Szeged and Salgótarján the body of representatives and the mayor makes a decision, the executive authority or Parliament has no right to question it. The body of representatives of Kaposvár has made a decision. If this decision was wrong, the consequences will have to be borne by the Kaposvár council and mayor. To make it a priority, I'm convinced it's more guarantees, let alone less. None of the elements of the procedure are missing, but the procedural deadlines are speeding up, because I think it is in the best interests of all of us in the city of Kaposvár to ensure that this issue is met in a satisfactory manner from the point of view of the investor and of the population. Surely there is a solution that will match both sides, because it is in our interest that the economy in Kaposvár and in the country should grow and jobs, while, of course, protecting the human environment and the natural environment. I can guarantee you that the government will pay particular attention to the authorisation procedure and that everyone's rights can be exercised in the proceedings. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2016-05-17-156	Thank you very much, Minister. Dear Parliament, Congressman Mátyás Firtl, representative of KDNP, wants to ask the Minister for National Development an immediate question: - Where are we with the preparations for the water world next year? It's an address. The Minister has appointed Mr János Fónagy Secretary of State to respond to an urgent public task. I respectfully ask the Member if he accepts the person who is responding. [[On Mátyás Firtl's mark:]] Congressman says he'll take it. Congressman Mátyás Firtl has the floor. Here you go.
u2016-05-17-157	Dear Secretary of State, We count water sports among our most successful sports and, as we know, next year, in the second half of July, Budapest and Balatonfüred will host the FINA World Water Championship, which is extremely important both because of the promotion of sport and because of the assessment of our Olympic competition. Dear Secretary of State, We hear from the news that the development of the facilities is progressing at a good pace, and there is hope that before the deadline all the demands can be met by locations that await the Hungarian and foreign contestants of the water sports. Here I would like to draw the attention of my fellow Members to the importance of the site in Balaton. In addition to Budapest, the whole Balaton region can benefit from the event, not only from visiting fans, but also from the advertising value that the lake receives by showing our natural, cultural and tourist values in addition to sports. In Budapest, the event needs to be organised at the appropriate level, the construction programmes must be implemented in a flawless manner, and the competitions must be conducted in a professional manner. It is very important that these investments can benefit not only for themselves, not only as a venue for competitions, but also later on, but also in the long term, from the long-term benefit of a child who knows sports, an elderly person who is a sports-loving adult and who wants to maintain physical-spiritual freshness. Since such an international event will attract hundreds of thousands of guests, we must also count on the challenge of tourism, the provision of accommodation, the appropriate additional programmes will be a long-term investment not only for the two cities but also for the whole country. On this basis, I would like to ask Mr Secretary of State what steps the government has taken so far and will take in the future in order to ensure the successful conduct of this large-scale event, what special developments, specific locations and advertising elements can increase the international success of the event. I look forward to your reply, Secretary of State. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2016-05-17-158	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary of State János Fónagy. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2016-05-17-159	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Dear fellow Member, Hungary's original World Swimming Championship in 2021 signed up after the resignation of the former director in the 17th century. to organise a world competition in the field of science. We therefore need to complete the infrastructure and other conditions necessary for the successful conduct of the international sporting event in record time. In the light of this, in particular, it is a significant success that the preparations for the event are proceeding at an excellent pace with the coordination and control of the Minister of National Development, as Commissioner for Government and the Chair of the Organising Committee, according to the planned timetable. The central location of the World Championship, the construction work of the new high tide swimming centre, is well under way according to the timetable, and the technical readiness of the base building is currently at approximately 34-35 percent. Anyone who's around the Árpád bridge, by the way, can see that. The complex will be completed by the end of March 2017. The related sports facilities and transport developments in the capital are also being prepared according to the pace. These investments will also be completed by spring 2017 and the target for temporary installations will be June next year. Among other things, the swimming pools for preparation, the Alfréd Hajós National Sports Spa in Margitsziget, the Széchy Tamás Swimming Pool, the Császár-Komjadi and the swimming pool in Balatonfüred are renewed. According to the decision of the organising committee, the Danube section in front of the Castle Garden Bazaar will be the opening, the temporary swimming pool on the Lake City Park, and the closing ceremony, while the Danube bank against Parliament will be the site of the giant tower jump. Thanks to the television broadcasts, the three most attractive faces of Budapest, as well as the capital of Lake Balaton, get a proper and worthy appearance. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2016-05-17-160	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. It's a one-minute rejoinder, Congressman. Here you go.
u2016-05-17-161	Thank you for your reply, Secretary of State. Indeed, as you said, it will not only increase the sport-loving population, but also tourism, as tourism can be a driving sector in the coming time as its main objective. In addition, in the spirit of preparing for the Olympics, this successful, fast-paced development really shows that the Hungarian economy, the Hungarian construction industry, is able to implement all the ideas it has set as an objective in such a short time. I believe that what we have done in the field of sport in recent years highlights that, indeed, Hungary is not only worthy of being a successful host of the Olympic event, but also of future developments, as it will be the host of this World Water Championship. I also hope that these improvements will indeed serve the interests of both the Balaton region and Budapest and the country. Thank you very much for your reply once again. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2016-05-17-162	Thank you very much, Congressman. János Fónagy, Secretary of State, has the floor for a one-minute rejoinder. Here you go.
u2016-05-17-163	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, I speak to all of them, not just to raise the question.In 2017, Budapest will be the world's sports capital. The government is planning to organise one of the largest and most spectacular World Water Championships of all time. We are dealing with the huge task with the challenge of seriousness, and we are asking each of you to do so. Specific implementation and planning tasks corresponding to the preparatory period are underway in all areas. [[14.20]] We would like to show the world the talented Hungary, which is rapidly developing and growing by its own power, so that the worldwide sporting event is considered to be the home audience, the nation's own. The stakes are high, as a successful event can serve as a more convincing reference when assessing Budapest's 2024 Olympic competition. I call on my fellow Members to support the Government's efforts accordingly. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-05-17-164	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I respectfully ask Minister to take his place, because you will be addressed. [[János Lázár: I apologize.]] Dear Parliament, Congresswoman Erzsébet Schmuck, representative of the LMP, wishes to ask the Prime Minister's Minister's Office an immediate question:. Why did we become net contributors? It's an address. Congresswoman Erzsébet Schmuck has the floor. Here you go.
u2016-05-17-165	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister, A recent research has clearly demonstrated that the Hungarian government is very generous in supporting foreign-owned multinational companies from the EU funds at its disposal. A study carried out by one of the major international audit firms examined the effectiveness of business development aid in eight Member States. According to the results, in the eight countries, on average, 21 percent of the subsidies were available to foreign multi-enterprises, while in Hungary this rate was very high, 66 percent. This is another proof that the government's unorthodox economic policy is in fact nothing different from that of the previous governments, and the Orbán government makes Hungary only a assembly plant for foreign multinational companies. Our country's competitiveness is based on a cheap workforce compared to its quality, and they have created a business environment that makes the country attractive to foreign multinationals. This is why employees' rights have been shattered, and that is why workers' wages are kept low, so they enter into strategic agreements and give five or ten times as much support to multi-enterprises as to Hungarian SMEs, which is why they also give a large part of EU funds to foreign multi-enterprises. In light of this, it is understandable, Minister, why you have repeatedly claimed that Hungary is the net contributor of the Union. You obviously know exactly how to use EU funds, so you probably know for a long time that most of the money is given to foreign companies instead of Hungarian small and large companies. Dear Minister, What does the government do to ensure that Hungarian businesses do not suffer a disadvantage in Hungary in the competition for subsidies? When are you going to realize that economic policy based on the service of foreign multi-company companies is a dead end, which will not get Hungary out of the crisis?
u2016-05-17-166	Thank you, Congresswoman. The question will be answered by Minister János Lázár.
u2016-05-17-167	Thank you very much. First of all, I apologise to Mr President for warning me before, and, on the other hand, I thank my fellow Member for his question, which is once again not a two-minute question and not a two-minute response. I note here that we intend to report four reports on the use of European Union funds to our Members of Parliament and we regularly launch two parliamentary debates each year in the next period. I would like to tell you that, of course, it is also an approach that you are applying. I think that the issue of balance and proportion is the main question: what is the multinational capital in Hungary, and what support can we provide for the small and medium-sized enterprise sector in terms of competitiveness? I think it is a talkative issue that 16 percent of SMEs have made progress in the EU's development cycle 2007-2013. Now the SME receives 60% of the economic resources, so 60% of the entire EU register is allocated to small and medium-sized enterprises and 16 percent between 2007 and 2013. It is also a talkative number, if you look at R &amp; D and innovation resources, then the decisive part of this has come to large companies, in the interests that you have mentioned, even if the European Commission has approved it. Obviously, there are a number of questions about the social impact of these large companies. I believe that Hungary cannot be the strongest economy in Central Europe without foreign investment, and without foreign production and industrial investment, which do have an impact on Hungarian technical culture, higher education, labour force, research, development, innovation, as well as ability to pay taxes and skills, and then also on Hungarian economic growth, and are a key part of GDP as well as Hungarian exports. The question is how big the Hungarian SME is compared to this. After the change of regime, in 20 years the large Hungarian large industrial and capital network was not established that could integrate the Hungarian SME. Today, the reality is that Hungarian SMEs are integrated by large companies in foreign interests. Balance must be maintained by the current regulator, Parliament and the government. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-05-17-168	Thank you very much, Minister. A one-minute rejoinder from Congresswoman Erzsébet Schmuck. Here you go.
u2016-05-17-169	Thank you very much. Minister, we agree perfectly that the issue of proportion is the main issue here. It is also a fact that according to this study, foreign-owned multinational companies took 66 percent of the subsidies. Minister, you promise me that you will be the other way around at this stage. The question is whether this can be achieved at all. I don't think it's possible to create a completely reversed ratio from one moment to the next. Obviously, there are degrees in this, but we don't see intent at this stage. The change would also be important, because it is also a fact that today the Hungarian economic growth performance is threefold: it consists of the performance of multinational companies, the EU's support and the return money of those working abroad. What we see is how vulnerable an economy so low on its feet is. This is very well demonstrated by the quarterly GDP growth and the absence of GDP growth, the 0.8-0.9 percent instead of 2.5 percent. We need to make a difference.
u2016-05-17-170	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. A one-minute rejoinder is given to Minister János Lázár. Here you go, Minister.
u2016-05-17-171	According to our agreement with the European Commission and the European Union, 60% of the available resources will have to be paid, issued, distributed to small and medium-sized enterprises by 2020 in this development period, and the large business community is essentially excluded from EU funding. They are constantly complaining about not having access to EU funds. We believe that this is a priority opportunity for the Hungarian economy, and I do not say that the last opportunity, but that arrived at the 22nd hour, is to create a strong small and medium-sized enterprise, Hungarian-owned, family-owned corporate sector in Hungary, to strengthen and be decisive, not only in employment, but also in economic productivity, which may be the pillar of the Hungarian economy, catching up with the aspects that you mentioned. I hope that with the dialogues that we are initiating with the opposition and Parliament, I can prove to you that the government intends to change the direction of EU funds and state aid. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-05-17-172	Thank you very much, Minister. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, Member László Teleki, representative of the MSZP, wants to ask the Minister of the Prime Minister's Office an immediate question: what happened with HUF 1.6 billion at the National Roma Municipality? It's an address. Congressman László Teleki has the floor. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-05-17-173	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Minister, Dear Parliament, I asked this question to Minister Lazarus because I expect a correct answer from him. For a year and a half, scandals can be heard every day about the National Roma Municipality and Flórian Farkas. The media this weekend and today were talking about a private meeting with Flórian Farkas' recording leaked, who said that if they didn't come, you guys wouldn't be sitting here in jail. Then he goes on to record 18 and 20 million HUF from Flórian Farkas, who can be heard. This is the second such recording, after which there is still no echo. Where is the HUF 1.6 billion demanded by the national government? What did they spend it on? How can you benefit from increasing the equal opportunities of Roma in Hungary? These are my questions. But I'd like to go back to the few sentences I just said, and what you can read in today's press: how much longer can you protect Florian Farkas? Do you think that if Flórian Farkas knows something about who took money out of 1.6 billion or others that were not used, it could be called abetting, an abuse of office, or what? According to my values, I think that if someone is a prime minister, it is in any event responsible for public wealth. From now on, there can be no question that if you knew of a crime involving money, you, any member of the government, or the Prime Minister, should have indicated that something had happened here, or that the authorities should have been informed. As a result, I would, of course, have further questions, because it cannot stop here. By the way, you can't say what you said at a press conference that we're attacking Florian Farkas because he's a Roma person. [[14.30]] No, that's not why I'm attacking you. I'm asking you whether a man is important to the government, or whether he wants to rebuild the public confidence of 800,000 people or not. Thank you very much.
u2016-05-17-174	Thank you very much, Congressman. The answer will be given by Minister János Lázár. Here you go, Minister.
u2016-05-17-175	Thank you very much. Your Honour, my fellow Member. Appreciating your speech and your work so far, I can only offer you the attention that I hope you have experienced, perceive, and know precisely that with Minister Zoltán Balog, the Ministry of Human Resources is committed to creating equal opportunities in the matter of national catch-up. This is recognized everywhere in the world. We are doing everything we can to ensure that our disadvantaged or cumulative underprivileged fellow citizens are able to catch up. This is precisely why I think it is a very big problem that, for a year now, our disadvantaged fellow citizens, whether the Roma community or the Gypsies in Hungary, have been in trouble, where the various political sides are collapsing, and I believe it is an opportunity for the forces against the Roma in Hungary to take advantage of this situation and create an opportunity to put the issue of catching up and integration at a disadvantage. Because the internal debate is the most serious problem in my opinion, which is typical of this case. That is why I have also asked my fellow Members from the LMP to hear you and my fellow Members from the better, fair procedure and patience to understand and understand this issue. Because if the legislator, the legislator, the executive power or the financier does not have sufficient generosity as regards the catch-up programmes, and there is no empathy, then they will never be realized. Therefore, it is necessary to be able not only to blow up the irregularity but also to remedy it. I believe that the Ministry of Human Resources has made a fair suggestion when it approved a deadline amendment to grant a partial discount on the repayment of the amounts which were otherwise unquestionedly incorrectly used. There is a criminal procedure in progress, the programme's irregularity procedure is a public report, which is accessible and I am happy to send it to you, and I will also provide you with an insight into the Secretary-General of State for EU funds to look at the investigations and irregularities that we have conducted. But naming the problem or pointing out the problem alone will not solve the problem, because nevertheless, these resources are very much needed in the matter of catching up. And the case itself is at a disadvantage due to the prosecution of the case.
u2016-05-17-176	Thank you very much, Minister. A one-minute rejoinder from Congressman László Teleki. Here you go.
u2016-05-17-177	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Minister, Thank you very much for your reply. I think we'll talk side by side when we talk about Flórian Farkas or the case. [[Mihály Balla: You don't understand.]] I clearly raise as a professional question where the eradication of the Roma colony or the prevention of health when it is necessary. But that's not what this is about. It's about whether or not Flórian Farkas is accomplicing with this act that the media here describes today or the last day, because it is in my order of values. Believe me, the work you or Zoltán Balog are investing in Roma integration will be lost. When I say that one person is being protected or that 800,000 people are being released, it is about whether you can rebuild public confidence towards the Roma in Hungary. Because if they can't rebuild public confidence, which, by the way, has been destroyed in the last year and a half by the National Roma Municipality, Flória Farkas, then even if money is invested in it, that money will be lost. Therefore, it is important for you to now have a say in this matter, and not only to say that Flórián Farkas is an important person to this government, but also to say that Gypsyism in Hungary is important to Hungary and the government. Thank you very much. [[A rare applause in the ranks of the MSZP.]]
u2016-05-17-178	Thank you very much, Congressman. A one-minute rejoinder is also due to Minister János Lázár. Here you go.
u2016-05-17-179	Thank you very much. As I recall, our fellow Member was in a government position or an ex-government assignment. You know very well that the consideration of a question at the ministerial level of the executive power is not so simple, and one must insist on a fair and just procedure to the extreme. I think that questioning the procedure, work or quality of work of Flórian Farkas by the opposition out of political conviction and motivation is not equal to the truth. Fortunately, it is not the government's job to clarify the truth, not even the Parliament's, but the prosecution's and law enforcement. There have been a number of complaints in these cases, the grounding of justice, and the grounding of crimes. In this, I hope the D.A.'s office and the police will come clean, because that would be in our best interest. I think that it is not worth questioning the legitimacy of those actors who are trying to help either the left or the right in this matter. Because I always have the secondary impression, of course they are not flawless, who work on these projects on your side or on our side, but I always get the impression that they are also trying to take advantage of the disadvantages of being a Roma, and they are also trying to take advantage of their weakness. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-05-17-180	Thank you very much, Minister. Dear Parliament, It's 2:35 p.m., and we're at the end of the immediate questions. It is now possible for me to address Mrs Schmuck Erzsébet in order of business. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2016-05-17-181	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Given that the institution of immediate questions is a genre of government accountability and not of the opposition, I would therefore like to object to the comments made by János Pócs on behalf of the LMP faction to the discrediting of my fellow Member, Róbert Sallai, Minister Fazekas. We find that the majority of governments are using this more and more, but the genre of immediate questions, even if our fellow Member is here, does not give them the opportunity to speak against slander. For the sake of fairness, I suppose it is fair to say that Róbert Sallai Benedictes did not receive support for the preservation of the state, which basically caused this windmill to collapse. [[It's a rare round of applause in the opposition benches.]]
u2016-05-17-182	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Congresswoman! The fundamental problem is that the person to whom the question is addressed is in the first place able to reject the immediate question or any question. It is clear, of course, that the President-in-Office of the Council may withdraw, but I would also like to warn all the president-in-Office that, in any situation, when it is not so clear about house violations, he withdraws the floor. Otherwise, on this issue, Madam Congresswoman, your group leader has spoken here in Parliament once, and I couldn't say anything other than what I'm about to say. I would just like to say that the Member could also say this because the LMP faction, during my inquiry, did not ask for a rescue from today's absence. So, if, if, if, in the case of Congressman Sallai R. Benedek, you had the same right now, you would have had the opportunity to answer that. But with all due respect, I suggest that the interpretation of this point, this is Article 91 of the Rules of the House. Article 4a of the Rules of Procedure, refer to the Commission for a broader interpretation of this which cannot be undertaken by the chairman. Thank you very much. Now, let's move on to the debates. Dear Parliament, The year XXXIII of 2015 on the development of facilities for the implementation of the World Swimming, Waterball, Jumping, Swimming and Open Water Championships in Budapest. General discussion of the bill amending the law until closure. The submission submitted by our Fidesz colleagues Lajos Kósa, Erik Bánki and Sándor Hadházy T/10535. The information document of the State Audit Office is available to all on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr Bánki, the rapporteur of the item, on behalf of the rapporteur, in a 30-minute time frame. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-05-17-183	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, You have before you the bill on amendments to the legislation relating to the development of facilities for the implementation of the World Swimming, Waterball, Jumping, Swimming and Open Water Championships in Budapest. Ladies and gentlemen, We have already discussed a bill between the walls of this House, which has since been adopted with a large majority of support, which has enabled the investment to start at such a fast and fast rate that it will give us the opportunity and opportunity to produce a good quality, quality, despite the limited time frame, and Hungary will be able to organise a world event on an historic scale. According to the decision of the International Swimming Association, Budapest was the first to gain the opportunity to host the 2021 World Championship, which was also a huge word in case we know that Hungary has not organised a world event of this size in its history. Meanwhile, the city of Guadalajara in Mexico withdrew from the 2017 World Swimming, Waterball, Jumping, Swimming and Open Water Championships for financial reasons. FINA, the International Swimming Federation, has asked Budapest to apply for this 2017 World Championship, and if it sees that within this short period of time, which will otherwise be a European record, and perhaps even a world record, it will be able to host this event at an appropriate level. [[14.40]] Of course, with the support of the Hungarian Parliament, the Hungarian Government also decided not to miss such an opportunity. I think that we have made a good decision, but we have before us stages of investment with tight deadlines and then preparation, which can only be achieved if there is a real, effective cooperation between the parliamentary parties. On 24 February 2016, the Government discussed and agreed to proposals for the implementation of the World Championship in Budapest and Balatonfüred, as well as for the implementation of certain water sports infrastructure and certain urban infrastructure developments. The government also decided to finance individual project elements. This proposal contains amendments to the legislation necessary for the successful implementation of these improvements. In order to achieve and contribute to the successful organisation of the planned and launched project elements by the date of the World Championship, it is necessary for all participants to work hard. I am thinking not only of the contractors, but also of us politicians, whose responsibility is to create a legislative environment that allows us to make a successful investment of this size in Hungary at such record speed, thus proving Hungary's ability to deal with such unexpected situations, to prepare for such a world championship in less than two years, and to prepare and build the facilities needed for successful settlement. Let us not forget, fellow Members, that the Municipality of Budapest, the Hungarian Olympic Committee and the Hungarian Parliament have jointly decided to support the government by submitting a tender for the 33rd summer Olympic Games in 2024 and the 17th Paralympic Games. Budapest would like to host this outstanding event, which is the world's largest sporting event. It is very important to stress that the World Swimming Championship, which will take place in the summer of 2017, is the last major event that will be held before the International Olympic Committee's Congress in Lima, which will take place on 15 September 2017, offering a demonstration of Hungary's readiness for the Olympics, as almost all the delegates of the International Olympic Committee will arrive at the World Swimming Championship. Remember, the last time in Kazan, the World Championship, more than 200 countries registered and launched the FINA World Swimming Championship. Therefore, for the purposes of Budapest's application and for its success, it is of particular importance that, in addition to the existing facilities, the central facilities of the World Championship, the new high-speed centre and the renovated World Championship venue-serving swimming pools, as well as other transport and social infrastructure that assist the organisation, as well as the ability of Hungary to organise a high-quality and high-quality World Championship. At the same time, it is important to note that the NOB members voting in Lima, as I have just mentioned, are almost without exception in Budapest at this time, where we can show not only our preparedness, but also the quality of our sports facilities, but also that Budapest is an attractive city, a city that can not only host an Olympics, but also make that global competition memorable. The bill, which lies before you, my fellow Members, designates the builder of the investments and renovation activities necessary for the organisation of the World Cup and related to it, simultaneously empowers the government to define the builder for each installation by regulation. Let's look at the details of the bill before you. Since the World Championship is organized not only by Budapest but also by Budapest and Balatonfüred, it is very important for Balatonfüred to have outstanding developments in addition to the developments in Budapest. Not to mention that if you look at Hungary's tourism, the two most important locations for tourism are Budapest and Lake Balaton, which registers four fifths of foreign arrivals. From the point of view of country image, it is therefore essential that improvements be made in Lake Balaton to facilitate the settlement of a high-quality World Championship. Such are the renovation of the station building, the completion of the old building renovation project already started, and its expansion and addition. At the same time, it is very important to build a parking lot with a high capacity. It would be important for the participants of the World Cup to have a higher level of comfort, so we must be able to achieve the quality of the development in Balatonfüred not only by increasing quality, but also by completing timely investments in time. Budapest Airport Zrt. would also be developed at Liszt Ferenc International Airport. Construction of terminal 2B's new passenger traffic pier, which aims to improve the area of departure. The 15 new gates will be flexibly used for the service of standing places near the building, for bus transport and for foot-and-walking. The investment improves the image of the airport in Budapest, as the treatment of non- Schengen travellers is currently taking place in a steel frame hall in the foreground, which is used to replace the comfort of passengers and other stakeholders with this planned pier, to raise and increase the image of the airport and therefore Budapest. In addition, in connection with the World Championship, the Municipality of Metropolitan City will perform the renovation of road and sidewalk coverings in the section between Róbert Károly körút, Váci út and Árpád bridge. Váci út and XIV. cycling infrastructure will be developed in the section between the district boundary. Within the framework of the project, road bridges above Esztergom út and over Népfürdő utca will also be renovated and completed. The BVSC swimming pool, the Császár-Komjad swimming pool and the Alfréd Hajós National Sports Swimming Pool would be renovated and further developed, thus providing an excellent opportunity for our competitors to prepare for the event, and during the World Championship they could be training venues that will help the contestants to prepare for their arrival. The Government's further plans include that if, for any reason, the settlement of the competition at all World Championships would be impossible, it should instead designate a different location and lay down the specific local and spatial planning rules to be applied in this respect, in order to meet the specific requirements of the development of facilities. At the same time, it is important to note that despite the limited time frame, the preparations for the water world are progressing very well. The builders are about six weeks ahead of the current schedule, so they finished and installed the roof on the tide swimming arena earlier, but the other organizational and implementation work is also taking place at an appropriate pace. Semmelweis University is waiting for applicants for the 600-person medical volunteer team, which is expected to stand up in full by the end of the year. The staff is expecting 200 volunteers, and the others are expected to be cooperative partners who can solve all problems during the World Championship. During the World Championship, the High Speed Swimming Arena will be a facility suitable for 15,000 spectators, which will continue to operate in a modified system with a fixed bleachers of 5,000 persons after the World Championship. After the World Championship, the swimming pool also provides opportunities for mass education for preschoolers and schoolchildren, so it can serve not only competition, but also leisure sports and educational purposes. With all this in mind, we can safely say that we are on the verge of a historic opportunity to host the 2017 World Swimming Championship to show the world what we are capable of. I am asking my fellow Members, understanding their concerns, their concerns expressed during the debate on the adoption of the previous bill, but I am asking you to be understanding and cooperative, because this is the only way we can prepare, implement and carry out such an event in such a short time to the satisfaction of the participating countries and competitors, the viewers. I think that together we can achieve a very great success. To do this, I would ask my fellow Members to support the bill before you. Thank you very much for your attention, Mr President. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-05-17-184	Thank you very much, Congressman. I will ask Mr János Fónagy, State Secretary, if he wishes to speak on behalf of the government. [[For signal:]] Yeah. I'll give you the floor in a 30-minute time frame. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2016-05-17-185	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, The aim of the bill before us is to provide a reassuring answer to the practical questions raised during the preparation of the World Swimming, Waterball, Jumping, Swimming and Open Water Championships in 2017. [[14.50]] This requires the application of the rules of the negotiated procedure for the development of facilities without notice to include procurement in connection with the organisation and organisation of the World Cup. Under the current law, the contracting authority is entitled to use the negotiated procedure, based on extreme urgency, without notice, under the law on public procurement, only in respect of the procurement procedures to be carried out in connection with the investment. The bill therefore makes additions to the existing law, in which it also makes the organisation and organisation of the World Cup an extremely important public interest and extends the scope of the law to other procurements related to the organisation and organisation of the World Cup. The proposal also allows for procurement procedures to be conducted in connection with the implementation, organisation and organisation of the World Cup, so that the contracting authority is entitled in all cases to use the negotiated procedure, which is based on extreme urgency, without notice. The one-day time limit for public procurement would also apply to these procurement procedures. In any event, the contracting authority would be entitled to determine only the lowest price as an assessment criterion for tenders. The legislative supplement provides for the possibility to carry out other procurements necessary for the implementation, organisation and organisation of the World Cup in a timely manner, thus helping to ensure the successful completion of the event. Developments linked to the World Water Championship go far beyond swimming pools or renovations, which form part of a complex urban development programme. The development of the Sworn Arena is part of a long-term urban development programme that serves the growth of Budapest and its Angel Land. Thanks to the 2017 World Championship, the whole of Angelland is renewed. A kilometer long dam is built to protect the entire part of the city from flooding, and a promenade is established between the metro line M3 on Váci út and the Uzsóarena, which will serve the significant traffic of visitors during the World Championship, after which it will ensure a long-term approach to the new Sworna Arena and the Dagály beach bath by public transport. The programme also covers environmental planning and investment in transport and public utility development. The construction of the swimming pool center is not only outstanding from a tourist point of view. According to our preliminary calculations, it provides employment for about 5,000 people. Other taxes and contributions from this will reduce the planned expenditure by an additional billion. The pool renovation program is an old debt settlement. The investments ensure re-education, swimming education for young people, and allow our successful swimmers, divers, water polo players to prepare for the competitions ahead. In addition, they will also provide the right conditions for lovers of residential and recreational sports. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, I am convinced that the motion by the Members has included work on the organisation and organisation of the World Cup, taking into account the time left until the event, is greatly accelerated and facilitated, and we therefore support the amendment proposal. I ask you to agree to the necessary legislative additions by accepting it. Thank you in advance for your attention and support. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-05-17-186	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The main speaker's speeches will now take place within a 15-15-minute time frame. First, I give the floor to the lead speaker of the MSZP Group, Member Dezső Incredible, notary of the Parliament.
u2016-05-17-187	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Presenting Lords! It is not the first time that we have discussed this issue, if I count it well, that the Hungarian Parliament is dealing with it for the third time, which is unique in itself, since such a subject is not typically dealt with by national parliaments, but it would be possible that if we deal with this issue so many times, then this matter might become routine. To be honest, I tried not to treat this as a routine, and so I dug a little deeper into it. Before I get to that, I think it's important to remember a little bit what the original bill was about. The shortest way to put it is to request and receive a special legal order from Parliament in 2015. This special legal order concerned the real estate which it requested and defined. I would like to recall exactly what this special legal order means in the case of a given property; without the need for completeness, and not specifically in a legal language, so that it may become more understandable to everyone. One is that the operator is excluded from the scope of public procurement law, we are talking about a negotiated procedure without notice in this case, we do not need a minister's permit, and he also withdraws the Minister of Public Procurement from the circle of those who can control these public procurements, so these procurements are practically without control. The deadline for this is one day, by the way. That's why I mentioned that this is a special, you might say, extreme legal order that we can talk about in the case of these properties. In fact, Parliament understood the problem of a very short period of time, and this particular situation calls for special measures, which is why Parliament has accepted it. Beyond that, what are the interesting things that apply to this legal order? In the case of designated properties, the legislation on parking, logging, flood protection does not have to be taken into account by the operator, the builder. I guess that's not a common story either. This activity may be carried out without a building permit in the case of demolition, earthwork or deep foundations. The flood protection work is not part of the construction and use authorisation procedure. The deadline for each administrative procedure is 5 days. A temporary bleacher is not required and the national fire regulations do not apply to this. Because of the tower jump, you do not need to ask the owner's permission for its location, and you do not need to pay attention to the World Heritage Protection and Nature Conservation legislation and laws on water transport. The Danube has a shipping lockdown. Land use rights or expropriation may be imposed on designated properties. And there's one more interesting thing about this law that was passed in 2015. It entered into force on the day of publication, but the scope of the law is not defined. The fact that new amendments were made in 2015 is interesting in this respect, CXVII. and CXXXVI. Laws No. 1 and, overall, 88 properties have been registered in this special legal order, which I've just been talking about. I think that the request for confidence mentioned by the rapporteur is indeed important, since the granting of such a completely unique, unprecedented power requires absolute trust. I believe that this was done so that the goal could be achieved as soon as possible, and that in 2017 there is indeed, commonly known, an effective wet world. The fact is, the Parliament has dealt with this three times so far. I also think that this proves that it is far from ideal to prepare for this project, because if a parliament, a Parliament, has to deal with an investment three times, it obviously does not mean that once they sat down, thought it through, and then, collecting all the problems, they brought it to Parliament. [[15.00]] So we've been understanding all along. Let us now look at the amendment that my fellow Member, together with the head of the Fidesz Group, has brought to this House. They have now come forward as a request or as a proposal to extend to all authorities the powers which have so far dealt with administrative procedures. Dear rapporteur, I think it's just a typo. They probably wanted to write an administrative procedure here, because the administrative procedures are so much wider that I do not assume that this is what I would like to ask for. Think about it, this means that the police, as a public authority, would also exclude these areas from their actions. I would suggest that it was misspelled, and this does not concern administrative procedures, but continues to apply to administrative procedures. Another proposal is that the node at the intersection between Drava Street and the quay should not be used by the competent XIII. district construction and construction regulations and other related requirements. I have two comments in this regard. As far as I know - and these are usually accurate - the XIII. The district government has so far fully cooperated on this issue. All requests relating to the amendment of the regulatory plan have been fully met. That's why I don't understand why it gets involved, that these regulations don't apply. So the regulations you've thought about have been adopted, and now you're saying they don't apply to this. I'm feeling some confusion about this. I don't know why that's necessary. The following is such an amendment that the government - the government - is authorised, if a replacement location is designated, to record in the government's decree what these sites are, and for those locations that we are talking about, this very special and unique legal order should apply. I understand that, and in recent times, we have seen a number of initiatives to achieve some kind of regulation governance here. I think that this should be considered whether they really want the government to make a decree on what might happen and how it will happen in the case of private property. I think the whole Hungarian legal order is covered by this story. [[István Jakab, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] Finally, what this proposal deals with would designate an additional 122 properties to which this special legal order would apply. I think that if these properties are assigned to this magnitude, they should be looked at. Ladies and gentlemen, I've been going through these properties. Here's what I'd like to propose, sir. You can check it; I think what I'm saying is accurate and important. The real estate in point 4 of the Act of 2015 is the property in point 65 of the same Act. So the same property is listed twice in the same law. Let's just give ourselves a little space, let's not leave it like this, if we're gonna change the original. The property referred to in point 74 of the same original proposal is not part of Annex XIII. is located in the district municipality, but in the district V. It also applies to the fact that if we pay attention, we can fix this. In the current amendment of the law, here's what I'd like to propose. The land number in point 119 is already listed in point 72 of the law in force. The property listed in point 120 is listed in paragraph 73 of the original law. The real estate listed in point 126 is also listed in points 4 and 65 of the Law in force. The property described in point 145 is also listed in point 121. I will give these to the Member so that they can follow this exactly. The property in paragraph 146 is listed in point 54 of the Law in force and the property in paragraph 174 is listed in point 11 of the Law in force. This basically means that some properties are listed twice, sometimes three times, and I think it's a bit snag. If an amendment has already been tabled, then my proposal is to add this, and then a little order could be made in this respect. I would also like to draw attention to the fact that the location number of the property in paragraph 152 of your current proposal is not real estate. This is the ninth month of 2000, so it hasn't been real estate since September. I would ask that, if there is a way - and I would suggest that there is a way - we fix these as real estate. Let's just say that these were some kind of typo in nine cases; I think it would be good to sort this out. Perhaps this issue can still be resolved at committee meetings. These were the formal questions, I have little time, so I'd say the contents a little faster. Content issues. I would ask the rapporteur, if he has written these real estates, and he is aware of these things, then he can certainly answer me why he wishes to extend this special legal order in his presentation to the following real estates. By the way, most of the real estate actually applies to public areas that serve to host such a World Swimming Championship, but I'll tell you a few things that I think it would be good for you to review. Why are among these properties restaurants, various office buildings - Erste building, MetLife building, office buildings on the corner of Drava Street and Váci út? In my opinion, these are privately owned properties, or the location number has been written off, and it is not that, but in any case, according to the current description, they relate to them. For now, I don't understand why. I have no idea why you're proposing to extend this special legal order to a hotel. This is specifically about Helia Hotel. As far as I know, the hotel doesn't know they have plans like this. The next such is that there is a MOL well, to which I would like to extend the same legal order, on the corner of Vágány utca and Róbert Károly körút. If I'm benevolent, then I'm thinking that I've managed to write the serial number here, and it's not about him, it's about the one next to him. But I still do not understand why there is a public interest reference to a proposal before us to extend this legal order to a pool hall. What was most upsetting about this is that such a legal order could be proposed for private building sites, type it up, and a business that is currently in operation. Unfortunately for you, I'd like to apply this to a CBA business. We need to consider whether we really want these properties to have this special legal order in place, that without a building permit, and the rest, I don't know what everything is. Also, there is a used car site on a construction site, and I would like to extend this legal order to that. You asked for confidence, sir, trust so far; I am gullible, not stupid. [[Gyula Vantara: Don't ask me that.]] You might want to think about this one more time. [[János Pócs: It is worth reconsidering!]] And you, gentlemen, might want to think about that, because you're not just trying to trick me, but I think you are, too. If it stays that way, it's more than just a tell. And the other story - and I don't know how you can explain it - is what you would like to do more than 20 kilometers from any location, the water vabe's location, at 12 Ménesi út. It's called the Bibo István College. What do you want to build there? Swimming pool? Or a memento for themselves? I'd like to get this property out of here as a matter of urgency. Finally, it is a minor technical observation as to the timing of this plan. I think that, in order for any kind of trust to be involved here, it is necessary that this particular legal order be recorded here, and that this special legal order, I think, is good until the end of December 2017, let's say until the end of December 2017, but after that, I suppose, this does not need to be valid for different plots of land. [[15.10]] I think that there must be a way for us to discuss this in the various committee meetings over the coming period; and that, in order to talk about any kind of trust, these properties should be revisited. Thank you very much.
u2016-05-17-188	Thank you, Congressman. Welcome, fellow Members. Dear Parliament, Mr Szilágyi György, Member of the Jobbik Group, will now take the floor. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2016-05-17-189	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, When Budapest received the right to direct the 2017 FINA World Championship in March 2015, it was undoubtedly a big deal, and in such a short time few cities in the world can prepare for the fourth largest sporting event in the world. The organizing committee, the municipality of Budapest and Balatonfüred, the Hungarian Swimming Association, are all facing a huge task over the coming months. Last year's so-called Tide Act provided for the most important items needed to host the World Cup. It was already apparent that this law would need to be supplemented in the future, as organization requires that the legal conditions be adapted to the current conditions. This has been the opportunity to host the city grove of synchronized swimming competitions over the past period, which is an excellent opportunity to present our capital to around a billion people worldwide watching the World Championship. The close deadline requires that authorisation procedures are shortened and operational work is started at designated sites as soon as possible. For this reason, we expect the organizers of the World Championship to be responsible for the economical treatment of the Hungarian people's money and to spend the money that the country has given for this noble purpose in the most transparent way possible. As we indicated last year, the selection of the swimming pool builder was not the most ethical, yet Jobbik Hungary Movement continued to support the World Championship, as we said we all wanted to host the best, most beautiful and successful World Swimming Championship of all time. But we must also remember what this event will provide to the capital. The most important question of all sports events is how much built facilities will be integrated into the living fabric of the city, how much they will be exploited and how much they will contribute to the general development of the city. Society's legitimate expectation is to build buildings that will be accessible to everyone, whether the sports swimming pool or the Danube promenade. In addition to your anti-corruption attitude, we consider it important to spend taxpayers' money on useful and sustainable facilities, and as policy makers, we also expect this approach to be reflected in the minds of the world championship organizers. Now we need to talk about whether we can achieve non-corruption, as this will be one of the most important issues of this World Cup. It is also important because this is the 2017 World Water Championship... [[Happy Stephen intervenes.]] I would like to ask my fellow Member, István Happy, who is not wearing an orange tie right now. [[Happy Stephen: Do you like my gray tie? Intercoms from the pro-government benches.]] to press a button, I would be very happy to listen to it, and I am even willing to argue with you, because I know that you are a great expert in sports, you will be able to say these things not only at the level of yelling, but also in speeches. So, since you've managed to get a little color into this conversation with István Happy, I'll tell you. [[Gyula Vantara: Can you?]] that it is important to solve the corruption problem, because this 2017 World Championship will also be one of the main rehearsals of the 2024 Olympics, and will determine very much how we will be able to apply for the Olympics in 2017. After the World Championship, it will be decided roughly one month from the 2024 Olympics. Erik Bánki said that we have adopted the laws with great support so far, and indeed, the Jobbik Movement for Hungary, which was in the laws relating to the water world, supported the laws related to the water world. And Erik Bánki also said that we need real, real cooperation between the parliamentary parties, and that it is also the responsibility of politicians, so that we can work this out together. So, I'm telling you, we've supported this bill so far, and I'd like to say in advance that we're not going to support it now. I'm gonna tell you why I didn't. Why we will not support it is for two essential reasons. One is that when it was necessary for two thirds of this law, we were able to agree; when it was necessary to vote on this law, we were able to receive information, and now we have zero information on this law. And I'll tell you why it was important to get that information. One: the 4th. Section 2 where this new law provides for how public procurement will be provided for. And you understand that when the time comes for a particular location, you have to speed up public procurement, and there are things that you couldn't see so far - to give you an example. In Balatonfüred, at the open-water tournament location, the racetrack has only just been set up, about the locations, so so so far, there has not been a public procurement for where to be a bleachers and the like, you understand that. But for example, you also said, Congressman, that there would be volunteers, and there would be some where we knew six months ago about how many people would be needed. These helpers would be subject to the same procurement procedure if they went beyond a certain amount of money. Why should hostesses be selected on the basis of an invitation? Or, for security companies, why do security companies have to invite three people on an invitation basis to invite Valton 1, Valton 2 and Valton 3, and then one of them wins Valton? Why do you have to do this? So why can't these guys have an open application? In cases where time is not pressing, why could not open applications be made and open the possibility for Hungarian SMEs to participate and perhaps offer a good offer in these public procurements? That goes for everything, at least that's how I understand it, tell me if you don't, and maybe I'm wrong. Let us go to the other part, which is why we are not going to support it, is the question of the annex that my fellow Member Dezső, I believe, has already agreed in quite detail where it belongs. We do not understand why the renovation of the Hunting Room, the Tower House Street Elementary School, was included here - the IX. in the district - why the renovation of the 25-meter pool or the renovation of the small playground of the Olympic park next to us is included and that it is connected to the World Water Championship. I see that my fellow Members do not shake their heads that these are not included. They're not in there, but no one can know. What do we find here? Literature numbers. When we discussed this law twice, we also discussed it once at the water vb, once when we put various sports estates into asset management, both times - otherwise, if you wish, I can also quote reports from it - I asked that we honor each other with so much, in a few sentences we write about the area and why this is related to the World Water Championship. Then I also received a promise from the Secretary of State, and I also received a promise from the author. And now we've got another annex with 210 real estate in it right now, which means it's not 210 real estate, because... [[Impressive Dezső: That's it!]] - I'm not counting it exactly, but it's a thousand forints per property if you want to look into it, say, at TakarNet. [[For signal:]] Congressman, we're trying to save public money. Why is it good for you, for example, to tell me... do you know what kind of real estate we're talking about here? Because if you don't know, you're gonna have to look into it. [[Gyula Vantara: You too!]] Then you should have seen TakarNet, the LMP, and the MSZP, too. Wouldn't it have been easier to write behind what real estate it was? Wouldn't it have been easier to tell you what this is for? After all, I have now learned from the speech of the author that the scenes of the slaughter, the three locations that are included in it, are why. There's nothing to hide, and it's understandable what the author said, indeed, there's a right to have the three crime scenes in it, but we didn't know that. As I don't know, those five are 18. district geography number, for example. There will probably be some kind of investment linked to Ferihegy airport in some way, but what exactly is not known, since it is not listed here. [[15.20]] So that's why I'm telling you, it could be the Hunting Room, it could be the Tower House Street Elementary School, or we could have this little playground right here, which is in the Olympic park, and it could be about renovating it. So the reason why we are not in favour of this amending proposal and this amendment is the two reasons: one is the procedure of public procurement, which we disagree with, and the other is that we did not receive them in vain again, despite the constructive opposition and the support of the law. Nevertheless, Jobbik Hungary Movement continues to stand behind the event of the World Water Championship, we will continue to support and in which we can help both the organizers and, by the way, the directors and those responsible who want our help, as we continue to say that this World Championship is very important, very important for the country's judgement, it is very important for sport as well, and it can start a development process in which we all wish to participate. We think this could be a positive world event in the event that we can really, really, in a non-corruption, transparent way, not play it out with your friends, and do it in a normal way. And as I said, it is a very, very important step to possibly get the Olympics in 2024, because if we can carry out this World Water Championship as the Jobbik Movement for Hungary wants, and as you would expect, that would be a huge entrance card for the vote that will take place one month after the World Championship, in 2017, at the International Olympic Committee. So we're still supporting him. I ask the author and I ask the government that if, later on, this law may be brought in, because it can be introduced, because when we negotiate with such a short deadline, we must do such a great thing quickly, then in the course of the work processes, things may arise in which we may have to amend the law, we are willing to change the law, we are willing to continue to do so on the basis of reason, just ask for more information, we try to be a little more precise to honor each other with the fact that if we help each other, we will provide the information. Thank you so much for listening. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-05-17-190	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Statement will be made by Mr István Ikotity, Member of the LMP Group. I give you the floor, Congressman.
u2016-05-17-191	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, It is now clear that with the 2017 World Water Championship, Hungary has been set up by the government. They promised a refreshing sport experience, but the reality is that the government showered a great deal of ice around the Hungarian people's necks. After Hungary was given the opportunity to organize the 2017 water World Championship, the government's machinery moved into motion to engulf the organization in an increasing fog. This has been the third amendment to the Tide Act, even though it has been less than a year since the adoption of the original proposal. The government side proposal provides a series of exemptions from the legal system's guarantee rules, with exceptions for exceptions. It is now quite clear that the World Championship is not about sport, it is about fighting on a level playing field, but about ensuring the government's dominant position in an investment that will cause permanent damage to the country and, unfortunately, we can talk about damage. The beneficiaries of the new regulation are the first winners of the water world, the relations and interests of investors close to the government. The conditions of this competition were defined by the government, the competitors received assistance from the government, and the awards were distributed by the government. In sports, it is called fur, and it is sad that this situation has come up more than a year before the event. Some newer toaster exceptions. The organisation and organisation of the World Championship were also subject to the exception law, so the execution itself. So far, only purchases related to the investment and administrative and administrative procedures related to the investment are subject to the privileged situation, but even this does not seem to be enough for the baby. Who will benefit from the fact that the full implementation will be possible instead of ordinary public procurement through a negotiated procedure based on extreme urgency, without notice? And who will benefit from the conclusion of contracts for the World Cup, putting aside any legal concerns, so-called deferrals, for the purpose of a particularly important public interest? It seems, however, that even the government side is becoming embarrassing about the permanent exception laws. The Bianko mandate included in the proposal before us is a solution, which allows the Government to lay down the applicable specific rules for the development of settlements and the specific construction requirements for the construction of facilities in respect of the replacement site, if it is justified to designate a location other than a World Championship venue for unforeseen reasons. We don't need a new law here if we can broaden the status of favoritism at regulation level. Ladies and gentlemen, The planned HUF 25 billion for the project was already heavily overpriced, this money was also taken out of taxpayers' pockets, and this amount was also intended to be filled with the pockets of the rich oligarchs intertwined with Fides, but it was not enough either. Since then, the amount has doubled, and compared to the original expensive plans, the budget of the World Water Championship has doubled. This HUF 50 billion means that every day of this event costs Hungarian taxpayers HUF 3 billion. Since the governing parties know precisely that these funds end up in buddy pockets, they also use legislation to make the management of resources as opaque as possible. In legislation, decisions, rules and laws are made individually to facilitate government theft. The other aim of the government is to avoid settlement and settlement development rules, environmental, archaeological and other important aspects; they do really well in this. The history of the World Swimming, Waterball, Diving, Studio Swimming and Open Water Championships in Budapest shows the core of the Orbán system: from the first day of the winning competition to today, every step suggests that Fidesz serves the friendly public money hyenas in the country with premeditated intent. This is an example of institutionalized corruption, and the pro-government politicians are assisting in a face-to-face way. The pro-government button pushers to the Members of Parliament ignore their main task, namely the representation of their constituents, without any remorse. We are at the point that the Parliament wants to give the government a blank mandate to do what is good, incalculable, opaque, with no reasonable European standards. It's getting boring that Fidesz politicians, Árpád Habony, heeding his advice with powdered sugar-like substances, accuse those responsible for thinking that there would be a better place for that 50 billion than to throw it into the pool for an unnecessary prestige investment. It is a lie to say that an inaccessible sporting event that transcends Hungary's power will tighten the chest of the true Hungarian man more than the fact that we use that HUF 50 billion, let's say, so that Hungarian children can learn under better conditions and standards. What we can now see is what Fidesz is using to host a World Championship, and it is time to prepare for the entire country, that a possible Olympic event will amount to a hundred or a thousand times that. [[Dr. István Tiba will be replaced in the notary seat by Attila Gelencsér.]] We know exactly how Viktor Orbán's great friend and master Vladimir Putin organized an Olympics in Sochi. God save Hungary so that Viktor Orbán can do the same! Thank you for your attention. [[Intercoms from the pro-government ranks. Happy István: I've heard a lot of stupid things, but this!]] [[15.30]]
u2016-05-17-192	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. I would ask my fellow Members to focus on our work. Dear Parliament, I now give the floor to the first independent Member who has applied for the speech. Mr Szabolcs Szabó will speak. Here you go.
u2016-05-17-193	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, On behalf of one of the authors, Erik Bánki said that he knew that during the previous debates, because Dezső Believing here actually referred to it, we had already discussed this law twice and then an amendment. Now we're talking about your second amendment. So, Erik Bánki suggested that he knew we had reservations, but let's vote for this amendment. I would like to say in advance the conclusion of my contribution that I can only continue to express my reservations, and I am one of the few in this House, the few three percent of the Members who have previously rejected it and have not supported this bill and its previous amendment in this form. Why have we said this before, and why are we saying this in a very consistent way? On the one hand, I think that when it comes to 90 billion forints of public money... - because that's all this is about, clearly, we are constantly following the costs of the water vb, the current job is 90 billion forints. When we were only 62 by the way, Balázs Fürjes was at the meeting of the Cultural Committee, and I asked him if he could guarantee that the cost would not increase beyond that 62. He said he didn't, it's not his competence. And this amendment of the law shows that they're constantly loading everything, grass, wood, flowers, which has absolutely nothing to do with the swimming world. It's simply that, under a smoke, public money is now being settled. And then, of course, all kinds of public procurement rules, settlement planning, regulatory procedures, archaeological exploration rules and the rest of the rules on public procurement are nicely withdrawn from these investments. It is therefore quite clear that this is an unsupportable proposal. So, let's line up for some of the details. On the one hand, there's a certain HUF 90 billion. I do not know if you remember it, ladies and gentlemen, we started with the government resolution of 1750/2013 containing HUF 14 billion. You can find it, you can see it: 14 billion forints. Compared to that, we're at almost 90 billion forints. By the way, it is very interesting, because they often refer to the fact that everything had to be done very quickly, and it burns on our nails, because in 2015 this world event was brought forward by 2017. I would just like to point out that you might get to know the original competition, because we agreed that in 2017 we will host a world competition in the building where the swimming pool will take place. So by 2017, if it broke, even if it broke, it would have been built, so we applied. And it wasn't the case on 19 July 2013 when we won this competition, or exactly the Hungarian Swimming Association's application with the guarantee of the Hungarian Government won the right to settle by 2021 - I say that the original tender also wrote that there will be a youth or junior World Championship there in 2017 - there was no mention that this would require all kinds of exceptional procedures. I would just like to point out that two years were available until 2015. A redesign of all regulatory and structural plans could have been carried out; planning processes could have been carried out. The procurement procedures could have been carried out very nicely, very conveniently. All the wood cuttings, everything in its normal course, could have been carried out in accordance with the law, but of course they didn't really care about that. It's likely that everyone here was more interested in the fact that the tens of billions, now we know at present, are 90 billion, whose pockets he's going into. We know it's in Mr. Garter's pocket, for example. He has already received a net commission of 36 billion by himself. And this isn't over. I'd just like to point out that the cost of organizing is still not included. And that is why the bill itself is being included in this particular amendment of the law, which we are discussing, that it is not only about holding the World Swimming Championship, but also about its organisation, that is, it is not only about its organisation, but also about its organisation, because, as Mr Fónagy said, that all the procurement procedures relating to the organisation can be simplified into wood simplicity, and that is even easier for Garancsi and his associates to get all kinds of assignments, because that is obviously what this is all about. Obviously, we are not either, as my fellow Member has already said with jokes. [[Deterioration from the benches of the MSZP.]] Otherwise, for the sake of comparison, how much it costs 90 billion forints. If we add up, say, Debrecen, Soroksár and Csepel's annual budget, that's a lot less than what we're talking about here, and say there are 300,000 people living in these two districts and this big city. That's the kind of money they're gonna squander for nothing. I would add that we don't have a problem with the fact that we're organizing a swimming pool, we've told you this before. This is very important, it really is one of the most important world competitions in the world. The 14 billion forints originally dedicated to it and 1750/2013. It was in a government decision, it would have been enough to build a certain floating palace, all the other reels, self-polishing, actually theft. There's no other way to say this, because they're gonna be pissing off their own businesses. Let's just say the simple comparison is the only way to make sense of what this is all about is that they keep promising to build schools and gymnasiums. In recent years, the budget has regularly allocated HUF 3-3 billion. They don't spend that much either, because in most places they just laid the foundation stone, and since then, we haven't made much progress. Let's just say not too long ago, they found an offshore company, and they quickly gave it 1.7 billion of them to build seven of these schools. But I'm gonna wonder what an offshore company like you is gonna do with this 1.7 billion. But it also shows that a few billion will be spent for a school, while, say, a swimming World Championship, completely unnecessary, 90 billion, while this can be made out of a fraction. There are also very interesting parts of this amendment. For example, Article 2 The municipality of Balatonfüred was previously responsible for the investments in Balatonfüred. Now they're gonna get him out of there. Undoubtedly, it has not been a very sensible solution so far that in the case of the capital, the capital was not included, only the Hungarian National Asset Manager; now the Hungarian National Asset Manager will be fully united. Have you run out of confidence in Balatonfüred? Or have you found out that this is not a good solution, where it is, where it is solved? I would be interested to hear your rapporteur's reply on this matter. There has been talk of simplifying public procurement. By the way, interestingly, the explanatory statement states that this process is feared, or that it must be changed because it is feared that if someone loses the procurement procedure, they will attack the appropriate appeal forums and the investment will drag on. On the one hand, I mentioned this earlier: since 2013, it has been known that there should be a competition here in 2017, so I do not think that is an argument. On the other hand, it's really weird that if you're so afraid of that, then why don't you come up with public procurement rules that generate speeding up the system. Interestingly, you do not mind at all that the Hungarian Dance Theatre has been playing in temporary places for almost the second year now. He was expelled from the Carmelite monastery because Viktor Orbán needed that palace in the Castle. They were abandoned, playing in temporary places, while they promised to start building the new National Dance Theatre within a very closed deadline. Then the public procurement procedure was announced, but it was not good, no suitable offers were received. Then the whole thing was shut down, and then it was rewritten, and that's how it goes. No one can follow what happens to them. Interestingly, this does not bother the ladies and gentlemen of the Honourable Party of the Government. Let's just say, when it comes to swimming, it's interesting that it's important to speed up the procurement procedure. I'll tell you, I'm just as skeptical of seeing it, and I've always said it before, and I don't think it's right that anyone in this town can build what they want. They made rules that if someone, such as a member of the government, remembered that he wanted to build a tower somewhere, say, down south of the Chain Bridge, or on the Pest or Buda quay, he could do that, because it was supposed to be possible by government decision. [[15.40]] Of course, I understand that the reason you got into this text with such a general description was because you had no idea where you wanted to build this giant jump tower, but in the meantime, I understand that this has already been decided, Balázs Fürjes talked to us about it once at the Cultural Committee meeting. Then why didn't they take it out of this former law and put it in the current law amendment, specifically where that giant diving tower would be? But that's not what they did. They left this wide-ranging description in the same way, which was mentioned earlier in this law, and then added the reconstruction of the node of Drava Street and Carl Lutz quay, and, as we heard here from Dezső Believing, there is nothing to it, because if they had consulted the local government in such a way that what they asked for was passed through by the local government, and if they had led it through, then this problem would have been solved, and they wouldn't bothered the National Assembly, which is already burdened enough anyway. 'Cause I'd just like to point out that urban development and urban planning don't work by getting up in the morning, figuring out that, by the way, you want to implement improvements that can't be integrated into regulatory and structural plans, suddenly you're going to make a legislative amendment and build what you want. This usually works because medium- and long-term plans, such as regulatory and structural plans, are designed because the city has a concept, knows the direction it wants to develop, adapts its regulatory and structural plans, and this is how the settlement will develop, as appropriate. Now, if from one moment to the next someone wants to cut this from top to bottom and move it in a completely different direction, then they're going in the wrong direction, just the same direction as when, for example, someone in Csepel had the very good idea that they didn't need to talk to HÉV, and then the tram would be good for it. This came to their mind in connection with the Olympics, so that, for decades, all the urban development and transport development documents had been planning to transform the Csepel HÉV into a metro and connect it to the Szentendre HÉV, and all the experts said when this fantastic idea was thrown out, that it didn't make any sense, because there was a need for fast-rail transport. They didn't listen to anyone, and to this day they're still very happy to say that the tram will be good for Csepel, only the professionals keep saying that it won't be good. This is why these types of ad hoc changes of rules are not good, because they are not based on impact assessments, they are not based on expert consultations, but someone wakes up in the morning and figures out that, say, they want to build a tower, underground garage or doghouse on a given site, and they can actually do so, because at the moment, if, for example, anyone can build anything in the designated areas, especially what will happen there. What's funny is that after that, it's 15. In paragraph 2 of this Article, it is stated that, in fact, if anything is marked as an alternate location, they will build exactly as they wish according to the same rules. So, for example, if you remember that Felcsút or Alcsút will be a substitute venue, because you can just do so, then you will practically build what you want, and let's say, you will pull up a swimming pool next to the stadium, or I don't know, which comes to your mind, without complying with the basic rules, such as the town's regulatory and structural plan. This part, too, is what my fellow Members have been pushing here before, that they are constantly expanding the number of local figures in Annex 1 to which these special rules apply, involving them in this development, which is extremely vague, which we have never been given a meaningful answer to before. Even when the first amendment to this law was made, I asked why it was necessary that the first amendment, for example, from the iron shoes to Mozaik Street, put the Pest quay with local numbers in Annex 1 to tell me what they wanted to develop there, then the fantastic answer was that they had no idea, but I have to believe that it has to be put in there so that they now have the opportunity to plan what they want to do. Well, congratulations, that's how it works in Hungary, it looks like urban development and urban planning. In addition, they are now increasing the number of these landmarks more than double, and these are indeed the 4968, which is Ménesi út 12, as Dezső Believing mentioned earlier. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] So, overall, I can only say that, of course, we are still not in favour of this proposal. Thank you very much.
u2016-05-17-194	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, There will now be further speeches by Members. There was no written indication of his intention to speak. I give the floor to Mr Béla Turi-Kovács, Fidesz Group.
u2016-05-17-195	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. When the news got to me that Mexico wasn't going to do the World Swimming Championship, and the support on the news was that it would find it too expensive, too expensive, too expensive, I had to think about it. Mexico is a country that, as we know, may have the third largest GDP in South America, a country of some 150 million, which is constantly developing, for another reason. Since then, it has been revealed - and I think it is no longer worth mentioning the original references - that Mexico has not undertaken to organise this World Cup for security reasons. He would have been able to arrange it financially, but he could hardly have met the safety conditions. Well, when Hungary decided to take on this world championship, it threw the axe in a huge tree, into a huge enterprise that must be able to put the vast majority of the country behind, regardless of political affiliation. It reminds me that when Hungary was preparing for the Millennium, it was as if there were similar voices outside Parliament and Parliament. They talked about corruption well in advance at a time when nothing had happened, but when it was clear that Hungary's biggest event was coming, one that wanted to give the whole nation consciousness and self-consciousness, those - well, to say the least - doubters or the bad-eyed whispers that were about to be guessed or guessed behind every moment of corruption. I had to count on that. Therefore, first of all, I ask those who are involved in the preparation here, and those who are really active in this, do not make such small mistakes. You have to put the street and the house number next to the serial numbers. It's so simple, my dear friends, a sales contract can't be made that way, because it's gonna hit back the landbook if you don't know what's going on. You have to type it in. And it's not too late. It must be written and made clear, at least I am convinced that they are necessary. Or, if it is because of safety considerations, because of the certainty of the arrangement, there are some that can be omitted, it should be omitted. Today, we must not take any risky part of this business that could at least undermine confidence in the organisation of the floating world. This World Cup and this business for Hungary - and I believe that it is so - is not primarily important for the rest of the world. I do not really believe that such a Formula One arrangement would ever bring back to Hungary the investments required by the capitalist company that is drawing the profit from this, even I do not believe that the three days that foreigners will come here would bring about a huge economic recovery. It brings a certain affirmation of Hungary's ability to do something and to settle something. It's a lot more than that. Here, indeed, there will be a situation where the whole world is listening to us, and we are strongly monitored for the existence in Central Europe of a small, small-scale, unfortunately persistent people in which there is so much self-consciousness, there is such a belief that it is able to organise such a world competition. [[15.50]] I think this is the most important goal that we should direct public opinion to, to which we need to open the gates and provide much, much more information. Ladies and Gentlemen, Let me tell you the part of my personal life that I don't talk about in particular, but I think it should be said today. After 1956, I was given bread, faith, and the hope of life by swimming, by the fact that after that I could exist in this country at all without having to leave. Therefore, here and now, from this place, I must also reject the genderless attacks that sometimes appear against the whole swimming sport. Those who dare put the essence of swimming sport behind an unfortunate and reprehensible event are, I must say, attacking Hungary, the whole nation, our whole consciousness. It's not true that, behind swimming sports, there ever existed something that they want to believe. I lived there, lived in this medium for years, and dared to say that friendships and beliefs are not so beautiful anywhere, all many times on the poolside. Ladies and Gentlemen, I understand any attempt by the opposition to exercise some kind of control over how this huge money, which is now being spent on the floating world, will be spent, in what way, where, how it will be spent. This is not only justified, it is not only justified, it is also necessary. If that doesn't work, there's no good state power that doesn't have any anomalies and abuses that they're just assuming. This country may have some kind of collective power in the coming days, but let's face it: these last few weeks and months have been about this? I'd rather not. That's why we have to do it. You need to be able to show clearly and clearly not only what we are going to use this sea of money for, but also what it will be and what it will be. Which is why I'm suggesting right now, and I'm asking you to think a little further forward. Let's try to think ahead, and let's just say that there is no blundering, which lives in many people when they look at Greece or look at an example where things have recovered, and then the weeds wake up after we don't have it. We need to make it clear to the public that we have plans not only to organize the swimming world, but we also have longer-term plans that are already about what will happen next. That Hungary is not a one-man swimming country, but Hungary is a swimming fortress here in Europe, which can compete with the greatest powers in its own way. It's a big deal. Therefore, I think that this sacrifice is not in vain and is not unnecessary. But no area of attack should be left that cannot be avoided, not a single area of attack that gives the impression that money would flow uncontrolled or especially controlled. I am convinced that this will be fateful and decisive in such a way that it will also affect our near future. So once again, I say that those who took responsibility for this have taken a very big responsibility. Support must be given, as much support as possible, but it must also be made clear that this responsibility is binding. Dear House, When we talk about this, I always think about what goes out of this country. How much? What do non-Internet users know about this? What will this mean for rural people who make the financial sacrifice the same way as those who are here in Budapest, around Budapest or even in a small area of Lake Balaton, and will enjoy the view itself, this wonderful opportunity? What do you tell them? Very little for now. Wherever I go in the country, you know, you don't know anything about it. There's more to be done for this. It must be made clear that it speaks to them, and it is also for them, that a Hungary that is able not to sell itself, but to show itself, is able to show itself in such a way that we have weight and opportunity in the future, so it is worth sacrificing. I therefore think, honourable House, that we should listen to critical words, improve where we need to be improved, and give as much national support as possible to succeed. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2016-05-17-196	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Mr György Szilágyi, Member of the Jobbik Group, has applied for a speech. You have the floor.
u2016-05-17-197	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I'll tell you honestly that Béla Turi-Kovács' speeches are always fresh to me, and he sees the situation absolutely right now in the entire environment that is at the moment, and he's absolutely right. I would like to highlight two things. On the one hand, he told us not to walk the way some Olympic sites did. The most alarming example of this is Greece, where there was a problem with the operation of the facilities afterwards. This is why the World Water Championship should select and involve future operators in its design and implementation phase, asking the prominent representatives of swimming sports, its coaches and everyone else what the facility should be like, because it will not only consist of walls, but also of various services and things on which the needs of future operators should be taken into account and could be taken into account. The other thing he said and with which I fully agree: if we have two such projects - because we may agree that the Olympics and the World Water Championships are almost a project, the World Water Championship will be the hallway to the Olympics, and if we cannot do this properly, then there will be no chance for the Olympic settlement - if we cannot organise two of these truly national cases, the fourth largest world competition and the first largest world competition, and we cannot go through this project without corruption, that there is no economic abuse there, we will not be able to carry anything through in this country. Because if a case like this can't be ruled out, so that there aren't goons in the background and there aren't any different attempts, do we want to rule it out if it's not one of those national cases? The other important thing about the Olympics and the Swimming World: Szabolcs Szabó's speech projected that the Olympics and the water World Championships would be connected. Some people are against the Olympics. There is a very important thing in the Olympics: when the International Olympic Committee decides not to take into account the number of public opinion researchers in Hungary, so it will not be possible to do different opinion polls on the basis of party influence, but the International Olympic Committee itself will measure the social support of the Olympic settlement in Hungary, and if this social support does not reach a certain level, it will not exceed at least 60%, then we will also not have a chance in 2017 to award the 2024 Olympics to us. And how can social resistance, obstinacy from the Olympics be the most strengthened? I mean, if someone brings up the water world as an example, and as Szabolcs Szabó said, he said a lot of things that he was right about, but he's not right at all when he says where the World Championship was set up financially, but now it's at HUF 80 billion. But it's a strong slide, because it's not. The investment of the facility itself - well said Congressman - has become more expensive by HUF 3 billion. What, though, has increased the cost of directing the water World Championship? Because of the additional investments that should have been made anyway, we're just gonna take them to the wet World Cup. For example, the airport. He said why the various modernisations of the airport should be included here, as this will increase the cost of the water World Championship, and those who oppose the Olympics will be able to say that if the water World Championship has increased its budget by that much, the Olympics will have increased by how much, and this may cause negative feelings in society. So we need to be more open to society in the field of communication, we need to put everything on the table, we need to show all the contracts, we need to implement the World Water Championship in a completely transparent system, transparent contracts, transparent implementation and settlement, and if we can do this, then it will be a huge advantage for us both in the International Olympic Committee and in society, without which we will not be able to win the Olympic settlement. [[16.00]] So these are two very important parts. I'm saying these slides are actually... Or these are not slides, because it can be said that this is the price of the World Water Championship, because we are really going to spend that much money on various rounds, different road renovations, different infrastructure improvements. We just forget that they should be implemented in the city anyway, as these improvements should also be carried out at the airport. I don't think any of them are XIII. district dwellers would be against better roundabouts, nicer beach promenades, or more normal environments for them. They're all part of it, making the city grow. But let's be careful how we communicate. For Jobbik Hungary Movement and I feel that it is a very important opportunity, a very great opportunity for us to host the Olympics, and therefore to organise the World Water Championship, so if we pay attention to both of them, we can really create a positive image of the country abroad, which is priceless. And we may be able to create an inner strength with these two events, perhaps not even me and perhaps none of us have experienced in this country. For an Olympics must be a national matter, for each person, no matter which party they vote for, just which party they are sympathetic to, sport can be a united force that can unite the nation. [[He replaced Adam Mirkóczki in the notary seat as Loránt Hegedűs.]] For a very long time, Hungary has needed to have a goal in front of it that the trenches that have been dug up thanks to the political actors of the past 26 years, and it's almost all about politics with something else, it could be sport, we could possibly bury it, and we can define common goals that can unite the nation for common goals. Thank you so much for listening. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-05-17-198	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Mr Szabolcs Szabó asked for the floor in a two-minute time frame, independent. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-05-17-199	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I wanted to respond quickly to the fact that I was wrong about the budget being so expensive. The fact is that when we won the tender on 19 July 2013, the Hungarian Swimming Association, there was a press conference, there was the government commissioner László Vígh, and it was said there that the swimming palace would be HUF 8 billion. Then, the HUF 14 billion to a few hundred million programme was included in the government decision I have mentioned many times before, supported precisely by the cost of 2016. And as I mentioned, in 2017 as originally planned, we should have had a race at that swimming pool. That was 14 billion, and that wasn't all the pool. Compared to this, the swimming pool itself costs a lot more than that, so there is no cost increase of $3 billion. But even if we were just talking about it, that would be fine. 'Cause we're gonna build a proper swimming pool, that's okay. But indeed, all the other costs that are charged will increase the cost of this entire project to 90 billion, and it is really untraceable why, where and what we are building. All we know is that you don't have to follow any rules, and then you'll get what you want. Obviously, this is what we say several times, that if there were such rules, and there was such a cost overrun here, then what would be in an Olympics, which is a total cost of HUF 3 000 billion. Let's multiply it up, and you'll get a number that'll make you pass out. Thank you very much.
u2016-05-17-200	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Mr György Szilágyi, Member of the Jobbik Group, submitted a two-minute speech. You have the floor.
u2016-05-17-201	Thank you very much. This will be my last response, I promise, in case anyone else tells me anything I should be responding to. But in fact, the NSK had it, it's my opinion and I'll take it at any time, an incompetent leader called László Vígh. This Vígh László stood at a press conference, and he said that now the whole floating world is going to cost 8 billion forints, and that didn't cover the reality, because it didn't cover it, but he was thinking about the facility itself, but he said it wrong, so he said. The facility itself, by the way, will be about 3 billion more. The fact that he didn't tell us the surrounding things gave everyone a point of hand when they could say that this whole thing was so much higher. I don't want it to come down to this, by the way, that the Olympics are going to rise that much. The fact that after this press release, this Vígh László is no longer with the NSK is a positive thing, in case things change. But unfortunately, he didn't get too far away from sports, so he could damage us, but from here on out, I don't want to deal with him, because his person doesn't belong to this bill. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-05-17-202	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I wonder if anyone else would like to speak on the agenda. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. The general debate is closed. I will ask Mr Bánki Erik, as rapporteur, whether he wishes to respond to what was said in the debate. [[For signal:]] Yeah. I give you the floor, Congressman.
u2016-05-17-203	Of course, Mr. President. Thank you very much for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, Thank you very much for the speakers and my fellow Members for their speeches and, basically, for the constructive and supportive attitude that they have given the bill. And I especially thanked you for the constructive criticisms. My fellow Member, Dezső, who is a believer, has indeed indicated earlier that Mr XIII, In this sense, one of the people who may have the most important event is the individual parliamentary representative of the district. After all, there will be a lot of additional developments in the High tide area, which will take place in the 13th century. It will improve the quality of life of district people, including theirs. So in this sense, I continue to thank you for your cooperation. I totally understand the suggestions you've made. I must say, Mr President, that, unfortunately, in the material received from the City Council, there are these errors, these duplications, which Mr President mentioned. On the way to some, we have already found out, and I specifically asked for the office of Commissioner Balázs Fürjes to help clarify the further points that Mr Fürjes said. I can promise you that by the deadline for the submission of amendments, we will analyse all the geographic numbers and, of course, take them out of here, which do not belong closely to the World Cup. There are private properties that are included in the list. It is not by accident, since road development and sidewalk development are taking place that affect these properties. So no one has the right to nationalise or renovate or rebuild private property in any way. Strictly the only ones left in the bill, which, once again, are affected by developments related to the World Championship. Here, Member, you specifically mentioned the Bibo dorm. I don't know, I'll look into it. By the way, I suspect we're not just having a world championship here, although we're just talking about the bill, but then there's a Masters World Championship. So not only are we organizing a 9-day event for active contestants, but also for former contestants, where we expect 15-20,000 contestants to start. This is of great importance for tourism, as we expect to host 50-60 thousand people here in Budapest for 7-10 days. This is of great importance, not only from the point of view of direct revenues, but also from the point of view of city marketing. Here, the government has taken into account the colleges that provide possible accommodation. This requires not only hotel and high-quality accommodation space, but also dormitory care, hostels, as these contestants starting in the masters and their escorts are not expected to require such high-quality services anymore, but they would move towards cheaper accommodations. So I'm guessing that the Bibo dorm came into the picture because of the masters. But once again, I hope that, on the basis of our cooperation so far, Mr President, this promise can be of sufficiently strong value. So we will look at it in detail, and I would also ask you to take part in this work, so that there is nothing left in it that is unnecessary. There is no plan for the government or our faction to involve real estate and, as a matter of fact, try to transform, rebuild, renovate under the cover of the law, which is not related to the settlement of the World Water Championship. Comments by Congressman Szilágyi. I fully agree with the exclusion of corruption, Mr President. What you have said is perhaps the best argument to strengthen the attitude of the government, as the Member said that the successful World Championship could be an entrance to the Olympics. We are already talking about the biggest event in Hungary's history, and the Olympics are the world's largest sporting event. There's a debate about the World Football Championship or the Olympics, but let's stick to the Olympics. I also think, by the way, that it is, in any case, based on its importance in sport. Now, Congressman, no one can seriously think that the government would risk settling the Olympics by having things happen in connection with the World Water Championship that not only in Hungary but also in the international arena. [[16.10]] No one here wants huge scandals about the settlement of the Brazilian World Football Championship, no one wants any controversial cases, so I will continue to make and keep up with the promise made by the government: all contracts related to the World Water Championship will be made publicly available on the website of Balázs Fürjes Government Commissioner; as the contracts have been concluded, they will continue to be there. So I think that the key to successful Olympics is that everything here must be transparent, transparent and public. I also agree with Mr President that we will not be able to succeed without broad cooperation. We can stand here on any side of the political palette, and I think that this event will be very, very important for Hungary, the Hungarian people. Not only because we show the world that we are able to do this, but not only because we can make investments that we would have made at a later date, but also because we can show Hungary a face to the world, which will have revenues with a specific budgetary impact over the coming years. In your Opinion on the annex, I fully agree with Mr President, and I also feel that the criticism that we should have had in advance was justified, since then a number of issues that have now been raised in the plenary debate could have been eliminated and resolved. Unfortunately, the proposal was so late that there was no time to conclude the spring session, because it is so close that if we had submitted it later, we would not have been able to hold the debate in the House. But I promise you, too, Mr President, that, until the deadline for the submission of the amendments, we will prepare an amendment which, as last time on demand, will include at least a description of the property in terms of all the location numbers, as to what it means in nature. It is a perfectly legitimate expectation, and we will also do so with clarification. Security companies, hostesses, why are they included in the special procedure, where you don't need public procurement to be selected? Indeed, Congressman, you are right that, in order to say hostesses or security personnel are selected, there is still time. However, there is not enough time to involve companies in the preparation of the event as soon as possible because of the professional issues that will otherwise establish the flexibility and high quality of the operation. Therefore, the urgency of the time is because we fear that if they are selected in a normal procedure, we will slip so far that the investments or developments that we would need the professional knowledge and advice of the companies who will do so in practice will be completed. To give you an example, Congressman, this is like building, say, a congressional centre, which is being prepared, and in preparation, we are not asking the operating company for its opinion. We could save or save a lot of money, and otherwise we can operate it much more flexibly and in the hope of much higher income. So that's actually why these procedures would be out of the ordinary procedure. Members of István Ikotity and Szabó Szabolcs also primarily wondered why the investment would cost much more, double than it was planned. The investment doesn't cost any more yet. It costs so much more, which has already been said in the debate, as it means the development of the high tide beach, because the high tide beach is practically involved in the construction of the high tide swimming pool, because it is unacceptable that a hypermodern, XXI. It's a new swimming pool of the century, and next to it, right next to it, there's a bounced bath. That's not allowed. This was not taken into account in the preparation of the preparatory, to be more precise, then it was not clear that an area would have to be removed from the Highly Beach. So these investments are also made so that the Tágály Strand itself can be used, and the citizens of Budapest and Hungary can continue to use its services. Therefore, only investments that were already under preparation are now being made in connection with the water world. By the way, these investments in Budapest, planned by the capital, had no source for this. The state said that if there is now such an opportunity and an opportunity to organize the fourth largest event in Hungary, then we should strive for a much nicer, much better picture of Hungary for the tens of thousands of tourists coming to us, the billions of viewers watching sports events in Hungary. So not the investment costs of the event itself will increase, but there will be improvements that would have been made five, eight, ten or fifteen years later without the World Championship, or we will replace investments and developments that should have taken place 20 years ago, as in the case of some swimming pools. So there's no mention of double the cost here. The government strives to keep all costs as low as possible, otherwise, while respecting the deadlines, not allowing for investments from the standard, to create facilities that not only serve the world championship directly, but also allow Hungarian citizens to provide high-quality services both in recreational sports and in the service of our guests and in the service of the Hungarian public. I therefore call on my fellow Members to support this proposal. Once again, there is no ulterior motive behind this proposal, its aim is to give Hungary a successful World Championship in the summer of 2017. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-05-17-204	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We'll get back to work. There will be a general debate on the legislative proposal on the consequences of passenger car transport services without authorisation until closure. Government referral T/10529. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr. János Fónagy, Secretary of State of the Ministry of National Development, author of the item on the agenda. Secretary of State, you have the floor.
u2016-05-17-205	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, The bill initiates the introduction of even tougher sanctions in the interests of tax taxi drivers legally carrying out their activities in compliance with personal and technical conditions. It reflects our conviction that businesses that are deliberately ignoring and thus benefiting from an unauthorized competitive advantage have no place in the taxi services market. The aim of the bill before you is to ensure that passenger car taxi services carried out without authorisation can be more effectively sanctioned. The measures are intended solely to prevent illegal activities from being carried out. By amending the Transport Services Act, the bill provides an opportunity to prevent online access to taxi or taxi-type dispatch services in the event of the failure of other preventive measures. To this end, it allows the authority to order the blocking of internet content which provides direct access to the illegal dispatch service or directly promotes it by presenting the steps necessary for the use. Temporary blocking of websites and applications can take up to 365 days. Dear House, The bill provides for further sanctions to reduce the number of persons who operate illegally in the transport of passengers by withdrawing the passenger car used for an unauthorised activity for a specified period of time, for the first time for 6 months, but for 3 years in the event of repeated infringements. The amendment of the Road Transport History Point System Act contains a provision that drivers carrying out passenger passenger transport services without authorisation may be subject to 9 penalty points in the Road Transport History Point System and 9 additional penalty points in the event of repeated offence. If the number of registered points reaches or exceeds 18, it will automatically lead to the withdrawal of the driver's driving licence for a period of six months. The bill also contains amendments to the Road Transport Act. Under the new provisions, where the driving licence has been withdrawn solely for the purpose of establishing the points related to the already mentioned infringement, it is not necessary to be re-trained by the driver. [[16.20]] Dear Parliament, Dear fellow Members, The proposal before you will then address the amendment of the Water Transport Act, which, in particular, complies with a legal harmonisation obligation, in addition to the provision of public interest, aims to strengthen product safety by amending the legislation on recreational craft, motor water sports equipment and marine equipment. Finally, the provisions on the road transit contract contained in the bill aim at establishing and laying down general rules at the level of the legislation currently lacking. Dear Parliament, Please report to T/10529. Please support our government efforts to discuss bill No 1 and to hinder the operation of illegal passenger transport activities. Thank you for your attention, Mr President, thank you for your opportunity. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2016-05-17-206	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. I give the floor to Mr Tamás László, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2016-05-17-207	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, We are faced with an important, long and often intense debate about the transport market, which is also emotional. The proposal before us is hoped to be a significant milestone in solving this problem. The issue not only creates tension between the two opposing service providers, but also divides society, as there are those who prefer traditional and guaranteed quality taxi services, but in our developing world and at the time of the spread of modern technologies, typically younger generations prefer cheaper and more flexible application for passenger transport services. Both have positive and negative judgements. In fact, there is no problem with that, since every consumer has the right to decide who he intends to use his service and to what level. That's what a market economy is all about. However, three very important sets of questions arise. The first concerns consumer protection, the second concerns road safety, including user safety, and the third concerns sanctions from a regulatory point of view. The first question is, therefore, whether the Uber service available from smartphones can provide us with adequate quality guarantees as consumers. Can we make a formal complaint anywhere, and can the authorities take a meaningful action against the service provider if we are harmed by any consumer when using the service. Another aspect, which, in my view, is one of the most important, is the safety and physical integrity of transport and service users. The question arises as to the technical parameters under which individuals who do not have an entrepreneurial licence for this activity have neither known driving experience nor are likely to meet the strict vehicle-related parameters prescribed for taxis. For example, I can only think of the mandatory climate, the maximum age of the car or its export type as existing requirements. It is not, of course, necessary to think that Uber drivers can only carry out this activity with completely new luxury cars, but I think it is clear to everyone that a vehicle that is involved in transport on a daily basis due to professional activity should be subject to significant deterioration and strict technical requirements for all road users, including passengers transported within the framework of this service. For example, it should be avoided that an undertaking performing a transport service has a competitive advantage because it has a specially designed international background, standards and philosophy that allows it to interpret domestic legislation in a different way. It is therefore important to consider these aspects, including the possibility of sanctioning them. Now allow me to briefly describe the main provisions of the bill. The 2012 XLI on passenger transport services. The amendment to Law No 1 states that if the illegally operating dispatch service does not terminate the unlawful status despite the previous penalty or fine, the transport authority may order the temporary inaccessible operation of the illegally operated dispatch service. The provision thus allows mobile applications that ensure the functioning of such services, as well as the use, registration and other websites directly related to them, to be rendered unavailable, i.e. to block them. Unaccessibility is temporary and lasts 365 days. In the meantime, if the service provider fulfils the legal conditions, the termination of the inaccessible operation will be decided by the Budapest and County Government Office. The National Media and Infocommunications Authority will ensure that the inaccessible process is implemented. The passenger car used for road transport services carried out without a licence may be temporarily withdrawn for the first time for six months under the relevant Government Regulation and for a period of not more than three years in the event of repeated infringements. CXXVIII of 2000 on the history of road transport. Law is also amended. In the event of a breach of the administrative penalty, the number of points to be ordered shall be increased to 9 points. This provides the basis for the fact that, in the case of road transport services carried out without authorisation by car, the driver has 9 penalty points in the road record system. In view of the fact that the driver can be hit by another 9 points in case of repeated offence, this automatically leads to the withdrawal of his driving licence. If the number of registered points of the driver has reached or exceeded 18, the traffic management authority shall withdraw the driver's driving licence within eight days of the decision for a period of six months. Mandatory cases of post-training, where the case of withdrawal for 9 points for administrative fines is eliminated: the driver does not need to be re-trained if his driving licence has been withdrawn by the determining authority solely on the basis of a 9 points for an infringement which is subject to an administrative penalty. The number of registered points of the driver may be reduced by voluntary participation in post-training only in respect of points above 9 points assigned for non-compliance with the administrative penalty. The amendment includes certain amendments to the Law on Water Transport and Road Transport. The amendment to the Water Transport Act states that, in addition to recreational craft, motor water sports equipment, including marine equipment, can only be marketed by certification of compliance. According to the amendment of the Road Transport Act, the Government Decree on new road transit contracts would lay down provisions on road transit contracts on the basis of the mandate of the relevant Government Regulation. This empowering provision authorises the regulation of implementing regulations on a subject which is not covered by the Road Transport Act itself, so that the draft would implement an original regulation. In this context, it is necessary to lay down the general rules currently missing at the statutory level. [[16.30]] Ladies and gentlemen, Returning to the issue of transport, the law does nothing but enforce the principle of fair competition between equal parties and makes it clear that there is no domestic legislation for a given activity, because there can be no scope for interpretation and discretion. This is a logical position on the part of the State, because if you let it be, one of the legitimate foundations of your own existence, your ability to enforce the law would be called into question. These are therefore the basic principles underpinning the proposal. However, the fixing of the above principle does not discredit the fact that Uber itself - or similar services - can prevent competitors from providing services in both mentality and transparency and attitudes towards passengers and technological development. If you download the Uber app and give your credit card details, you can travel comfortably and under less stress than if you do the same by taxi. The passenger enters the system online, where his position can be identified immediately, and when he orders the car, the vehicle closest to him will automatically arrive. And so on, there are many good aspects of the online system that I think should be appreciated. In this, of course, there is nothing against the law, as explained above, and it is possible for a person to wonder who forbade the domestic transport companies from being equally modern, competitive, from the 21st century. Develop service standards that meet the needs of the century. They had the opportunity to do so, since the price of kilometres was noticeably higher under the 2013 legislation, it would have been possible to improve the quality of service. Surely there has also been a shift in this, in the quality of the car, in premium categories mainly. But in many other ways, passengers had to continue to experience that sometimes dispatch services are not available, there is no quick way to drop a car, there is no guarantee that the car will be on the shortest possible route, since no one checks it. In many cases, the payment did not go smoothly either, and the otherwise mandatory credit card terminal is often at the end of the trip that it doesn't work, putting a passenger who doesn't have cash at the moment, and so on; many arguments can be made against one and the other. The argument that Uber's extractive effect results only from its creative interpretation of domestic tax, labour and transport legislation is incorrect. This may be the case, but at least this much from the fact that he understood the 21st century. The need for the passenger to be the first, the passenger to reach the desired goal as quickly as possible, and finally, the passenger must be sure that he is safe in the car, because it is not solely the driver's personality and whims that depend neither on the route nor the total amount. In view of the above, we also encourage taxi companies to mobilise more energy and resources than before in order to ensure that the Uber issue is no longer justified because it no longer provides individual services. In the long term, all actors need to be aware that people will choose a service that is more open, quality, passenger-friendly, fairer and has no record of corruption, profit or injury. I sincerely hope that once regulatory, control and sanctioning issues are clarified with this law and other subsequent legislative changes, a radical renaissance of the transport market and much more open to innovation can be launched. If that is what you are trying to do, please vote in favour. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-05-17-208	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Bertalan Tóth, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group.
u2016-05-17-209	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, We heard a very controversial speech by the lead speaker of Fidesz, my fellow Member, Tamás László, because in fact he explained in quite a long and detailed way what problems this whole conflict raises, which is characteristic of our day in relation to passenger transport. He said that this is not a good situation for the taxi industry either, because they need to operate in an overly regulated framework that clearly increases their services, while there is an alternative option, a community service, where there are problems such as security, payment conditions, consumer protection, which calls for a solution. On the other hand, this bill is about the government not wanting to impose this regulation and the solution to these problems, but simply ban Uber's services, as it provides legal provisions that will obviously make every driver think three times about participating in such a community service as a service provider, because if they confirm and establish that he has been involved in this service without authorisation or who is involved in similar car-sharing services, then he will receive a penalty of 9 points immediately, so his penalty points will increase by 9 points. In addition, the proposal also provides that the website of a person who performs an unauthorised dispatch service may be blocked for one year. This blocking of the website is very sympathetic to the government, and we have seen this in connection with other legislative proposals, and I am very unhappy with the fact that such a sanction will appear in the legislation, that if something does not please the government and intends to do so, to ban it, disable it, and otherwise block an Internet website, I do not consider this a good solution. The service we are talking about is part of the so-called sharing economy, part of a collaborative, sharing economy with many advantages, as my fellow Member has already said. It is mostly used by the young generation; in today's modern world, I think that more economies view these economic solutions as more of a driving sector, that they are based on sharing, based on unused capacities, that demand and supply can meet immediately, can be accessed through IT and technology solutions. It is an important element of mutual evaluation, which is one of the foundations for the quality assurance of these systems, can provide a trusting, community experience and takes into account sustainability aspects. However, there are indeed problems that could and should be addressed by regulation, which are proposed by experts. There may be local restrictions, there may be time restrictions on such services, there may be different regulations for service providers based on the occasional or business conduct of this activity. It may be a solution that some of the rules applicable to traditional industry operators are applied to sharing economy companies, such as London or California, where Uber drivers must have a similar license to taxi drivers. It could be an individual agreement with the participants, the taxes would be paid directly by the platform insurance itself instead of the service providers, so this could be a regulation to solve tax problems, it could be mandatory reporting, and I could list it. Obviously, I'm trying to give you some tips, not my own, but experts have described that could regulate this type of service, because you can see that, because of this form of unregulatedness, it's not necessarily good for users or taxi drivers, and we're mostly on the side of users. [[16.40]] But simply banning, blocking and blocking the website as a solution to these problems is unacceptable. That's not the answer. That's gonna save you. I don't know, you guys are so busy in the ministry with your own crafty stuff? Unfortunately, we can see that they are, most of all, busy with them. But isn't there a codification group that, based on foreign examples and solutions, could bring about a normal regulation that could then be adopted with the consent of the parties, with the involvement of the actors, with their agreement? In Estonia, a bill was submitted this spring, which is the first to regulate the sharing of Community travel. It may also be worth studying. In London, as I have already said, there are regulations for this. In fact, the Hungarian Taxis Union also pointed out in its resolution that Uber is not the opponent, but the regulation in force suffering from meaningless legal gaps. These should be changed, not banned by competitors. I think that it is entirely possible to agree that the legislation currently in force is inadequate to address the problem and that this should be changed. But not by banning this service in Parliament. In addition, technology is evolving, developing rapidly, and technical progress and its everyday effects can never be effectively stopped by banning it. Therefore, the position of the MSZP faction on the side of users is that the regulation is wrong. This regulation is also bad, which is in front of us. Not good for taxi drivers, not good for users, not good for Uber drivers who are involved in this service. It should be given time and, as I said, impact assessments and consultation could create a regulatory framework in which this service is not impossible and the regulatory environment is appropriate for taxi drivers. That is why we cannot support this bill. Thank you very much.
u2016-05-17-210	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Mr Staudt Gábor, Member of the Jobbik Group, will take the floor. You have the floor.
u2016-05-17-211	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Indeed, there is a strange suggestion in many respects before the Parliament, and I have listened to Tamás László, the lead speaker of Fidesz. I have also come to the conclusion that I do not really understand if you see, do you know what you want to achieve? In fact, a good part of his speech as the lead speaker praised similar services and Ubert, and from the point of view of the users who used it, how good it was that in a predictable way, i.e. in a financially predictable way, it could be done by subtracting them from the credit card, and in many cases, perhaps also by people who did not previously use taxi services. In addition, obviously, as far as tax issues are concerned, they also had the truth in many ways. But the solution that lies in front of us is not perfect for me either, and allow me to explain in detail why it is not good for what is planned to be adopted. By the way, I anticipate that we will abstain from voting because we understand the considerations behind the proposal that has been tabled, but that is a wrong answer. I think that I can agree with Bertalan Tóth on this, that if there were any future plans to reform the regulation, this should have been done, or issued to one of the ministries in an SOS way, or, if possible, to bring the proposal in autumn, if that is possible, although knowing the capacity of the ministry and knowing that the problem has not just arisen, I think that it could have been dealt with earlier. But in order to fully understand the problem, allow me to jump back a little in time and tell you what happened, what has happened, what has happened in the past, the taxicab society, and what processes have taken place in Budapest and national legislation that determine the lives of taxi travelers. It is well known that we are talking about approximately 7500 taxi companies across the country, and there are about 4000 taxi companies in Budapest. Therefore, Budapest has been given a central role anyway. As early as the autumn of 2013, the Municipality of Metropolitan City established its own regulation for the regulation of the taxi market, but there was a lot of debate about whether the previous regulation was good or not, whether the fee should be increased or how a fixed price could be introduced or not. I also have to say that we have heard a lot of different arguments and arguments about whether the car criteria, the colour of cars, the various reviews that were expected of taxi drivers were properly introduced a few years ago. It had to be seen that a large part of taxi drivers in the hope that the regulation would live against everyone, even accepted this in the first place, and took on extra costs. After that, however, it was necessary to see that they did not feel the benefit of this. If you've been talking to taxi drivers, whether you're a cab driver or a union manager, or you've been talking to simple taxi drivers - I mean, those who aren't trade unions or company managers, but also drive cars in everyday life - and especially those who are on the front and provide this service, you've heard that they felt that, although the rules have changed, they didn't have all the benefits. This fixed fee, which many expected a lot, brought fewer passengers, and I have to say that taxiing in Budapest is unfortunately expensive compared to income conditions. It's expensive to take a taxi, and when new applications come in, whether it's an Uber service or a driver's service, you could think of them, a lot of people think of them as alternatives... And another factor should not be forgotten: when we pay an equestrian amount to the taxi driver, it should be borne in mind that only a part of it is left with him, minus the contributions that he pays, minus the various taxi companies, dispatchers, whatever we call them, paid amounts, so a lot is deducted from this amount. There's a good part of the raised fee left with the truck operators. Not to mention, and we have said this several times in Parliament, that unfortunately we have not been able to filter out the social layer in the common language called the taxi hyena, which has caused the greatest damage to everyone. For travelers, for tourism workers, for tourists as well as for the cabbie society. Taxi drivers expected when the new regulation came into force in Budapest, and when the new government decree came into force last year, that perhaps the renants, the breakers, would be devastated with greater rigour. Unfortunately, this did not happen, and there are several aspects to this. Once again, we heard from taxi drivers, and I heard that at Liszt Ferenc International Airport, at railway stations, large hotels, taxi hyenas are still present, who often do not have a taxi license to provide taxi services, or, if they do, do not bill as they should. I know that the elimination of this is a difficult issue, because the various bodies of the Metropolitan Municipality have not done their job properly, and in many cases they have not dared to carry out the checks in fear of their own physical integrity. We have seen that the NAV has not acted with sufficient rigour, and in some cases, even in matters at Liszt Ferenc Airport, the police should have acted. I myself have asked a number of written questions, and in other genres in Parliament, I have asked the Ministry of the Interior to act. Videos have been posted on the Internet when, for example, a mother and her child are surrounded by taxi hyenas, and they have only moved or reduced the character if it is allowed to be so pestie when they have seen a video recording. After that, the Ministry of Interior basically spread out its arms that they couldn't do anything at the airport, they belong to the security service, they had to do it, but we didn't see the airport security service perform anyway. So they threw the question at each other and the solution to it. [[16.50]] Obviously, we are talking not only about Hungarian citizens, but also about tourists, who are ultimately vulnerable to the fact that individuals who look like taxi drivers in their necks walk in with different tags that look like IDs, promising to provide taxi services, and can actually do anything with them. In many cases, taxi drivers also said that when there was a checkup, they found out interestingly in advance, when, say, the authorities might have wanted to strike down that there would be such a check at West Station. You can't do this. These people should have been screened long ago, and in some cases they should have been put in jail, but the minimum is that their vehicles should have been taken away. Otherwise, the rigor you're about to perform would have been expected against the taxi hyenas. As we move on to this current problem, we must see that this construction is indeed a breeding ground for the black economy in this form. This needs to be stopped, and we agree. It is not okay for people to comply with the rules, there is a taxi driver who pays the contribution, meets the various criteria of the vehicle, I add, in many cases the taxi drivers complained of cases of suspicion by various public bodies or even the capital, that tens of thousands of HUF are to be paid to take the taxi every year and look at whether the sticker is in the right place or not, and the organs are otherwise not doing it with sufficient capacity. This should also be changed so that taxi drivers are not seen as a dairy cow by the various public bodies. However, modern techniques, too, should not be excluded from renewal. The Jobbik XXI. As a centuries-old party, he doesn't want to make the mistake of agreeing, on the one hand, to whiten this segment, but as a modern-day luddism, we don't want to hit everything that's new. In fact, we could go back to the time when, in the past, long articles were published on the Internet with the conflies, riders and passengers,... - at the time against the carriage of machinery, against the taxis, the same or similar dispute had already developed in Budapest several decades before the Second World War, and these questions seem to have to be answered. I must also tell you that we are basically on the side of taxi drivers and users. Secondly, it is in the interest of large taxi companies, transport operators and even Uber as a company. These two groups should be properly served. Another aspect, and there are positive Western examples, is that you can sit down with the company's managers. Although I know - and this was also an example in Estonia - that it is often difficult, because the KFT, which is registered under the same name, removes any responsibility for not having a relationship with the drivers or with the people, but the advertisements, if I have seen them correctly, are given up by him. Obviously, the tickle-tickle is on the company's side, but I think they could be placed at the negotiating table, and in this case, we could find a solution that might be good for everyone. Why could it not be possible to develop a system of criteria that allows everyone in the system to walk well, drivers, not only taxi drivers, but also those who, let's say, can get into the passenger transport in a regulated system and pay taxes, pay taxes, comply with a system of criteria, they can also provide this transport service, or, where appropriate, a taxi driver can quasi-work for Uber or other services by taking one of the carriages as a taxi driver, or by taking the next, if you feel that you do not have a better paying customer, you can do it through a different application, either via Uber or via Uber, and you can provide this service. It would also be good for taxi drivers to be able to work more and earn more, because they might be better off with a few deliveries a day for a lot of bills with lower totals and bills, since they could be on the move all day or more, and so their revenues would increase. Another thing is that in the taxi companies, in the big shipping companies, it would be a loss. Like I said, their interests are entirely secondary, at least for us in this constellation. The Estonians could also see that they were able to agree there that Uber and similar services allowed full access to the tax authorities and public authorities there and could check how much transport was carried out. I would add that the next step is that the 20 percent that actually goes out of the country to the Uber headquarters as a commission is how this can be taxed. This is obviously already a next question, because if service provision and drivers were taxed in Hungary, we would be able to move forward in this case. I think this would have required a more thorough reflection, a more thorough preparation. I see that in addition to the fact that Tamás László, paradoxically, rightly highlighted some positive things from the achievements of the modern era, but you do not see that this should be synthesized in some way so that the Hungarian state can benefit, nor do Hungarian taxi drivers feel deceived. But I have to say, the fixed rate might have to be rethinked. We should rethink it, because the fixed tariff has actually stopped the competition. By the way, a higher-quality taxi service in the current system, such as a service provided with a more serious vehicle, for which it may be that the customers, passengers, would pay a more serious amount... - and perhaps very many, even if not an uncomfortable, but also a smaller vehicle, which is otherwise in good technical condition, would sit in and use it as a taxi service. What we need to see is that in practice, I see the fixed rate as a failure. We may need to rethink this, too, but it would have been better if you'd thought about this in a package and brought it here together with other problems. So, in this form, although we can agree with a lot of problems, we can only refrain. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2016-05-17-212	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The speaker of the LMP Group, Ms Erzsébet Schmuck, will be here to speak. You have the floor.
u2016-05-17-213	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, The bill before us indicates that the government is unable to grasp today's world and respond effectively to the country's interests. What is needed is not to protect the monopoly of taxi drivers, but to regulate, even on the basis of the Estonian model, which enforces Uber's taxation, but exploits its innovation and social benefits. In Hungary, less than two years ago, the form of public transport has appeared, which has already divided most of the world. Hungary is not the only country in which taxi demonstrations and government measures followed Uber's rise. However, it must be borne in mind that since the start-up, this company has also undergone a lot of changes and has found that even if it operates in accordance with the regulations, it can remain successful. Public transport is not a new invention. Carpool service has been in service in Hungary for almost ten years. The benefits of this are certainly known to everyone, but the operation of this did not create a lynching mood for Volán companies or the MÁV, as Uber's appearance did. However, NFM responded almost immediately to the appearance of the American company founded in 2009. According to the Communication, it is necessary to comply with the legal requirements for passenger transport activities, and this new service should not jeopardise public security and the objectives of whitening the economy. Uber is very popular in Hungary. More than 100,000 people have tried it, and this number is spreading, not just among young people. Most users have never been in taxis before, i.e. the two markets only partially overlap, but in no way to the extent that they have to be completely closed down. Minister János Lázár also said on a former government briefing when the first major Uber scandal broke out that many of his young colleagues use this app and go to work with it. [[17.00]] What is worth seeing is that in order to ensure compliance, Uber has already taken many steps in Hungary. Drivers using the platform shall also have a valid enterprise tax number, core data and a Community tax number. This regulation applies to each driver who does not comply with this requirement, he cannot accept carriages, because without it this function does not work in the application. As far as whitening the economy is concerned, it is a joke that the government brings it up to protect taxi transport, where the bulk of traffic is still in cash, and tax secrecy is possible, as opposed to Uber, where there is no cash traffic, so in principle everything can be tracked. After each journey, an electronic invoice shall be made for the passenger on behalf of the carrier. The invoice is drawn up in substance and formally on the basis of NAV guidance. If there is no cash flow, all transactions can be traced. In addition, due to the invoice sent by the system after each road closed, we cannot say that this would have a negative impact on the whitening of the economy. Earlier, when Uber started operating in Hungary and it was not yet matured to regulate it, more people took advantage of the loophole, which has also closed today. In the beginning, the application only worked with a card payment, but this did not reveal the proportion and extent of the benefit of the driver. In this respect, this was detrimental because the driver could provide any foreign account number the tax authority could not trace, so he could also avoid paying the tax. In order to eliminate this, it was decided that drivers would receive their revenues by transferring them to their bank accounts in Hungary. This also eliminated the possibility of misuse of foreign bank accounts. Currently, it can be stated that transactions in Uber's system are 100% transparent and traceable. In addition to tax and payment rules, all drivers must, of course, have a passenger car licence, a vehicle in excellent condition and an appropriate technical test. As regards economic and labour market impacts, Uber currently provides flexible income opportunities for 1200-2000 Hungarians. The main advantage of drivers is flexibility. The disadvantage is obvious, neither the Uber drivers nor the company collecting 20% of the fee are taxed to an appropriate extent, as are other Hungarian businesses, and the interest representatives are weaker, which would guarantee employees' rights, ensure that adequate rest periods, social security and other conditions are in place. However, there is a good solution to this, the Estonian example. There Uber, together with the tax office - I stress, together - prepares the new regulatory and tax system. Mandatory reporting and proper taxation with domestics, this must and can be achieved. It is also true that in Estonia - contrary to Hungarian reality - the entrepreneur and the man who wants to live are not considered enemies, but partners. According to LMP, the time has long come for alternative solutions. Since the taxicab bill, with the eyes of an ordinary man today, the taxi in Pest is expensive. There's a need for smarter solutions. When people sit in their cars one by one, they have smartphones in their pockets, and they are increasingly open to all kinds of community initiatives, which also reduces jams, they need to be exploited, not banned. Thank you for your attention.
u2016-05-17-214	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, Now that no independent Members have applied for a speech, no one has applied for a two-minute speech, I give the floor to Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát, who, in turn, has indicated his intention to speak in writing. You have the floor.
u2016-05-17-215	Mr President, Dear House, In a very important bill, we can say that there has not been a substantive debate, because the lead speakers have said what they wanted to say, no one has actually pressed a button, if I have just seen it correctly on the monitor, so the very important arguments and suggestions that we have just heard and what we have just heard seem to have no one to respond to; perhaps Mr. Secretary of State in his usual correct way in a closed word, but we cannot reflect on the closing word and give modern answers that I believe should be given to the government now. This, which is before us, to ban something, to ban an application, in the middle of the age of globalisation which I do not like, in today's IT conditions, is simply a childish proposal, a childish idea, you will not succeed, it does not lead to fair regulation, and you really need a calm, sober voice somewhere between the two fields of power. In my view, this is what Jobbik is on, because obviously it is not possible to ban an app on the Internet in today's world, but it is clear that tax avoidance methods and methods can not be supported under any circumstances as party to the order. So, obviously, we need a solution that resolves this conflict and would be like that. But the amazing process that has developed here in recent weeks, perhaps the excellent publicist Gábor Balogh wrote best that the liberal media has dragged those who might criticize the Uber system and that, by incorporating certain tax avoidance methods, in Hungary, such a system is injuring public money and the revenue side of the budget. On the other hand, there is a clear demand for service, compared to the extremely overpriced taxi in Budapest and even with the load-bearing capacity of the Hungarian people. At the moment, we see that this system does not work in itself. This is much compared to the load-bearing capacity of the Hungarian people. We also see that if we look at the history of Uber and the company, we can really talk about the beginning of a new era, because this is a company that, when using a service, you can download a mobile application and order the nearest registered driver to the address. There's no need to maintain a vehicle park or dispatch service. There seems to be no middleman, but here the emphasis is on the. After all, what we see is that Uber is essentially pocketing 20 percent of each of Uber's freight charges, and you can't really escape, because only payment by credit card is possible, and it's directly into the company's bank account. From here on the bank account, from his company, 80 percent of the money is then distributed back to the driver. We also know that this company, this international company, only makes billions of dollars a year from brokerage fees, but in the vast majority of the more than 40 countries in which it operates, it has not created local registered subsidiaries, and so one fifth of all transport costs outside the United States of America go to a mysterious company in the Netherlands. We would think that this company would at least be involved in public burdens in the Netherlands, but we can see that even there it does not pay any public service. How does this mechanism work? The US parent company set up a subsidiary in the Netherlands and sold him the right to use the software and the idea outside the USA for a one-off symbolic amount. Another company was then set up to operate the system and collect brokerage fees. Of course, they have to pay the former company after using the Uber application, but we can only see that 99 percent of their income - which should be taxed - is not charged for this type of royalty, and that is exempt under Dutch law. The circle is closed, but we also see that if a business is profitable, and this is about hard profits, then there should be some kind of tax on it everywhere in the world. The big thing is that the company that owns the royalties, the one in which 99 percent of the money received is shown in the previous examples, the seat of this company happens to be in a place - otherwise in Bermuda - where the key to corporate tax is exactly zero percent. We see that we are talking about an international organisation and chain with a very good portfolio distribution, and we can perfectly see that this billion-dollar business has been organised in a way that avoids public burdens. This does not, of course, excuse the incredibly bad regulations in Hungary, the consequence of which is that the taxi service as such is overpriced compared to the load-bearing capacity of the Hungarian people, and there is a social need that can and must be met. So it is certainly not the right answer to ban Uber and similar solutions in this case, but it is clear that, on the one hand, yes, to sit at this negotiating table and to develop a tax environment and climate where, by the way, such and similar solutions can be included in public burdens by two or three means. [[17.10]] After all, if you ban YouTube, then there will be youwatch instead, whatever, this form of service will mutate, two days later it will appear in another form, and Korean-type intervention methods will run out after a while. In today's world, they will not succeed. So one of the solution formulas may be that we are moving towards a flat-rate taxation, so, where appropriate, a service provider involved in such a service branch may, after paying an annual fixed amount, avoid the tax authority's audit or legitimate investigations - we are talking about nuances here, but wherever we approach it, a flat-rate taxation leads to success - or otherwise, in such a case, when we talk about a relatively well-followed cash flow through a bank account, it would also be a viable way to involve a type of traffic tax. At the same time, both have a basic condition, taking into account the interests of the parties concerned and meeting at the negotiating table. The simple ban, I don't want to tell you what it reminds you of, because these different providers are going to mutate, they're going to come up with a new name, where again this cash flow is going to appear either by tax avoidance, or quite simply black, and once again there will be no revenue from the budget. At the same time, Article 21 shall apply. There is no way to avoid similar solutions in the 20th century, and we also see that Uber's employees here, if they could be called that, are also exposed to this system, since we are not really talking about workers - I know they are not paying any contributions to these people - so they may not receive unemployment benefits or sickness benefits, and their vulnerability is much greater than we think at first sight. So it is customary to describe this as a trendy, flexible job based on such a very modern, mobile app, but let us highlight one example. When a competing company with similar principles appeared in Los Angeles, like Uber, Uber reduced the fare overnight by half, and the partners received a message about this on their phone. So how predictable is a workplace where something like this can happen to a person who may be willing to do so, if not his life, or at least the safety of the family register? How the difference is then managed after a price reduction sent in such a text, no one really thought of it in America, the Netherlands or the Bermuda mentioned. So you can see that this system, even though it is based on existing demand, is bleeding from a thousand more wounds. We also see that by trying to ban the whole sharing economy now, or by ignoring it more precisely, the government is making a capital mistake. We are talking about one of the potential and future economic driving sectors of this century, a driving sector that is not only mobile applications, but the whole digital economy is able to move this national economy forward and is able to hold it back and dry if it is not treated well. Over Uber, we see that this government has shown an inaccessible wave of changes even in the sublet market, as we can say that Airbnb - which conveys accommodation, rooms, etc. - also works on a similar basis through an online division system - has actually been able to take out the sublease market in Budapest in itself. So, by taking more than four thousand properties off the Pest sublet market, there was a demand shortage, a direct consequence or at least one of the consequences of which was the price explosion that we are facing today, that it is almost impossible to obtain an average 60 square meters flat in more frequent parts of Budapest under 100 thousand forints, and after thousands of real estate were withdrawn by these online systems, and now there is one that operates as a tourist hostel and performs other functions, it has led directly to the fact that no one in Hungary is giving out the same things to ordinary young people. It would be worth considering how many requirements, how many investments you need to meet and how many clicks you can make a hostel in a medium-sized apartment, such as Király Street, when you set up a Hungarian hotel. So unregulatedness, untenable circumstances, are quite simply illuminating from this system. Here we must see that there is still an opportunity to intervene. In the case of Airbnb and various services that share real estate and rooms, they also try a flat-rate taxation system across the world. Obviously, the success of this can only be assessed in a decade-long perspective, but otherwise it is absolutely typical, and even in the Hungarian rules in force, it can be found that according to the relevant government decree, who announces the rental of the same non-own-owned apartment for up to 90 days per year, you can opt for a flat-rate tax payment of HUF 32,000 per room per year, exempt from further investigations and negative consequences. We also see that Airbnb is typically such a rental. Therefore, even if this existing but partially inadequate regulation were extended, the parties would already be sitting at a certain negotiating table and the relevant services could be included in the tax scope. What is not working is that there is an existing demand, the existing demand meets with a kind of supply here, which is why there is a supply shortage on the Hungarian market, so young Hungarians pay the extra rents, take extra charges, and the government does not want to involve these international sharing service sites in public burdens, but simply tries to ban them, which is absolutely impossible in these circumstances and at this age. Which is why we call on you not to ban Uber. Obviously, we do not say that the taxi service works well in this way, at such prices, because it is clearly not. Between the two, if there is a normally functioning, regulated form of service, and otherwise involved in public burdens, you can freely sell your product or service cheaper than the usual forms of service. So if Uber is cheaper and does so under regulated conditions and subject to tax, it is doing so, but in addition to the fact that we cannot support tax avoidance, we are naturally not able to support Korean-type solutions that ultimately point to a ban on the Internet, since an application, a system ban, or dispersal is simply not an option. This has already been proven, by the way, in the case of such online gambling sites, you have tried to shut down certain sites with service providers, but through a simple proxy server I think anyone can continue to access them. It is bad enough that instead of hearing the words of time in Hungary and trying, once again, to take this system towards public burdens, they want to choose Korean-type solutions. So this is completely unacceptable. We ask you to reconsider and to act in the future in accordance with the interests of all Hungarian citizens. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-05-17-216	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Mr Tamás László, Member of the Fidesz Group, asked for the floor in a normal time frame. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2016-05-17-217	Thank you for the floor. Dear House, I have listened to the keynote speeches and the opinion of Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát, in which much has already been included, bringing the scope of the inquiry and the whole case to a much wider extent. What's this about? I believe that there is no mention in this draft law that Uber is banned, not to mention this company. It is quite simply in this amendment of the law that the purpose of this regulation is to protect taxi users. So that's quite simply the point of all this. What's up? The fact is that there is one such or-or struggle between two companies, there are traditional yellow taxis, and there is Uber, which organizes the system of travel with a cloud-based application system. I don't think that's the point. The point is that when a person gets into a foreign car, there is actually a contract where the driver has to take on a lot of guarantees to fit into consumer protection, road safety, personal security, sanctionability, tax systems. I think that as long as we do not have this, that seat is not completely safe about this, I must say that the state has a job. And in this case, it is the duty of the State to enforce the provisions which constitute the enforcement of the laws of this large system of criteria. I think the situation in the first place is that the application system... - I don't want to say Uber now, because indeed, as soon as I eliminate it, there will be someone else. I would have been delighted if taxi companies had developed a similar system, since they would have had the opportunity to create one of these. There is no need to pay taxes in the Netherlands or export or import such cases from America to the Netherlands. So I think that this was the task of Hungarian taxi drivers to introduce such an innovation. [[17.20]] However, it is true that this system is indeed XXI. Indeed, it is an excellent innovation of the century, but if they do not comply with all the additional rules that provide the background to the conclusion of a taxi contract, the state has a responsibility in this system. And that's the state's job, not to restrict, influence, ban competition. This is not a ban, it is simply about ensuring that the rules are enforced both towards the network maintainer, or Uber, and towards the relevant service providers, i.e. cars and drivers. It is very interesting that if you look at the whole story from 2014 until now, you can see that Uber's Dutch division did not really want to sit down at the negotiating table, and now there is a kind of hide-and-seek going on. I think the end of the hide-and-seek will be to sit down at a negotiating table. The Secretary of State also said that this is not the end of the legislation in this case, it is an intermediate step that is needed, and basically the purpose of this regulation is to protect people using taxis and cars. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-05-17-218	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Dániel Z. Carpathian, Jobbik Group. Here you go.
u2016-05-17-219	Mr President, Dear House, Tamás László's speech was to us as a piece of bread, as we finally have to address the comments and comments that have not yet been made. I am very pleased that you have seen this component, but here we all need to think in a system. Jobbik does not want to move towards any extremes, so obviously we cannot identify with the fact that someone considers it trendy, youthful, and fashionable that we actually support a system that is based on a tax avoidance mechanism, but we do not want to allow it to be banned on the other side. Okay, maybe you're not using the word "prohibition" but you're shutting down the service or the app. By the way, you can't do that with a mobile app. You can see very well that this will mutate and be reborn in another form. I would like to remind you that if we don't go so far as to go to the end of the line, that online cash register for all taxis, and then you may be able to re-open a whole file during a settlement, but we will only go to the point where the pages of the existing sja-law are hacked up, and to this 57/A. We will look at the detailed flat-rate taxation provided for in Section 2 of this Article, and we will see that this could be applied not only to Uber but also to Airbnb, at least at the initial stage, until they are able to further refine the details of this at a negotiating table. As mentioned above, if there is a lease for the same person not exceeding a total of 90 days - and this applies not only to Airbnb, but also to hotels, camping and others - then we see that a flat-rate payment of HUF 32,000 per room per tax year can actually settle this system, or at least the additional negative consequences can be avoided. And what we see is that if we applied only something similar to cars - by the way, a separate passage in the Siya Act is very, very easy to pass - then this so-called Uber issue can also be solved, because if we paid x 10,000 forints a year, which can be estimated by examining the tax and other things that have not been paid, then those whose system has so far pointed towards tax avoidance would also participate in public burdens in a functioning system. So there's a solution. And I would like to urge you once again not to move towards any extremes. So you don't have to throw the reins into the horses and support tax evasion, but the XXI. There is no need to ban or ban applications in the century. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-05-17-220	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Tamás László, Fidesz Group, for two minutes.
u2016-05-17-221	Thank you for the floor. I'll be much shorter. Dániel Z. Kárpát also spoke a lot on the subject of rents. This is also about asking the condominium. So I think, when an apartment is supposed to function as a hostel, then the condo should have some kind of say in it. I think that you are not looking at the system as a whole, but you are looking at just one detail, simply the tax aspects in this situation. If somewhere in an apartment there is such a quasi-inn operation, then basically it is the condominium law and not the laws on taxation. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-05-17-222	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Mr Dániel Z. Kárpa in a two-minute time frame.
u2016-05-17-223	Mr President, Dear House, I'll be very brief, too. Reach out to tax laws and apply the laws on condominiums. I look forward to your initiative on this, but obviously we can do the same. What is waiting for you is that in Hungary, as mentioned above, experts consider between 4000-4500 the size of the property that the various online divisional systems have taken out in a similar way only from the capital real estate market. The result of this is a price explosion in a rental market, the price of which is now paid by all Hungarian young, middle-aged, older people living here, who cannot use a CSOK 10 plus 10, which includes the lucky 10 percent. We need to talk more about the 90 percent who can't use it and pay the price. However, the government has not intervened in any way in this system, even though it cannot say that it does not detect the problem, as we call its attention to this every week or every two weeks. So, if we look at things in a system, they should think about how, in addition to amending the tax rules of the House Act, they wish to enter into this system in such a way that Hungarian young people, not Hungarian workers, will not pay the price, because it may turn them over to see how much they have to pay for their apartments, how much they cannot obtain a home on their own. So that they do not go abroad or work there, so that their families do not live happily there instead of living happily in Hungary, because they could be here. We do not condemn anyone who chooses to live abroad rather than the impossible situation at home, which still exists at the moment, but we would expect you to provide life opportunities for everyone in this country in the long term, and if such a disaster occurs in the sublet market of such a capital and the government does nothing, it certainly speaks for itself. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-05-17-224	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, As no one has made any further comments, the general debate is closed. I will ask Mr Secretary of State if he wishes to respond to what has been said. [[Dr. János Fónagy: Yes.]] Secretary of State, you have the floor.
u2016-05-17-225	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear House, Allow me not to go through what has been said personally, given the order of dramaturgy, but to highlight some of the main elements of the problems in which we have been Polemized for many years in the case of the capital. One: I fully agree with every speaker that it would be very good for everyone to be right. The passenger would be good, the taxi would pay taxes, there would be an appropriate number of passengers on Tuesday morning, and at dawn New Year's Eve, when there is a snowstorm, there would be an appropriate number of taxis. It's just that's not how the world works. One of my fellow Members mentioned numbers. According to our records, more than 10,000 taxi drivers are registered in Hungary, and their number is around 6,000 in Budapest. Ladies and gentlemen, It should be noted that the average Hungarian market does not support more than 10,000 passenger entrepreneurs. It is clear that, after the change of regime, as one of the most popular business opportunities, 10,000 taxi drivers and the same number of families still appear to make a solid living, and the passenger requires a reliable, predictable, fast, cheap service. I think we all agree on that. At the same time, I'm asking you to deal with certain illusions. One, they're taxi drivers, they're not. I have been meeting with their representatives regularly lately, we invite 16-18 organisations to a meeting, and there are always some people who are offended because they have not been invited. That's because there's a taxicab union that's been formed for a few weeks or two, and they didn't even have a postal address, and we didn't even know there were any. Then they checked in, they do, otherwise we don't know how many taxi drivers they represent. [[17 .30]] One of them is that, obviously - and in this the government agrees with the opinions expressed, let it come from anyone, and agrees with it - a regulation must be put in place in which the symbiosis of these interests is established, which is such a blessed state. It is only in today's Hungarian reality that we are trying to approach this by a certain regulatory method. The same applies to taxation. With regard to taxation, for information, the majority of taxi drivers are still catatizing, so the flat-rate tax system that my fellow Member has recommended is still being implemented in practice today. For 50,000 forints a month, most of the taxi drivers pay a flat rate. I say to my fellow group that some of the Hungarian taxi companies have achieved this innovation. Today in Budapest, as far as I know, most taxi companies do not say their name, because this is not the place to advertise, they have an app equivalent to Uber. I don't know why they don't make more publicity. I put it up to them myself. I have them, people more competent than me, colleagues have looked at them, and they said that there is a system essentially equivalent to Uber's application system in Budapest, it can be downloaded, everyone can use it. The other or third or many of these general remarks are that Uber, a few of them here, has been told that there is a conflict not in Hungary and Budapest, but virtually everywhere in the world where it appeared. They're using different devices, and apparently, my colleagues said some romantic geographical locations, which are far away, they're hard to control. At the same time, the Estonian example has been mentioned by several people, so please remember that it is a significantly smaller country than Hungary, also geographically smaller, and there are fewer taxi drivers operating there. The next is that the conflict is not in fact between taxi drivers belonging to an organized form in Hungary and Uber, but predominantly between those who appear on the street every week and demonstrate their existence in fear. These are the taxi drivers who belong individually or in small groups to a group of taxi drivers critically mentioned here by one of my fellow Members. It is obvious that their existence has been affected and affected by Uber's appearance the next time. I would also like to remove the illusion that Uber is a sacrificial lamb raised at, let me say, Sunday school; it is not. For example, with Uber, the NAV has been constantly searching for the possibility of negotiation and agreement in recent months, after Uber has swallowed the NAV inspectors' credit cards. Therefore, the NAV was looking for the said Dutch, it is true, not one, but two companies to meet. They shut down, they didn't give us any data, they didn't answer the letters. Congresswoman mentioned that you have a passenger permit. That's the problem. Three years ago, the passenger permit was not invented by the Passenger Transport Act for illegal taxiing. In the case of large cultural events or hotels, a Hungarian legal framework allows a person with a background contract only to appear at the airport with the logo of a particular hotel, or to deliver passengers to or from this cultural event or some major summer party, under an agreement with the organisers of a large event. Uber knows this very well, and it did indeed have these passenger transport permits issued by the Hungarian drivers who are partnered with it, but the passenger transport licence is not for taxis. We published how to taxi in Hungary, what personal and material conditions it has. I'm willing to allow that, because I agree with him myself, maybe those are the rules, being the XXI. The world accelerated in the century, they are now too complicated, perhaps over-regulated. I'll say the same for the fixed price. By the way, the fixed price was introduced 3-4 years ago at the initiative of the taxi drivers. That was specifically requested by the capital taxi drivers. I'm not sure that's a good thing to do today. It might help just as much market transparency and real market opportunities as they so long for if this were to be eliminated. I am also sure that it may seem over-regulated at times, but I would like to ask my fellow Members that when they speak in an enthusiastic tone, the 21st edition of the 21st edition of the European Parliament, the European Parliament, the Council, the European Parliament and the Council, the European Economic and Social Committee, the European Economic and Social Committee, the Committee of the Regions, the Committee of the Regions, the Committee of the Regions, the Committee of the Regions, the Committee of the Regions, the Committee of the Regions, the Committee of the Regions, the Committee of the Regions, the Committee of the Regions, the Committee of the Regions, the Committee of the Regions, the Committee of the Regions, the Committee of the Regions, the Committee of the Regions, the Committee of the Regions, the Committee of the Regions, the Committee of the Regions, the Committee It is no coincidence that anyone who deals with this business should have such an insurance background condition. I don't wish anyone to try to catch up with a company in Amsterdam, an American-led Amsterdam company, when they're trying to enforce their accident claims. So that is why I say that there are many elements in this that we are aware of and that we are trying to solve one after another. I also do not dispute that, in addition to the legislative proposal to clarify today's state of affairs, a single proposal or a single regulation should be drawn up in the foreseeable future. But again, this regulation will only produce results if it is acknowledged that this is a closed market with a relatively limited market. For the record, there are 6000-6500 thousand taxi drivers in Budapest. It's narrow in London, so I understand there are 3,500 dross permits in the City. Inheritable, it represents an independent traffic value and can be obtained on a virtually extinction basis. So I'm saying that the possibility of a free enterprise, if that's all I'm looking at, is very limited in the home country of the enterprise, England. I also confirm, my fellow Member, that nobody is the modern, the XXI. It aims to ban methods, tools and opportunities of the century, but rather to prevent the activities of a company in Hungary which, I believe, misleads and deceives its own partners and thus enters a market segment for which it otherwise brings a very busy income both in the Netherlands and in the United States. This is indeed a violation of Hungarian competition neutrality, and it violates Hungarian taxi drivers who, in accordance with the conditions set by the state over the past years, have invested between 500 and 600 thousand forints in this activity in order to be able to take a proper taxi. So on the basis of all of this, I agree and wish to see the state in which everyone can be given the truth and benefit, taxi driver, app manager, passenger, Hungarian state, budget, tax office, but one of these is, to say, an ideal state, which I would like you to share with me, please support these proposals. [[17.40]] Because they give us the opportunity to prevent the activity of this company in the beginning of the summer of 2016 the unblessed state that now prevails in this area, which a foreign registered company who ignores the laws of Hungary is trying to impose on Hungarian society. This, I think, is an obligation for everyone who is responsible for the Hungarian legislation, in which, I think, we have every right to expect their support. Thank you, Mr President, for this opportunity, thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2016-05-17-226	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, We'll get back to work. There will be a general debate on the bill amending energy laws for harmonisation purposes until closure. Government referral T/10523. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I declare that the presentation will be discussed as an EU item on the agenda by the Parliament. First, I give the floor to Mr András Aradszki, Secretary of State of the Ministry of National Development, author of the item on the agenda. Secretary of State, you have the floor.
u2016-05-17-227	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. We're discussing T/10523, aren't we? [[The president's nodding.]] Mr President, Dear Parliament, The bill before you is for harmonisation purposes. The main element of the amendments is to broaden the range of commercial operators in terms of both electricity and natural gas, thus encouraging competitive competition for users. A key element of the proposal is also the task and powers of the Hungarian Energy and Utility Regulatory Office and the further, even clearer regulation of the Office's procedure, which is another step towards increasing the effective functioning of the independent, independent regulatory body. The bill before you involves the amendment of three energy laws. These are amendments to the Electricity Act, amendments to the Gas Supply Act and amendments to the Hungarian Energy and Utility Regulatory Office Act. The 2007 LXXXVI on electricity. Law and the Gas Act, Act XL of 2008 Parallel amendments to the Act cover the following issues. The terms of the electricity trader and the natural gas trader are hereby amended to allow natural persons to carry out such activities further, subject to the relevant EU directives. As regards operating licences for electricity trading and gas trading, the system of full commercial licences, which are also authorised to supply users and which are limited and not directly eligible for the supply of users, will be clarified in relation to the commercial activity. Traders who do not have access to universal service rights shall be exempt from the obligation to maintain physical customer services in the future and shall continue to have access to them by telephone and electronic means. Last but not least, as I indicated earlier, the system for setting special charges for additional services provided by system use, connection and network companies will be amended. The fees currently contained in the Ministerial Decree for office and special fees will be established in a three-level regulatory framework following the amendments to the bill. The first level is the framework regulations of the President of the Office, which lay down the principles of price regulation and price setting. The second level of regulation is the methodology guide issued by the Office, which is a prospectus related to the methodology for charging, essentially provides guidance to market participants on the methods followed by the Office. Finally, the third level of regulation is decisions setting the level of fees. In the context of the new regulatory method, official decisions may be challenged before a court in administrative matters. The amendments will further increase the efficiency of the Office, while strengthening the independence of the Office with the above strengthened price regulation powers. I must sign that the Office Act, XXII, 2013 Law 3 represents the mapping of the last three-level pricing system, and these provisions are of fundamental importance, so I call for the support of the representative ladies and gentlemen in order to enable Hungary to achieve the harmonisation of EU legislation. Dear Parliament, On this basis, I ask that T/10523 on the amendment of certain energy laws for harmonisation purposes. Please support bill number 1. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2016-05-17-228	Dear Parliament, Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. I give the floor to Congressman Gábor Bányai, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2016-05-17-229	Mr President, Thank you very much for the floor. Dear House, On the proposal to amend energy laws for harmonisation purposes, I would like to list my group's position and its intention to support what we support. As the Secretary of State said, the bill contains amendments to three energy legislation, as he said, the 2007 LXXXVI on electricity. Act XL of 2008 on gas supply. Act and XXII 13 on the Hungarian Energy and Utility Regulatory Office. This proposal aims at a law and amends it. And, as you said, Mr President, the amendments aim to comply with the directives in the third energy package of the European Union, and given that the European Union launched infringement proceedings against Hungary in February 15 and that is why it is very important that the EU agenda is marked. According to the European Union, Hungary has not ensured full compliance with its directives. The provisions can be grouped around two themes in the electricity and gas sectors: certain issues relating to commercial licensing and commercial activity, as well as provisions relating to the Hungarian Energy and Utility Regulatory Office and its procedure, and the links to commercial activity. Amendment of the definitions of the electricity trader and the natural gas trader to allow natural persons to carry out commercial activities, provided that they comply with other general legislative provisions. Full and limited commercial licences will be clarified. As regards the latter, it is no longer necessary to maintain an office in the territory of Hungary and to provide the contact details with sufficient service and by delegation. This will probably be the most attacked amendment. Traders who do not have access to universal service rights shall also be exempt from the obligation to maintain physical customer services and shall be provided by telephone and electronic means. The amendments to the Hungarian Energy and Utility Regulatory Office are as follows. The bill contains amendments to the new price regulation framework of the Office, which includes the electricity law, the gas law and, as it concerns the reregulation of official powers, the Statute of the Office. The new system covers system charges for fixed infrastructure use and operation, charges for connection to networks and special charges for services other than basic services for network companies. Following legislative amendments, a three-level regulation will be established. The first level of regulation is the regulations of the President of the Office, which include the principles of price regulation and pricing, as well as the rules of price application for specific fees. [[17.50]] The second level of regulation is the methodological guidelines issued by the Office. For the purpose of the methodological guide, an indicative document for market participants concerning the system of asset and cost reviews and the system of administrative pricing. The third level of regulation is decisions issued by the Office setting the applicable level of system use and the additional charges mentioned above. An appeal may be brought before the court against decisions, in accordance with the procedural rules of the administrative authority. The above system, as it affects the powers of the Office, will also need to be mentioned in the Office Act. You can ask me about the proposal whether there is a risk of a reduction in the cost of the rent. My answer is that the provisions are without prejudice to the relevant provisions of the Reciprocation Act. Did we check with the office? The proposals have been agreed with the Office and the amendments have been properly discussed with the European Union. The Electricity Act re-establishs the non-recognition of certain cost elements in price, for example in the case of utility tax, between the transitional provisions. You may ask why the provisions relating to commercial activity are amended. According to the European Union, the free movement of services under the four freedoms is not sufficiently ensured, so the contested provisions are abolished. So, in this context, I would kindly ask the honourable Members, the Parliament, to support the amendment of the law before us, and our faction will do the same, and we support it. Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-05-17-230	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Bertalan Tóth, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-05-17-231	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, As we can see from what has been said above, different provisions are introduced under the bill and, according to the amendments, because of infringement procedures in connection with the transposition of the third energy package of the European Union. As you have heard, the Act on Electricity, the Gas Supply Act and the Act on the Hungarian Energy and Utility Regulatory Office will be amended. Part of the amendments amend the provisions on system use and other charges, while the other part concerns certain legislative provisions relating to entry into the energy market. In this context, almost everything will be restored in line with the rules in force in 2010 until the change of government, but some derogations and exceptions remain in the regulation. During the transformation of the energy price regulation provisions, we have constantly indicated that they are in conflict with EU legislation, which could lead to infringement procedures, which have been followed, and now there is a need to amend various legislation for such a procedure. We consider the provisions of the bill to facilitate market entry, increase price regulation, transparency and ensure the independence of the Energy and Utility Regulatory Office to be eligible. It can also be supported that the regulation will re-establish an appeal against the energy agency's pricing decision. There was a five-party agreement on the amendment of the legislation, where our Member asked whether this package of legislation, this package of proposals, meets the European Commission's expectations in every way, so that the various harmonisation tasks required under the infringement procedure are fully met. We have been told that not yet in this legislative package, in the package of amendments, so this is not yet going to completely solve the objections, but that perhaps a legislative process will start in the summer, which will be presented to Parliament in the autumn. Therefore, the Socialist Party Group will support the adoption of the fundamental provisions of the bill, which apply to the Energy Office, but it will not be able to support the entire bill because it does not fully meet the criteria set out in the infringement procedure. Thank you very much.
u2016-05-17-232	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Lajos Kepli, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-05-17-233	[[His mic's creaking.]] Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2016-05-17-234	Someone's phone!
u2016-05-17-235	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I will not be longer than my colleague Bertalan Tóth. Basically, we have dual feelings about this bill, as the aim of the bill is to bring domestic legislation fully into line with the Union's third energy package following the EU infringement procedure. For energy policy in the European Union to remain a Member State's competence, the EU is trying to achieve a so-called Energy Union, and we see that this is very difficult and very problematic, because the interests of Member States and certain groups of Member States are fundamentally different from an energy point of view. I would add that we consider this to be a very positive thing, and we would like it to remain so, so that the definition of energy policy remains at least within the competence of the Member States in terms of how an EU country compiles its own energy mix, from which energy sources it intends to secure its own energy supply and how it tries to reduce its country's energy dependency. It would not be useful to have an EU competence in this respect as well as to transfer national and Member State competences to the European Union; I can say this quite clearly as a representative of a national party. However, in order for energy market regulations to better comply with the regulations in force in the European Union at the moment, we can support these provisions if they also meet Hungarian consumers, the Hungarian population, and they also meet their interests, and in this case we are talking about standards, amendments to legislation in this bill that can make the domestic energy market more efficient and even more consumer-friendly. Thus, we will also support the part of the bill that requires a two-thirds decision, and possibly the whole bill. In fact, there was one of these at the five-party meeting, one of these points was made that the draft legislation is not fully in line with the third energy package of the European Union with this amendment, but it does not affect us in our decision in such a way that, when we support this bill, we look only at what is included in this bill. [[Dr. István Hiller, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]] There is much to talk about here, because the infringement procedure covered a lot of things from access to cross-border capacities through price regulation to several other factors, but I do not think it is an aim to talk about them in detail now, because there have recently been a number of legislative proposals before Parliament in which we discussed them in detail, so I do not wish to go deeper into these issues again, and there will also be more energy legislative proposals in the near future. I think the aim now is to adopt provisions requiring a qualified majority with greater parliamentary support, and to try to adapt our legislative proposals not only to the needs of the European Union but also to the needs of domestic consumers as much as possible. Thank you so much for listening.
u2016-05-17-236	Thank you very much. Welcome. No other speakers, no independent representatives, no two-minute speeches, no other speeches. [[18.00]] I will also ask if anyone else wishes to take the opportunity to speak. [[There's no such signal.]] I'm gonna say no. As no one has made any further comments, the general debate is closed and I give the floor to the Secretary of State, Mr András Aradszki, who wishes to react. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2016-05-17-237	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. In advance, I thank the factions for expressing their desire to support the fundamental parts of the bill, and Jobbik expressed its desire to support the entire bill for opposition. I also thank the Fidesz faction for this support. I do not believe that the main emphasis in the proposal was that it was submitted in connection with an infringement procedure. Undoubtedly, there are some elements, but let us add that the infringement procedure covered a much wider area, and over time 90 percent have already been resolved, or Hungary has already established appropriate rules before the infringement procedure. So I don't sense such direct contact with the infringement procedure. I find it a bit excessive, however, to say Mr Tóth Bertalan that everything is back to normal before 2010. He could not withdraw, because since then the European Union has also made other rules, which were already adopted by the Hungarian Parliament under these governments, including them in Hungarian legislation. The main thing is that the prices before the 2010 reduction do not go back, Mr President, I must stress this. I believe, however, that this bill is very important from the point of view of setting up a functioning redress system for the Office, creating its functioning, creating transparency of professionalism. It creates the possibility of redress in such a way that there is no need to expect major disputes in the field of professional transparency at all; there is no obstacle to the functioning of the system for those who adopt decisions. Anyone who grievances this can, without prejudice to others, establish or lodge an appeal. Once again, briefly, thank you for your support, and I ask this House to ensure the entry into force of this law with its vote. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2016-05-17-238	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, There will be a general debate on the bill to amend certain energy laws until closure. The government referral is T/10538. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. Once again, I give the floor to Mr András Aradszki, State Secretary of the Ministry of National Development, author. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2016-05-17-239	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, The proposals for amendments to this bill aim at minor amendments to the laws on nuclear energy, district heating, electricity, gas supply and energy efficiency, as well as in several cases to clarify. Since all of these laws fall within the scope of energy, it was justified to present them with an amendment to a bill. Allow me to briefly summarise the key elements of the bill in each energy field. The 1996 CXVI on nuclear energy. The proposal to amend Act No 1 concerning the temporary storage of radioactive waste storage facilities and spent fuel in nuclear power plants amends the provisions on the level of the supervisory fee. With the entry into force amendment, the system will become more predictable and more predictable by setting the level of the supervisory fee for radioactive waste storage facilities in the light of the tasks related to each storage facility and to the performance of the monitoring activities. 18th of 2005 on district heating By amending law, the regulation on district heating and heat facilities will become uniform by clarifying the scope of the Act, so that only installations producing heat for their own use will be excluded from the scope of the district heating regulation. The regulation on district heating licensing and the obligation to publish district heating providers will also be clarified, the requirements for measurement per part of the building will be added. The rules of the profit limit are amended in view of the fact that the relevant detailed rules are contained in a ministerial decree. In addition, it is necessary to amend the rules relating to the regulation of district heating prices in order to ensure consistency with the change of the beginning of the gas year from 1 July to 1 October. The 2007 LXXXVI on electricity. The regulation on electric motor vehicles is complemented by a clarification of the regulation on electric motor vehicles and changes to the regulation on power wholesale markets for SMP licensees and final asylum seekers. The fourth pillar of the bill is the 2008 XL on gas supply. amendments affecting the law. It is proposed that, with the entry into force of the amendment, it will be possible to impose an obligation corresponding to market conditions on the SMP holder. The proposal clarifies the conflict of interest rules for administrators of system operators in accordance with the relevant EU standards and provides for the possibility of using a set of separately registered but non-negotiable cushion gases transferred to mobile gases available to the storage holder. As the last pillar of the bill, I would like to highlight the 2015 LVII on energy efficiency. Amendment of Act 2012/27/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council on energy efficiency to establish a framework for district heating services in domestic energy legislation in order to ensure compliance with one of the points of the infringement procedure on the domestic transposition of Directive 2012/27/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council. Dear Parliament, So, as I mentioned in the introduction, the bill presented contains minor, predominantly clarification and technical amendments to the energy sector legislation, which need to be adopted during the spring session of the Parliament. That is why I ask the Honourable Parliament that the T/10538 on the amendment of certain energy laws. Please support bill number 1. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2016-05-17-240	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. First, I give the floor to Congressman Gábor Bányai, the lead speaker of Fidesz. Here you go.
u2016-05-17-241	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, The bill before us includes amendments to the laws on nuclear energy, district heating, electricity, gas supply and energy efficiency, taking into account the past period's experience in the application of law and in order to comply with the law of the European Union, a number of minor amendments on different subjects but of particular importance in certain cases of domestic energy regulation have become necessary in order to comply with the law of the European Union. The purpose and necessity of the amendments contained in the bill are as follows in each energy field. The 1996 CXVI on nuclear energy. The amendment of the Act amends the existing regulation on supervisory fees. The National Atomic Energy Office shall carry out official supervision of radioactive waste storage sites as from 1 July 2014. The supervisory fee shall be paid to it from 1 July 2015. In the case of a temporary storage of spent fuel, a supervisory fee has to be paid to the Atomic Energy Agency since the start of storage. The National Atomic Energy Agency shall supervise the temporary storage of radioactive waste and spent fuel in the nuclear power plant. Public Use Nonprofit Ltd., which manages radioactive waste. the level of the supervisory fee to be paid to the National Atomic Energy Agency for the Central Nuclear Financial Fund is determined by the amount of radioactive waste placed in the temporary or final storage under the current legislation. [[18.10]] At the same time, practical experience in the performance of supervisory activities justifies the need to link the level of the supervisory fee to the amount of waste placed, since the provision of supervisory activities is linked to storage facilities. In view of this, on the basis of the amendment, the supervisory fee for each storage facility will be set in a quantitative manner in order to ensure that its level of funding is adequate for the tasks related to the performance of the supervisory activities. The total proposals of the law are: temporary storage of spent tapes for HUF 300 million, national radioactive waste storage for HUF 200 million, radioactive waste processing and storage for HUF 100 million. Reason for amending the Nuclear Power Act on our part: the practical experience of carrying out surveillance activities justifies the need to link the amount of waste delivered and stored in radioactive waste storage to the amount of the supervisory fee, since the surveillance activities provided by the National Atomic Energy Agency are related to storage facilities and the authority controls the storage facility. The supervisory fee shall be set at a rate lower than the supervisory fee for 2016 and the National Atomic Energy Office shall, with the amendment, be reduced from the source of revenue. The Second Act - Mr Secretary of State called it a pillar - on district heating in 2005 By amending law, the regulation on district heating and heat facilities will become uniform by clarifying the scope of the Act. The regulation on district heating licensing and the obligation to publish district heating providers will also be clarified, the requirements for measurement per part of the building will be added. The rules of the profit limit are also amended, given that the relevant detailed rules are contained in a ministerial decree. In addition, the rules on district thermal price regulation will be amended. As the Secretary of State has said, it is necessary, in order to operate the regulatory price regulation of district heating in connection with the change in the beginning of the gas year from 1 July to 1 October, to require district heating producers and district heating service providers to continue to conclude their gas supply contracts by 1 July of each year. This third pillar, the 2007 LXXXVI on electricity. The regulation on electric motor vehicles is complemented by a clarification of the rules on electric motor vehicles and changes to the regulation on electricity wholesale market holders with significant market power and final asylum holders. The fourth pillar, as the Secretary of State called it, is the 2008 XL on gas supply. It is necessary to amend law for the following reasons. The amendment will allow the SMP holder to establish an obligation appropriate to market conditions. The current legislation makes it compulsory to make a sample offer, which cannot be deviated with the agreement of the other Contracting Party concerned, which, in certain situations, interferes excessively with the business of the licensee. In line with the relevant EU standards, the rules on conflicts of interest for administrators of system operators will also be clarified. The amendment narrows the scope of appointment to the Supervisory Board for indirect management practitioners until it expands its scope for appointment to the Management Board. The amendment under the bill also provides for the possibility of using a separate registered set of cushion gases at the disposal of the holder of storage. That is what I wanted to say, Mr President, about the amendment of the law. Our faction supports the amendment of the law. Thank you so much for the opportunity. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-05-17-242	Thank you very much, Congressman. Congressman Bertalan Tóth, head speaker of the MSZP. Here.
u2016-05-17-243	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, We have been given a detailed understanding of the proposals for the amendment of this so-called salad law, so I do not wish to present this once again, and I would like to share with you the comments and views of the Socialist Party Group. The first is the changes in the district heating sector, which anticipate the strengthening of centralised regulation in the sector and significant changes in ownership, and therefore we cannot support this part of the proposal. It should be pointed out that the rules setting out certain price control frameworks are placed from a legal level to a level of regulation, and, above all, our main objection to the proposal is that local authorities cannot comment on price regulation proposals affecting their territory, despite the fact that several municipalities own district heating companies. This reduces the transparency of regulation and measures, but it can also give the government an even stronger opportunity to determine municipal district heat prices manually. The second comment relates to changes in the electricity sector, in which we believe there is no explanation that the Hungarian Electricity Works Partner Zrt. why it will only be obliged to sell energy at auction, and to sell capacity in the future, why this obligation will not apply to this public company. The change does not help to stimulate competition in the market, it only gives individual relief to a state firm in a dominant market position. The third comment relates to changes in the gas market, in which it should be pointed out that Főgáz Zrt. We believe that the facilitations granted to Főgáz Zrt. reduce the high level of security of supply, given that Főgáz Zrt. It may also fulfil its universal service obligations if it does not yet have a source contract for the period after 30 September 2018. The fourth comment relates to the sale of 120 million cubic metres of cushion gas into mobile gas in gas storages purchased from E.ON, which shows that the government intends to sell the gas supply to ensure that the storage facilities are operational, rather than uploading the storage units purchased for HUF 300 billion with the currently extremely cheap natural gas. In my view, this may make sense if the government wishes to close a container, such as its hairdozoboszlós; therefore, we do not see any reason why it wishes to sell this quantity. What is missing from this salad law is the reduction in energy prices that I have said many times before, which I think is unnecessary and unnecessary to argue about, because everyone has already described it; experts and even pro-government politicians have acknowledged it, János Lázár himself, Minister of Prime Minister's Office acknowledged that the energy price on international markets would justify a reduction in energy prices in Hungary. Here in the previous debate, the Secretary of State mentioned the 2010 reduction in overhead, which we would just like to indicate to him, was implemented in 2012, so there has not been a reduction in overhead in 2010. But I have made the opposite suggestion, perhaps for the third or fourth time, that, taking advantage of the fact that energy prices have fallen by more than 50 percent, even the price of Russian natural gas has decreased by at least 40 percent over the past period, it would be possible to reduce retail prices, as I have put forward in my proposal, to reduce gas prices by 20 per cent, to an average consumption, and to reduce electricity and district heating prices by 10 per cent. Instead, we hear and read that a state-owned company is collecting this money, and we do not yet know for what purpose. [[18.20]] It is easy to imagine that next year, when it is an election year, the Fidesz government will propose a new price reduction. But I would like to stress that it could be done now, so it is now a loss for Hungarian households, because they pay more for energy than it costs. In addition, I would like to point out once again the aspect of justice, so that there is an average consumption, not for everyone, such as large consumers, who are heating their swimming pool or saunas with such an energy carrier. It is precisely because of these objections - because of the four comments and what is lacking in them - that we cannot support the bill. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2016-05-17-244	Thank you very much. The lead speaker of the KDNP, Congressman Mátyás Firtl, is next. Here you go.
u2016-05-17-245	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, The objective of the bill before you, as Mr Secretary of State has said, is to amend energy sector legislation in a smaller, predominantly precise and technical way. The Secretary of State has already explained in detail the content of the bill, so allow me to highlight some of the most important elements of these laws. The Nuclear Energy Act, the 1996 CXVI Act. The legislative proposal seeks to amend the existing provisions on the level of the supervisory fee. Public Use Nonprofit Ltd., which manages radioactive waste. the level of the supervisory fee payable to the National Atomic Energy Agency and charged to the Central Nuclear Financial Fund is determined by the amount of radioactive waste placed in the temporary or final storage under the current legislation. However, based on the practical experience of carrying out surveillance activities, it is unnecessary to link the level of the supervisory fee to the amount of waste placed, since the provision of this activity is linked to storage facilities. Therefore, according to the amendment, the supervisory fee for each storage facility will be set at a quantitative level in order to ensure that the level of the fee is sufficient to finance the tasks related to the provision of the activity. The proposal was proposed under the district heating Act, Article XVIII of the 2005 Act. It is important to mention the amendment of the rules on the regulation of district heating prices. In the context of the change in the beginning of the gas year from 1 July to 1 October, it is necessary to provide that district heating producers and district heating service providers, using heat generation technology based on natural gas, continue to be obliged to conclude their gas supply contracts by 1 July of each year. Electricity Act, 2007 LXXXVI. With regard to the proposal to amend the law, I would first like to highlight the clarification of the regulation on electric motor vehicles and the amendment of the legislation on final refuge. The proposal clarifies that specific rules on measurement and settlement may be applied in the case of the final designation of asylum, and that if the universal service user does not conclude a contract for the purchase of electricity during the term of the final asylum service, the contract shall be concluded by law with the universal service provider which is territorially competent. To the Gas Supply Act, the 2008 XL. The amendment of the law in accordance with the bill will allow, inter alia, the use of a set of cushion gases transferred to mobile gases available to the storage licensee. Since 2013, the law has provided for the possibility of selling this natural gas stock in principle by a storage facility. The amendment merely creates detailed rules for this sale by requiring the storage of natural gas which is not used for its own and technological purposes to be sold at book value to ensure the natural gas sources of the universal service providers, i.e. ultimately to supply the population and to maintain the overhead reductions. The storer may sell this stock only if it has not been used for the universal service purpose. Finally, the Energy Efficiency Act, the 2015 LVII Act. It is also necessary to establish basic requirements for district heating services in domestic energy regulations by amending law. Dear Parliament, In view of the past period's experience in the application of the law and the European Union's obligation in the case of the Energy Efficiency Act, a number of minor changes to these energy laws, which are of particular importance in certain cases of domestic energy regulation, therefore became necessary. The Christian Democratic People's Party supports the bill, and I would like to ask my fellow Members with respect that the T/10538 submitted by the Government is the T/10538. Please support bill number 1. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-05-17-246	Thank you very much. Congressman Lajos Kepli, lead speaker of Jobbik. Here.
u2016-05-17-247	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I will try to summarise in three sentences why we will abstain in the vote on the bill, because there are elements of this proposal that we can support and that are less eligible or not eligible. What is eligible is the regulation on the supervision fee for radioactive waste storage facilities in relation to the Central Nuclear Financial Fund, which is expected, as confirmed by the Secretary of State, to reduce the cost price of electricity production in the Paks Nuclear Power Plant, which may allow for a further reduction in electricity prices later, we very much hope, and that payments in the Central Nuclear Financial Fund will continue to increase, as these amounts will be needed even at the end of the Paks Nuclear Power Plant's lifetime, at the Paks Nuclear Power Plant I-IV. After the end of the operating hours of its blocks and for other purposes. Therefore, it is also a matter of not reducing these amounts in the Central Nuclear Financial Fund. What is less eligible is the idea of the district heating sector. At the meeting of the Energy Sub-Committee of the Economic Committee last time, a full subcommittee meeting dealt with the issue of the district heating sector. There I asked the Secretary of State and Mrs Lászlóné Németh whether these centralisation efforts, which live within the government's vision of the district heating sector, would still be realised even if the ongoing audit of the district heating sector would lead to results that this is neither appropriate nor reasonable in achieving this centralisation effort nor economical. The answer to this is that, in fact, this is probably going to happen, however, at least that is how I interpreted Mrs Lászlóné Németh's reply. The fact that municipalities, who in many cases are owners, majority owners of these district heating companies, have a reduction in their impact on pricing is indeed not a positive and eligible process on our part. Secondly, what Jobbik does not fully understand is the need to sell strategic gas stocks from cushion gas to industrial gas in gas reservoirs. These so-called pillow gas sets serve the proper and efficient operation of the storage, and they obviously represent a cheap and accessible gas supply, so it is beneficial for the government to simply reclassify them into industrial gas and sell them, use them, and provide for sales to the general public and sales to the service provider, but in our opinion these containers do not function properly. At the time, we supported the restoration of the state's ownership, but we would like them to fulfil their real function and indeed function as strategic reservoirs and operate with a quantity of gas and a supply of gas that will enable Hungary's security of supply to be guaranteed at all times regardless of the international situation and the operation and state of the gas pipelines. So these are, in general, the aspects that are more against it, or at the beginning, what is more in favour of it; and the rest, which I did not mention, is also eligible. Overall, in our view, one abstention will be our position in the final vote. At the end of the day, Mr State Secretary, you may be able to convince us otherwise, but at the moment we consider this to be the case from a professional point of view and from a political point of view. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-05-17-248	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. There's no independent congressman in the room. Gábor Bányai, representative of Fidesz asked for a two-minute speech. Here.
u2016-05-17-249	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I wanted to address the essence of my two-minute comment to Bertalan Tóth. He's not here. [[Imre Horváth: I'll give it to him. Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks: Give it to him.]] Okay, thank you, Imre. Thank you very much. I didn't understand, I thought he was behind my back; I was scared. [[Defiance.]] [[18.30]] The point is that this should be said to my dear fellow Member, Bertalan Tóth, that in the period 2002-2010 there would have been a way for the Member to fight to reduce or even prevent the increase in various energy prices, he was not very active in this at the time. Therefore, I propose a remedy against forgetfulness to my honourable fellow Member, because it was a bit impertinent to talk about it. We tell Lajos Kepli and Bertalan Tóth that the fact that the gas reservoirs are not charged today to the level you want does not jeopardise the security of supply in this country at this moment. When the heating season arrives, the gas reservoirs will be filled and these events will be settled. Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2016-05-17-250	Thank you very much. No speaker has been notified in advance. There's no congressman asking for a normal word. No one else asked for a two-minute speech. However, I will ask if anyone else wishes to speak. [[No signal.]] I can't push what I didn't want anymore. [[Defiance.]] I will therefore conclude that, since no further speeches have been made, the general debate is closed. I'd like to ask the Secretary of State if you'd like to reflect. Here you go.
u2016-05-17-251	Mr President, Dear House, Thank you for your comments on the bill and thank you for your support from the Fidesz and KDNP fractions. I think and I hope that opposition representatives will reconsider the support, because this bill indeed contains technical and forward-looking provisions. As far as I can tell by Mr Tóth's comment, the profit margin in district heat is... yeah, the congressman is not here, so as to the profit margin, I can tell him that they are not going to the level of regulation now. This has already been the case, and since they are there, so the so-called general legal provisions in the law will become redundant. On the one hand, the municipalities are owners and, on the other hand, price regulators, this is not a lucky thing, and on the other hand, this price regulation only covers opinion. This is a major bureaucratic burden for municipalities and also for the price regulator. And anyway, the determination of price regulation is based on the submitted data of municipal companies and non-government companies. In this respect, therefore, the municipality as a body did not play much part in this process. Congressman Bertalan Tóth indicated why the MVM Partner is only obliged to sell energy. 'Cause that's the only way he's got a driver's license. The so-called capacity sales are carried out by the so-called infrastructure companies, and the MVM Partner is not such a company. Natural gas. Why do you not have to have a natural gas source contract in relation to contracts? That is because the law alone provides the service provider concerned with the offer system. But while we are at natural gas, for the sake of the protocol and in response to the Member's comment, I must say that today in Hungary the retail universal service fee for natural gas and electricity is the second cheapest in Europe. In Bucharest they pay less than in Hungary. I remember when between 2007 and 2010, consumers were able to access electricity and gas at a cheaper rate than the very prosperous Pannonian tiger, the Pannonian puma-visioning government in Hungary, in the very poor, broken-down United Kingdom, Luxembourg, France and the poor Czech Republic. It was then that the socialist party representatives should have stood up, and bravely, in a forward-looking way, we should have done what we did in 2013. In my speech, I pointed out in my response to the previous bill that prices before 2010 would not come back, because from 2013 we significantly reduced the prices of electricity and gas, while keeping the banded price base. Thus, the price reduction is the method of reducing the prices adapted to the consumption of the band, so that the so-called social element remains the same, the method of supporting large family members, as was the case in the previous regulation. So it is one of these, in the spirit of the Pest Slang, that the socialists have a deaf line that there is no social sensitivity in the current gas price regulation. I've got it, and I respectfully say it, and it's real, and it's not bullshit. What I wanted to say to Lajos Kepli was that he was quite right to see that we were taking a rational step towards the OAH award with the bill, and I think that it serves the part of the accumulation of KNPA at the same time, and that it provides a better opportunity for Paks Nuclear Power Plant Zrt., on the one hand, to make production more efficient and, on the other hand, to cover the investments necessary for the extension of the operating time, this reduction, i.e. the reduction of the OAH's fee. With regard to cushion gas and mobile gas, I have to say that Mr Firtl mentioned in his speech that this is an applicable thing since 2013. I must say, under previous regulations, even substitution for technological reasons was prohibited in this respect. I believe that there is a time and place for this, and there is also the provision that universal service providers must be served first and foremost from this gas. Of course, the capacity of the storage unit itself should not be compromised by the sale after such conversion and conversion. In this respect, the competent mining authority shall have appropriate powers and shall be accountable to the companies operating the storage facility. I believe that the bill will improve our four laws concerned and will further help us to deliver a better functioning energy sector, and this energy sector will be better able to serve the supply of industry, the economy and the population, and that is why I am asking for their support. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2016-05-17-252	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, A general debate on the bill amending the laws necessary to achieve the widespread applicability of the asylum procedure at the border will follow. Government referral T/10526. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Secretary of State Károly Kontra, State Secretary of the Ministry of the Interior. Here you go.
u2016-05-17-253	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, The bill before the Honourable Parliament proposes to amend three laws: the 2007 II directive on the entry and residence of third-country nationals. Act LXXX of 2007 on asylum Act and LXXXIX of 2007 on the state border. Law. The aim of the proposal is to ensure that no migrant is allowed to stay illegally in the country, and that a swift decision is taken on all applicants' cases. This means that migrants who are detained within a distance of 8 kilometres of the border by the police have the possibility to apply for asylum in accordance with the law, as the police will escort them through the gate of the facility providing protection of the state border. There is only one important condition for this, namely that illegal border crossing should not be suspected of committing a criminal offence. The crime occurs only when the fence is damaged or crossed, and in this case, of course, these rules do not apply. Dear Parliament, In other respects, there is an infringement, which will be dealt with in the 2012 Annex II on infringements, infringement procedures and the system for the registration of infringements. Law 100/A It may also be concluded by oral warning. [[18.40]] On the basis of the bill, people who have been escorted through the gate of the State border protection facility may submit their asylum applications in the transit zone. They will be subject to specific rules of the cross-border procedure and will not be subject to expulsion due to illegal residence in the territory of the country. According to the amendment of the Law on the entry and residence of third-country nationals, the foreign police authority does not refuse an illegally staying third-country national who lodges his application for asylum after he has been escorted through the gate of the establishment providing the protection of the state border. The regulation provides for the possibility to apply the rules of the cross-border procedure and to apply for asylum. I respectfully ask the Parliament to discuss the proposal and to support it. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-05-17-254	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, There will be speeches by the lead speaker, first speaking by Mr Imre Vas, lead speaker of the Fidesz. Here you go.
u2016-05-17-255	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, The greatest threat to Europe's security is the migration crisis and terrorist attacks. It is clear that this is the biggest crisis in the Schengen area so far. It is very important to comply with and enforce legislation. Since the start of the migration crisis, the only viable way has been to deal with effective and effective legislation at national level, such as the Hungarian measures to tackle the crisis caused by mass immigration, which have been followed by other European countries. People do not like to live behind the fence in Hungary either, but the EU institutions have not responded to the migration crisis at all, so Hungary was forced to build a fence to enforce the laws of the Union. It can be said that our country was only able to enforce Community rules between EU Member States. The current proposal would introduce further tightening of the borders of Hungary in order to further strengthen its legal protection. The aim is to ensure that no migrant is illegally resident in Hungary. The proposal proposes to amend three laws: the law on state borders, asylum and the entry and residence of third-country nationals. The change would ensure that those who are detained within 8 kilometres of the state border and are not brought into the country by committing a crime are placed in the transit waiting room, where they will have the opportunity to lodge an asylum application. In their case, a quick decision can be made, special rules of the cross-border procedure will be applied, and they cannot be expelled for unlawful residence. The bill is justified by daily experience, because 99 percent of migrants are caught within 8 kilometres, so this band is in practice sufficient to contain them. It is important that the double border lock should continue to prevail, so that Hungary can control the migrant wave. The technical and legal border closure has proved to be effective together, but practical experience envisages new changes. Just as the government has recently provided HUF 9.3 billion to strengthen the physical protection of the southern border seal, legislation must also be properly supplemented. This is what the current proposal serves. Ladies and gentlemen, The issue of migration is about the future of Hungary. Hungary has taken a course in recent years that is characterised by development, stability and security. We mustn't let that change. Hungary is a sovereign country where decisions cannot be imposed on citizens to live with, because we are talking about the daily lives of citizens here. Hungarian people consider the issue of immigration important for their own lives. This is also demonstrated by the fact that over a million people filled in and returned the consultation questionnaire earlier. Based on the results, the opinion of the people is clear and Hungary must be protected. More than 90 percent of respondents agreed that the EU's immigration policy had failed and that stricter regulation was needed. The referendum will also be about the sovereignty of the country, that Brussels cannot decide for us who lives in our country. The Fidesz faction supports the bill, please support it. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-05-17-256	Thank you very much. Congressman Imre Horváth, the lead speaker of the MSZP is next. Here you go.
u2016-05-17-257	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, I would also like to say a few thoughts about the history. I prepared the speech, reviewed the Schengen agreement, the Schengen agreement. I would like to talk about the two or three years before 2015. The Schengen Convention, as well as the Agreement, called for strict procedures for border surveillance, administration and asylum at the border. Let us recall the TV and press reports about the movement in the area of Asotthalom, Morahalom, who were chasing after them, field guards chasing migrants all over the country, practically walking around untreated. This factor contributed greatly to the fact that the autumn 2015 events took place. Unfortunately, in this period neither border surveillance nor foreign police and asylum have been effectively managed. As regards further history, the 2015 CXL on the amendment of certain laws in relation to the management of mass immigration. Law the Hungarian Socialist Party did not support the package of laws, including the asylum procedure at the border. The proposal serves the concept of a cross-border asylum procedure adopted in autumn 2015. It is essential that a police officer leads a foreigner who has been detained within a distance of 8 kilometres of the border through the gate of an establishment for the protection of the state's order, and that the foreigner can lodge his asylum application in the transit zone, where the procedure is judged in accordance with the rules of the cross-border procedure. However, it is only possible to carry out this procedure if a criminal offence is suspected. Considering that crossing the border lock is also a felony - the Btk. 352/A. §2 of the directive - the forbidden crossing of the border seal, so this procedure is likely to serve to allow police officers to escort roaders along the fence into transit zones. To this end, Harmtv is a proposal consisting of only four paragraphs. The Met. and LXXXIX of 2007 on the state border. amends the law. Harmtv. This amendment is necessary because, according to the current legislation, it is mandatory to expel a foreigner who has illegally crossed the state border of Hungary. Some comments to the bill: the proposal demonstrates that virtually inoperable rules were created in two days in an exceptional procedure in September 2015. This confirms subsequently the correct position of the MSZP that it did not vote to derogate from the house rules. It is a pity that in exceptional proceedings, despite the majority of the government, he violated the law in two days. It is fortunate that the package of laws containing the fundamental provisions could not be adopted in its exceptional procedure and could therefore be corrected by the amendments, so we abstained from voting on the latter package. [[18.50]] Many of the elements of the wording are smiling when they try to describe trivial things in a very legal way:. Guide through the gate of the establishment that protects the order of the state borders. You can drive through the nearest gate of the facility. However, the use of the term is still not sufficiently precise. Article 3 In the case of an installation included in the section, only the fence shall be understood. Moreover, there are still not clearly regulated elements in the procedure. Thus, only the justification for the proposal shows the intention of the legislator that, if there is no suspicion of a criminal offence, the police officer should indicate to the third-country national the 2012 II. Law 100/A It may give an oral warning pursuant to Article 4 of this Regulation and shall accompany it through the gate of the establishment providing for the protection of the order of the State border. If appropriate conditions were to be met, cross-border procedures, the development of transit zones would be eligible. Such a procedure is expressly authorised by the relevant EU rules. However, it is doubtful whether the current operation of the transit zones really provides humane treatment and a fair procedure for asylum seekers. The established procedure is not appropriate, as is demonstrated, inter alia, by this proposal. In the cross-border proceedings, fair court proceedings are also called into question, since the court secretary acting in the case does not personally listen to the applicant, only through a video phone. The bill demonstrates that in September 2015 virtually non-functioning rules were established for procedures in the transit zone. This bill is an attempt to correct even his most outstanding mistakes. It would be appropriate to establish a fair and fair procedure rather than carve out a fundamentally flawed regulation. Thank you for your attention.
u2016-05-17-258	Thank you very much. Congressman Ádám Mirkóczki, the notary of the Parliament, is next, the lead speaker of Jobbik. Here you go.
u2016-05-17-259	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, I think that I do not have to prove for a long time that Jobbik has supported any proposal that has helped in substance either immigration or a series of actions against suspected or real terrorism and the security of the country, but I must say that the real purpose of this proposal is not understood, unless illegal immigrants need to be legalised somehow, because border protection does not work at the level that every speaker on the government's side has previously communicated that it works, there is a double border lock, and there is even a three-way, both technical, and legal, and thirdly, living strength. What do I mean? That if there were an actual border closure - we said in countless cases that border guards would be needed - that is, if there were proper lively border protection, we would not have to talk from eight kilometers to the maximum. Obviously, we are not talking about a guard standing every ten metres for 0-24 hours, but we are talking about it, for us border protection does not mean that it doesn't matter how many kilometers we're talking about, it doesn't matter whether we're planning or spontaneously catching all kinds of people wandering around, whether legally or illegally. We see it as a big problem that, by collecting these people, regardless of the depth of their stay illegally in the country and herding them into transit zones, from then on an asylum procedure is launched, registration is made, and if resistance to the quota system fails in Europe, from then on registration is basically a bed for these people to be deported to Hungary on the basis of a future quota system. Instead, we would say that it is possible to expel immigrants even in the event of an infringement, and on the other hand, it would be much better to establish the institution of reversibility that we have said for years. Because for us, it's very not that, and it's actually predicting the opposite. And I'm gonna say again that eight kilometers is a little weird. What's eight and a half kilometers, what's ten kilometers, and what's 20 kilometers? I understand that according to statistical data, the vast majority will be detected or captured within eight kilometers, but we have seen a time when this was not the case. I would still like an exact answer to what this proposal is really about. Because I understand everything that has been said about the government side, but that is, in our view, contrary to the stated goals, in our reading. We also like to think about the current challenges, especially in time, and the current challenges are clearly about the quota system. If Europe fails to prevent it, this proposal will include everyone, register everyone and conduct a procedure against everyone, making it possible to install these people in the supposed sad future. We would like to avoid this to an absolute extent. And once again, this is obviously not something that can be achieved overnight, but if we just start out on our own, we will say the need to set up the border patrol for six years, exactly from May 2010. In the medium and long term, it could work a long time ago if our proposal was followed six years ago. Once again, I would like to draw attention not to the fact that we are the only Schengen border country with no border guards. In fact, I can list countries that do not have a single meter of Schengen border, yet they have border guards. This eight-kilometer lane tells us how to cross the border, whether there is a technical border lock or not. I would advise you to consider very carefully the negative scenario of a referendum here or there - because it is clear that the amendment of the basic law of Jobbik is not supported - a referendum here or there, if the rejection of the quota system against Brussels fails, it is precisely this proposal that makes it possible to install or place a few hundred illegal infringements today because of registration. It would be good to think about what happens if our worst nightmare, the worst nightmare in terms of immigration, and there will be a quota system in the European Union, then how will you explain this proposal. We would not necessarily be tempted to register and conduct asylum procedures in each case, either by criminal or by violation, illegal offenders should be reversed. I know there's an agreement with Serbia, and I know they're supposed to take back 30 people. These negotiations can be reopened, and other means can be used under international law. Let us not be subtle, because I daresay that, through Brussels and Strasbourg glasses, this is a welcome proposal that you have tabled. If this is not going to change substantially, I can now say that Jobbik will not support this proposal, because it will serve exactly the opposite of what has been said. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]] [[19.00]]
u2016-05-17-260	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. There's no independent congressman in the room, no one's applied for a two-minute speech. In fact, no one else has applied for a speech - until Congressman Dániel Z. Carpát moved his finger. Here you go.
u2016-05-17-261	Mr President, Dear House, We have to say that the whole set of problems surrounding the referendum and the fundamental law amendment that the government has done, and the national referendum campaign that it has put forward in the last few weeks, will be nullified and completely nullified by the invitation letter which is in the package which is not very extensive, by the way, in front of us. This is clearly an idea that actually points to the fact that the arrivals, the strays who are being held together at the border, can encourage a much easier procedure, and that, yes, they should stay here with us. After all, if they only do so by returning those strays to the border, and they can register legally at the entry points, they are unlikely to be able to go where further, as Austria closes, Austria tightens up and, where appropriate, shoots towards the country called Slovakia. In fact, during the course of the proceedings, we would legally commit ourselves to discussing the affairs of these people here, at least to a certain point. But it is certain that the problem that arose last year, when we registered 178 thousand people, so that we know that they did not enter within the territory of the Union, but this is where the signature was placed on their paper, and Hungary's name was added to this paper, and we would continue to extend it. So you are doing exactly what you seem to be fighting with the campaign on the national referendum. So we see that this invitation letter is completely unnecessary. What you should be thinking about is how 12 thousand people crossed the hermetically sealed living-force border during the period concerned, how to compensate for this huge problem by setting up an independent border guard. We've got a tip. With regard to amending the budget, more than HUF 400 billion was moved, we discussed the circumstances of this exactly last week. A fraction of this amount could be used to set up an independent border guard that is now experiencing a painful lack of security. And we also see that it is precisely the result of your current proposal, so that within the eight-mile band, you would be touching the arrivals and, in fact, helping them as receptionists to register here in Hungary, so that is exactly what you seem to be fighting against. And I very much hope that this struggle is not just an apparent, truly quota-free Hungary. But their behaviour in relation to the national referendum suggests that they really want to maintain this emergency and distract attention from world record VAT, the dried-up economy, the incredibly poor performance of construction, the 0.9 percent European rushing economic growth shown in the first quarter. And unfortunately, that's what showed up. We're not against it. But what we see is that the national referendum in its time was a very good idea - by the way, Gábor Vona raised it, and I would like to note once again here - but the time since then has transformed the political climate in terms of our ability to make an even better proposal, because there is a faster, more secure and cheaper solution. This would be an amendment to the Fundamental Law, where we tried to force the Fidesz referendum issue into the Fidesz Fundamental Law, so that the Members of Fidesz would vote for it by a parliamentary majority. We are amazed that this proposal has not been included in a series of questions from the Commission, even at the cost of house violations. So we will probably only discuss it tomorrow after the parliamentary decision on the national referendum has already been taken. We can say that although Jobbik's faction supports the national referendum, we consider it a better tool than nothing, but we have proposed a much better one, which you have simply sabotaged. An amendment to the basic law is, of course, cheaper than a multibillion-dollar referendum initiative. It is a more secure method, since its outcome is not as uncertain as that of a so-called left-wing boycott in the national referendum. Thirdly, it is faster, so it would not leave the solution to say, in the summer in the witch's kitchen in Brussels, one or two more cute things like the bounty to be paid for unincorporated migrants. We would also like to continue to know how your Commissioner in the Commission has expressed himself on this issue, whether he has objected to it, because it was a consensus decision. But in these three arguments, we would like to urge you to consider setting up an independent border guard instead of the invitation letter before us. We have also marked the budgetary resource for this, and instead of the national referendum campaign, move towards a quick, secure and inexpensive but very effective amendment of the basic law. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-05-17-262	Thank you very much. While I am good enough in historical geography, it is clear that Congressman also treats Slovakia as a complete fact and clearly believes that it is a sovereign Member State of the European Union. That's how it is. Now I have to ask if anyone else wants to comment. [[There's no candidate.]] No. As no one has made any further comments, the general debate is closed. And I'll ask the Secretary of State if he wants to reflect. [[For signal:]] Yeah. Here you go.
u2016-05-17-263	With all due respect, Mr. President, my answer is yes. Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, I would like to thank you for the statements of support made in the debate. I would like to thank Mr Vas Imre, representative of Fidesz, who has given his support to this proposal, underlining the importance of the bill. I would also like to respond to the sentence of Mr Imre Horváth, Member of MSZP, that border surveillance and asylum were not handled effectively. This is how he started his comment, and I have literally recorded it. Well, Your Honour, that's not true. And allow me to draw your attention to what your fellow MSZP Members and fellow parties said at the time. In their communication to the MTI, it was said that immigration is a false problem, a baseless alarm that has no basis, and you have now made a completely different statement. He also noted that the system that we adopted in September 2015 did not work. We said that by closing the Hungarian-Serbian, Hungarian-Croatian green border on 15 September and mid-October 2015, we achieved a very important result by setting up a threefold system of legal, living and technical protection, since we protected the country, Hungary and the Hungarian people. But we also said that the danger has not passed, Mr Member, because the European Union has not been able to resolve the protection of the Schengen borders. Many Member States have not complied with this obligation. We said that the threat did not go away, and that we also said that this new situation should be addressed, which emerged at the beginning of 2016, in the first few months. That is why the government has decided to strengthen the physical protection of the southern border. We spent 9.3 billion forints on this. We will also strengthen the living protection, both for the police and for the defence. And now we are also in the process of strengthening legal protection. This is important, and here I turn to the comment of Mr Adam Mirkóczki, MEP Jobbik, who asked what this proposal really is about. This proposal is about protecting Hungary, the Hungarian border and the Hungarian people. I said, and this proposal includes, when adopted, that the police would not lead them into the transit zone or accompany them, but to the gate of the border lock, where they would have to wait their turn to submit an asylum application. But, Congressman, you can make other choices. They're heading back, Congressman. They can make other choices. That is what I would like to emphasise. The man who was captured beyond the eight kilometers asked about what was happening to him. It should be presented to the police under normal procedures. The rules are clear, they're clear. Ladies and gentlemen, The government has made its position clear about the forced resettlement, and the Ministry of the Interior is against that. We trust that in the referendum everyone who is important to Hungary, the protection of Hungarian people, regardless of party standing, regardless of party affiliation, can express their opinion, and can contribute to defending the country with one vote. Ladies and gentlemen, I think that we have spoken clearly on this issue, and we have made it clear that, in our view, we are Hungary, what is the interest of the Hungarian people. We are confident that a lot of people will support this, and I will say it again, regardless of party standing. [[19.10]] Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, Once again, I would like to thank the Members who spoke in the debate for their comments. I trust that their support will also be considered by those who have said today that they may not be able to support it. I trust that my response to the questions raised in the debate will also contribute to this supportive position, and I also hope that, if the law is adopted, it will contribute to the protection of Hungarian people and the security of Hungary. Thank you for your attention.
u2016-05-17-264	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the meeting of our agendas. It is now time for the speeches after the agenda. After the agenda, Mr Ander Balázs, representative of Jobbik, asked for a speech:. Some thoughts on the development of rail transport in the South of Budapest, or when will the government finally hear the voice of tens of thousands of people living here who want to travel normally? It's an address. Here you go.
u2016-05-17-265	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, At the beginning of the day, several hours ago, I addressed an oral question to the Ministry of National Development, in which I asked what the fate of the Southern Railway Station to be closed would be. Several experts, by the way, have conceived this plan in sin and consider it motivated by speculation. However, I have not only criticized this possible scenario, but I have also tried to outline an alternative and constructive development picture in line with Jobbik's habits, to which we should spend the resources that are otherwise scarce. That is what I would like to continue now. The government's declared objective is to develop railway and, in particular, suburban train transport in the period up to 2020. However, the concept lacks the development of the Dunaharaszti-Kiskunlacháza line in southern Budapest, as the public transport of this area is not sufficiently served only by the Ráckeve HÉV. It is no coincidence that, at the peak of the morning, there is a huge traffic of motor vehicles in the direction of the capital on Route 5, the often only reaping line stretches from Dunaharaszti to downtown. The reason this direction is so crowded is because the railway travel option does not offer any alternatives around here. Although the HÉV often travels from Dunaharaszti, quite slowly, and only to the Rákóczi bridge, from which the passenger can only get into the city by walking and by more transfers. In addition, the station is three kilometers away from Route 5, and you have to buy additional tickets that are more expensive than the train. Because of this, there is no chance that anyone from his car will ever board him in Dunaharaszti, the HÉV will only be used by local entrances near HÉV and Csepel Island. The current train transport is not an acceptable alternative either, as the train rarely runs and does not arrive at the Keleti railway station in the metro station, but turns back to the outskirts of the capital, Kőbánya-Kispest. From here you can achieve your goal with additional transfers and significant time loss, who does not wish or can not drive by car. This is incomprehensible because at the Keleti Railway Station there would be currently empty capacity, which, with a small improvement, can be adapted to the reception of the south-budapest flights that have been developed into a suburban flight. In addition, those newly purchased low-floor Siemens trains that are currently operating could perfectly meet the requirements of a suburban flight, but should only change the terminal and flight density. Due to the lack of a realistic public transport alternative, it would be necessary to highlight this line and, for example, to install a new suburban train as soon as possible by renovating the unused post track at the Keleti Railway Station. By publishing this and putting it on a timetable, the desire to travel is expected to increase radically, and by increasing the number of passengers, new train pairs, it would be easy to set up a long-term timetable, as is already the case on several suburban lines. With this not-so-expensive development and the increase in the area of the small P+R parking lot already in Dunaharaszti, for example, the entrances could receive an attractive alternative and some could be redirected to the railway. With this step, car traffic from Route 5 would be less and more unbearable during peak hours, and fewer people living in the surrounding settlements might think about moving to an overburdened capital. The introduction of the Ráckeve HÉV until Boráros tér seems to be an unsolvable task for the current management for decades, but even if it were to take place in the next ten years, the problem analysed above will hardly be alleviated by this step. On the one hand, this alternative would be available only from the other side of Dunaharaszti; on the other hand, after our metro 4 far-sighted predecessors did not drive on the university quarter near Petőfi bridge and the busy Boráros tér line, the mass of people collapsing together from the two HÉV lines will again be able to choose from lean options, which surface flight could be crowded up. The poor traffic situation in this area could be effectively addressed by suburban rail transport. We would expect this to be implemented as soon as possible from the current Ministry, Government. According to the professional opinion of the MÁV, which is based on a 2008 study, it would also be possible to access the Keleti railway station with a schedule from this region if a third introductory track pair were to be built. In addition, there would be additional opportunities for proposed and expected improvements, which, of course, will not be mentioned in the next year's budget, but even if the government does not think about such developments. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] We did this, we thought for them. We would ask with all due respect that at least our amendments be read on the budget. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2016-05-17-266	We listened with great patience, and in his speech after the agenda he exceeded the time frame by 19 seconds. [[Ander Balázs: Thank you very much, Mr. President.]] I'm gonna need you to recite it. [[Balázs Ander: I'm receptive, absolutely!]] Secretary of State, please.
u2016-05-17-267	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, According to the Government decision on the measures necessary to implement railway development, related public space spatial development and node development in Buda, the development portfolio was commissioned to carry out preparatory tasks. As a result of the preparatory tasks, the portfolio will present to the government in autumn 2016 a comprehensive concept of the development of railway transport in Buda. The Government decision on investments of major importance in Budapest aims to prepare the following projects: designing a three-track connection between Kelenföld and Ferencváros stations by creating new suburban stops, including the Népliget-Fradiváros stop connected to Metro 3 and the development of the Ráckeve HÉV line and integrating it into the single Budapest fixed-track community transport network. Dear Parliament, These developments also show that the primary objective of the government's transport policy is the development of suburban rail transport. As a result, the purchase of six modern low-floor cars of the Stadler FLIRT type was possible for the suburban section of the 150 line. In addition, in recent years a modern, high capacity P+R parking lot has been built at several suburban stops. Thank you for your attention.
u2016-05-17-268	Thank you very much. Congresswoman Loránt Hegedűs, representative of Jobbik, notary of the Parliament, has applied for a speech after the agenda: "Indulgence of our own right." Here you go.
u2016-05-17-269	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, I am very pleased that you are here with us at this hour, and I very much hope that I will be able to get an answer from the Secretary of State on my speech. Recently, in the days I received the call of the Community of Hungarian Mayors, which demands and requests that the government withdraws all its ideas and initiates changes to decisions that undermine the freedom of decision and economic autonomy of settlements. I would now like to briefly present this call to the House and to the Secretary of State, hoping that the words here will be echoed not only by the Ministry but also by the entire government. In point 1, the following is written: "We expect the municipalities to be given the opportunity to assume the role of maintainer in the planned reform of the system of public education, while ensuring the necessary and sufficient central funding. KLIK's bankruptcy proved that the municipalities were not responsible for the management difficulties of public education institutions, but for the irresponsible fiscal policy of the governments at the time. I would add that the 2017 budget will only contain traces of the operation of these public education institutions. So we are completely clueless as to what the government's vision for the future really is. Point 2 reads: "We strongly reject the idea of nationalisation of public catering. We responsible local leaders, the authors of the writings, strive to ensure that only healthy, locally produced food is provided for the production, production and production of food for the local communities. On the other hand, the government idea would deprive rural people of the potential for value-making work, in addition to the fact that security and quality of supply are expected to be significantly weakened. We know that in the 2017 budget, the government is unfortunately going to spend 20 billion less on Start programmes, although this is also one of the legs of the local provision of mass catering. [[19.20]] Point 3 states: "We call upon the government to give the rural authorities, instead of selling our national assets, land, a chance to manage their administrative areas so that they can create their self-sufficiency, as expected under the sectoral law."The 4th paragraph reads: "Let us launch, the 2017 Budget Act includes an increase of at least 20 per cent of the civil servant's salary and, in this context, the correction of civil servants' and civil servants' wages. We find it shameful - and we can only agree with that in its entirety - that since 2008, the salary of those working in the service of our communities, according to state regulations, has not only increased, but even lost significantly, its value. A good state, which the government also wants to create, can only be imagined if our employees are valued and provided with a decent living. I would add that this also means that we do not keep the public servants in a service line, in a merchandising line. Point 5 states:.. We are proposing the abolition of provisions on the transformation of waste shipments, because they render public service provision impossible and lead to a serious crisis for local government associations supplying them. To this day, we know, Mr State Secretary, that we do not have the legal conditions, the legislative framework that could ensure the order of the transformation, which is why it is legitimate for the mayors to withdraw the planned changes. The 6th and final points say: "We object to any attempt to endanger the public security of our settlements, so we reject the construction of migrant camps, the resettlement of migrants and their compulsory use in public employment. I think that in a sense this is the most shameful, because we know that the long-term public employment contract has been binding since last summer, and that is the only way may may may the mayors sign these contracts if they undertake public employment for migrants. So please consider calling our mayors. Thank you so much for listening. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2016-05-17-270	Thank you very much. Secretary of State Károly Kontra reflects. Here you go.
u2016-05-17-271	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and The government considers it very important to cooperate with local governments in order to ensure that the public service provided by the municipalities can be used by the citizens of Hungary at the same level, in an appropriate and identical way. This intention is underlined by the national interest in ensuring responsible management of municipal assets and public funds. It is of particular importance for the government that local government's problems of financing tasks are identified in time and that the start of municipal debt processes can be identified and prevented. I remind you and this House that the government, recognizing the problems facing the settlements, has taken over a total debt of HUF 1368 billion in debt consolidation, freeing the settlements from the burden of debt that makes their daily work impossible. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Our position on public education is clear and clear. Our goals have been clearly formulated by the Ministry of Human Resources. We want all Hungarian children, all Hungarian students in all schools in Hungary to receive the services, the knowledge material necessary for their advancement, at the same level, predictablely and safely. As regards the other comments and the other claims made, allow me to respond to comments on migrants. During the discussion of the former item on the agenda, the government's position was clear that no migrant should be allowed to reside illegally in Hungary. This was served by the law whose general debate was just concluded by Parliament. With regard to the temporary placement of migrants, we have made it clear that this is an emergency situation, honourable Member. We are not happy about the need to place migrants in a single settlement in Hungary, but we still need to resolve this situation, and we can work together to resolve this. The government will create the conditions for the safety of people living in those settlements. I'd like to refer you to Körmend here. [[Tibor Bana: Yes!]] We will also implement the conditions for the safety of the people who live there. For example, the government and the Ministry of Interior have recently decided to provide 24 million HUF for the city of Körmend to expand the public area camera system and provide greater security. We are in daily contact with the head of the settlement, Mayor István Bebes, who, by the way, I would like to thank the representative body in Körmend and the people who live in Körmend for their cooperation and understanding. I would like to say that the government, the Ministry of the Interior, the police, the Immigration Office, the Hungarian authorities are doing everything in their power to ensure that the Körmends and any settlements where there is still such accommodation are guaranteed their safety. Once again, I ask my fellow Members to support the laws that serve this purpose. Support the referendum, because we are opposed to forced resettlement. I think that the government has clearly expressed Hungary's interests on this issue. It is very important that every Hungarian citizen on this issue is given the opportunity to contribute to Hungary's security in a single vote of responsibility. Thank you for your attention.
u2016-05-17-272	Thank you very much. Congressman Gergely Farkas, representative of Jobbik, is the following speaker:, Let the opinion of the students also be expressed in the Parliament. - Report to Jobbik's Youth Department. - Hear your voice. The results of your campaign - XII. the title of the subpart. Here.
u2016-05-17-273	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, As President said, this is now the 12th time that I and my fellow Members have presented the views of young people, especially those of high school students, who are listening to your voice. They came to us as part of our campaign. Hundreds of letters, hundreds of valuable ideas and insights that can and should be built on if we are to look at the right reform of the education system. It is always a great pleasure for us to meet young people personally, either by letter or by letter, and thank them for the opportunity to express their views, because, as they put it, no one has asked them so far. Jobbik, however, gives all young people the opportunity to share their ideas, complaints, and anything they think is worth talking about in front of Parliament about education or the situation of young people in general. Milán, who had already shared his thoughts with us, wrote this. I'm writing for the second time because there are finally people who deal with students' opinions and say it in the National Assembly. This is how I see today's educational situation. While in Kuno Klebelsberg's time they sought to create a cultural superlative and spent a lot of money on it, as this was an important political interest, the KLIK named after it does not do so. Today, students are increasingly involved in international surveys, which is primarily the fault of the education system, not the fault of students or teachers. How can we expect the interests of Hungarians to be recognised internationally, so that they can stand up in the world, or that the young Hungarian labour force can be sought abroad? In my opinion, ensuring intellectual development could still be the same foreign policy strategy for the country today, and the government should spend more on education from the budget and perhaps less on less important goals such as stadium building. iii) In addition to complaints about overburden, high hours and poor quality experimental textbooks, letters continue to come in order not to cancel geography education from middle and secondary schools. Jobbik thinks so, and we also protested in a statement that there would be no such education here in vocational secondary schools or in a large part of vocational schools. [[19.30]] The following comment:. The everyday physical education is a fine initiative, but why at the expense of other skill subjects? We'd be Kodály's country, but singing is basically just a subject for singing and music and/or art schools, and in other schools it's one of the subjects to be broken down. Every two weeks, one singing lesson is nothing. But it's not just about singing, it's about basic education. László writes. We also consider the importance of singing music and the need to educate it with new methods, since there is a close link between education and singing. Quoting Kodály: If you want to characterize the essence of education in one word, that word could be no different than: singing... Our mechanizing age is on a path where you end up becoming a machine. It only protects me from the spirit of the song. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. László, continuing his opinion, wrote this on another subject: "Sometimes it is necessary to teach students separately according to knowledge. In the old days, children with weaker abilities were sent to auxiliary school. What good is it if weak students are a retreating force for smarter, more talented children? [[The speaker grinds his throat.]] What good is it if you can't teach a class in a school because of students' intolerable behavior? I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry.
u2016-05-17-274	Congressman, feel free to have a few sips of water. We'll wait for you with patience.
u2016-05-17-275	Thank you very much.
u2016-05-17-276	He's doing it talentedly. Good. And we're good to go.
u2016-05-17-277	Thank you very much. Jobbik believes that a differentiated education is needed, regardless of gender, religion, regardless of any ethnic origin, rather than the issue of forced integration and segregation from above. We believe that differentiated education enables students to make the most of their talents and talents. It is, therefore, that since students are not the same in psychological terms or in preemptive knowledge, they do not necessarily have to be taught the same and not necessarily the same to all students. According to Joseph - I quote: "The constant and sudden, rapid changes affect the graduate students, and they do not take into account that they have not been prepared for the new level of requirement so far. We, too, have often talked about the rapidly changing legislation and all that concerns students in this regard, not knowing what to prepare for, either as a result of a graduation or as a result of an admission. Jasmine's idea is to be a small class, so that more attention can be paid to students. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. That's all I had to say today. We continue to look forward to young people's opinions and comments through the Jobbikit.hu/hallasdahangod website. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2016-05-17-278	Thank you very much. Secretary of State, please.
u2016-05-17-279	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Since Mr Gergely Farkas and Mr Tibor Bana also speak on the same subject, let me respond in a response and wait for Mr Tibor Bana's comment.
u2016-05-17-280	I get it. It will be easier if you speak up, Mr Bana. This is the next speaker after the next agenda:, Let the opinion of the students also be expressed in the National Assembly. Report to Jobbik's Youth Department. The result of your campaign is part 13. Here you go.
u2016-05-17-281	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, Gergely Farkas, linked to my faction partner, let's hear your voice. During our campaign, I would like to continue to present the opinions and ideas sent by high school students, young people. We get to more and more young people, we meet regular high school students on the streets and in public spaces, because we believe that their opinion does matter, because they are the primary stakeholders of education. We can be sure that the insights and thoughts of young people can give us aspects that will help education to really go in the right direction. Allow me, therefore, to convey the voice of the students themselves to the National Assembly below. Rustem's complaint is as follows: The new textbooks have serious problems. The grammar and physics books have left out parts of the material, and history books rarely say the date of an event, such as the time of Horthy's election as governor, and let's say they could draw a proper map, because what's in it is a horror. In fact, it is time to provide quality, professionally appropriate textbooks to teachers and students, not experimental textbooks, which, as experience shows, are often of extremely poor quality and are often unfit for teaching. It is also worrying about the way in which the textbook publishing system was redesigned without a mere hearing of the stakeholders, creating a monopoly position, making it impossible for long-established textbook publishers. This situation is unsustainable and needs to be corrected as soon as possible, according to Jobbik. In Gábor's letter, he wrote: "With regard to student contracts, I believe that there should be more options in relation to the method of reimbursement of state scholarships and discounts. In addition, the lack of adequate information on its content and interpretation and the catastrophic response time to e-mail leaves something to be desired, in my case, for 25 days. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Marci, a 9th grade high school student of 15 years old, wrote to us about the overload: "I go to a singing-music school, where I need an average of 3 hours a day - minimum 2, maximum 4 - and I have an average of 10 lessons a day, which ends at 3:00 a.m. On Saturdays, I go to practice for 1 hour - because we don't have money for an instrument - and I would highlight the need to prepare for two instruments. I don't hate all these lessons about instruments and music because I applied to this school because of music, but I'm tired of not being able to rest. It's supposed to be eight hours a day for you to sleep, and I only have six to seven hours, because I get home every day at 8:00, and it's gonna take two hours to learn everything by the next day. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Netti wrote us an extensive letter, from which I would quote the following parts:, Many of my acquaintances indicated that you had mailed the letters to you. I can very much identify with those commentators who have suggested that teachers should also have a committee of inquiry, checking to see if politics is kept away from school. We didn't watch a movie about Trianon, we didn't even look at it at all, we didn't even look at the revolution in '56, we didn't even look at the time after that, because there wasn't time. I could write about the strain, but not in the same sense as the others. What the teacher doesn't deliver in class, he e-mails it. We didn't have the Internet in the village for about three months, but that's how we always got the math lesson. That's why I had to go to school hours earlier so I could do anything first. I have several classmates who don't have the Internet in the apartment. But they don't dare tell me because it's embarrassing. There was a teacher who kept e-mailing me about when he was going to be a test, and he continued with Netti's idea - and I quote, "What would I think of?" Geography should not be taken out in any way, but rather - others have written before - the subjects should be divided by grade, such as 9-10th grade physics, chemistry; 11-12th grade bios, főci. I think there are serious and real problems with all of this. Therefore, making these burdens easier for all Hungarian citizens to access the Internet free of charge in case Jobbik's election win, because Internet use is no longer a luxury or a hobby, as Netti wrote, but a basic infrastructure need, which should be provided free of charge for everyone. In connection with geography education, I would quote Count Pál Teleki: "Geography is not for myself and is not a useful object for me, but a means of achieving higher spiritual and moral goals. I think these words are timely and speak for themselves. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, To conclude, I would like to quote Anna's letter, who has already made her voice heard here in the Parliament:, I have written a letter once, and it has been read, thank you very much. I would like to tell Mr Orbán and his associates that, first of all, we should not be dealing with externalities, we should not build the stadium and the small railway, but rather the rotting interior, we should restore education, put hospitals in an appropriate state, we should make roads, we should create jobs for young people who are developing so that they do not have to leave Hungary. And the new job should preferably not be community service. His polling camp is constantly falling for Fidesz, and Jobbik is growing; this, I think, is no coincidence. If there's nothing more to do than building a stadium or building a small railway, then unfortunately, they don't know how to govern the country. To do that, I think there's nothing to add. Mr President, Thank you for the opportunity. I continue to encourage all young people to hear their voices from Jobbik here in Parliament. You can do this through our flyers or the Jobbikit.hu/Hallasdahangod page. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2016-05-17-282	Secretary of State Károly Kontrat has the floor. Here you go.
u2016-05-17-283	Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen of the Council, Thank you for providing us with information on proposals and measures to improve education and our daily lives through the mediation of students' opinions. When we started the work of the Round Table of Public Education, the same goal was for the government. Through the mediation of the members of the Round Table, all organisations participating in the working groups of the Round Table will be given the opportunity to comment, comment, proposal on specific issues, legislative amendments. In the round table's negotiating partners, we will also find the student representation and thank the students for their opinion. It is important for the government to learn about students' opinions, questions, problems. Thank you for your honesty, so we continue to encourage them to take advantage of the opportunities offered and to participate in the development of the Hungarian public education system, as it is in the interest of all of us. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2016-05-17-284	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches after the agenda. Thank you for your work. Parliament will resume its session at 9 a.m. Meeting day's closed. Good evening, everyone. Good night. [[Meeting ended at 7:40 p.m.]]
