u2016-11-14-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] Dear Parliament, The 22nd day of the autumn session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that Mr. Attila Móring and Mr. István Szávay will help me with the meeting. I welcome all those who monitor our work. Dear Parliament, Today we begin our work with speeches before the agenda, from 11:50 a.m. to 13:20 a.m. for questions, and then from approximately 13:20 a.m. to 14:20 a.m. for immediate questions and answers, and finally finish today's session with speeches after the agenda. Dear Parliament, Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, representative of the MSZP, applied for a pre-meeting address after St. Martin's Day. You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2016-11-14-1	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear fellow Members, On Friday, 12 November, the International Social Action Day was held, we celebrate older people at the beginning of October every year, the World Day for Combating Poverty, the World Food Day, and the World Day for Children's Rights will be held on 20 November. On several occasions we have spoken in Parliament to draw the government's attention to these world days, because in most cases these issues are delicately avoided by the government. Last Friday, the news of the day could have been that Pope Francis met 6,000 needy people from all over Europe in the Vatican, including over 80 Hungarian pilgrims, including the homeless. I apologize for Christians who do not read the Gospel, and I apologize to you for every time a Christian turns against a poor one. '"' said Pope Francis. He added: "The poor are not slaves, they are not people without dignity, the poor are in the heart of the church. '"'," said Pope Francis. The head of the church said: "The poor are also role models, because when you have great wealth, you forget about the poor when you are poor, you can reach out to those who suffer. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Ladies and gentlemen of the Government, You are not fighting poverty, you are fighting the poor. Six years of Fidesz government today: we have become a fidesz urizing elite country. In Hungary, the third highest proportion of people living in material deprivation is behind Romania and Bulgaria in the European Union. In 2015, 44 percent of the population was affected by this problem, while the EU average was 19.5 percent. One of the greatest risk factors for poverty is a couple's child or a single parent's child. 47-48 percent of single - parent families live in poverty or extreme poverty in Hungary, but we know that 42.2 percent of children under the age of seven grow up in poverty. 43,500 children are not included in any care system as a consequence of the introduction of a 16-year education obligation. Every year, 6 to 7,000 children are ripped out of their families for poverty reasons specifically prohibited by the Child Protection Act. 220,000 children are at risk in Hungary, and you are the ones who legalized child labour. Today, 73,000 people have a pension of less than 50,000 forints, 65% of pensioners do not receive the average pension, and workers' poverty is increasing, and those who work are already in poverty. On Friday, at a conference, Viktor Orbán said: "Szent Márton is the patron saint of the social market economy. According to the Prime Minister, the order of mercy can never be equal to destroying ourselves. A country can only stretch as far as its blanket goes, otherwise it's only a matter of time before the economy collapses. Yes, Viktor Orbán is right. Everyone knows the old saying: stretch as far as your blanket goes; only you, my fellow Members, have stolen the blanket. Dear fellow Members, We became a country of Fidesz party barons, where after 2010, a new perverted redistribution, the country was being robbed. We've become a fidesz urizing elite country. In order to protect young people, the Trafiks were stolen, hundreds of thousands of hectares of state land were stolen in order to protect the Hungarian soil, casinos were stolen for gambling addicts, and due to György Matolcsy's amok run, hundreds of billions of forints of public money were converted and the entire Hungarian media was placed under full control. Andy Vajnák, Voldemortok, István Garancsi, Lőrincek Mészáros, Árpád Habony are robbing the country for fidesz friends and their families. Fidesz politicians are told about their unscrupulous enrichment and urizing lifestyles every day. We have become a country of Fidesz urizing elite - but for whose protection, for whose sake, Mr. Secretary? By 2016, Hungary became a poor, slippery country. By 2014, 1 million 454 thousand Hungarians received less net income per month than 55 thousand forints. Corruption of unprecedented scale after the change of regime only increases the problem. Fidesz took our country and distributed it to friends and family. For this reason, the MSZP will start a charity fundraiser again this year, where it wants to help children, elderly people and families as the holidays approach. Ladies and gentlemen of the Government, You're welcome to join our mission. We're waiting for you to participate. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] In the action where we can help families. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2016-11-14-2	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Government, Parliamentary Secretary Bence Rétvári will respond.
u2016-11-14-3	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, It is a very welcome thing that the Hungarian Socialist Party organizes similar actions, and we also know who for many years owes its party career to the Hungarian Socialist Party that it was the leader of the charitable organization or charity actions there and coordinated them: Miklós Hagyó. It was Miklós Hagyó who for years was the charity face of the party, who showed that his job in MSZP was to show people how beneficial MSZP is. He has launched many, many aid packages to help people in need, and in the meantime we know what Miklós Hagyó's everyday life was about, because they can be found out not only from the political newspapers, but also from the criminal court records. This is how credible the Hungarian Socialist Party's charitable activities have been in the past, and I think we can expect nothing else in the future. It is extremely gratifying that, at least from the news and indirectly, but also to the Hungarian Socialist Party, the message of the Gospel is delivered in the interpretation of Pope Francis. The new language used by the pope may also open up new missionary areas, for as a result, some who had not heard this earlier will be receptive to the message of the Gospel. At the same time, let me call your attention to another section of the Gospel on the social field, which is about fish and net, which says that the right thing to do is not only to give someone fish, but to teach them how to fish, to teach them how to handle the net. That is why I think that in recent times, one of the greatest virtues of the Fidesz-KDNP government period is that more and more people can manage the net, more and more people have jobs, and you can generate the income that he and his family need. [[11.10]] 600 thousand more people are working now, and unemployment has fallen by more than a quarter of a million; 600 thousand more people are now not on welfare, but on their own wages. This is a very large number, larger than the population of the entire Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg county. He now works with more people than a whole county population of Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg County. [[Nándor Gúr: Abroad, Bence!]] And if we look at a different number, say, three-debrecen population, three-debrecen people who were unemployed at the time of your administration. These are the results of an economic policy and social policy that can give people a net and provide a better place in society. But we can remember what you did to the pensioners. They took a month's pension from them, while in the Fidesz-KDNP period we increased the purchasing value of pensions by more than 8.5 percent and 8.6 percent. [[Dr. László Varga: If you work so well, you can still be State Secretary of Propaganda. Intercom from the lines of the MSZP.]] That he's retired... [[Interviews from the ranks of the MSZP.]] It hurts a lot, I see. It hurts the socialists. Remember? When you stood up one by one here in Parliament, in a roll call, and all of you, one by one, said yes to the 13th month's pension? It was then that the group meeting should have been so rumbled, and then it should not have been voted in, but since the order came from Brussels to do so, you did not oppose it, but here, who were here in 2008, voted in favour of taking away the 13th month pension. To this day, this seems to hurt the Socialist Party, but it hurts even more for pensioners who had to wait until the Fidesz-KDNP government to replace that value in their pensions, and that 8.6 percent pension increase will replace the one-month pension that the socialists have taken. But they also had to wait for Fidesz-KDNP, either for pensioners or for others, who are very important in terms of spending on life support, so that the brasses would not grow but reduce. Because, of course, while these companies were primarily owned by foreign multinationals, they first legitimized the annual profit rate of 8 percent at the time of Gyula Horn's request, and then, after 2002, they constantly increased their fees every year, increasing the electricity and gas prices twice and three times. Compared to this, Fidesz-KDNP managed to reduce them several times; you did not believe in this Parliament, you have always drawn our attention to the interests of companies, and that this is unsustainable. Since then, this has been working well, and as a result of this, there has been a reduction of half of the debts. [[Dr. László Varga: Take a leave of absence, because there will be a serious problem.]] But we could talk about you offering people a currency-backed trap, and we're offering you a family home-building discount. We can talk about the fact that, in your time, having children may have often meant a commitment to poverty; only now the textbook is free, now we are spending two and a half times as much on children's meals, which all reduces the cost of families. [[Dr. László Varga: Doctor!]] The cost of having children by means of the family tax reduction that you have broken down between 2002 and 2004. We have not only rebuilt it, but we have expanded it so that the family with a three-child average income does not have to pay taxes or contributions, but can spend these funds on the child, the child. And on top of that, we can add a triple or double increase in the minimum wage compared to your period, and this, as I see it, will continue. Because the MSZP couldn't do a radical minimum wage increase, but Fidesz-KDNP is preparing for it. Thank you very much. [[Dr. László Varga: If you continue like this, you will be transferred from the Ministry of Human Rights to the Propagandaministery. A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2016-11-14-4	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, He also spoke before the agenda, on behalf of the Group of the Christian Democratic People's Party, under Secretary of State Bence Rétvári, Member of the Council, on the subject of the National Interest. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary. [[Noise, interruptions on the opposition side.]]
u2016-11-14-5	[[He's taking up his seat as a representative.]] Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and Gentlemen of MSZP still murmuring! I see that confrontation with their own period will in any case open up very painful wounds; the problem is that also in voters, when they think back to that period. [[Dr. László Varga: But hard with the government, tell them! István Tukacs, standing: To the object, to the object! The president's ringing the bell.]]
u2016-11-14-6	Have a seat, don't be nervous, Congressman.
u2016-11-14-7	Thank you for listening to my speech standing up, Congressman...
u2016-11-14-8	Why don't you step outside, Congressman? You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2016-11-14-9	Thank you very much. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] When Jobbik announced its bridge program and the bridge appeared as a symbol and as a word in the speeches before the various great plenums, we never thought that it would play this role between the Hungarian Socialist Party, the Democratic Coalition and the MSZP. At the same time, when you fit into the axis that was previously marked by Gyula Molnár and Ferenc Gyurcsány, and now Gábor Vona is sitting nicely in this company. [[Dr. Gábor Staudt: What?!]] As here in Parliament, perhaps interestingly, the Group of Jobbik connects the Socialists and DK in a seating order. [[Dóra Dúró: Wow!]] It seems that we can now see this in Parliament and see it beyond halftime in this term and outside Parliament. If we look at the statistics on how many times the Jobbik faction supports the government party's proposal and how many times it votes with the socialists, we can see that they vote five times as much with the socialists as they do with the ruling party. [[Ádám Mirkóczki: I suppose you included the interpellations!]] Five socialists vote together for a pro-government vote in the Jobbik faction. And there have been many signs of this already in the public discourse, as Ferenc Gyurcsány already spoke in May 2016 about the possibility of a great cooperation on the left-right above the Fidesz-KDNP, and he said that he did not like it, but in order to break it down by two thirds. [[György Szilágyi: What was Kósa talking about?]] Even if not enthusiastically, they would not want to rule out cooperation with Jobbik. [[Adam Mir-kókóczki: Will you come back and answer yourself? Dr. Laszlo Varga: Answer me yourself, Bence.]] We saw a main test of this when Ferenc Gyurcsány came in separately to vote down, together with the opposition parties, together with Jobbik and MSZP, the fundamental law-modifying proposal of the Fidesz-KDNP, which, after the referendum on 2 October, I think it was clear that it was justified to take off here in Parliament. But while the MSZP had promised to support this at its parliamentary meeting, Jobbik also said that it was clear that even in the referendum that people should go and vote against the compulsory resettlement quota, then both parties refused their own words, and did not vote for this proposal. However, this may have been the case in previous elections in concrete cooperation. [[György Szilágyi: Historical success!]] Let's not forget, when Gábor Vona said that even the DKs campaigned for László Toroczkai in his own settlement, and then László Toroczkai became vice president in Jobbik. [[Ádám Mirkóczki: It's terrible that someone went to vote for him!]] Others have such suggestions, of course, for smaller satellite parties; Gergely Christmas has been talking about a technical coalition for years, and we also see that the socialist, DK and better-looking politicians in ATV give each other the doorknob. So it seems to be working well in the media, in public speech and in parliamentary votes, this happened in the country before 2 October, and after 2 October this was reflected in the votes. Why do opposition parties do this? They do so because when it comes to considering what is important to them, the political interest of short-term, small-scale, or the national interest in capitals, it seems to be the political interest that is important to everyone now. [[Dóra Dúró: Or the settlement policy!]] It was thought that, in the short term, for Fidesz-KDNP, it could create some kind of problem for the ruling parties, which they think is bad for the ruling parties, so they think that what is bad for the government is good for them. That's why they have to go along with it. [[11.20]] This is a very simple logic, the political history has had similar theories for centuries, but there is a national interest that goes beyond these short-term ideas [[Noise on the opposition side. Dóra Dúró: Is the settlement policy a national interest?]] When a person not only thinks about how he can cause problems for his political rival at the moment, he has the courage and the ability to think in a nation, to think in national interest. But this may come together when Gábor Vona will perform in Balatonszársó in a particular tent. In any case, it turns out that the members of the Jobbik faction passed the test of loyalty, passed the test that Gábor Vona put them in front of. [[There's a noise in Jobbik's ranks.]] that they would listen to their own voters or their party president. The decision was clear, there was a lot of discipline, everyone voted for the party president. [[György Szilágyi applauds.]] and did not take into account the 1 million people who, in their view, voted against the resettlement quota in the referendum as well as the Jobbik voters. Ladies and gentlemen, as much as it hurts, this is the truth. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-11-14-10	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. I'll ask him on behalf of the government... [[Noise on the opposition side, inter alia: Bence Rétvári!]] I would like to ask with respect the representatives of Jobbik... party president Gábor Vona has also asked for a word, he will speak before the agenda, obviously he will give his opinion. Please listen to the Secretary of State, Mr Csaba Dömötör, who replied on behalf of the Government.
u2016-11-14-11	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. In his speech, Mr President, he spoke about the national interest. Allow me to react partially and partly, because I cannot argue with everything, so I should consider what has been said in terms of national interests. It is indeed a fundamental national interest to enforce the outcome of the referendum and to prevent the adoption of the quota package. This is a national interest because the quota package presents serious social, security and cultural risks and is already being considered in more and more places in Europe and in the world; it is enough to think about the outcome of the US election in terms of immigration there. This is also in our interest because the European Commission would speed up resettlement. We regret that in this fight against the quota package, we cannot count on opposition parties, they can only afford boycotts, extortion, maybe a few dozen whistles. At the same time, I would like to mention another subject here for the national interest. It is also in the national interest that Hungary, the Hungarian economy, will be further strengthened in the midst of international debates. The economy is already stable, but this alone is not enough if families do not feel this in their own lives. So one of the most important tasks in the coming years is to catch up on the wages in Hungary to the Western Europeans. The government's goal is to increase real wages significantly. This work has already started, so the career model of law enforcement workers and educators continues, which is why specialists will receive HUF 207,000 more in wages, so that nurses will be able to pay 65 percent more to their homes, and therefore, among other things, the wages of those working in government and district offices will be increased. We can also see a positive process in the competition sector. For more than three and a half years, real wages have been growing and we want this process to accelerate. To this end, a large wage agreement is needed between employers, workers and the government. As a first step, the government proposes a 15% minimum wage increase and would increase the guaranteed minimum wage by 25 percent. An agreement is needed which also improves competitiveness. The government would like to help with this with a large contribution reduction programme. This could lead to a 4 percent reduction in contributions in 2017, which could be followed by further reductions. The national interest therefore dictates that, while we are implementing the results of the referendum abroad, we should help wage increases with all possible means at home. In this work, we expect all parliamentary parties, regardless of whether the opposition has previously added too much to these matters. It is time for everyone to finally contribute to the strengthening of Hungary! Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-11-14-12	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, István Ikotity, representative of the LMP, also applied for a speech before the agenda. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2016-11-14-13	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, Viktor Orbán spoke at a conference last week about the conclusion of the period of economic development when the country's competitiveness could be reduced to cheap wages. A little later, he said that the improvement of competitiveness cannot be imagined differently than by a steady rise in wages. What can a opposition party do in this case when such a statement comes out of the mouth of a prime minister? What can I do, a representative of a opposition party? I think there are two ways ahead of me. One of the options is to look at what he's said so far, how he's been on his way, and I say that what he's done from 2010 to 2016 he's throwing it all in the trash. I am saying that it is a failure that you have taken the country into, so you would like to take a 180-degree turn now, Viktor Orbán. After all, what has happened in the last six years is perhaps the best summarized by his speech of 23 March 2014 - which he held in Saudi Arabia, Riyadh - where he said to rich Arab entrepreneurs that Hungary has surprisingly cheap labour and flexible labour codes. Obviously, for entrepreneurs, this meant that workers' rights were weak. So he competed Hungary with cheap labour. Now you realize that it doesn't work, what you've done so far is a dead end, and you need a 180-degree turnaround. However, as a representative of an opposition party, I can approach this in a different way. I do not necessarily have to say that I must focus on the fact that what has been said so far is a failure, but I can also say what I heard the other day: perhaps the prayer chain for Viktor Orbán, which means that they are constantly praying for it, has been effective, it may have worked, and Viktor Orbán has come up with a good idea. But it could also be that the 2014 or perhaps even the 2010 LMP programme somehow came into its hands and started to implement it. We'd even support him if he went in that direction. But what has been said so far from his mouth and from the mouths of ministers and spokespersons is only the first step, and it also seems to be a Band-Aid, a kind of pull, let it go; it seems little to make these not just words, but to actually start something. We'd like to see if they're actually moving in this direction. Listen to the news reports this morning: they didn't really talk about internal politics. Last week, I was very excited about this 40 percent increase in wages and a few other things like that; these are great things, but for some reason, they don't dare to make a fuss about it. Since I would also like to talk about education and, in fact, that is what I would like to emphasise, I would like to ask you, honourable government, that you should also be able to make such a 180-degree turn in education. Please complete the insane centralization linked to the name of the KLIK, which apparently doesn't go any further, and they keep failing. Cancel the kind of approach that is so typical of your government, even the governments that preceded you, which has always saved you from education. In any case, the figures show that between 2010 and 2016 - although the Secretary of State of Rétvári will obviously repeat the numbing mantras about how much the source of education has increased, but even an elementary school lower school student can see from the figures - this is a 12% decrease in real terms. Stop beating up higher education and, above all, what it means to eliminate and push out rural colleges and universities, as they would be key to maintaining the countryside. Allow me, Mr Secretary, to conclude my comment on a specific question. I am a Baja resident, and there is a rumor that Baján's Eötvös József College will be eliminated in the coming period. There is also a government decision on this issue, as I understand it, which is about this 145-year-old teacher training and 54-year-old water education being terminated, reduced, handed over to a higher education institution in another city, and looked at by the Ministry of Interior. Is there some kind of border hunting training going on? Please answer: will you really eliminate József Eötvös College from your troubles? [[11.30]]
u2016-11-14-14	Thank you very much, Congressman. Bence Rétvári, Secretary of State, will respond to what has been said on behalf of the Government.
u2016-11-14-15	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, I'm very glad the LMP believes in the power of prayer chains. At the same time, allow me to draw your attention to a very recent statement, and I'll hold it in my hand. [[He's showing it to me.]] This is longer than that, I only took off parts of the different countries, I brought only Hungary, which is published by the European Union. It is published annually, this is the education and training monitor. That's what came out this year, and I really wouldn't have to do anything else to disprove you, to read it word for word. Because what you have said, what direction change, what direction change is needed, and how it should be returned to the pre-2010 situation, is clearly refuted by this publication. On the one hand, the numbers that you are saying, even if they are numbing, and on the other hand, the change of direction is not shown in the backwards step either by this publication of the European Union, nor by us. What we see is that what we started with the teaching career, what we started with state reservations and responsibility, is indeed the biggest problems, which were still problems in the Hungarian education and public education system between 2010 and 12, these solutions provide a cure. This publication of the European Union also points in the same direction, which is based on Eurostat data, OECD data, Eurydice data and scientific networks, and shows us that it is an important confirmation that education is increasing in Hungary, as it can manage from growing sources and is increasingly efficient in farming. If you look at this publication, honourable Member, it can be found on the Internet, everyone can check it out. That basic statement, because it seems that this disk is still up with you, the European Union itself denies that Hungary spends less on education than it should or spends less than the average. You said we spent 12 percent less on education than we spent six years ago. I have the good news, Mr President, because I know that you can be pleased that the amount of Hungary's downfall in education expenditure compared to the average of the European Union is now the same as our disadvantage in 2012 as the EU average. As much as we spent less on education expenditure in proportion to the total national product, we now spend exactly as much more. As much as there was a disadvantage, the advantage now is the same, and fortunately, we have managed to move from the second half of the European Union to the first half of the European Union, because we are spending more than the average, with even our GDP rising above the average, so what we are comparing these figures to, we are looking at absolute numbers, and even the ratio within this has increased to a greater extent than in the EU. [[Interviews from the ranks of the MSZP.]] So this is, in this respect, a double reason for us to be happy, and not only does the Government say so, honourable Member, but this is what the European Union is now confirming. They also obviously welcome the fact that we are spending EUR 344 million to improve the quality of education; they also state that the number of unskilled school leaving in Hungary is fortunately lower than in the European Union. So more of us finish school than anyone who starts school. And they also welcome the fact that the number of preschoolers has increased by almost 1.5 percent. We are also above the EU average. This is due, inter alia, to the introduction of compulsory kindergartens from the age of 3. We are also somewhat better than the European Union in early development. These are all words of appreciation. This was the input, and there is the other part, the output: how quickly can someone complete the school in Hungary, whether in high school or in university? Hungarian performance is above the EU average, Hungarian people find work faster [[Ágnes Kunhalmi: Public works.]] which is obviously part of the transformation of the training structure. By the way, they welcomed what you are attacking here in Parliament, the increase in vocational training classes. They also welcomed dual training, but fortunately you support it in your better moments. Well, it is not only because we have better adapted training itself to the needs of the labour market, but also because there are obviously more jobs and more people in jobs. This is why job creation is much higher than the EU average in Hungary, with 80.4 percent of high school graduates in Hungary today, while the EU average is 76.9 percent. It also states that this increase was higher in Hungary than in higher education and secondary education, so that job creation accelerated faster after leaving training than in the EU. Even in higher education, this exceeds the EU average by 5 percent. They also welcomed the increasing number of higher education graduates. [[István Ikotity: You will not answer my question.]] These figures, these figures, these European Union reports, which are based on a similar methodology each year, have been able to refute all LMP arguments in all EU countries today. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-11-14-16	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Róbert Répássy, representative of Fidesz, applied for a pre-meeting speech with the title "Modification of the Jobbik Fundamental Law." You have the floor, Congressman.
u2016-11-14-17	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, On November 8, not a week ago, we voted in Parliament on the seventh amendment of the Fundamental Law. The seventh amendment of the Fundamental Law was submitted to the Parliament by the submitting government because, in its view, it is in accordance with the will of the voters expressing their opinion at the referendum on 2 October. After all, on 2 October 98 percent of the voters who gave their opinions decided not to agree with the European Union's migration policy, they disagreed that the Parliament could force foreign migrants and the European Union could insulate aliens without its will. On 8 November, the left-wing parties of the National Assembly, or let us call them the Hungarian Socialist Party, and some independent Members, represented by Ferenc Gyurcsány, rejected this amendment of the basic law. That didn't surprise me. However, it is a surprise that the political movement Jobbik for Hungary, claiming to be a national, also rejected the amendment of the Fundamental Law. With this, Jobbik has demonstrated that they are unable to overcome their party political interests. They broke their promise. Both the promises made to the electorate and the promises made by the government or government parties during the preparation of the amendment of the Fundamental Law were broken: they did not vote for the amendment of the Fundamental Law. In doing so, they failed their electorate, because Jobbik encouraged its own electorate to participate in the referendum on 2 October, and not to watch the government initiate the referendum, not to see the government propose a solution to the situation, but to have their electorate participate and vote no, just as the pro-government voters voted against. On November 8th, Jobbik's representatives were in the same camp as Ferenc Gyurcsány, who used water cannons against them a few years ago. Those who were in the room, or who might have watched the footage, could see that Ferenc Gyurcsány, behind Jobbik's back, rejoiced that Jobbik had prevented the Parliament from amending the Fundamental Law in a national case. Ferenc Gyurcsány and Jobbik have thus become consistent in one thing: they both refuse to cooperate with the government on national matters. The amendment of the Government's basic law was in all things in accordance with the will of the voters who expressed their opinion in the referendum, since it contained almost literally the questions, the answers that came from the referendum issue. Moreover, Jobbik acknowledged that this amendment of the basic law was in line with the will of the electorate. After all, the far-right party with a confused ideological background decided not to cooperate with the government in national matters, refuse to represent its electoral opinion on national matters, and, for political reasons, bake its own political stew here in Parliament. That is why he refused to amend the Fundamental Law. The Jobbik must have complied with his client's request. But this client wasn't a community of voters, that's for sure. Dear House, I think it's what Jobbik does after all. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Trying to save the unsaveable, trying to force an act on the National Assembly, trying to make it look like one last time he's able to take the lead on any initiative in national matters, and then everyone can see that for Jobbik, it's just a toy to bake his political stew. [[Noise in Jobbik's benches.]] [[11.40]] The government will do everything in its power to represent the will of the voters who expressed their opinion in the referendum here in Parliament, but it is clear that these voters - the voters of Hungary - can count only on the government parties, and the opposition parties cannot count on national affairs. Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-11-14-18	Thank you very much, Congressman Répássy. On behalf of the Government, Mr Csaba Dömötör, State Secretary, responds to what has been said.
u2016-11-14-19	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Indeed, it was almost a week before the Parliament could vote to amend the Fundamental Law. The aim of the amendment was to bring the results of the referendum into legal form, because the Hungarians' will was clear, 98 percent said no to the deployment plans in Brussels. Unfortunately, opposition parties have indeed been caught up in party political considerations. They could not put aside the thinking that the good for them was bad for the government, no matter what the Hungarians wanted. There is nothing else to explain why the amendment was not supported; this also means that the opposition is no longer in the interest of the Hungarian people, but represents the aspects of Brussels in Hungarian politics. Last week's vote here in Parliament is not surprising from the point of view that the opposition actually continued where it left off, the referendum was also drilled with every existing means, with legal submissions, boycotts, invalid votes, or, for example, Jobbik's case, with failed campaigning and later extortion. It is clear that the Hungarians do not request the deployment plans in Brussels, and the government has done everything in its power to draw attention to the economic, cultural and security risks of resettlement. That is why we organised consultations, which is why we launched information campaigns, which is why we initiated a referendum, and that is why we also initiated the amendment of the Fundamental Law. In view of the opposition's attitude, it is clear that the referendum is not actually the end of a story, but the beginning of something, the beginning of a process, and one of the important next scenes of the fight will be the European Union summit in December, where immigration can be one of the main items on the agenda. The main difference from the previous period is that the government is now backed by 3.3 million Hungarians, which can provide a good basis for the future fight against quota. For its part, the government will act with all possible means against the implementation of the resettlement programme, even if opposition parties, as we have seen clearly, are tweaking this endeavour. This is a national matter, which can't handle a pair of political schemings, neither Ferenc Gyurcsány nor Jobbik. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-11-14-20	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, At the same time, Mr Gábor Vona, Head of the Group, the leader of the Jobbik Group, asked for a speech before the agenda: the moment has come: the governing parties can show how important it is for them to defend the country. It's an address. You have the floor, Mr. Group Leader.
u2016-11-14-21	Mr President, Dear Parliament, Since last Tuesday and here today, we have been in a continuous debate of interpretation between us and you. The point of the question is who is the traitor. You say it's us and we say it's you. But the question is very simple. Is it the traitor who sells the country for money in the form of bonds, or the traitor who wants to eliminate it? I think this is a relatively simple question, and the Hungarian people will decide that. After last Tuesday, you left the National Assembly like some wounded kindergarteners, and they told people that if it couldn't be the way you wanted it to be, then everything would be a dolly, and from now on you won't want to amend the Fundamental Law, by any means, and otherwise the Jobbik will get out of Parliament, because what an obnoxious party doesn't support the will of the Fidesz. In fact, their fight against Jobbik was basically entrusted to their tabloid media, and it was interesting because last week, a week ago, I asked you to continue your filth, which was already in your favor. Go on, because on the one hand, it proves that you don't really have an argument. If we say something that's a professional, political, political idea, you have the answer to that constantly being dirty. [[A voice from Jobbik's benches, Terry Black!]] On the other hand, it also proves that in your heart there is the thought, there is the fear, you know that Jobbik must be attacked, because Jobbik is the political force that will replace you in 2018. And third of all, believe me, sooner or later the moment of truth will come, so feel free to continue your communication campaign. Sooner or later, you will have to be responsible for the corruption world created here in Hungary. By the way, you did not need to be encouraged to continue, your medium continued this, not only by continuing it, but also in the communication nuclear war of your media, the two wonderful weapons specially developed for this purpose, the two aces of communication depth detection: Terry Black and János Zuschlag. Oops! - I could say that. Civil Hungary has shown its true face, congratulations to you! Let me speak to my fellow Christian Democrats at this festive moment. The Hungarian representatives of the Christian democracy showed how to build God's country here in Hungary - allelujah! Well, hold on a second. Have the Christian Democrats spoken about the Fidesz media at all that we don't like it? I see, Congressman, you're very tense. Well, while you and Terry Black were busy last week, we were busy with the country's problem and appreciated the situation. Here's the thing. You don't want to lead out the residency bond business, in bad languages, because you run the crappy media system that's been messing with us. We do not believe you want to take it out, because Mihály Varga said something else, and China has never had a bond business so rumbled, and this is absolutely absurd - you opened a new office in Iraq a few weeks ago. We have come to the conclusion on how this problem could be solved in this current situation, that we really protect Hungary from quotas at the basic law level - because Jobbik wants this amendment of the basic law - but we also rule out the possibility of a bond business. That is why we have found the solution that we are submitting today, and this is the same word for word at the basic level of the law that Viktor Orbán presented, supplemented by a sentence: which would eliminate the possibility of settlement bonds. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear colleague Répássy Róbert, This is the moment of truth. You didn't say a word about why you wouldn't want to support this plea. If you so much want the fundamental law amendment, then this is your chance to support it. Don't hold back. It will be decided at this moment, in this situation, whether it is really important for you to defend this country or, in essence, to you as a political campaign tool. Gergely Gulyás said that Parliament is a serious institution. I'd say Parliament is a serious institution. But don't be offended, because it didn't turn out the way you wanted it, but come here to Parliament and support the amendment of the basic law that your party president Viktor Orbán has tabled in committee and plenary. And speaking of Viktor Orbán, I do not know what I will have to stand for this week and what I will be, whether I will be responsible for Mohács or Trianon in their media, but I would like to clarify one thing: it only strengthens us and strengthens our unity. Speaking of Viktor Orbán: Viktor Orbán, your party president, has also been attacked many times by genderless means. Remember when you accused your party president of beating up your wife or going to Graz for psychiatric treatment. They were despicable tools, and Jobbik would never touch such despicable devices. And what is learned from this for us and Parliament is that unfortunately, the Prime Minister, Viktor Orbán, has concluded that if I am attacked in this way, I too must attack my political opponents in this way. Well, that's another huge difference between you and us. That is not the conclusion we draw from attacking us in this way, but the opposite: so it cannot be politicalised. This is no way to settle political disputes. We would like a Hungary where political debates do not go down with defilement, and they will not, because in 2018 Jobbik will replace you and create a fairer, more democratic and freer country. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2016-11-14-22	Thank you very much, Deputy Group Leader Gábor Vona and Party President. I give the floor to Mr Csaba Dömötör, State Secretary, who wishes to respond on behalf of the government.
u2016-11-14-23	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I do not want to interfere with the dialogue between Jobbik and KDNP, but I am glad that Party President Gábor Vona has reached Christian values. He came from far away from where he said Islam was the last hope of humanity. [[Dr. István Apáti intervenes.]] It has also been clear in recent days that if the interests of Hungary are concerned, then the opposition cannot be expected; it is also clear now that Jobbik can not be either. Jobbik did not support the amendment of the Fundamental Law [[Adam Mirkóczki intervenes.]] You've let the country down, and now you're trying to save the unsaveable, and you're running into an empty law firm. [[Deterioration in the benches of Jobbik.]] You referred to the charge of treason. You did not support the amendment of the Fundamental Law, despite the fact that you were the one who said here in Parliament that if someone did not vote for it, it was an act of treason. [[Interview from Jobbik's ranks: Vote!]] Despite the fact that the constitutional amendment reflects the clear will of 3.3 million people. Despite the fact that the Commission has not withdrawn or even accelerated the proposal for resettlement, the amendment was not supported. [[György Szilágyi intervenes.]] [[11.50]] If Constitutional Protection is really important to Jobbik, why didn't you vote for the amendment last week? [[Interjection from Jobbik's ranks: If it's important to you, why don't you vote for it? We're throwing the ball back.]] Especially since, as it turned out in the discussions, the text was good - why wasn't it voted? Jobbik's current policy was actually put on a platform with MSZP and Ferenc Gyurcsány [[Adam Mirkóczki: Something new!]] On the left, however, we knew from the very beginning that they were on the side of immigration, but a party that was supposed to be on a national basis has only just been found, it is very strange. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: And now a thought of my own!]] Mr President, tell me honestly how it feels to be in a fold with Ferenc Gyurcsány, what it feels like with MSZP, with the left [[Dóra Dúró: Ban Communist leaders from public life, why not ban them?!]] Eating from a trough? How does it feel? How does it feel? ! In the vote on the constitutional amendment, it was therefore clear that in the fight against resettlement quotas, Hungarians can only count on the governing parties. Of course, Jobbik did not only harm the country but also harm itself. You know better than I do how much grumbling is going on between Jobbik's lines. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: That's right!]] How many of their members have spoken about the fact that party political beliefs, party political scheming, are considered more important than the interests of Hungary. For example, one of their former representatives said, quote, that this is how you lose an entire country. I can only congratulate the opposition for going to such depths. Then there is another intellectual, whom the party leader of Jobbik previously called his role model, who said that Jobbik's behavior is unfortunate because it is not elegant to impose conditions on national affairs. [[Gábor Vona intervenes.]] And that's what you did. Their policies over the last few months prove that Jobbik is a very, very confused party capable of anything for money and power. [[György Szilágyi: Long live the establishment business!]] And the opposite of everything, by the way. That's why they're organizing their consultation into a nameless foundation, deceiving their own voters. [[Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks. The president's ringing the bell. György Szilágyi intervenes.]] Congressman, this is why they are in contact with extremist militaristic organisations. [[Intercom from Jobbik: Long live the helicopter!]] That is why they tolerate being spies among their ranks, or even being delegated to Brussels, or even VAT fraudsters. That is why the left-wing parties are often ape-ed, not only in speeches, not only in content, but also with all kinds of Molinos here in the National Assembly. I would not be surprised, for my part, if the proposal on the technical coalition, technical cooperation of Jobbik and left-wing parties were actually implemented, and even András Schiffer called a perverted technical coalition. The Jobbik, the thing is, he's making big strides. [[Dr. Gábor Staudt: Towards a change of government!]] He's marching, I'd say, towards the perverted technical coalition. If there's a really dangerous establishment, it's the establishment of Jobbik on the left. That's quite a performance from a former national party; don't expect to be thanked for it. [[Interjection from Jobbik's ranks: How long have you practiced this?]] Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-11-14-24	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches before the agenda. I would like to ask Mr Attila Móring to present the list of speakers after the agenda.
u2016-11-14-25	Dear Parliament, Sándor Bodó, Fidesz; István Szávay, Jobbik; Dániel Z. Kárpát, Jobbik; Dóra Dúró, Jobbik; Zoltán Magyar, Jobbik.
u2016-11-14-26	Thank you very much, Mr. Notary. Dear Parliament, Now, at 11:54 p.m., we will begin to discuss questions and immediate questions. Dear Parliament, Mr. Lajos Korózs, representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Minister of Human Resources:. What do you think of the hatred of homeless people? It's an address. Congressman Lajos Korózs has the floor.
u2016-11-14-27	Thank you very much. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, One of the commercial channels these days - but we could also call TV2 a commercial channel - I think it's fallen into depths that we can't really find words. Anikó Marsi, who presented the report, I think he spoke of more than hate and hate campaign, all the more so, because in the conference he said: "The poor, decent citizens seeking work, students must cross over people lying in their own filth and rags. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. According to the sensitive report, this pathetic sight makes anyone who can avoid the area. Dear fellow Members, I don't want to spend any more time with TV2 than I do because I'm curious about the Secretary of State's opinion, but allow me to quote one sentence. As if he had sent a message to TV2, he said the following last week when he received homeless people in the Vatican: "We must be concerned when conscience becomes insensitive, and he does not notice the suffering brother or the serious problems of the world, which become a recurring chorus in TV news. Dear fellow Members, I don't think there's any need to explain the problem we're dealing with. Homelessness itself is a tragedy. Regardless of what kind of government is in power in Hungary, all governments have a dog's duty to deal with this problem. Homelessness itself can be answered in many ways. It may be a preventive response, where they try to prevent homelessness and steer government decisions and budgetary resources in the direction of as few people as possible losing their homes. Then there are policies that try to deal with these problems differently. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] For example, they build an Ocsa or create an asset manager. I'm waiting for your answer, Mr. Secretary. Thank you very much.
u2016-11-14-28	Thank you very much, Congressman Korózs. I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2016-11-14-29	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, We would have expected a similar social sensitivity, whether from you, or from fellow State Secretarys, or from fellow ministers, when János Kóka said the most cherished sentences that they would never ask the frogs when they want to drain the swamp, whether they want to be drained or not. At the time, this kind of social zeal was not typical of the Socialist Party, they did not say that they disagreed with János Kóka, or had no consequences within government, that he said such sentences. We also have to say that if the Socialist Party had continued its activities after 2010 and those processes had continued, for example, in relation to foreign exchange creditors, then much more people would have had to solve their problems now, because then people and families would have lost their heads in the thousands, tens of thousands or hundreds of thousands of thousands, and some of them would certainly have been homeless on the street. Fidesz-KDNP was needed, and the exchange rate barrier, end-payments, Ocsai residential park, National Asset Manager, which was able to prevent this problem, did not greatly increase the number of homeless people who were out of foreign exchange loans, along with families. We're trying to ensure the best possible human conditions for everyone who still lives on the street. Looking at last year's period, there was never a time when more people wanted to go to the homeless shelters than there were beds. Never had to turn anyone back at the front door that there weren't enough beds to fill the homeless home. We have built this system, not by accident, so that we can expand capacity in a crisis period of 9,500 places during the year, with an additional 1,500 seats, precisely so that no one has to live on the street because there are not enough beds, but we will continue to provide it to everyone. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] This means a budget line of HUF 9 billion, but this is how we can provide people with the shelter or the possibility of developing in the winter cold as well. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-11-14-30	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Lajos Kepli, representative of Jobbik, wishes to ask the Minister for National Development:. What will be the fate of the state property involved in the Erzsébet programme? It's an address. Congressman Lajos Kepli has the floor.
u2016-11-14-31	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, It seems that the measures under socialist governments, which concern the dismantling of property in Balaton, have continued to continue continuously since 2010. Last week, it was published in the press that the government resigned from several hotel employees and employees involved in the Elizabeth program, including the Erzsébet hotels in Balatonesöd, Siófok and Balatonvilágos, as well as the real estate can be sold according to press reports. [[12.00]] In this regard, I would ask the Secretary of State what the intention is with these real estates, with the real estates, camps and hotels involved in the Elizabeth programme at all, because they were very well running and spinning hotels, all three which are now being sold. Of course, they are also very valuable as real estate. Maybe that's where the wind blows, I guess. However, it means a huge cut of blood to these settlements, as while this Erzsébet hotel gave 90 percent of Balatonőszöd's curtax revenue, in Balatonvilágos the various measures of the government, reducing the tax relief due to tourist tax, eliminating this Erzsébet hotel and other resources will cause a loss of some HUF 30 million in the following year, with a total of HUF 40 million in Balatonvilágos's development resources being lost for a year, i.e. three quarters of it being lost. They're practically forcing this settlement to vegetate. It's not much better with your Balatonress. We don't know what will happen to other similar hotels and facilities in the future. Once you get a blood eye, you don't stop at one, two or three properties, but continue the line until you can sell or steal property on the shore of Lake Balaton or anywhere else in the country. I ask you, Secretary of State, what do you intend to do with these properties, and what will be the continuation of the Elizabeth programme, how will you proceed if the property is sold from under them. Thank you. I'm looking forward to your reply. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-11-14-32	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Secretary of State János Fónagy.
u2016-11-14-33	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Magyar Nemzeti Vagyonkezelő Zrt. According to his information, he really plans to sell the state-owned real estate in the Erzsébet programme after taking over or taking possession of them from the current trustee, Erzsébet Vagyonkezelő Kft. If the legal conditions for the sale of real estate are met, their sale may, as a main rule, be carried out by means of competitive tendering. MNV Zrt. has introduced an electronic auction system ensuring transparency and publicity, where the assets owned by the Hungarian State cannot be bid on assets that are not necessary for the performance of the State's task. MNV Zrt. be obliged to accept the best tender in the course of the procedure. As a main rule, the free ownership of real estate to municipalities is currently not supported on the basis of asset management considerations. In view of the public tasks, the possibility of transferring or selling real estate to the municipality may arise as a matter of principle, in order to examine the conditions of which we recommend contacting MNV Zrt., who is concerned or interested. In view of the fact that the municipalities concerned have not notified free ownership claims for the coastal bands indicated in the question, the sale of real estate and real estate parts into free municipal property is not currently on the agenda. Thank you very much for your opportunity and attention. Thank you, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of Fidesz.]]
u2016-11-14-34	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. István Ikotity, representative of the LMP, wants to ask the Minister of the Prime Minister's Office a question: why does the government support friends instead of Hungarian families, job creation and green economy development? It's an address. Mr István Ikotity has the floor.
u2016-11-14-35	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Minister, On the government's part, the official saying about energy is still the saying of incompetence in L. Simon, that the sun is not shining, the wind is not blowing, so the energy supply of family homes cannot be entrusted to green energy. In the meantime, however, public institutions such as the Counter-Terrorism Centre have paid for their renewable energy efficiency improvements through EU grants. In addition, the entire Fidesz-close economic lunar station is crawling around with green energy and renewable subsidies. They know exactly how much business there is to reduce energy waste, but they only want to keep Hungarian people away from the potential to reduce long-term and sustainable overhead costs. According to Hungarian experience, a thorough energy efficiency upgrade could reduce the energy bill of a family home by up to 50 percent. The European Union would add HUF 90 billion to the energy efficiency modernisation of homes, but the Orbán government is trying to divert this huge support with all kinds of claims. First, it was told that the EU would not provide funds for grants and then that such a public tender could not be carried out. However, in reality, you have already promised this money to your friends in advance, and EU funds are much easier to steal in some major projects than families applying for funding. It is 90 billion forints, of which up to 10,000 apartments a year could be modernised, creating thousands of jobs in the field of green economy. Will public money save more if they spend it in the public sector instead of modernising family homes, and do they also undertake, in public, that EU support is better placed than the rich friends of the government than the Hungarian families?
u2016-11-14-36	Thank you, Minister - not Minister, but Congressman. However, I give the floor to Minister János Lázár.
u2016-11-14-37	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear fellow Member, Thank you very much for your question on behalf of the Government, and I would like to inform you that the Government is ready to discuss, on Parliament's day, from quarter to quarter, in the framework of the debates offered and in the framework of the debates initiated by the Government, what we are using EU funds for. I fully agree with the aim that you have stated that there are a number of real estates in Hungary that need to be modernised, partly because of maintaining the results of the reduction in overhead and partly because of a significant improvement in quality of life. There are 1.2 million residential properties in Hungary, built with industrial technology, and in addition there are 800,000 real estates in the 1960s and 1980s called Kádár cubes, these 100 square meters of houses, mainly in the countryside or in the agglomeration. This is 2 million real estate; 2 million real estate should be fully renovated. Compared to this, the HUF 90 billion mentioned by you covers the renovation of 10,000 properties. We must aim to launch a much larger and much more significant national programme, taking into account that Hungary has 300 thousand vacant properties, residential property, of which at least 150 thousand, we believe, in habitable condition. We therefore suggested to the government that these funds be used to modernise schools, kindergartens, health institutions, government agencies where the Hungarian state could achieve real-life modernisations and real-life savings. That was the goal, that was the motivation. There was no other presumably intended purpose of the program. I am pleased to report that this modernisation is taking place in a number of state institutions. The institutions of the Hungarian State also call for these modernisations, given that we provide the services to taxpayers in schools, kindergartens and state offices in poor physical condition and poor physical condition. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-11-14-38	Thank you very much, Minister Lazarus. Dear Parliament, Zsolt Nyitrai, representative of Fidesz, would like to ask the Minister of National Economy:. By what means does the government help the spread of electric cars? It's an address. Mr Zsolt Nyitrai has the floor.
u2016-11-14-39	Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, We have recently experienced a traffic history moment in my constituency, Eger, when we handed over the city's first electric car filling point. We have done this because we believe that the future is for cars with green plates, and we must work together to ensure that cars with a green license plate emit as little harmful material as possible. The city of Eger has taken this step on its own, from city sources. But what is the national picture, my dear Parliament? Currently about 1300 electric cars run on Hungary's roads. Ambitious plans are that by 2020 we hope to create 3 000 charging points in Hungary, and we expect about 30,000 green registration plates by 2020. In my opinion, it must be possible to drive electric cars in our country in the long term. In order to achieve this goal, I consider it extremely important, personally, to encourage, for example, free parking for cars with green plates. Dear Secretary of State, My question would be how the Government of Hungary helps to spread electric cars with green license plates so that we can live longer in a cleaner and quieter environment. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of Fidesz.]]
u2016-11-14-40	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary of State István Lepsényi. [[12.10]]
u2016-11-14-41	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, As set out in the Jedlik Ános Plan, the government's objective is to stimulate the market, ensure adequate infrastructure and develop legislation. A tender for the distribution of electric motor vehicles was launched not too long ago, under which we provide a HUF 1.5 million subsidy per new electric car purchased. From the budget available this year and next year, we calculate that more than 3,000 electric cars can be purchased, so the park of electric vehicles will increase noticeably. It is also very important that further development of the electric cars fleet, the development of state-owned fleets are decided, and every year around 50 purely electric cars are purchased and replaced. We consider it very important to improve public transport. With the support of the wallet, 20 Hungarian-produced electric buses operate in Budapest in the BKV's fleet, and we include the production of electric buses and their use in the urban community transport development, hopefully in Eger as a key element of the national bus manufacturing strategy. In order to develop the electric charging network, we have also launched a tender for settlements with a population of more than 15 thousand. At the moment 1 billion 250 thousand 500 of these chargers can be installed. This represents a thousand charging points, and 44 municipalities have already submitted their applications. In addition to the legal advantages already adopted, a comprehensive legislative package is currently being developed to facilitate, inter alia, the installation of electric chargers and speeding up their authorisation. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-11-14-42	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Nándor Gúr, a representative of the MSZP, wants to ask the Minister of Human Resources:. When does the government intend to further strengthen its commitment to families by recognising the entire time spent raising children as a period of service in the event of a reduced retirement of women? It's an address. Mr Nándor Gúr has the floor.
u2016-11-14-43	Mr. President, thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State, In 2010, you said that after 40 years of service - after service! - the ladies can retire. They lied, the Fidesz lied to the ladies, because they can leave not after hours of duty, but after eligibility. The period of entitlement is far from the same as the period of service. Where appropriate, it does not include the time spent in training, it does not include every year in terms of child rearing, up to 8 years is what can be taken into account, it does not include sickness benefits, it does not include unemployment benefits, the period of job search benefits, or even periods such as periods of disability pensions paid by contributions when there is a transitional situation, months of disability pensions to the world of work. There's no story, you lied to me! They lied to the face, put hundreds of thousands of women at a disadvantage against their earlier promises, while even raising pension contributions by half a percent, which, of course, they did not say a single word about. Actually, what I'd like to ask you is when you want to stand up for your earlier revelations, you know, so that ladies can retire on 40 years of service. When will be the case, in terms of, say, childbearing, not only 8 years, but 10 years of raising children, then these 10 years will be recognised within the 40-year eligibility period, but I say, taking into account the promise of service time. Why did they lie? Why don't you take on everything you've done to people in the form of promises? All that they are doing is shameful in this regard, because it is accompanied by the inability of tens of thousands of women, if any. Mr. President, thank you very much.
u2016-11-14-44	Thank you very much, Congressman, notary. I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2016-11-14-45	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, When Members of Parliament talk about Women's 40, I always look at the voting list, when they did not speak, but had to decide how they decided, when the commitment to women who worked for 40 years or worked for 40 years and raised children was expressed in concrete votes. I looked at this voting list in case Mr Gúr might have had a cold at the time - it was a day of December, so it could easily have happened - and that is why he did not come to Parliament to vote. [[Nándor Gúr: You have taken the right! You still lied! Zoltán Haughty: That's right!]] But he was in good health, and he was very good at party discipline, which is why on December 20, 2010 at a late hour at 7:36 p.m., you didn't support it either. [[Nándor Gúr: You have taken the right!]] to introduce women after 40 years of employment after 40 years of employment [[Nándor Gúr: You have taken away not the time of service, but the period of entitlement! Shame on you, Bence.]] the possibility of retirement. [[Nándor Gúr: Shame on you, Bence!]] It's painful, you're shouting loudly, Congressman, but no matter how loud you yell [[Nándor Gúr: It was about the service time! Look at how many tens of thousands of ladies we're talking about.]] Unfortunately, from the parliamentary IT system [[Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] He won't be able to erase it. [[Zoltán Haughty: Answer the question!]] not with the loudest shouting of the fact that when it was possible to decide on the introduction of this discount, [[Nándor Gúr: Do you know the difference between duty time and entitlement?]] Then neither you nor your fellow Members were able to vote in favour of this. I am telling you, Congressman, you are shouting in vain - this may be going to the board meetings of the MSZP, that whoever is louder is right - but here is a voting record, which is very clear. There was the Fidesz-KDNP that provided this to the people. [[Nándor Gúr: You took it! Shame on you.]] [[Nándor Gúr: You took it! Shame on you.]] Do you know how many people we've given this to since then? 181 to 111 if you look at the data by the end of October. And do you know how many people you would've taken it from, or if it were up to you, how many people wouldn't get this discount? (Nándor Gúr: You took it! Shame on you! 181 111 people. But we could also talk about the fact that they were able to retire in a way that now preserves its value, since they don't take 8 percent of it, as they do [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] You did it, but we have increased the value of these pensions by more than 8.5 percent. [[Nándor Gúr: Shame on you, Bence!]] Thank you very much. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-11-14-46	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Editor Sebestyén, representative of Jobbik, would you like to ask the Minister of Human Resources a question: It's an address. Congressman Sebestyén is responsible for this.
u2016-11-14-47	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, On November 12th, we celebrated the help workers on the day of social work. Unfortunately, we can say that this year, as has always been the case in recent years, the employees of the sphere have not been able to celebrate smoothly. For years, you have been encouraging industry workers, depending on the introduction of a career model, elections and campaigns, to be more intensive and weaker. Of course, I know the mechanical answer to supplements and supplements, but you know it can't avoid actual wage development. What's wrong with getting paid? It is not enough to make workers' salaries viable, it distributes the existing framework unfairly on the basis of an incomprehensible table, and it can be removed at any time by a feather stroke. We see the situation in the sector. Now we're talking about the social sector paying the worst in the country. Only public workers make worse money than they do. Don't you realize that this condition is going to cause a professional disaster? There's a lot of exits, and a lot of people in the West, with a degree, are doing a little bit of auxiliary work, because they don't want to endanger their own livelihoods. It can now be said that there are no others in the area but those with such a high sense of vocation as to assume these risks and dangers, or those who either view this profession as a stepping stone, and with some professional experience they may go to a different career or to the West, or even have chosen this job as a forced course. If this situation does not change, i.e. there will not be a normal rate of wage increase or career model, which would ensure long-term predictability, the system will collapse, there will be no one at the ends to maintain and operate it. This is preceded by the fact that by December 5 the social workers announced their strike, three-hour cessations. Notice these signs. Dear Secretary of State, When is the wage planning of the social sector expected, the introduction of a social career model? Will there ever be, or have they given up forever? I look forward to your substantive answer. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2016-11-14-48	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2016-11-14-49	Thank you very much for the floor. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, We considered it important to see the strengthening of the Hungarian economy on their payment paper, if only in part and in the first steps, but also those working in the social sphere, because the work of that 95 thousand people is irreplaceable in the Hungarian social and welfare care system. [[12.20]] Therefore, if I look at the last two years, it also shows over HUF 60 billion in additional wage coverage in the budget figures. In January 2014, we introduced the sectoral wage supplement you mentioned, and we spent 12.8 billion on it, which meant an additional contribution of between 6,000 and 17 thousand forints to the employees in the sector. This was followed by the additional allowance in 2015, which was worth HUF 7.6 billion in 2015, and this year it was worth HUF 15.5 billion. This meant an average of HUF 16,000 to the employees in the sector. While the first allowance was given to everyone and in accordance with some uniform principles, we wanted to provide higher than the second ones with higher education and higher experience, precisely so that we could keep those who had greater experience and endurance on the field in recent years. So it was 40-50 thousand forints, or in some cases it could have meant a salary increase of up to 70,000 forints, but it was usually 40-50 thousand forints that many people could bring home. If I look at a few specific examples: a child care professional who has been on the field for a long time, for 37 years, he will now receive 36 thousand forints more than three years ago. The salary of a college graduate, a higher qualified career beginner, is now 43,700 forints higher than before, three or four years ago. As a social advisor, he also earns 52,000 forints more than he started his career three or four years ago. These are the first two steps we've taken. These [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] We wish to continue in the future. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2016-11-14-50	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, István Ikotity, a representative of the LMP, wishes to ask the Minister of Human Resources a question: "Does the government intend to provide normative funding for schools? It's an address. Mr István Ikotity has the floor.
u2016-11-14-51	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, Over the past few weeks, I have asked you on several occasions whether you intend to provide normative funding for the schools and establish a long-term safe operational basis. Now, I'm not, and that's just my question: do you intend to provide normative support for the schools, create their long-term safe operation? I'm waiting for your answer.
u2016-11-14-52	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2016-11-14-53	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, During the next period, we want to provide as many schools as possible with operational possibilities as we have done. You know that when we took over the possibility of governance, there were 60 schools in Hungary, the number of which increased to almost 180 by 2015, i.e. almost three times. [[István Ikotity intervenes.]] We would like to expand what schools are likely to be able to expect in the following year to work from these sources, from which we are now farming. Therefore, the previous HUF 5.3 billion framework will be increased by an additional HUF 2 billion in order to ensure that those who have not won the previous school competition but have been operating for a long time can continue to operate in a system with predictable funding conditions. [[István Ikotity to the President: He does not answer the question!]] In total, we will spend HUF 7.35 billion on this, as opposed to HUF 5.3 billion in the previous period. [[István Ikotity: Answer the question!]] So there's a lot more money available to support the schools. I trust you can support that. Now our next task in the area of schoolwork must be to ensure this 2 billion forints as a surplus, honourable Member. [[István Ikotity: Normal financing!]] additional schools can work. This could increase the number of schools to 280. For them, therefore, their operation will continue in the coming years, which is by far more than the original 60, and will be assured of this source for years. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the benches of the governing parties. István Ikotity: He didn't answer!]]
u2016-11-14-54	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Péter Csizi, representative of Fidesz, wishes to ask the Minister of the Interior:. How can we keep Zoltán Kocsis' inheritance? It's an address. On behalf of the Prime Minister, at the request of Minister Zoltán Balog, who is competent on the subject, State Secretary Péter Hoppál will answer the question. Congressman Péter Csizi has the floor.
u2016-11-14-55	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Your Honour, Secretary of State. Pécs is a city of culture, since its historical heritage and cultural institution system today are connected to the care of high culture with a thousand threads. The sad news of Hungarian and Pécs cultural life is the death of Zoltán Kocsis, a double Kossuth and Ferenc Liszt Prize winner, composer and pianist genius a week ago. Zoltán Kocsis has performed a full-built concert in recent decades, either as conductor or as director of the National Philharmonic Orchestra, if he was in Pécs. As far as we know, it wasn't just the audience in Pécs who loved it, it was the love that was mutual. Zoltán Kocsis has often looted the cultural infrastructure in Pécs, especially the world-class Kodály Center established in the European Capital of Culture programme, one of the best concert halls in the country, if not the best acoustic concert hall. It is a profoundly shocking and historical fact that the last performance of Zoltán Kocsis, before his illness forced him to retire, was performed at the Palace of Arts by the wonderful Mandarin and the Bluebeard's Castle, which was presented with the participation of the Pécsi Ballet. Dear Secretary of State, The death of Zoltán Kocsis raises questions not only for the profession, the audience, but also for the decision makers. The government has to account for what we, who could be contemporaries of an internationally celebrated musical phenomenon, can do for the proper care of Zoltán Kocsis' musical heritage. That is why I am asking the Secretary of State how the Government intends to help Zoltán Kocsis' guidance in Hungarian cultural life to promote quality culture. As a member of the Parliament of Pécs, I am asking how the city of Pécs, the capital of culture, can do its part. I look forward to your highly respected answer. [[Applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2016-11-14-56	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary Peter Hoppál.
u2016-11-14-57	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Dear fellow Member, It is appropriate and worthy to remember the musical cultural heritage of Zoltán Kocsis among the walls of the Parliament for a question, because indeed, as you have mentioned, an irreplaceable artist has left the ranks of the living. I wholeheartedly agree with my fellow Member's suggestion that from the last week, the promotion of the rich cultural heritage of Zoltán Kocsis must take into account not only the role of the Hungarian cultural institution, but also the role of cultural public education and higher education in a narrower sense, but also how the Government of Hungary will adapt to this heritage. At the same time, I am pleased to note that the cultural government has managed and launched a number of programmes in the past months, in line with or in line with the Kocsis guidelines and heritage on a number of issues. Such is the rethinking of the Kodály method's school framework announced at the Baranya county headquarters in 1945, and the programme work on everyday school singing with the involvement of Zoltán Kodály. But this is also the cultural government's two-year basic cultural supply programme to help cultural decentralisation, in which we would like to bring every Hungarian citizen to a valuable culture, from childhood onwards, in the capital and in the countryside. In this programme, the government also plays a prominent role for the city of Pécs, which has a great musical tradition, which is supported by the Kodály Center and the Zsolnay Cultural Quarter and the Pannon Philharmonic, with HUF 1 billion 700 million a year, starting this year. Finally, let me mention that the government is launching a 15 per cent wage development programme for about 20,000 workers in the cultural sphere. We're trying to live up to Kodály and Kocsis' legacy. Thank you, Congressman. [[Applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2016-11-14-58	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, László Teleki, a representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Minister of Human Resources:. Where do the billions of people destined for the employment cooperatives, which was removed by the former President of the National Roma Municipality? It's an address. Mr László Teleki has the floor. [[12.30]]
u2016-11-14-59	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, Why doesn't the government want to collect the funds to help disadvantaged gypsies to work that were taken away by the Farkas Florians in the National Roma Municipality? How is it possible that the National Roma Municipality can evacuate property from the government's nose into an employment cooperative with HUF 1.6 billion? What will happen to the property owned by the employment cooperatives after this type of cooperative is terminated? I would like to ask these three questions, Mr Secretary of State - we talk together many times - because the Roma in Hungary perceive the lack of HUF 1.6 billion that has been removed from the national Gypsy municipality. It is perceived because, in many cases, not only is this money missing from the employment programmes in the world of work, but it is missing from the entire family budget and budget, and in many cases these Roma are in extreme poverty because they have not been able to get into a programme supported by the European Union, and the Hungarian government has also added various resources. Therefore, I think it is very topical that they want to help Roma families, Gypsy families, who have been in a situation where the programme has prevented them from entering an employment system where they could ensure the livelihood of their own families. Not just the livelihood, which I think is very important, but also the possibility of further education in this case will be deprived of children who are in this situation through their families. So all three questions and what I have asked in addition, together with all four questions, can be very important if they want to help integrate the Roma in Hungary. I know your answer is that there is so much to be done in education, but the question is whether the National Roma Municipality is being called to account, how and how they intend to end the misrepresentation. I see that you do not want to tie this up, so in society there are still questions about whether you want to deal with this issue seriously and in depth. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2016-11-14-60	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2016-11-14-61	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, I believe that helping people in difficulty, helping Roma people in difficulty, are the same responsibility and responsibility for all well-spoken politicians, and for us in the next period of support. And you know that constructions with a very large amount of resources will help, some of which will provide a lot of billions of forints in support of catching up cooperation, some of which will provide a complex programme of tens of billions of dollars to eliminate segregational life situations, some of which will be aimed at breaking territorial processes that will strengthen each other, preserve backwards; and I could continue to list many, many, many, tens of billions of forints, and in fact, a hundred billion forints overall, if you look at these goals that you have listed, and we consider important goals, how much money we will spend in the next period. Therefore, those who wish to participate in such a program will have the opportunity in the coming years to acquire or acquire social knowledge that can break out of this very difficult life situation; whether it is Gypsy people or not, we will try to provide them to everyone, obviously, who are in multiple difficult situations, to provide multiple help to get out of this. The National Roma Municipality has to repay this amount in instalments in connection with its previously valid, but now no longer due to withdrawal, these details have arrived in time for the government, so the repayment is continuous. We will not allow the State to be harmed, we will not allow a single penny of resources to be spent in this area to be wasted, and we will do so in the following, we have withdrawn from the contract precisely because we have seen that the maintenance of the functions, the maintenance of the service they have undertaken in the tender, has not been ensured. Therefore, even if it is the employability of disadvantaged people or socio-economic integration, they can count on the government. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-11-14-62	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Zoltán Magyar, representative of Jobbik, wishes to ask the Minister of Agriculture:. You seem to support the removal of 270 billion from the countryside and have been unable to achieve a reduction in the VAT burden on basic foods for years. Why do we have a Minister of Agriculture? It's an address. Mr Zoltán Magyar has the floor.
u2016-11-14-63	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Fellow Members! Mr. Secretary. Not half of what you've calculated is the loss of budget revenue for reducing the VAT on pig meat. Tamás Tarpataki, Head of Department of the FM, said that the budget was damaged by HUF 20-22 billion. That raises a few questions. VAT cuts have not only come up in the case of pigs, but we have been talking about a comprehensive, general reduction affecting all basic foods here for years, Jobbik has been demanding this since we have been here in the Parliament since 2010, since the extremely high VAT attracts trade players to fraud on the one hand. There are areas - fruit and vegetables, meat - where we assume to be more than 50 percent that the product will be added to the shelves by VAT fraud. Black trade is therefore further strengthened. In addition, fair players face a serious competitive disadvantage, which we have discussed many times and its impact on producers and consumers. The land privatization also resulted in a despicable result, with HUF 270 billion coming into the state, but it is reported that this will not be used to catch up with the countryside. These two cases, Mr. Secretary of State, certainly raise some questions. Do you know another country where 270 billion are lost from the countryside, unable to achieve the VAT reduction, which you claim to want, and in your own admission it has not been such a serious loss to the budget, and yet it is not able to achieve it? If there is such a country, I am sure that the next day, if you are unable to achieve these goals, you will resign. There are two roads here. Either they're completely lying, they're not telling the truth, and I don't want to get the VAT cut, or they're not capable of doing that. Whichever way it is, I have to say that the management of the FM is not fit to do its job. And after that, I don't understand why you're sitting in the velvet chair. We demand that you either upload the FM or disband the whole thing. I look forward to your substantive answer. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-11-14-64	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Secretary of State György Czerván.
u2016-11-14-65	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Speaking of your question, regarding the 270 billion forints taken from the countryside, I would like to inform you that Dr. Minister Sándor Fazekas did not decide the land for the farmers. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure on the purchase, hire, maintenance and repair of buildings, buildings, buildings, By amending the National Earth Fund Act, I quote, the revenue generated by the exploitation of land in the National Earth Fund for the purchase of land under Article 15. In order to implement the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Article, or to reduce the public debt, it is necessary to use it. You can see that Mr President is repeatedly distorting the facts, since the text of the amendment speaks for itself. VAT cuts in foodstuffs have been a priority in the work of the FM for years, which has been said many times by the Minister. However, it is not possible to reduce the VAT on all foods at the same time, because the budget would not be able to bear it. The loss of budget revenue due to the reduction is a significant deficit even if, in the end, it would have been less than it could have been. Irresponsibleness would be exactly what would happen if a loss of income was under-planned. If the Member did not base his questions on press reports, he would know that the maximum budgetary impact of reducing VAT on a product is easily predictable in advance, but that there is no CSF data, especially not in advance, for the resulting whitening. From 2014, the VAT on live and half-carcases fell, and from 2015 the VAT on live and slaughtered cattle, sheep and goats. As of 2016, a VAT reduction of 5 per cent of pig meat has already been achieved for final consumers. Monitoring data indicates that the main retail chains have permanently passed on the benefits of VAT reductions to consumers. From the beginning of 2017, poultry meat, eggs and fresh milk are placed in a 5-percent circle. The FM will continue to support the scheduled VAT reduction of food, taking into account the current state of the budget. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-11-14-66	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Erzsébet Schmuck and István Ikotity, representatives of the LMP, want to ask the Minister of National Economy:. The MNB is performing better? It's an address. Mr István Ikotity has the floor. [[12.40]]
u2016-11-14-67	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, Not a week goes by without a scandal about the Hungarian National Bank's house. In the alternative reality of the MNB, it may indeed seem that Hungarian reforms are working, wages are increasing at an unprecedented rate. The average earnings of the central bank in September, together with the non-leaders, exceeded the payments at the end of 2013, by more than 25 percent. In September MNB's personal expenses amounted to HUF 1.2 billion, compared to HUF 445 million in September 2013. In the past, two and a half times the salary of the central bank president and other central bank managers was raised by reference to the fact that it was necessary to keep professionals so that they would not be seduced by higher wages in the competitive sphere or by actions available abroad. However, in catching up on wages, it seems that they have gone a little overboard. The MNB's average monthly gross wage of nearly HUF 800,000 at the end of September was 66 per cent higher than the amount reported by KSH's financial insurance employees, according to the latest data. The average wage of the latter was 478 thousand forints, which is already a top holder of the national economy, 77 percent higher than the national average, and more than four times the worst earning social sector. The average salary in the central bank is three times more than the average wage earner makes. According to the LMP, it is outrageous that, while more than half a million forints on the average net wage of central bank employees, the government does not want to hear about raising the minimum wage above the minimum wage, the civil servants' wages have been frozen for the eighth year. When will the MNB stop urinating, and when will the government finally approach the salary of Hungarian workers to foreign wages? I'm waiting for your answer.
u2016-11-14-68	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to State Secretary Péter Cseresnyés.
u2016-11-14-69	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, I'm sorry you didn't study the press this weekend - I'd like to refer to the idea of your last sentence. Because if you had studied it, you could have learned that there was a meeting of that kind on Friday. [[István Ikotity: Has the payments been reduced in the MNB?]] which will lead to a significant increase in wages under a multi-annual programme. [[Zoltán Grimlock: Gross!]] Net wages and real wages. I suggest you watch the press and continue to follow the press' news, because these negotiations will continue, and serious decisions will soon be made in this respect. I would also like to draw your attention - if you study the National Bank Act, you know this - to the fact that the National Bank is operating independently of the government. [[Zoltán Gógös: But the ceiling can be established by Parliament!]] Furthermore, according to the provisions of Hungary's Fundamental Law and the House Rules of Parliament, the Hungarian National Bank can submit a question to its President as well as to the members of the government. [[Zoltán Grimlock: If he doesn't answer, that's the problem!]] And the question of the National Bank's wage increase may be answered better than any member of the government. You have said that there has been a disproportionately high increase in wages at the National Bank, so I would like to draw your attention to what we have said in this House several times, that in the past period, between 2010 and 16 real wages have increased by 15 percent by the end of 2015 and that real wages have increased by 7.5 percent this year. If we look at it as a whole, this means that we can talk about a rise of well over 20 percent in the perspective of 2010-2016. So, given what you've said, I suggest you go to the MNB. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] in relation to the MNB's salary increases, not to listen to the facts, but to study them, and in this case...
u2016-11-14-70	Thank you...
u2016-11-14-71	... you don't have to ask me unnecessary questions. Excuse me, Mr. President. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2016-11-14-72	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Ms Agnes Kunhalmi, Member of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Minister for National Development: "Where does the money for housing in Havana and elsewhere go? It's an address. Congresswoman Agnes Kunhalmi has the floor.
u2016-11-14-73	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State, A year ago, Minister János Lázár said literally that the European Union does not provide individuals with resources to modernise their homes in terms of energy efficiency. Since then, it turns out that wasn't true. After all, Hungary has received funds for this purpose, and 50,000 of them need to be modernised. So much so that this objective is part of the operational programme for environmental and energy efficiency, which your government has put together and sent to the European Commission. According to the information provided by the European bodies, some 225 thousand forints per apartment could be granted for non-refundable funding out of the EUR 37.7 million available. In my constituency, the 18th. There are about 6 thousand apartments in the district only in the Havana settlement under 140 separate housing numbers. About a quarter of this has undergone energy efficiency renovation, essentially only before 2010. In these properties, the cost of rent is on average 30 percent lower and the value of the property is 35-40 percent higher than that of the unrefurbished apartments. Compared to this, the Fidesz government has shut down the panel renovation program, leaving the two million people living in panel apartments, including those living in Havana and other sites in Budapest. Well, I'm not surprised, and I didn't expect anything else from them, who, a few years ago, had pane-proposed the residents of the housing estate, but I respectfully ask, when do they issue panel contests for individuals, which, among other things, could be used by people on Havana? And yet, what are the funds currently being spent on energy efficiency renovation of housing specifically for private individuals? Thank you for your reply.
u2016-11-14-74	Thank you, Congresswoman. I give the floor to Secretary of State János Fónagy.
u2016-11-14-75	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Indeed, the European Union Directive and the relevant rules do not allow direct private use of resources for the 2014-2020 programming period. Both words have meaning. Back in 2001, the Fidesz government launched the support for the renovation of flats with deteriorated textures made by Soviet industrial technology. Panel II. In the government cycle 2010-14, the programme was successfully completed throughout the country. Based on this, the constructions started and continued. The government supported the modernisation of the heating system of the residential panel buildings, which were heated by district heating, with a further payment of nearly HUF 5 billion under eco-programmes. In addition, we announced a new energy efficiency proposal with an additional HUF 7.4 billion budget in the 2010-14 government cycle. The government paid HUF 50 billion in support to improve energy efficiency and technical safety of residential buildings between 2010 and 14 in the framework of which an energy efficiency investment was made in the housing and home of 235 thousand families. Public energy efficiency investments will be possible through the use of funds worth more than HUF 100 billion to be recovered under the operational programme for this purpose. In order to make use of this, the government provides the housing cooperatives with a zero percentage, i.e. interest-free, refundable aid. We are still committed to reducing the cost of these apartments, thus ensuring cheaper housing for Havana residents. Thank you very much for your patience, Mr. President. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2016-11-14-76	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Dóra Dúró, Member of the Jobbik, wants to ask the Minister of Human Resources what does the government do to keep informatikat Teachers on the track? It's an address. Congresswoman Dóra Dúró has the floor. [[12.50]]
u2016-11-14-77	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Through the government's measures in the previous cycle, when schools became state-owned, the number of IT lessons held in the institutions decreased radically. As a result of the measure, about a thousand teachers left the course and moved elsewhere. There was another turn in the summer, vocational schools became vocational schools, and IT classes in the institutions increased. However, in the new situation, IT teachers should be caught with lasso. It is easy to see whether IT experts who are truly highly qualified or who do not already choose the teaching career or who leave within one or two years of receiving the diploma. Now we know of a hundred schools where, although the school year is in full swing, the school principals are still looking for a computer teacher. In many places, classes are no longer held by teachers, or there was a case in the press where a high school student went to another school to teach. There has been a shortage of natural science, foreign language and mathematics teachers for some time, but by now IT teachers are also in this increasingly drastic decline camp. We also need to talk about the fact that 22 thousand IT experts are missing from the labour market today in Hungary. If university students do not go to the teaching career, children do not learn IT knowledge at the right level, fewer and fewer people will choose IT at colleges and universities, then the labour market deficit will increase year after year. If Hungary does not want to become a driving force in this area, first and foremost, the situation of those working in the IT teaching profession that has become a shortage must be resolved, and the profession must be made attractive again. On this basis, I ask the Secretary of State what concrete measures the Government is taking to keep informatikat Teachers on the field. I look forward to your substantive answer. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-11-14-78	Thank you, Congresswoman. I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2016-11-14-79	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, Fortunately, as a result of the steps and incentives of the past period, the number of IT students increased by 19 percent, i.e. almost one fifth. This means that if we talk about the replacement of the IT teachers, then where five students used to sit, six students are now seated, where 50 students had previously graduated, and now 60 students are going to graduate. This will also provide supplies for IT teachers. 'Cause while we can't talk about the fact that there's a shortage of IT teachers all over the country, there are settlements where it's hard to find IT teachers. This is also important because, for example, we have increased the number of IT lessons in vocational training, and we have kept them at least at the previous level, so there is also a need for IT teachers. In the Klebelsberg Training Scholarship, IT teachers are included in a special category. Anyone who uses this can apply for the highest scholarship, which is HUF 375 thousand per semester, i.e. every six months. There are also benefits for students in IT and IT, so they can also get ahead of the scoring. This way we have been able to support IT teachers with plenty of Klebelsberg scholarships. And if I also combine the scientific pairs mentioned by the congresswoman, the number of students - or former college students - who we tried with a Klebelsberg training scholarship, together with mathematics, is over eight hundred. The minimum point limit of 280 is obviously to be reached by everyone, which is a condition that everyone must fulfil, but in addition there are countless incentives for as many IT teachers as possible in the future, and, as you said, to be as many IT teachers in Hungary as possible, because this is essential both for the quality of education and for the growth of the economy. Thank you very much.
u2016-11-14-80	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Bernadett Szél and István Ikotity, representatives of the LMP, want to ask the Minister of National Economy:. The government needs the workforce of 16-year-olds in the public work programme? It's an address. On behalf of the Prime Minister, at the request of Mr Sándor Pintér, Minister of Interior, who is competent and competent on the subject, the question will be answered by Secretary of State Tibor Pogácsás. You have the floor, Congressman Ikotity.
u2016-11-14-81	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, In the social debate version of the Employment Salad Act, there was one point that would have raised the minimum age for public work to 18 years. By the time this amendment came before Parliament, however, this part had disappeared. Has the government changed its mind? The original amendment was justified by the wallet:. The current legislation encourages young people to stop their studies and work in public employment. Given that the primary objective is to make young people fit for employment in the open labour market, as provided by training, it is appropriate to increase the minimum age laid down by law. The fact that this has been removed from the proposal can only be interpreted as saying that the government believes it is right and continues to agree if the regulation encourages young people to interrupt their studies and work in public work and does not consider it a goal for young people to be able to work in the open labour market through training. The government knows very well that a lack of education is a sure way to poverty and unemployment. By lowering the age of compulsory education to 16 years and opening the way to community service, you offered young people the opportunity to choose childhood work instead of education, thus driving children out of school or forced to leave school because of poverty. In the first months of 2015, 2576 children worked in public work. According to the LMP, it is a serious responsibility and a sin for the government to allow young people without qualifications to enter the labour market. Instead, the age of compulsory education should be increased, children's public work should be banned and the strategy against early school leaving should be implemented, which has been dusting in accounts for years. I'm waiting for your answer.
u2016-11-14-82	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary of State Tibor Pogácsás.
u2016-11-14-83	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear Parliament, On the one hand, I think it is worth making clear that achieving a school obligation does not mean that the student relationship is terminated, so anyone who wants to learn can also learn after the school commitment age has been reached. Another question is whether the person who does not finish primary school by the age of 16 and who continues to be forced into the school bench is how his training, his activity there, affects the learning opportunities of the 14-year-old population and how it affects their future opportunities, whether in the labour market or in the pursuit of further learning. So I think that this is a much more complex question. The figures do not necessarily stop as the Member said, as the average number of people under the age of 18 worked in public employment in 2015 and this year was reduced to 495 on average. We clearly believe it is important that young people do not find their future in public employment and do not see their potential in it. In the case of job seekers under the age of 25, the law also states that public employment cannot be regarded as a suitable job. Our aim is to ensure that young people under the age of 25 who do not find the right job are able to find prospects and better employment, if possible, by including them in the youth guarantee scheme. It should be added that some 50 percent of young people under the age of 18 who work in public employment are family supporters, so their living conditions are in need of income for their families. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-11-14-84	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Imre Horváth, a representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Minister of Defence:. How long will soldiers and police officers at the border be employed under unfair conditions? It's an address. Congressman Imre Horváth has the floor.
u2016-11-14-85	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, Equipment, rest periods, clothing, accommodation, zapás, i.e. reserve in Hungarian. Just a few items missing from the daily lives of soldiers and police officers on the border. At the beginning of the year, he was outraged when it came to the circumstances prevailing in the daily lives of soldiers serving on the border. Since then, no meaningful steps have been taken, but winter has come, and it is becoming increasingly difficult to endure 12-16 hours of daily service and the lack of warm clothing. [[13.00]] Experts believe that the solution would be to build a container camp such as that used when installing UN missions. However, this is only necessary if the surveillance of the border by continuous soldiers and law enforcement workers is planned for a longer period. The government's statements suggest that they are preparing for a longer migration pressure, but their actions contradict them. [[István Jakab, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] In view of the above, I would like to ask Mr Secretary of State when they will finally resolve the proper supply of the personnel serving at the border. Are you planning to build a permanent camp where adequate accommodation can finally be provided for the herd? Is there anything you can do to stop the inhuman service of 14-16 hours per day for days or weeks? I look forward to your reply. [[A rare applause in the ranks of the MSZP.]]
u2016-11-14-86	Thank you very much, Congressman. Welcome, fellow Members. Dear Parliament, Tamás Vargha, State Secretary, answers the question. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2016-11-14-87	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, First of all, I would like to reject the word "undeserved" used in your question. The fact is, my honourable fellow Member, that our government, unlike your government, is doing everything it can to protect the country. I would also like to say that those serving at the border have the clothing required by the relevant HM regulation, which ensures that the task is carried out in winter weather conditions. In addition to this equipment, the patrol staff has also received equipment, a polar sweater and a rain protection suit to increase the protection against cold. In order to increase the food quality of the staff, we have introduced an additional standard worth 450 HUF, and we pay special attention to the appropriate calorie intake, the variety of meals and the supply of protective drinks. Honourable Congressman, There is indeed a preliminary reflection and a preliminary idea of establishing a so-called border defence base to further improve the placement of personnel carrying out border tasks. This would also provide accommodation, work, service, storage, social and cultural functions. Currently, the accommodation conditions of the task staff are appropriate, and the Hungarian Defence Agency's public health and epidemiological services regularly monitor this. Based on experience, accommodation units ensure adequate rest of staff and cultured conditions for the use of leisure time. I would also like to say that the executive staff has been given a rest during and after the day-to-day service, and that the ordered over-service will be fully compensated, and that the benefits will continue to be paid. It is clear from what has been said that the Ministry of Defence is doing everything it can to ensure the conditions of those serving at the border. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-11-14-88	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Gergely Farkas, representative of Jobbik, wishes to ask the Minister of the Interior: When will the open refugee camp in Kiskunhalas be completed? It's an address. Congressman, you have the floor.
u2016-11-14-89	Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, At the beginning of the summer, pro-government politicians talked about closing refugee camps in Hungary within a short time. However, Kiskunhalason not only closed the existing closed camp but also established an open refugee camp in July. Of course, the Halas population was outraged by the action without being asked, and not only the Jobbik, but also the pro-government mayor of the settlement, the pro-government body and the parliamentary representative of the pro-government parliament took a stand against the camp. After the opening of the camp, a local NGO started collecting signatures to close the institution. Despite the limited collection possibilities, thousands of signatures were collected and handed over in September to Gábor Bányai, the Fidesz Parliamentary Representative of the region, who is not here again for a change. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Gábor Vona is not here either. Where's Gábor Vona?]] They did so in the belief that a pro-government representative could lobby more effectively than his own government for the purpose. At a former retail forum, the Member promised to give the signatures to the government, but we have not heard anything about this or its reception. Unfortunately, we have been accustomed to disregarding the proposals of opposition representatives, but we are now dealing with a request not only by the better-looking people, but also by the city's population, the city's pro-government leadership and parliamentary representative. They support it because they see that it is true that the camp has created jobs, but these jobs could be created in other ways, for example, by creating a prison that has already been mentioned a lot in Kiskunhalas or by developing tourism. In view of this, I would like to ask Mr Secretary of State whether you have received from Gábor Bányai thousands of signatures requiring the closure of the open camp in Kiskunhalas. If so, why did they keep it a secret? After all, the people of Kiskunhalas are wondering what happened to their signatures. Seeing the wishes of the Kiskunhalasians, when are they planning to meet the demand of the population and eliminate the institution by experiencing serious local cooperation? I look forward to your substantive answer. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-11-14-90	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, State Secretary Károly Kontra will answer the question. Secretary of State, you have the floor.
u2016-11-14-91	Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, I would also like to thank the Halasians, the Halas municipality, the mayor of Halas, and the individual parliamentary representative for the cooperation, understanding and assistance they have shown in dealing with the migration crisis in recent years. We're in constant contact with the Halasians, Mr. Congressman, Mr. Mayor. I myself visited Halas on 21 September of this year, during the referendum campaign, and there we had a meaningful dialogue with the Halasians. I called Mr. Mayor again this morning and asked him what was going on in Halas, what was the situation in the area of security, what was the situation with the open camp. He said, and I quote, that in addition to the first fright, there is no real problem in the open camp Halason, in which 80 people are currently present. There is a reinforced police presence in Kiskunhalas, the police, the Immigration Office cooperates with the municipality, regularly evaluates the security situation. We can say that there is order and security in Kiskunhalas, as in all the settlements of Hungary. I would also like to say that Kiskunhalas has won 43.9 million forints from the Ministry of the Interior in order to improve public safety in the last year. This year they have a bid of 66 million HUF, which will be evaluated later this year, and I would also like to expand the camera system. [[Gergely Farkas: What about the signatures?]] If you'll excuse me, Congressman, I'll continue. The signatures were received by a representative of the Ministry of Interior. The Government of Hungary is doing everything in its power to ensure the safety of the Halasans and the people living in all the settlements of Hungary. That is why we urged and supported the referendum. You didn't support it. According to the news, Halason wasn't supportive, either. And you didn't vote to amend the Fundamental Law, either. [[Gergely Farkas: When will you close the camp?]] So, Congressman, you are on the side of the migrants, you have taken a stand against the Hungarian people. So you have no moral basis to ask such a question. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-11-14-92	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Szél Bernadett and István Ikotity, representatives of the LMP, want to ask the Minister for National Development:. Who and from what will replace the Central Nuclear Fund? It's an address. Mr István Ikotity has the floor.
u2016-11-14-93	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, The Nuclear Power Act provides for the establishment of a Central Nuclear Financial Fund for the permanent disposal of radioactive waste, for the temporary storage of spent fuel and for the closure of the nuclear fuel cycle, for the financing of nuclear decommissioning tasks. According to the law, MVM Paks Nuclear Power Plant Ltd. is currently in Hungary. it shall pay this cost to the Fund's account at the rate of the amount fixed for each year in such a way that it fully covers the costs of carrying out the tasks. The funds of the Central Nuclear Financial Fund shall be used solely for those purposes. However, according to the fund's report, the Central Nuclear Financial Fund was able to increase its assets slightly last year, and its assets increased to HUF 255.1 billion, despite the many years of deposits. However, this amount is not enough to cover the four blocks' liquidation costs of HUF 1650 billion, even on a pro rata basis. In addition to the current deposits, the Paks plant could produce the missing money in 50 years, while the reactors will shut down in 20 years. The increase in financial assets is thus far below what is necessary. [[13.10]] Dear Secretary of State, What's with all the money, the resources collected in the Nuclear Financial Fund? Who's gonna pay the difference? After all, there is no decision as to how the fuel cycle will be closed: will there be re-rocation or temporary storage, will there be permanent unloading? The cost of these is very different - on what basis is the fund being replenished? When it comes to storage at home, the final disposal of Paks I and II will take place. After the end of its operation, when no more funds are made and no more funds are created, who will pay for the supervision and guarding of landfills for many ten, perhaps a hundred years? I'm waiting for your answer.
u2016-11-14-94	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary of State János Fónagy. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2016-11-14-95	Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Indeed, the Central Nuclear Financial Fund was established in the light of the principle that the management of radioactive waste did not constitute an irresistible and unacceptable burden for future generations, i.e. the costs of those benefiting from the current benefits of nuclear energy production and isotope application. Under the nuclear law, the operator of the nuclear installation is obliged to bear the cost of radioactive waste management and decommissioning by making payments to the fund. In other words, the costs of waste management are borne by nuclear energy users for whom waste is generated. Future payments to the fund are scheduled to cover the costs that have been incurred, together with the amount of money that has so far been accumulated. According to the national programme adopted by the government, the present value of the HUF 1650 billion continuously until the 2080s is around HUF 672 billion. The amount of around HUF 246 billion accumulated so far in the fund should therefore be added to the mandatory annual payment in such a way as to ensure that this present value is covered for the activities listed in the nuclear law and listed by you in accordance with the management principles of the Fund. As a guarantee of the availability of the required amount, the fund's income and year-end balance cannot be deducted, the funds paid to the fund are kept in the separate account of the Hungarian Treasury. Thank you for the opportunity, Mr. President. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2016-11-14-96	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, István Tukacs, a representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Minister of Human Resources:. Can the cost of testing young people in sports medicine be reduced? It's an address. Congressman, you have the floor.
u2016-11-14-97	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm sure someone with kids and sports knows how much joy this is. It's a source of joy, because it's a pleasure to see a child who believes in success, who learns sportsmanship, who learns to work for every result, to report a medal, a cup, or just a coach stroke. Ladies and gentlemen, But it is also due to the joy that in every family, when the child plays sports, there is also some burden, because nothing is cheap; nothing is cheap now, neither is competition, equipment, sports, travel and much more. Ladies and gentlemen, You also know that parents are happy to bear the burden of seeing success on their faces, on the child's face, who thinks that sport is important to him. Nevertheless, it would be good if these families were sometimes helped to strengthen them in the belief that they were on the right track to help their children play sports. Therefore, when looking at the necessary physical examinations, it appears that, in many cases, paid medical examinations are more than one such study per year, since there are sports activities for which this is justified before or periodically before each competition. I think, Mr Secretary of State, it would be helpful and a great gesture for these families if we could reduce these fees and consider the option of paying only once a year. I believe that this would not be an unmanageable burden for the budget, and that it would be a pleasure for families and that the government would listen to them. Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President.
u2016-11-14-98	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2016-11-14-99	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, After a long time, we can finally get to this issue here, and this issue is on the agenda in Parliament. I have two good news for you, Congressman. One is that sports medical examinations are free of charge for amateur athletes with a valid farm number. [[István Tukacs: It's not!]] Obviously, the sports law is already number one. It states in its section that a professional athlete is a competitor who pursues sports activities for the purpose of earning income, professionally, and that all other athletes are considered amateurs. On the other hand, those who are the youngest or oldest, i.e. those under the age of 18 or over 65 and who play sports in a competitive manner, must attend a sports doctor's examination twice a year, and the fees for them have been reduced by half by OSEI, the National Institute of Sports Health, so they have halved the fees they have to pay. In the case of professional athletes, a basic fee is 9700 HUF. The reimbursement fee for supplementary tests shall be the financing fee for that benefit under the Health Insurance Fund. The sports doctor's examination includes the consultation of the completed sports doctor's questionnaire, the inclusion of a history, the physical examination. However, the professional guide on sports medical examinations sets out what additional studies are still needed for sports. These additional examinations may also be used free of charge in health insurance-funded specialist orders on the basis of a referral to a sports doctor. In all sports, it is equally necessary to have different studies, such as urinalysis and ECG tests, in addition to all sports medical examinations. These tests may also be used free of charge in the specialties financed by the Health Insurance Fund. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2016-11-14-100	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Zsolt Egyed, representative of Jobbik, wishes to ask the Minister of the Interior a question: It's an address. On behalf of Prime Minister Zoltán Balog, Minister of Human Resources, who is competent and competent on behalf of the Prime Minister, will answer the question. Congressman, you have the floor.
u2016-11-14-101	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, We are not going from five to six in terms of animal protection or public safety. Videos of various animal tortures are on the run, which are carried out by exhibitionists, who are generally teens and twenty - year - olds, who are also looting and destroying private property and public property in the same layer. Of course, I am aware that you have more important things to do at the moment, such as torture of a kitten, but from a distance, this seems to be a more complex problem. Children grow up without seeing parents do honest, upbuilding work and activities for society. On the contrary, they see dishonesty, free living, crime. The authorities rarely respond to this in substance, so it develops that these people begin to live in capitals as a distorted personality. Teachers no longer raise, but do not accidentally say something that makes a well - tuned parent threaten them life - threatening. The police are in a similar position, and they do not want to be subjected to abuse, according to today's case law, for a legitimate measure in a normal country. The situation is aggravated by the fact that the scale of cheap drugs is constantly expanding. Jobbik has been saying it for years, and even an important element of its program is the boarding school. This is the only way to improve the personality development of children: a college that teaches social standards. Dear Secretary of State, Why hasn't the government taken action in six years to secure young people with problems? Don't you think that the system that tolerates criminal behavior is too liberalized to end normal people? Don't you think someone who tortures an animal will sooner or later kill a human being? I look forward to your meaningful reply. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2016-11-14-102	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Here you go, Secretary of State. [[13.20]]
u2016-11-14-103	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, I think we can agree that two minutes to deal with all the issues of animal protection and public safety are very few, but it has been important for the previous four years to adopt a strict criminal code that has deterred everyone from committing crimes and gives the courts the opportunity to withdraw from society all those who are dangerous to other people or do dangerous acts to society as a whole. That is why it was important that this result was shown, as even juvenile offenders had the opportunity to impose severe penalties to the extent that these numbers are now decreasing, a trend-like decline. We trust that the deterrent force and the fact that repeated offenders can be put behind bars are a safer situation for everyone; furthermore, the National Crime Prevention Council is obviously pursuing its own activities in terms of science, crime prevention, coordination and other aspects. The priority of this is the protection of children and young people, in which the family has a primary role. The D.A.D.A. program, the Counter-Serving Program, is all about preventing young people and students from becoming victims of crime, but more so as to become perpetrators of crime. With lectures, school programs, the school policeman's program, crime-prevention counseling, the presence of the district commissioner, we hope that fewer young people will become perpetrators and fewer young people will also be victims. Here, we also draw attention to the reasons for this, and young people who listen can also learn signaling techniques. It is also important to note in these lectures that violence, violence, is not acceptable, it is not natural in any way, and everyone must refrain from it. We're also trying to prevent the victim from becoming a victim, precisely by strengthening the child protection detection and signalling system, which is now present in all walks. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-11-14-104	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Sándor Burány, representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Minister for National Development:. When will the reconstruction of the Kőbánya-Kispest railway station begin? It's an address. Mr Sándor Burány has the floor.
u2016-11-14-105	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, As you know, Kőbánya-Kispest is one of the busiest transport hubs in the capital city: here is the renovated southern terminal of Metro 3, the intermediate station and end station of several railway lines, the end stop of several BKV and Volán bus lines and the intermediate stop of the bus arriving directly from the Liszt Ferenc airport, so many tourists from abroad also pass through the node. Compared to this, the railway station is dominated by unworthy and unblessed conditions: even after a small rain, the water stops on the platform to fall into the neck of the passengers, and even, in the middle of the station, rain often causes insurmountable puddles up to their ankles; the escalators are not working, while the stairs have been in unacceptable condition for a long time. The Kőbánya-Kispest railway station has long been in need of complete reconstruction, it is necessary to completely renovate the passenger traffic buildings, the pedestrian overpass, the construction of new stairs and escalators, the installation of accessible elevators, the lifting of platforms and the renovation of the platform. As far as I know, the application for the reconstruction has already been launched, so my questions are whether the contract has already been concluded with the contractors. When can the Kökbányaans, the Kepestians, the capitalists and foreigners expect normal conditions to prevail on the KÖKI? I'm looking forward to your reply.
u2016-11-14-106	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary of State of Tasó. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2016-11-14-107	Mr President, Dear Parliament, Congressman! I'm sorry to give you my answer with my back. MÁV Zrt. the problem situations at the Kőbánya-Kispest train station will be resolved in two steps: in the first step, it will take the urgent interventions that are necessary and require immediate action; in the second step, it will implement the investment programme that can be implemented through the KözOP IKOP resources. In the framework of this, the passenger traffic buildings are renovated, the pedestrian overpass is completely renovated, new stairs and escalators are built, and the accessible elevators are also built. In addition, even at the 200 line, the 35 centimeter platform is built at 55 centimeters high, making this part of the transport fully comfortable. The tender procedure for the programme is ongoing, the contract is expected to be concluded at the end of November, and the MÁV can schedule the programme so that it can start the investment in the summer of 2018 and finish it by the end of 2019. On the other hand, as I said, the steps that are immediately needed have already started: in early November, the MÁV started to repair the overpass, the steel support structures, and also repair the stairrails that are dangerous. What is very important: in 1980, the KÖKI was handed over on 1 March, and since then some of the property situation has not been clarified, it is necessary to complete this in order to complete the condition of safe operation. So we take two steps: the first is the immediate intervention in order to prevent life threats, and what requires immediate renovations, and the second is the implementation of the program, which is expected by the end of autumn 2019. What is important, I will tell you now, as I have done before: what has been spoilt will be fixed and we will be able to receive the travelling public with modern conditions. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-11-14-108	Thank you very much for the Secretary of State's reply. Dear Parliament, It's 13:26. We're moving on to the immediate questioning. Dear Parliament, Gergely Bárándy, a representative of the MSZP, wants to ask the President of the National Bank an immediate question with the title "Friends, Friends and Others." The President appointed Vice-President Márton Nagy to answer the question because of an urgent public task. I ask the Member whether he will accept the person who is responding to it, or whether he will personally ask the President for an answer.
u2016-11-14-109	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I'd like to wait for Mr. Matolcsy. Thank you.
u2016-11-14-110	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, László Varga, representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: the title "Hungarian Reality" is not visible from the helicopter. Mr László Varga has the floor.
u2016-11-14-111	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr. Prime Minister, Ladies and gentlemen, More than 4 million people live below the minimum living standards in Hungary today, and you have had an effective response to this: KSH no longer publishes the minimum living data. One in three children is forced to grow up among very serious deprivations in this country, and in Hungary a very large proportion of small entrepreneurs think that the only aspect that matters about their well-being is the type of fidesz relationships they have. Unfortunately, the situation in health today is clear: where some of the resources of the European Union you are chasing have not yet been managed, there is around XIX. The conditions of the century are waiting for the Hungarian people, the waiting lists are growing, the lack of medical and professional staff is becoming catastrophic. The problems of education are known to the whole country, from January there have been very serious movements, the biggest rural demonstration in Miskolc in recent years, and tens of thousands of people in Kossuth Square. The solution was clear on your part: fatigue, pretense negotiations, pretense measures. It is no wonder that more than 500,000 people and then 600,000 people have left Hungary as a result of the politics of the past years. In the meantime, what do we see? Society is increasingly irritated by several ministers and secretary of state, and more and more of these politicians are beating out on the Hungarian people. I think the model of this is Minister Antal Rogán, who is no wonder that he does not see the Hungarian reality of the helicopter, because he often fails to hit the size of his own living room. There are two questions, Prime Minister. On the one hand, when do you intend to tidy up your government? On the other hand, when do you intend to deal with real problems affecting Hungarian people? I'm waiting for your answer.
u2016-11-14-112	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Prime Minister Viktor Orbán. Prime Minister, please.
u2016-11-14-113	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The title of the question was who saw Hungarian reality well, and I immediately remembered it. I'm old enough to remember that not so long ago, you guys were planning a hunger procession. [[Dr. Tamás Bellozó: It's happening again!]] Then it turned out that the leader of the hunger march was actually a rich euromillionaire. For example, the Hungarian reality is that you Socialists, after destroying and indebting the country, are organizing fake hunger courses filled with paid activists. You've been ruling and destroying this country for eight years. On the other hand, the situation today is that the minimum wage has been raised by 51 percent in six years, the biggest increase in developed countries. Between 2010 and 2015, real wages in the country increased by 15.5 percent on average, family tax breaks increased, and this year, in one year, there was a 7.5 percent increase in real wages, and we reduced the 12 percent unemployment that you left behind to less than 5 percent. So much for Hungarian reality. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[13.30]]
u2016-11-14-114	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. It's a matter of rejoinder, Congressman. Here you go.
u2016-11-14-115	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr. Prime Minister, I didn't confuse you with what I said, I see, because you obviously gave me a different answer, a political response that you had prepared in advance, but my questions came from real life and from my real experience. I have to say that, for example, their proposals for raising the minimum wage may reach the level for 2018 in real terms, for which the minimum wage was in 2010, because you immediately started by taxing the minimum wage and managed to start your governance. Last week I was on the forum in Holuko - this is a difficult part of Miskolc - from which I can tell you that practically the state has come down, and now not only these parts are affected, but also more and more, and not only in North-East Hungary. You have resigned from some part of the country, and this is unacceptable to me, even though I believe that the future of Hungary stands or falls on whether the majority of Hungarian people can get up every morning that it makes sense. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] To do his job, it makes sense to work for this country. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2016-11-14-116	Thank you, Congressman. Mr. Prime Minister, you have a rejoinder. You have the floor, Prime Minister.
u2016-11-14-117	Although we are party to government and you are opposition, I am looking for the points in which we can agree. For example, I agree with his last sentence, and I also think that the country's future stands or falls on whether people feel that it makes sense to get up in the morning, to get themselves together and to go to work, because they have jobs, and where they get enough money, wages, wages to keep themselves and their families up. I think that's what this country's future is all about, which is why we've put the 12 percent unemployment you left behind below 5 percent, because if there's work, there's everything. In the case of minimum wage, you are wrong, but this is a simple mathematical issue, the minimum wage grew real in Hungary after 2010. This is not a new battle between the Socialists and I, because I remember it well, between 1998 and 2002, you left a minimum wage here, which we then raised by 150 percent. It's an old story, you're the low minimum wage, and we're on the side of the high minimum wage. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-11-14-118	Thank you, Prime Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, János Volner, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: why is the Government opposed to raising the Hungarian people's wages? It's an address. Mr János Volner has the floor.
u2016-11-14-119	Mr. Prime Minister, I would like to achieve an increase in the wages of the working Hungarian people, and I would like to address you on this point. It is important to see that when Prime Minister refers to a large increase in the minimum wage compared to 2010 by the Orbán government, it is safe to think that only the gross amount of this minimum wage has increased so much, but its tax burden has increased even more than its gross amount. It is also important to see, Prime Minister, that the highest tax burden on the minimum wage in Hungary is the highest of all OECD countries, in which we are leaders, I repeat, among all OECD countries. Prime Minister, I was pleased to see in the press that you said in various forums that the government wanted to raise the minimum wage. Of course, I agree with him myself, but I think it is very important to say that it is not enough to raise this already taxed minimum wage, because this is to preserve the state of the high tax burden on the lowest earning people, but it is necessary to reduce taxes and contributions at the minimum wage in order to help the lowest earning people, so that they do not leave society, so that they do not migrate hundreds of thousands of people abroad. At present, the concept of employee poverty is known in a small part of Hungary as a result of these outstanding taxes on workers' wages, and it is known that people live every month struggling with their yellow checks, they cannot pay them, and even though a person often works in a second job, it is not enough to earn a living on this salary. So I would ask you, Prime Minister, to reduce both the tax burden of the minimum wage and to ensure, by taking international action, an open dialogue with the multinationals, that the wage catch-up of the Hungarian people should start towards Western Europe. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-11-14-120	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Prime Minister Viktor Orbán. Here you go, Prime Minister.
u2016-11-14-121	I repeat, we are in the government, and you are in the opposition, but we are happy to find common points. The government can do three things about wage increases: the first is to raise the minimum wage. I told you about this, we raised it by 150 percent between 1998 and 2002. So there is a door in Hungary where you knock in the right place, if it's a minimum wage increase, it's exactly my study door. The other thing we can do is reduce taxes. Since 2010, we have made significant tax cuts, and we will continue to do so. The third thing the government can do is raise the wages of the people it employs. In short, we have spent 300 billion forints on wage management for health care workers; the wages of specialists and hospital pharmacists are increased by 207 thousand forints at two paces; the employees of primary care have been paid 41 per cent since 2010, this year continues; the wages of nurses are increased by 65 per cent from now until 2019; in the case of teachers, the wage increase will be 50 per cent in five years, which will also be paid by the graduates; the wages of higher education workers will be increased by 27 per cent until 2018; in 2014, we have introduced an increase of 50 per cent for social and child protection workers - 93 thousand families - and this will be 35 billion forints this year; and the wages of police and soldiers will be increased by 50 per cent for 2019. In all three areas, in the area of minimum wage increases, in the area of tax reductions and in terms of increasing the salaries of people employed by the state, these figures are acceptable; they are not sufficient, they are acceptable. You have to fight for further wage increases and tax cuts, and I'm ready for that, and I'm counting on you, if I understand your point of view correctly, I can count on your support. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-11-14-122	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. I give the floor to Congressman János Volner in return. Here you go.
u2016-11-14-123	Prime Minister, for one minute, I did not dispute that between 1998 and 2002, it was a sympathetic economic policy course, at least compared to the current one, I was talking about what your government had achieved compared to 2010. Compared to 2010, we were cut off in terms of wage increases compared to all neighbouring countries in Eastern Europe. This is where the poorest population was in Hungary, where the wage increase was the most modest, and it is not a small part due to this condition that four of the seven geographical regions in Hungary are among the poorest regions in Europe. So it is not enough to raise the minimum wage, and it is also necessary to ensure that the tax burden on the minimum wage is reduced, because if you raise the minimum wage, you will benefit from the state register, but the working Hungarian people will not benefit. I therefore ask you, Prime Minister, to pay attention to this, and to initiate a dialogue with the multinationals in which the Hungarian Government expects a kind of wage catch-up towards wages in Western Europe. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-11-14-124	Thank you, Congressman. Mr. Prime Minister, you have a rejoinder. You have the floor, Prime Minister.
u2016-11-14-125	It's rude, but I'm forced to correct you. You are wrong about numbers, not only the gross but also the net value of the minimum wage has increased in Hungary in recent years. By the way, in order to raise wages in Hungary or in any economy in general, we need three things: a job, a job, a job and a salary, and someone who works. We have to work in all three areas. We need to improve the skills of workers through education so that they can do higher quality work and earn more money and also improve the position of businesses so that they can pay higher wages. That's what the government did after 2010. I don't think you're actually arguing with me. You were just looking at the calendar wrong. So the difficult situation in Hungary, which has been in your eyes from 2010 onwards, is in fact not our responsibility for this difficult situation. After all, in 2010, time was not the beginning, only our government, before that there was economic policy. You must have noticed that the Socialists had taken a month's pension before 2010, perhaps you noticed that the Socialists had taken a month's wages. [[Interviews from the ranks of the MSZP. Gábor István Bellozó: Why didn't you give it back?]] perhaps you have noticed that the socialists have indebted the country [[The president's ringing the bell.]] And they've raised the government debt above 85 percent. I'm sure you've noticed all this. Debate, I see it's not between us, it's between you and the socialists. We do not wish to participate in this debate. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[13.40]]
u2016-11-14-126	Thank you, Prime Minister. Dear Parliament, Erzsébet Schmuck, Ákos Hadházy and Bernadett Szél, representatives of LMP, want to ask an immediate question [[Intercoms: They're not even here!]] To the Prime Minister: When does the government realize that the direction is wrong I.? It's an address. Congresswoman Bernadett Wind has the floor.
u2016-11-14-127	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr. Prime Minister, We are going in the wrong direction in many respects in Hungary. It is wrong to look at the Ministry structure and see that education and health do not have a ministry, but propaganda does. Unfortunately, this is inconclusive, as is a significant part of the ministers. Now, the last time we asked you about Antal Rogán's affairs here in the Hungarian Parliament, you replied that the Minister should stand up for himself. However, the situation is that ministers are appointed by the Prime Minister in this country. So Antal Rogán remains a minister as long as Prime Minister Viktor Orbán, that is, you will. Since the last question, the Minister has lied to the general public twice. In the second case, he was also involved in a case involving not only corruption but also very serious national security risks. I would remind you, and, Prime Minister, you must have seen the Minister when he went on a TV show and lied three times about the settlement bonds on the air. He said they'd get a residence permit in exchange for it, it's five years, we'd have to buy an apartment. Three out of three are false, because a residence policy in the country guarantees virtually indefinite duration, and you don't have to buy a flat, it's actually enough to come to Hungary once. So three out of three is a lie. A few days later, a fact-finding article was published on index.hu, in which the economic and political relations of Antal Rogán and Mr Balázs Kertész were analysed by journalists, Mr.Antal Rogán, and he denied having a personal acquaintance with Mr.Balázs Kertész. Now, I think we're at a point where you've had coffee, but in any case, the Minister wasn't telling the truth here. However, it is even more serious that in front of Balázs Kertész's office there were three businessmen who, I think, should talk in different state institutions in a normal country; it is Georgia's former prime minister, the businessman interested in settlement policy and the Georgian banker, there were percentages, Eximbank, investment in power plants, and this is an office where many people were involved. I have three questions for Prime Minister: on the one hand, I would like you to answer whether there is or has been any construction of a power plant in Georgia in the plan that concerns the Hungarian State or Hungarian state companies. On the other hand, I'd like to know when your confidence in Antal Rogán is finally running out. Thank you.
u2016-11-14-128	Thank you, Congresswoman. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
u2016-11-14-129	I see we're dealing with the phenomenon of you regularly targeting a minister, and now Mr. Fazekas has fallen out of the picnic. [[Defiance in the ranks of Fidesz.]] - and instead he's trying to punch my fellow Member Rogán in this. Here's what I can tell you: I don't deal with political bluffs. I don't do political tabloids, I don't do political bluffs. [[Martin Gyöngyösi: Did Rogan write this?]] Within the government, all that matters is performance. Every attack that has been launched on Minister Antal Rogán has confirmed Minister Rogán's position. And I wish you good work. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2016-11-14-130	Thank you, Prime Minister, for your reply. You have a rejoinder from the congresswoman. Here you go.
u2016-11-14-131	Mr. Prime Minister, I'm sure I've learned one thing from these ministers. It means that if the political arguments run out, then it's personal. Unfortunately, it seems that the Prime Minister is no exception, because it is not a question of questioning, as you mentioned, but of the fact that one of your ministers was faced with very serious accusations and lied three times to Hungarian voters. I don't think anyone who lies around as a minister is worthy of this position. It is true that you are the Prime Minister and I am not, but I would ask you to answer at least the question of the opposition representative who has asked you a perfectly legitimate question three times. My question remains: is there such a Georgian project or is there not such a Georgian project? By the way, today is the inventor's day, and we also know about Antal Rogán that he invented an inventor, at least the settlement policy, and he also claims to be an inventor; but he also seems to have discovered that such projects can be coordinated on the street at all levels. Once again, the Minister of Propaganda lied three times: he was helicoptering, that was one of the lies; he lied with settlement bonds; and he also lied about his relationship with Balázs Kertész. Mr. Prime Minister, How long can Antal Rogán stay in position? [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2016-11-14-132	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, Mr. Prime Minister, you have a rejoinder. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
u2016-11-14-133	I had the opportunity to listen here in Parliament when the Minister answered these questions, and therefore I do not see the need to repeat his previous answers. I can tell you one thing: Minister Potter was lucky not to be here today. Thank you for your attention. [[Delight and applause from the ranks of the governing parties.]]
u2016-11-14-134	Thank you very much, Prime Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Attila Petneházy, representative of Fidesz, wants to ask the Minister of National Policy an immediate question:. Open Romanian attack on Hungarians? It's an address. Congressman Attila Petneházy has the floor.
u2016-11-14-135	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Minister, Ladies and gentlemen. On June 4th, 1920, a decision was made that basically rocked the Hungarian nation. Even though more than 90 years have passed since then, the consequences of the Trianon peace treaty have continued to affect them. A perfect example of this is the situation of Transylvanian Hungarians abroad, for whom everyday struggle is preserved and superhuman work. Anyone can now be taken without any particular justification by the Romanian Anti-Corruption Prosecution Office. As he did with the mayors and deputy mayors of Sepsiszentgyörgy and Csíkszereda, but the humiliations are not over yet, we could continue the line by granting unrealisticly large fines for the use of Szekler symbols, by adopting draft laws restricting the use of the Hungarian language, not least by nationalising Hungarian private property. The latest attack by DNA was already directed against the important scene of the Hungarian children's lives, the Roman Catholic high school in Targu Mures. A proceeding was initiated against the school principal and the superintendent, who, in the opinion of the prosecutor, contributed to the high school's operation despite the fact that they knew that the school did not actually receive the permission to operate. All of this is considered justified in the light of the fact that the municipality and the school inspectorate who decided to set up schools had a positive opinion on the request at the time. Such measures are draining the life force of Hungarians from abroad and their hope for a viable future from day to day. Dear Minister, How long can we tolerate open attacks on foreign Hungarian communities? What can we do to protect them? Thank you very much for the floor. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2016-11-14-136	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Deputy Prime Minister Zsolt Semjén. Here you go.
u2016-11-14-137	Honourable Congressman. In order to understand this issue precisely, it is worth looking at the situation in Romania in general, then the conceptual procedures against the leaders of Hungary, and then the renationalisation of our schools. The fact is that what is in Romania today reminds me at least of the Jacobine reign of terror, where the accusation of the public prosecutor was in itself evidence, and anyone could be attacked because of their belonging to a group, political views, or simply because he was in a dispute with one of the public prosecutors. I predict that the fight against corruption is a good thing, and I note that in Romania, especially in Ó-Romania, due to Byzantine-Turkish traditions, there is plenty of space for it; let us just think of the fact that the words turf or baksis also came from this cultural circle. But the thing is, I can only tell the Romanian brothers to remember the Jacobin times where the accusers became accused, and the public prosecutors' necks were eventually struck - Robespierre, Saint-Just, Marat, Danton. But this is more or less the case of the Romanian brothers; the fact is that Hungarian leaders are being attacked here in a conceptual way. Exactly the local government leaders, Árpád Antal, Róbert Ráduly to Anna Horváth, János Mezei, Domokos Szőke, to whom the local community listens, and who stand for values and interests, for the value and interest of Hungarians, and for the autonomy of added value. This line includes the attack on our schools, which is absurd in two ways. First of all, at the end of August, at the beginning of September, the good Romanian Ministry of Education carried out a detailed examination and found everything in order. The other is what this corruption prosecution has to do with, when the prosecution says it's only one administrative error. Compared to this, Chief Inspector Ştefan Someşan Maros County, an honest, good Romanian man, was placed under house arrest and Director Zsolt Tamási was placed under official supervision. What we're talking about is an attack on our schools, and we're gonna protect these schools and their leaders. Domestic, international forums. Thank you. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]] [[13.50]]
u2016-11-14-138	Thank you very much, Minister. I give the floor to Congressman Attila Petneházy in return.
u2016-11-14-139	It is obvious - thanks to Minister's reply - that they are doing this in the clothes of anti-corruption activity, and the news shows that they spoke in several cities of Transylvania from very small children up to the age, and that the living of our Hungarian brothers in Transylvania is a serious problem every day without such unintelligible attacks. As a member of the Committee on National Inclusion, I have experienced many times what his own school means to a Hungarian community. I think that attacking this is the most unlucky thing, and it is very sad that the poetic thought is gaining ground over and over and over again and again, and we often say what to protect: the church and the school. Thank you for the floor. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-11-14-140	Thank you very much, Congressman. You have a rebuttal answer for the Minister. You have the floor, Minister.
u2016-11-14-141	That is exactly right, Congressman: the church and the school, especially if we consider that the Hungarian school system in Transylvania is based on the religious institutional system. And you can't see the spooky resemblance to the attack on the Székely Mikó College in Sepsiszentgyörgy and now the Roman Catholic Lyceum in Marosvásárhely. In the Ceauşescu period, and in the past, but especially in the Ceauşescu period, we recovered a fraction of the crippled churches and the ecclesiastical properties nationalized by the communist regime with blood and sweat, and now, which we could not believe a few years ago, that this could happen, but it has happened, they are now trying to renationalize even them, and thus make church education and through this the school system of Hungarians impossible. I can tell the Member that the protesters who protested in the cities of Transylvania are naturally guaranteed full solidarity, we give the persecuted leaders all their help, and we will take action at all international forums against the scandal of restoring the Ceauşescu times in Romania. Thank you. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-11-14-142	Thank you very much for the Minister's reply. Dear Parliament, László Szakács, a representative of the MSZP, wants to ask the Minister of National Economy an immediate question. It's an address. The Minister has appointed Mr András Tállai Secretary of State to respond to an urgent public task. I ask the Member whether he will accept the person who is responding or ask the Minister for his answer personally.
u2016-11-14-143	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I'll wait, respectfully, for the Minister. [[Moraj, interrogations in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-11-14-144	Thank you. I would like to inform the Member that the Minister will have to answer at the hour of the second immediate question. Dear Parliament, Tamás Harangozó, a representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question about his pen, man's friend, or how long can Antal Rogán remain the Prime Minister's chief of staff? It's an address. Congressman Tamás Bellozó has the floor.
u2016-11-14-145	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Prime Minister, whatever you say or think, the name of Antal Rogán is today synonymous with urization, ongoing scandals, corruption-suspecting cases, lying. First came the property declaration scandal, then the Luis Vuitton bag, then the downtown real estate panama, then the friend of the Pasa Park residential park, who received billionaire orders from his ministry, and then turned out to be a very talented man as an inventor; then he was accused by two of Hungary's biggest underworld figures, not least: Portik had to carry 10 million forints in euro, and Vizoviczki's right hand was to charge him with 4 million on occasion. Now a more serious summary article on the downtown triumvirate - as already quoted - has been published on the Index about Georgian power plants, real estate dogs, about which one can say for certain that the minister has already been involved in a lie. But politically, I think that both you and your party had the most embarrassing and inconvenient action on the minister's part, which had already been harassed by his fellow Members and fellow parties, and this was the helicopter case. On the day of the referendum determining the nation's future for decades, the Minister managed to come and go from a country celebrity wedding with a luxury car and helicopter while his fellow party fought for the sacred cause on the ground. And then this case failed. I would also like to ask Prime Minister how much longer you will protect this boy. What else needs to be revealed and what else has to happen to distance you from Antal Rogán and to relieve him of his position as a minister? I'm waiting for your answer.
u2016-11-14-146	Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Prime Minister Viktor Orbán to reply. Here you go, Prime Minister.
u2016-11-14-147	Thank you very much, Mr. President. After learning over the past few years that the logic of the opposition is spent trying to attack the government and what is bad for the government is happy, so when you attack the minister, I think that the opposite is actually happening as you wish. Don't you realize - I repeat - that you are strengthening him with every single attack? If it were just a true word from what you said, you would have made criminal reports a long time ago, but you wouldn't dare. So these are political bluff attacks, which I have not taken seriously, and I will not take seriously; and once again, every single attack I have heard on these subjects has increased confidence in the Minister and has not reduced his confidence. [[Dóra Dúró: That he lied is a fact! Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-11-14-148	Thank you, Prime Minister. I give the floor to the congressman in return. I would also like to inform you that Members of Parliament are present. I'm guessing you felt it about your previous speech. [[Dóra Dúró: There are a lot of boys.]] Here you go.
u2016-11-14-149	Thank you very much for the floor. Prime Minister! I think you're on the other side of the horse. I think you're looking at this the wrong way, and you're gonna regret it. The fact is that every day, every day that Antal Rogán spends in his ministerial seat is unsuitable to you, your faction is unsatisfying, and it is a disgrace to this country. And if you look at it that way, you might as well say that it's a gift to the opposition every day, as long as it's possible to talk about the scandals of Antal Rogán. [[Intercoms from the Fidesz benches.]] You know, the problem with this stand, Prime Minister, is that you make it clear that you identify with these scandals and lies, and you support them, and you protect them. And it's also a disgrace to the whole country because you're the Prime Minister, a disgrace to your party, because you're the party president, and you're a disgrace to this Parliament because you're sitting here as a congressman. It is your responsibility, and I think, Prime Minister, that you make the wrong choice when you give such an answer. Thank you very much.
u2016-11-14-150	You have the Prime Minister's right to a return answer. Please, Prime Minister.
u2016-11-14-151	I repeat: I consider the accusations that have been made ridiculous, childish, bluffing, and I do not take them seriously. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-11-14-152	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. Dear Parliament, György Szilágyi, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: "How long can a minister lie in Hungary without consequences? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2016-11-14-153	Thank you very much. Then let's strengthen Antal Rogán. Mr. Prime Minister, When it comes to statements and news reports that the Minister of the Hungarian Government, Antal Rogán, can live a life of luxury that he cannot afford from his ministerial salary, because he has additional income from other dark cases, when he is told that his assets have already reached 11 billion, and he has celebrated it with a party, then I, perhaps too naively, always say: 'Ah, that is certainly not true, because if that were the case, then the independent prosecutor's office - led by Peter Polt Fidesz - and the independent NAV - led by András Tállai, State Secretary of Fidesz, would certainly investigate the affairs of the minister of Fidesz. [[Deterioration in the benches of Jobbik.]] But in the last month, even with my benevolent attitude, I cannot answer why the Minister of the Hungarian Government, Antal Rogán, can lie constantly, unpunished and without any consequences. He began with helicoptering: when journalists asked him about it, he denied helicoptering and threatened to sue anyone who claimed it; then when they showed him pictures of helicoptering, he fled the public and did not speak for a few weeks. Then, in another case, when the fact-finding article of the Index revealed that Antal Rogán and Balázs Kertész are likely to have a close business relationship with each other - you know, Balázs Kertész, who appears in a memo on the investigation of the 28 billion embezzlement scandal of the Bank of K&H, and I would quote: - he handles Antal Rogán's cases of bribery. So, when you ask Rogán about this, he denies everything through the Prime Minister's Cabinet Office and threatens to sue, even denies that his friend would be Gardenes. They said he only knew Rogán Kertés as well as any other congressman, so he's not seeing him. Then when evidence, videos, pictures of their relationship comes out, he starts to remember, and he also says through the cabinet office that he does, sometimes jump up to his old friend for coffee. [[14.00]] Prime Minister! Why do you tolerate lies in your government? Tell me, Prime Minister, how many times in your government can a minister lie to the voters without any consequences? I'm looking forward to your reply. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-11-14-154	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Prime Minister Viktor Orbán.
u2016-11-14-155	I've been a Member of Parliament for twenty-six years. I've been Prime Minister for eleven years. If anyone had given me credit, like me, for the attacks that were being made against me, I wouldn't be sitting here for a long time. So that's why I don't take it seriously, because I've experienced it on my own, that when a campaign starts against a politician, then it crickets, bugs, snakes, frogs - that's what it takes... I went through it. How many examples can I give you? Don't think we're being shaken by this news or even thought about it - these are bluffs! [[Gábor István Bellozó: We don't believe it!]] Political bluffs - that's how we see them, so I treat them. On the other hand, I would recommend to your attention that lying a politician as a politician is not something original; I do not think it has any sporting value. Thank you for your attention. [[Defiance and applause in the ranks of the governing parties.]]
u2016-11-14-156	I thank the Prime Minister for his reply. The congressman has a rejoinder. Here you go.
u2016-11-14-157	Prime Minister! What you call a bluff is justified lies. [[Defiance in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] Antal Rogán lied the whole time. The facts proved that Antal Rogán was not telling the truth. Between the two falles, he even went on TV, and on television he lied about the settlement bonds, which he was the father of settlement bonds. Prime Minister, it is not a question of how you judge matters. The question is that when a minister is proven to be lying, one of the responsible ministers of the Hungarian government is convinced that he is not telling the truth, what do you do? And that means you're not doing anything. This is your responsibility! We're not talking about Antal Rogán. We're talking about your responsibility. You allow a minister in the Hungarian government you lead to lie. If you allow me to do so, you will support the lie and, in all likelihood, support the corruption cases linked to this minister. You support this, and we're talking about you, not your minister. Why do you support him? Why do you allow a minister in your government to lie, even once, let alone three times? [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-11-14-158	Thank you. Dear Parliament, The Prime Minister is entitled to a rejoinder.
u2016-11-14-159	I'm glad you're out of the bag, and after all, I have to apologize to Minister Antal Rogán, for we have just heard what the reason is. This is about me. [[Interview from the ranks of the MSZP: Who is the Prime Minister?]] They're not attacking Antal Rogán - they're attacking me! In fact, they are attacking the Hungarian government. It is not that you have found some truth that is unfavorable to one of the members of the government, but that you are systematically attacking the government. Where? Through his head. And they're trying to call out crickets and frogs to every minister so they can take it out on me. It's not that complicated a game, Congressman. I can see that. Believe me, I can't see it any other way than you said: these are lies supported by things that appear to be facts - as you just said. [[Defiance in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] They're bluffs. But speaking of lying, I'm gonna give you a funny little sentence. I quote you: the referendum, which may take place as soon as possible in the autumn, should be amended by the Fundamental Law with a similar content. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. [[Dóra Dúró: That's right.]] You said that - and then you didn't vote for the amendment to the basic law. So much for lying. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-11-14-160	I thank the Prime Minister for his reply. Dear Parliament, Mátyás Firtl, a representative of KDNP, wants to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question: - How do we help those in need in Ukraine, Transcarpathia? It's an address. The Minister appointed Mr. Miklós Soltész as Secretary of State to respond to an urgent public task. I ask the Member if he accepts the person who is responding. [[For signal:]] Yeah. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2016-11-14-161	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Last year, a number of initiatives were launched when the Ukrainian-Russian situation became more acute, with the aim of improving the humanitarian situation in Transcarpathia and Ukraine. The ravages of the war-torn eastern Ukraine soon spread to the western parts of the country, where, in addition to the Ukrainian, Ruthenian and Russian minority, a significant Hungarian minority lives. Family daily livelihoods are at risk not only because of generally low wages, but also because of inflation throughout the country. Last year's unparalleled, domestic and other cross-border Hungarian-living cooperation has helped to alleviate the population deprivation, and the sending of relief supplies has been regular ever since, but I think that now, as winter approaches, it is extremely necessary to help our fellow Hungarians and other nationalities living beyond our eastern borders. Last week, 56 tons of 5 truckloads of relief supplies were launched, and members of the Charity Council, such as the Catholic Charity, the Hungarian Maltese Charity Service, the Reformed Charity Service, the Baptist Charity Service, were involved, but many other charitable and civil organizations and local communities were also involved in the collection of aid. Dear Secretary of State, On this basis, I ask: what kind of cooperation has been put in place in Ukraine in order to succeed in the delivery of aid to Transcarpathia, and what other assistance does the government provide to those in need in the region concerned? I look forward to the Secretary of State's honour's reply. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-11-14-162	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary of State, Miklós Soltés. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2016-11-14-163	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Indeed, people are not interested in the supported lies of opposition, but in helping the needy, the fallen. Indeed, people are not interested in what left-wing parties say, but in what people do. It is certain that on 5 December 2004 they refused the parts of the nation, and as a result they were rejected from Hungary. It is certain that the left used to bleed out the charities and give them no support, even though it is a huge task, and it would be necessary. However, the Hungarian government has therefore expanded its support to the Charity Council over the last few years, as a result we can help not only the Middle Eastern Christians, but indeed Ukraine, Ukrainian, Ruthenian and, of course, Hungarian people as well. It is no coincidence that we have been able to organise for the second time the aid convo, the latest shipment of which has just arrived in Ukraine by 56 tonnes; it is no coincidence that the Hungarian government has been able to decide on medical assistance that is both selfless and necessary for the Hungarian nation, which will provide support for the vaccine; it is no coincidence that all children who have lost their father and children in the war, or who have been injured in the war, will be helped, and we have camped here - now in the two years as a whole - 1300 children. Nor is it a coincidence that, by joining together the charitable organisations and by bringing together the local authorities, I would also point out that, by joining together the cities with county rights - and I would also point out that socialist Szeged did not give this support for a penny - hundreds of millions of forints of support came to those in need, which, by the way, helped us to alleviate the difficult economic situation and misery that is in Transcarpathia and Ukraine. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-11-14-164	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the congressman in return.
u2016-11-14-165	Thank you for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, Thank you for your answer. I also thank you for your appreciation for what you have said about the past, because it is indeed necessary to present the facts that have happened in this regard in the past. It is also important to note that, indeed, the government, together with the charitable organisations, the Charity Council, provides the people of Transcarpathia in an appropriate way, and, as the Secretary of State said, it does not only help the Hungarian people, the Hungarians, but it does try to help those in need in Ukraine, which is not only about Ukraine, but in recent times, it has indeed distorted the reality of the migrant situation that we are not doing our duty, but we have done it. I would also like to draw attention to what the Prime Minister launched in my constituency, Sopron, on 25 March 2015, when he called the attention of cities, municipalities, companies to acquire a settlement, mentor them, patronize them, in connection with which Sopron and the various settlements - Fertőszentmiklós, Fertőd - and large companies help and mentor the Transcarpathians. Thank you for the Secretary of State's reply. And to the others who are involved in this, we should also thank you for the activity you are doing. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-11-14-166	Thank you very much, Congressman. The Secretary of State is entitled to a rejoinder. You have the floor.
u2016-11-14-167	Honourable Congressman, I would also like to add the role of Jobbik because it is not enough to Hungarian, go out to Transcarpathia, Transylvania or anywhere, to fly different flags and fuel the contrast with the majority society, by the way. [[Tamás Sneider: And how much aid did we bring?? We go every month!]] but when the nation must be saved, it must stand up for the nation, whether within or beyond the border. [[Tamás Sneider: That's not nice!]] [[14.10]] Unfortunately, Jobbik won't do that either. [[Tamás Sneider: We bring benefits every month! You're lying!]] While with the assistance that [[It's constant noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] We've made you a Transcarpathian in the last few months, and we've achieved two things. One of the things is that we help the Hungarians stay in the country, because they feel that the Hungarian government, the Hungarian charitable organisations, the Hungarian nation stands up for them, and what is at least as important is that the majority society also stands up for Hungarian support for Hungarians. For example, in Beregszász, the Ukrainians, Ruszins, who live there have chosen less Hungarian mayors, even though they feel the Hungarian help. And you don't have to yell, anyway, just like the better Members are doing right now. [[Tamás Sneider: Tell the truth! You don't have to lie, and then no one's yelling! The president's ringing the bell.]] but we have to do our job, not piss off the people who live there, but help them. Thank you very much for asking. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-11-14-168	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Bernadett Szél and Ákos Hadházy, representatives of the LMP, want to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question, who represents the employees? It's an address. Congresswoman Bernadett Wind has the floor.
u2016-11-14-169	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr. Prime Minister, Last week at the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development conference, you said that, I quote, we have to admit here in Hungary that an era of economic development has ended, which was built on the fact that our competitiveness was primarily due to the inexpensiveness of the labour force. * On the one hand, I would like to congratulate you on the fact that you officially acknowledged that you did the same thing as the socialists did before, and on the other hand, let us take a look at what all this means. On the one hand, Prime Minister, you admitted that you and your government kept wages low in Hungary, and on the other hand they admitted that whatever they were saying on the government propaganda financed by public funds, the wage increase that was here, in Hungary, was not enough for the Hungarian people. It was actually a confession of the government's own bankruptcy. I consider this to be a serious improvement for a man who, when we met the other day, insisted to me that only through minimum wage can the government influence the wage level. This is not the case, of course, but if you look at the balance sheet of six years, you can see that wages are very bad in Hungary, the competitiveness of the economy has not increased, and the quality of the workforce is very bad because of the bleeding out of education. Meanwhile, your minister announced a new package the next day, which I assume you agree with. On the one hand, it seems that you continue to insist on a single-key tax, that your employer's contribution will be reduced, and that you will reduce the upper corporate tax rate. This is a situation that I would like to state, which will fundamentally benefit employers. Mr. Prime Minister, My question, which is about who represents the workers in this country, is also important because they will not be able to maintain the view that this package would actually benefit the Hungarian people. What we see is that practically, who earns above the minimum wage, will not see much of this money, because basically employers will decide whether to give this reduction to the workers in a wage increase or not. Mr. Prime Minister, This is what you have just come up with, another package, another opportunity for employers. When do you finally deal with your employees?
u2016-11-14-170	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Prime Minister Viktor Orbán.
u2016-11-14-171	I'd be happy to repeat, if necessary, what I've already said. There are three instruments for the government in terms of wages. It can increase the minimum wage - in agreement with employers and workers - and reduce taxes and increase the wages of those employed by the state. All three devices are being used continuously. What you are saying is that workers are not represented, I can say that there are many ways to shape economic policy; both after 1998 and after 2010 we were in favour of economic governance with the agreement. So we are pursuing a wage policy - that is what we have done so far, and we will continue to do so - which is based on agreements. Here, it is not the government that has to agree with employees and employers, but we have to make sure that workers are able to agree with workers. This happens every year, and the government approves these agreements. That is what I consider to be a good policy. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-11-14-172	Thank you, Prime Minister, for your reply. I will give the floor to the congresswoman in return. Here you go.
u2016-11-14-173	I am sad to hear that this is the best Fidesz-KDNP can do, because hundreds of thousands of people are constantly leaving the country, and the vast majority of these people are not looking for a minimum wage, but are looking for it, and these people will continue to receive the message from Viktor Orbán and his government that they are undesirable guests home, because Fidesz-KDNP is not working to give these people wages and prospects that they can finally support themselves and their families. On the other hand, "May Other" is Politics, although it doesn't have as many apparatus and ministers as Fidesz-KDNP [[Interviews from the ranks of Fidesz, including, "No, there won't be." Not even a voter.]] He was able to put an economic model on the table, which is about raising the minimum wage in one step above the minimum wage, and all without causing any problems to employers. Workers' contributions must be reduced, Prime Minister, because that is what people immediately feel in their pockets net, and that is important in this country. On the other hand, we should finally make the minimum wage tax free again, and we need a tax system, Prime Minister, which is not wrong for everyone who earns under average wage. What you have introduced is the case. Two thirds of Hungarian workers who earn under average wage are badly affected by your system.
u2016-11-14-174	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, Mr. Prime Minister, you have a rejoinder. You have the floor, Prime Minister.
u2016-11-14-175	This debate, which is now unfolding between us, does not seem to be a professionally nuanced debate, but I still need to repeat some basic starting points. I don't want to give you a lesson in political economics, but we still have to do it now. So, firstly, after 2010, the 12 percent unemployment rate in Hungary fell below 5%. Secondly, as a result of six years of economic policy after 2010, more than 4 million 300 thousand people are working in Hungary today. They've never worked so hard since the change of regime. It makes sense to talk about wages when people have jobs. If you don't have a job, there's no point in talking about wages. So jobs had to be created and created continuously. In ten years, I've taken on a million jobs, and we're not far from that. We will achieve this. Our economic policy serves this purpose. It's definitely different from yours, because yours is based on a tax increase, and ours is based on a tax reduction. [[Dr. Wind Bernadett: That's not true.]] But that's how it's been, and it's how it's gonna stay. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-11-14-176	Thank you, Prime Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Bene Ildikó, representative of Fidesz, wants to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question:. What does the Government do in terms of public health screenings? It's an address. Mr. Minister has appointed Mr. Bence Rétvári Secretary of State to respond to an urgent public service. I ask the congresswoman if she accepts the person who is responding. [[For signal:]] Yeah. You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2016-11-14-177	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, Health is one of our greatest values, so we need to give all the help we can to preserve it. In January 2015, the Government adopted a Healthy Hungary 2014-2020 strategy for the health sector, which sets out the most important directions for health policy. Public health is among the most important areas of development of this strategy. In Hungary, although regularly organized cervix screening of women aged between 25-65 years is ensured, about 1000-1200 new cervical cancers are registered each year and more than 400 die as a result of the disease. This is extremely sad data, because cervical cancer can be prevented, and even at an early stage by screening not only cancer but also precancerous conditions can be easily detected. Epidemiological studies have shown that infection with human papillomavirus can be detected in 90 percent of cervical cancer cases. The incidence of worse prognosis cervical cancer is common in women who rarely or never undergo screening tests, with approximately three times the chance of developing cervical cancer. Every year, more than 5,000 people die from colon and rectal cancer in our country and are diagnosed with 10,000 new cases. Therefore, programmes promoting screening are of particular importance. It is of the utmost importance to increase participation in screening tests, and it is important that participation in screenings becomes part of our health culture. Dear Secretary of State, More than 30,000 people die of cancer in Hungary every year, and one in four people dies of cancer. In addition to the preventive development of the healthcare system and the broadening of the range of prevention services, it is essential to maintain the individual's active participation in the health and prevention of diseases, and this is always worthwhile and should be highlighted. I ask the Secretary of State what the government is doing in terms of public health screenings, and what other plans and programmes are in place to increase screening activity. I'm looking forward to your reply. [[Applause in the ranks of Fidesz.]]
u2016-11-14-178	Thank you, Congresswoman. I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Here you go, Secretary of State. [[14.20]]
u2016-11-14-179	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, We believe that health is not just a matter of hospitals, we have to deal not only with people who are already in the hospital because of illness, but also health care - as the word says - is about maintaining health, screening tests, programs that keep the patient away from hospitals, because there is no hospital where you prefer to be sick rather than being able to stay healthy at home and maintain your health. Therefore, in addition to many other dietary and sporting initiatives, we try to give as much space as possible to screening tests, to improve access and to encourage those who can participate in this, because it is in their own interest, they can see that now a screening is much easier than dealing with a disease later on. There are 40 complex screening centres for breast screening and 7 with only mammography screening stations. We also try to get these screenings as close to the population as possible with mobile screening stations, 3 breast filter mobile units, and as much as possible to take the screening to where people live, work, live. We've done a kind of reform of cervical cancer screening so that now there's a chance for women to take part in it. Currently, 1381 women are eligible for cervical cancer screening. This is a very important, very widened range of screeners. This allows us to perform such screenings in the vicinity of women who have not been to a gynecologist for ten or more years, but we can also get to them with the help of the protective services. As a result of these measures, 55 percent of women will be entitled to cervical cancer screening. There has also been an increase in the range of free vaccinations available. As you said, with the HPV virus to be offered, we provide this free of charge to girls aged 12 and over in the seventh grade. There is an 80% vaccination rate in this area, which can only be compared to two other countries, Portugal and the United Kingdom, with a similar level of grafting in Hungary. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-11-14-180	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. I will give the floor to the congresswoman in return.
u2016-11-14-181	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Indeed, we must say that health is not done, but the sum of our habits. Aristotle summarized this sometime before our Common Era. I think that it is very important, it is really important how we live, but it is also very important that it is part of our health culture, that the screening studies that I think are exemplary available today in Hungary should be carried out in an appropriate number. If 70 percent of the filter material were to go to these screening tests, we could say that within five to seven years we could save between 1500 and 2000 lives in Hungary. I also consider it very important that the examination of colon screening be extended to the entire population from next year on the basis of the government's proposal. This means that people between the ages of 50 and 70 - both men and women - can participate in this. And the fact that HPV vaccination is now an 80 percent vaccine every year gives us the possibility of grafting to a degree that is indeed a very serious step in preventing the disease. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-11-14-182	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. You have a rejoinder from the Secretary of State. You have the floor.
u2016-11-14-183	Thank you very much. The government's earlier decision could lead to a national extension of colon screening tests, which could be very helpful for two and a half million target groups of our countrymen in the field of prevention. This is one of the most important developments in this area, and we trust that it is accompanied by an increase in the number of years spent in health for many. We hope that the 61 district health development office can also serve this purpose in prevention, risk reduction, support for screening. The current health development office system can reach 2.5 million people. We hope that these will be able to reach even more people on the basis of further development. And it is also very important that the government has set the goal of the plan to reduce the risk of cancer by early detection and treatment, thus reducing the number of deaths due to malignant tumours by 10 percent by 2020. Let us hope that we can achieve this goal. We look forward to the partnership of all Hungarian people in the screening process. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-11-14-184	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Mr Lajos Korózs, representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Minister of National Economy an immediate question with the title. Minister has appointed Mr Péter Cseresnyés Secretary of State to respond to an urgent public task. I ask you if you accept the person who is responding.
u2016-11-14-185	Yeah, I'll take it.
u2016-11-14-186	Yeah. You have the floor.
u2016-11-14-187	Dear House, Dear fellow Members, Mr. Secretary. Last week, there were two things that ruffled the mood in the elderly society. One: in the Hungarian Gazette, the government decree announced the pension increase on 1 January, which was already foreseen by the Finance Act: the pension rate will increase by 0.9 percent in January next year. This basically means that on average it can barely reach the thousand forints, since today the average pension is about 120 thousand forints. I would just like to say, Mr Secretary, that almost two thirds of the retirement society do not receive the average pension. This 0.9 percent increase will result in a few hundred forints in the case of a parental pension, in the case of a conjugal allowance or in the case of an orphanage. I think that the whole technique, which is based solely on inflation monitoring, is flawed in calculating pensions. The other such outrageous thing was the speech or speech of the mayor of Szolnok at the assembly hearing where he defrauded elderly women and civil society leaders. It should be noted that this, although not linked to the pension increase, is unworthy of the position of mayor, unworthy of a public function, and I hope that as a pillar member of the Fidesz faction there, you will be relieved of your position. I think that it is not possible to disparagee older people, to disparagee older people who have worked for decades, to pay contributions and taxes in this country, and to pay a decent pension increase for decades. I look forward to your reply, which should aim to see if you can hope for a bigger pension increase in January and whether you will change the technique of raising it. Thank you very much.
u2016-11-14-188	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to State Secretary Péter Cseresnyés. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2016-11-14-189	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, If you'll allow me, I'd just like to respond to your retirement concerns. But before I do this in a few words, with a few sentences, I would like to point out that maintaining the purchasing value of pensions is a top priority of the government's fiscal policy, as you may experience if you have been objectively monitoring the evolution of pensions in recent years. This priority ensures that pensions cannot lose their value because of inflation, and therefore it is legally ensured that pensions should be increased in line with the consumer price index planned for the year. If inflation remains below government forecast, pensions will rise above real value, but if inflation is higher, compensation will be made in November of that year on the basis of the facts of the first eight months, taking into account expected inflation. The increase thus regulated should therefore not adversely affect pensioners in either case, since their pensions are either rising in real terms or their value is preserved thanks to year-end compensation. I would like to say a few figures on the fact that the real value has so far increased. The government's fiscal and economic policy has led to a total increase in pensions of 21.1 percent in 2011-2015 and 8.8 percent in real terms, taking into account pensioner inflation. Thus, the Fidesz-KDNP government overall compensated for the 13th month pension cancelled by the MSZP. Under the governance of the MSZP, the real value of pensions decreased by 9.3 percent in 2009-2010, mainly due to the partial and then total retirement of the 13th month pension. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-11-14-190	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. I give the floor to the congressman in return.
u2016-11-14-191	I should make a distinction between what political will is driving a government when it takes action. The external economic impact has resulted in the suspension of the 13th month's pension, and I stress that the global economic crisis has led to a suspension. For six years, we paid a full 13th month pension in the last year. My fellow Members, I would like to warn you that the product groups included in the pensioner consumer basket are not only interesting and differing from the consumption patterns of society as a whole, because they consume more of them or some of the product groups - such as the medicine for pensioners - but also because certain items represent a greater weight within their own consumption. [[14.30]] As a result, if the rate of the pension increase is exclusively followed by inflation, any pensioner who has a pension under the average pension will always have a cold as long as this pricing or income training will dominate the country. Thank you very much. [[A rare applause in the ranks of the MSZP.]]
u2016-11-14-192	Thank you, Congressman. You have a rejoinder from the Secretary of State. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2016-11-14-193	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would like to correct one of your sentences in that you have not only taken the 13th month pension away from pensioners in 2009 because of external economic conditions, but also because you have carried on a reckless economic policy, which has resulted in a very large budget deficit. And Hungary is still moaning this economic policy, because it would have been possible to get from completely different funds to where we have managed to get now, with our budget deficit constantly below 3 per cent, our debt proportional to GDP is constantly falling, the real value of wages is increasing. And so, as I said, although you may not want to admit the facts, the real value of pensions is constantly increasing. Of course, by raising not only pensions, but also, in the process of remembering, the cost of reducing the rent has also been significantly reduced for pensioners, which gives us the real increase in pensions that I am mentioning and what you are not telling us. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-11-14-194	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the discussion of our agendas today. It is now time for the speeches after the agenda. Sándor Bodó, Member of the Fidesz Group, applied for a post-meeting speech: the organized bird healing in Hungary is 25 years old! It's an address. I'll give you the floor in five-minute time frame. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-11-14-195	Thank you very much. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Today, also thanks to the work of the Hungarian government, the protection of our natural values is a priority. It is very important for all of us to live, work, create in an environment that is healthy and protects us. For the conscious direction of a country, for the thinking of the future, for the present to live, it is necessary to guard, protect the nature around us, and create the conditions to preserve it safely for future generations. The Hortobágy National Park belongs to the 5th Constituencies of Hajdú-Bihar county, which was established in 1973 by the National Nature Protection Office, thus forming the first national park of Hungary. Its area is huge, about 82 thousand hectares, and it is also important to say that it was added to the world's list of cultural and natural heritage in 1999. Unparalleled wildlife is found here, which belongs to our country's treasures. It is important to point out that the fish ponds and swamps here support a rich bird world, which means that due to natural conditions, about 330 species of birds live in the Hortobágy National Park. That's a huge number. During seasonal changes, in spring and autumn, tens of thousands of migratory birds rest here on the Hortobágy, accompanied by rare birds of prey. So we can say that this is the biggest birdhouse in the country. This is why it is of particular importance that the only bird hospital in the country is here, which is run by the Bird Hospital Foundation. The year 2016 is also of great importance because this autumn we celebrated the 25th anniversary of organized bird healing, and Hortobágy Bird Park became 10 years old this year. In order to educate future generations, it is essential that they learn about their environment, the life of our country. In addition to curing damaged, sick animals every day, the hospital also places great emphasis on making people aware of the way of healing, the living conditions and needs of birds. The hospital is open, in the visual hospital there is also an opportunity to get insight into how to save the life of a bird. It's important, it's educational. After careful care, cured birds are allowed back into nature to maintain development as part of our environment. As the Foundation puts it:, Our aim is to carry out scientific research on these activities, to present and educate the activities, to perform the tasks, to establish and operate an institution, especially a bird hospital. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I know all this requires tremendous dedication and teamwork. Allow me to thank the professionals working here and the many volunteers who are helping this very important work. Therefore, on the 25th anniversary of bird healing, I wish the whole team many more useful years, and I hope that the development of the bird park will continue in the future. Thank you for your attention. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-11-14-196	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, István Szávay, Member of the Jobbik Group, also spoke after the agenda. I'll give you the floor in five-minute time frame.
u2016-11-14-197	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, During the weekend at Uránia Film Theatre, there was the Hungarian premiere of the documentary Billion Lives, One Billion Life. I was invited to the event by the organizer Villánypára Association and the ecigitestek.hu educational site. The title of the work refers to the one billion people whose lives are calculated by the World Health Organization in the 21st century. In the first century, the consequences of smoking could end prematurely. Prominent doctors, researchers and experts from three continents are being addressed on tobacco control and harm reduction, while they are looking for an answer to why organisations around the world are trying to suppress the spread of electric cigarettes when smoking-related deaths are greatly reduced. According to the film, smoking smoke and tar are the ones that are really harmful to health. Electric cigarettes do not contain tar or smoke. The film also dissipates the misconceptions of nicotine, as many of the anti-e-cigites believe that nicotine is harmful and highly carcinogenic. However, this has never been proven, and if it were so, it is legitimate to ask why it is possible to buy nicotine-containing products, patches, gums and so on in almost every store. It is therefore important to be aware that nicotine is what causes addiction, but it is tar and smoke that cause the diseases. Among other things, the lobby of tobacco giants and pharmaceutical manufacturers, the influence of various health organizations and the interest of governments. In the tobacco industry, through excise duties, individual governments are gaining substantial amounts, but the spread of electric cigarettes is reducing this source of income. This may be the reason why this product has been banned in several countries, thus pushing one billion people towards premature death. After the screening, I had the opportunity to meet the film director Aaron Biebert and David Goerlitz. In the '80s, he was the American poster boy for Winston cigarettes, but after his brother died from smoking, he quit smoking. That is why the World Health Organization has also awarded him, but Mr Goerlitz has recently returned his prize, indicating that he is unable to engage with an organisation that is worryingly attacking electric cigarettes despite all scientific evidence, and is actually fighting against harm reduction. During the evening, I mentioned to Aaron Biebert that I was preparing a speech in Parliament, so allow me to convey a personal message to you now. , Honourable Hungarian Parliament! Honourable Hungarian Members! The more practical, attractive solutions you can choose from to quit smoking, the greater your chances of getting rid of this bondage, a harmful passion that takes away the lives of every second user. Science is clear on the issue, burning tobacco is the real enemy. I am sure that Hungarian leaders are wise enough to be convinced of the results of research and to join their pro-harm reduction European neighbours, thus saving as many human lives as possible. I'd like to send you a very respectful welcome, Aaron Biebert. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Dear Parliament, I am pleased that we can finally see a positive change in Hungary, and the government is removing electric cigarettes from the category of tobacco products, so they finally acknowledge that it is not a tobacco product. From the perspective of three years, it can now be concluded that the traff system itself, and not to mention the issue of the allocation of concessions, is capable of making harmful tobacco products less present in our daily lives, and this is also a good tool for reducing smoking. The same is true of the tobacco supply system. We are pleased that the government has seen that e-cigarette is also a tool in this struggle, a means of helping to quit. With the adoption of the proposal, it may be possible to ease marketing restrictions, so that specialised shops selling e-cigarettes can reopen. I sincerely hope that these processes will not later die in the ashes, that not only a sudden flare-up, but also a long-term change of attitude within the government can help to give as many people as possible the opportunity to quit smoking and to get access to this smoking cessation tool as easily as possible. [[14.40]] I thank the film creators for their excellent work. Congratulations on the international awards that have been won so far, and I wish them good luck with the Oscar nomination. I also thank the organizers for their invitation, and I wish them a good job, and they can count on us for the rest of their fight. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2016-11-14-198	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, On behalf of and on behalf of the Government, Parliamentary Secretary László Szabó wishes to respond. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2016-11-14-199	Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, We certainly agree that we need to worry about the health of smokers, and we really need to help them by all means, so that their quitting can be created and helped. The film, mentioned by you, is about, among other things, the use of electronic cigarettes and the harm to the health of smoking. According to the claims made in it, one billion people will surely die as a result of smoking habits, regulations, and economic lobbying. In Hungary, the retail sale of electronic cigarettes and smoking electronic devices can continue by enforcing the rules of the Law on the control of young people's smoking and on the retail trade in tobacco products. This law only permits the sale of these products in national tobacco stores, and only products which have been tested and authorised by the health authorities in advance can be placed on the market. In the case of Hungary, this is largely done on the basis of Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council of 3 April 2014 and related legislation. Our country as a Member State of the EU has been obliged to harmonise EU legislation, so the transposition of the regulation on electric cigarettes is, of course, important and binding for us. The government's top priority is to keep as little underage smoke as possible. This includes restricting the availability of tobacco products, including electronic means for regulation, e-cigarettes and smoking, as well as barriers to the emergence of tobacco products. This means that tobacco products are sold in a closed manner to minors, so tobacco products are not or are only very difficult to access for minors. On administrative and service charges for the placing on the market of electronic cigarettes, refilling bottles and electronic means of smoking and for reporting changes thereto, 30/2016. The EMMI regulation contains detailed rules. The Law on the Protection of Non-Smokers and Certain Rules for the Consumption and Making of Tobacco Products (99) also provides for these new smoking tools. The scope of this Act includes, inter alia, the use of electronic cigarettes, refill containers and electronic means of smoking. The aim of the law is to improve the adverse public health indicators of the Hungarian population, in addition to the recognition of reasonable consumption patterns. This includes protection against smoking in public places for non-smokers and persons who otherwise require increased protection because of their age or health status. Thank you for your kind attention. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-11-14-200	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Dániel Z. Kárpát, from the Jobbik Group, also wishes to speak after the agenda:. For how long? It's an address. I give you the floor, Congressman, within a five-minute time frame.
u2016-11-14-201	Mr President, Dear House, Before the company that is supposed to be close to the government opened an office in Iraq where it sells its settlement bonds, obviously in the interest of protecting the country, the same bond arrangement was advertised on the columns of the paper African Business, the sweet child of Antalek Rogán, where the article on this matter contained the fact that the interested party does not have to buy any real estate at our place, the transaction is fast-run, so they will be granted permission within a month, if appropriate, and the family members will also be granted a free residence permit, with free access to the Schengen area. Let us consider what this is all about. On the alphahir.hu website and on other portals, you can find the very simple downlink where, following the example of a one-time settlement policy, you can find that besides the downswing of HUF 93 million, including a brokerage fee of HUF 16 million, there is a kind of brokerage extra income, HUF 9 million, which remains with the broker, say, a company based in Iraq. After that, the state's income on paper was HUF 84 million. At the same time, after five years, the State must reimburse the customer with interest. The fact is that at the end of 2014 the yield environment changed in such a way that it would have been cheaper to finance the country from the market, yet you stuck to the confusing ways of obtaining dirty money and stayed in the settlement bond business. We also need to see that, while Jobbik's proposals aim to exclude all titles of alien resettlement, Brussels is threatening, in an incorrect manner, the introduction of 1300 aliens on a compulsory quota, this must be prevented. There can't be any discussion between us. However, Antal Rogán and his team have installed more than twice as many of the richer migrants in Hungary, and obviously thousands of people can be expected to move in and, where appropriate, to fight in the Hungarian market, in the Hungarian space, as not everyone is necessarily targeting the Western European zone. At the same time, we must also see that, with regard to the basic legislative amendment proposed by Jobbik, the government is now given an opportunity to help us with all the grounds to reject the forms of resettlement. They will have nothing to do but to put this proposal on the agenda very quickly. I would add that it's almost the same as yours, but I'm adding a title to excluding the relocation of uninvited aliens in this way. Why would that be so important? Obviously, preventing the influx of aliens would make the most sense if Hungary could stop its own weight loss and ensure its own reproduction. When we ask the questions about why the situation of a Hungarian youth in Hungary today is so difficult, why is it that the situation of a young person arriving from a rural area to the capital's university studies is difficult, where appropriate, by rent prices of HUF 150 thousand, then the current pro-government secretary of state stands up and starts to take advantage of the various perceived or real economic data and how the economy is pounding in Hungary. Let's look at the numbers on the other hand. We are not counter fans, we want Hungarian reproduction to be finally given. But in the first eight months of 2016, by the birth of 60,418 children in Hungary, unfortunately, 0.2 percent fewer people were born than in the same period of the previous year, so not only could the government reach a population boom, the relatively moderate population loss is due to the fact that, fortunately for us, 8.9 percent less people died during the period under investigation, but the birth numbers did not increase, but also decreased, to a very small extent. So your family policy has been a total failure, since family tax incentives have helped in an undisputed way the situation of the more fortunate social classes, the richer. But on the other hand, with the tax of the poor, the 27 percent VAT, the perfect lack of the home creation programme and the fact that the Hungarian net minimum wage was also taxed - more precisely: the minimum wage was taxed, and thus the net amount is lower even in terms of the socialist era 2011 and 2012, and the increase is still negligible - they have achieved a situation where the lives of Hungarian families have not become easier to look at and take into account everyday levels. You can see, therefore, that a comprehensive wage increase would be needed, the necessary reduction of contributions and the implementation of a home creation programme, according to which all Hungarian young people, all Hungarian workers and all Hungarian elderly people will find their calculation not only with CSOK, NOK, state pilots, but also, where appropriate, with a public-based housing program, providing every Hungarian youth in this country with the opportunity not to be forced out of the country as adventurers, and you should not be forced to explain the smell of sweat. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2016-11-14-202	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Member Dóra Dúró, Jobbik Group also applied for a post- Agenda address:. We cannot love him enough - the title of the Day of Hungarian Language. I give you the floor.
u2016-11-14-203	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Yesterday, November 13, was the day of the Hungarian language. On this occasion, I think it is also our duty to speak in Parliament about the future and present of the Hungarian language community, of which we are all members, Members. In order for the Hungarian language to have a future, a conscious national strategy, a cultural strategy within the conscious nation strategy, and a language strategy planning within the framework of this strategy, even a language law, is necessary in the first place. The language, the Hungarian language, is worth talking about not only because it has a very great cultural significance and value in itself, but it is also a fundamental factor determining our national identity. [[14.50]] Today, the language faces three major challenges: one is the technological challenge, the other is the challenge of our identity, and the third is unfortunately the demographic challenge. Technology may not need to be discussed about the challenges it poses to the language, how rapid changes are taking place in this area both in Hungary and throughout the world, and in this respect, it is very important that our language is an extremely good indicator system to follow this and to detect changes. With regard to our identity, language is also important because if we consider national identity to be a natural value - and we, Jobbikos, regard it as a natural value - then our language is an essential component, and we must defend it, our national identity against multiculturalism. The Hungarian Academy of Sciences was also established because they wanted to do the Hungarian language and tradition in this institution, and we need to know that good language use can also be the basis for individual and community success. In this respect, prestige planning can be an important tool for a good language strategy, since although there are about 6,000 languages in the world, there are only a few dozen on which everything can be expressed. Hungarian is a language in which everything can be expressed, it is a huge prestige among languages, and it is also a determining component of our national identity and cultural values that is the fact that Hungarian is such a language. There could be a number of economic examples, and we could encourage companies to give preference to the use of Hungarian language in cross-border networks such as MOL, OTP. In the case of Hungarians across the border, the number of Hungarians may disappear by about 2060, because due to assimilation and mixed marriages, weight loss is even faster than in the truncated areas, particular attention should be paid to making bilingual families even bilingual, but children's books available in Hungarian. There is no state strategy, no planning. I am a member of the National Talent Coordination Forum, which compiles the national talent programme and projects in it, and in this context I have managed to achieve that we have also allocated an amount specifically to programmes related to the use of mother tongue, but this was not included in the government proposal itself. It is particularly important to talk about the use of the media and the lack of professional quality that has taken over the public media in recent years. Unfortunately, more and more speech-faulted, more and more Hungarian-unspeaking programmers and announcers can also be seen in the case of public media. In order to remedy this situation, I came to the President of the Montagh Committee, with whom I was able to meet; he himself was dissatisfied with the situation, and he said that only a few months ago the work that allowed an increase in standards in this area was resumed. And demography is the alpha and omega of everything, because if not enough Hungarian children are born, we talk about Hungarian culture, Hungarian national strategy, Hungarian language, if there are no Hungarian children, if there are no Hungarian children to whom we pass on our language, then it is not worth supporting or starting any cultural mission. And I would like to end my speech with a quote from Dezső Kosztolányi, which best expresses the value of the Hungarian language in my view:. The fact that my mother tongue is Hungarian and I speak Hungarian, I think, I write, the greatest event of my life, which is unlike any other. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-11-14-204	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Parliamentary Secretary László Szabó wishes to respond to what has been said. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2016-11-14-205	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and I am very pleased with your speech, and indeed you have been talking about a burning problem, and I must say that the ideas and goals you have listed are truly noble. Our mother tongue is indeed the basis for our spiritual cultural heritage, and it is extremely important to preserve it. This is why it is important to keep an eye on the state of our language and to observe its changes. With the support of the Ministry of Human Resources, the Association of Mother Language Nurses is therefore implementing community and language care programmes every year to celebrate the day of the Hungarian language. [[Dóra Dúró: Social work, without state support.]] and he has been very serious about this for many years, and I already list how much state aid this organization has received: HUF 7 million in 2013, HUF 3 million in 14 [[Dóra Dúró: Wow!]] then 2 million forints in 15 and nearly 2 million forints in 16 respectively. [[Dóra Dúró and Dr. György László Lukács intervene.]] If you listen to me, Congresswoman, I think you will be pleased with this news because I feel that we share our goals. In view of the importance of the task, the government decided in its 1483/2016 government decision that the long-term provision of the source is also very important for the well-known support of the Association of Mother Language Nurses. Based on this, the Association of Mother Language Nurses has been established to support annual operating and professional tasks, in particular the programmes of beauty pronunciation, linguistics, rhetorical and spelling education from 2016 onwards, forints 100 million per year. The support will be available to the Alliance in the coming years, addressed in the central budget. The goals are noble, Congresswoman, and I feel that, on the one hand, your sacrificial work, with civilian forces and with the cooperation of the government, I feel that we can move forward and thank you for your sacrificial work. [[It's a rare applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-11-14-206	Thank you very much for the Secretary of State's reply. Dear Parliament, This is the day after the last agenda. I give the floor to the MEP Zoltán Magyar, who is the disaster of the Győr-Moson-Sopron county road network. He wishes to speak with a title. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-11-14-207	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Fellow Members! On the national roads, a regular, statutory state check has been carried out since 79. The machine health check carried out from 91 covers the entire national road network and evaluates the roads in terms of three main aspects: surface integrity, load capacity and unevenness. Here, number one is the best, and number five is the worst quality. The survey of surface finishes takes place in the spring of each year after winter degradations. I asked for the floor after the agenda in this matter because my fellow Members, especially those from other parts of the country, tend to think or refer to Győr-Moson-Sopron County as a paradise, and I would like to draw attention to the fact that, in many respects, they are right, but unfortunately, the road network does not belong here, and after Heves County, my settlement has the worst road network in the country. In Heves County, 68 percent based on the parameters mentioned above, which is a particularly poor road, this ratio is also above 60 percent in Győr-Moson-Sopron County. Here are the aspects of surface integrity and unevenness, and if I highlight it, then you have the worst rating. I have to say here that, of course, I have prepared this statistics by subtracting the motorways, because the motorways in this regard do not really matter in this respect, and I will tell you why. Rábaköz, a stepchild of Győr-Moson-Sopron County, has even worse data if I specifically highlight it. Why did I ask for that? Why did I think that you should hear about this here in Parliament? Unfortunately, the budget for next year has already been adopted without my amendment, unfortunately, this has been voted down by the pro-government majority, in such a way as additional resources for the roads of Győr-Moson-Sopron County next year, it seems that it will not be available to us, but I am trying to draw attention to the problem now that next year there will be greater caution in the scope of the amendments, and I beg you, at least the members of the government of Győr-Moson-Sopron County could vote in favour of these amendments for their own constituency. Why is this a disaster? In comparison with small businesses and multinationals, it has to be said that although the presence of multinational capital in my county has a number of positive effects, serious trade in goods significantly increases, accelerates the depreciation of road conditions, and this is the least of the problems for these multinational companies, since they get what is needed for us in connection with transport and use the railway. On the other hand, the situation is quite the opposite for small businesses: those who could play the greatest role in ensuring that our villages and settlements do not get depopulated, for them this network of roads is a serious burden. [[15.00]] I should also mention the possibility of access to health and social services, the quality of which is greatly impaired by the road network, the cost of maintaining cars. The person who owns a car knows that a significant part of the maintenance cost is due to faults and technical failures caused by the poor quality of the road network. The risk of an accident must also be mentioned, since on such a poor quality road surface there is much less chance that one can stop within a sufficient braking distance. The deplorable state of public transport is also linked to this. It also contributes to faster road surface amentation if errors are not dealt with in time. But I could mention the problems of tourism and agriculture, all of which are related to this problem. Jobbik is also starting an awareness-raising campaign with this speech in Győr-Moson-Sopron County, in which we are trying to draw attention to this problem. That's obviously the most important first round. As I have already said, in the context of the next year's budget, we would like to blackmail the government into this situation in a tangible way, because if it receives sufficient impulses, even with the help of my pro-government fellow Member, there will certainly be a greater number of votes in favour of these amendments. By the way, my colleagues from the county, led by Máté Lipovits, have already launched this campaign. I hope that as many Győr-Moson-Sopron county citizens as possible will be on their side, because it can really only be pressure that is the only way to get decision-makers to remedy this situation by redeploying some additional budgetary resources. We would very much like to see a citizen born in the countryside, living there and wishing to thrive there, not at a disadvantage because the road network is in so much worse condition than the urban ones. Thank you for the opportunity, Mr. President. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2016-11-14-208	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Parliamentary Secretary László Szabó wishes to respond. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2016-11-14-209	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Honourable Congressman, The government takes such problems very seriously and is indeed right: on the one hand, in terms of quality of life and, on the other hand, in terms of the country's competitiveness, it is very important that our road network is of sufficient quality. By the inauguration of the M86 Highway on October 27, 2016, Szombathely was also connected to the national motorway network and the transit heavy goods vehicle traffic was driven from the settlements located on Highway 86, significantly improving the living conditions of those living there. A further major development in Győr-Moson-Sopron County is the two-track construction of the currently two-track M15 motorway from the M1 motorway to the border, which is currently under preparation with road accessibility at the border crossing point in Rajka. The investment is planned to be completed by 2019. With the construction of the Csorna-Sopron border, the M85 road will be connected to Sopron in the near future. The second phase of the Csorna bypass is currently under construction and the planned delivery is expected in the first quarter of 2019. Further stages are under preparation and expected to be completed around 2021-22. In the first phase of the development of the main road 83 Győr-Pápa main road, the plans include the reconstruction and expansion of the Győr M1 junction. The preparatory work is currently underway. The first phase of the main road 813 was already completed in 2015, the second phase is expected to be completed at the end of this year, and the third phase will be completed in the first half of 2018. Placement of the connecting road to the castle in Fertőd on a new trail is currently under authorisation. The renovation of the national road network is partly carried out from EU sources and partly from budgetary sources. The operational programme for territorial and urban development aims to meet local needs by establishing resources to support the local development objectives of the municipalities. Seven projects have been submitted in Győr-Moson-Sopron County, which are in preparation and are expected to be implemented in 2017. The length of the roads planned for the renovation is currently 12 km. According to the government's decision, the complex road renovation programme will be implemented from budgetary sources in 2016. The programme is a continuation of the programme for road renovations and road development to improve road safety in recent years, which includes mainly main roads, but also side roads. The implementation of this year's programme on the worst-case road sections has largely been completed. Within the framework of the programme, nine sections of the county's main roads were renewed, with a total of 23 kilometres. In addition, on side road 1401 it is planned to renovate 2.1 km of road section. In 2017, as a continuation of the complex road renovation programme, further road renovations and road improvements to improve road safety are expected from budgetary sources. The government has already decided on the need for the programme, preparations are in progress, we plan road renovations of up to HUF 100 billion, from lower roads to motorways on all national roads. The road operator continuously ensures the elimination of accident risk locations, in order to ensure the safe operation of traffic, against its national contract of approximately HUF 400 billion for five years in the course of its operations and maintenance until the implementation of the projects. Mr President, I feel that all these processes will, of course, also be with your help, by drawing attention to the most dangerous, old road sections, on the one hand, to the quality of life of people and, on the other hand, to Hungary's competitiveness. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2016-11-14-210	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches after the agenda. I would like to inform you that the next autumn session is expected to take place on 21 November 2016. I thank you for your work, the meeting is closed. [[The meeting ended at 5:06 p.m.]]
