u2016-05-18-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] Dear Parliament, The 28th day of the Spring Session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that László Földi and Dezső Liberty will be here to assist me. Welcome to our guests and to all those who monitor our work. Dear Parliament, A general discussion of the bill amending Act V of 2013 on the Civil Code will follow until closure. The government referral is T/10528. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr László Trócsányi, Minister of Justice, rapporteur of the item on the agenda. Mr. Secretary, please proceed to the pulpit.
u2016-05-18-1	Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Members, Ladies and gentlemen. One of the pillars of our legal system is private law in addition to public law. The most basic and comprehensive code of private law is the civil code. The importance of the Code of Private Law shows that in the last more than a century and a half there have been numerous codification attempts in Hungary, but the code was first born only in 1959. Thus, among other things, Ferenc Deák's codification attempt remained unsuccessful in 1848, as in 1928 the private law bill with the name Károly Sladits did not become a law, although the practice later applied it as a customary law. It is an interesting paradox that the first Hungarian civil code, the 1959 IV, was born under a socialist system that set aside private property based on ideological considerations, which only recognised private property in a very narrow way. Law. Even after the change of regime, there was continued intent and more attempts to redefine the Code of Private Law. The new Ptk. Pending its adoption, the 1959 Code has been amended more than a hundred times, and in the 1990s, following the so-called phased codification method, a comprehensive, short-term amendment of the Civil Code has taken place in several steps. A codification committee was set up in 1989 to support the codification work in the Ministry of Justice, co-chaired by professors Attila Harmathy and Lajos Vékás. However, the Code was not drawn up in the years of the change of regime, only the already mentioned novel amendments were made. In 1998, after a government decision, the codification work, the re-established Committee on Codification and the Chairman of the Editorial Committee, Attila Harmathy, became professors Lajos Vékás after the appointment of the Constitutional Court. As a result of the codification works that had been resumed several times thereafter, the new code was finally born in 2013, the Parliament adopted Act V of 2013 on the Civil Code on 11 February 2013. The new Civil Code entered into force on 15 March 2014. I would particularly like to point out that the new code of private law is an international, outstanding piece of Hungarian law. With the entry into force of the Code, the great legislative work has been completed and the main role now lies with judicial practice. However, the legislative work does not end with the adoption of the law. The legislative law also makes it a duty of the legislator to monitor the application of the legislation. In the context of the so-called ex post impact assessment, the legislator is obliged to compare the effects expected at the time of the regulation with the actual effects. Accordingly, the Ministry of Justice has been monitoring the Ptk since its entry into force. It collects experience in the application of the new law. The Ptk. a number of requests were received by the Ministry of Justice in connection with its interpretation and application. The comments were essentially raised in two main areas: the new regulation of legal persons, including company law, and the radically re-establishing of the pledge provisions, triggered the highest number of professional criticisms. A working group was set up in January 2015 to discuss these at scientific level, but also taking into account practical needs. The working group was composed of renowned theoretical and practical experts, representatives of legal professions. The working group met 14 times until June 2015 and reviewed the entire Code of Conduct. Subsequently, the Ministry of Justice prepared a detailed concept of possible directions for the amendment of the Ptk. and the need for an amendment. This concept was also received in January 2016 by a number of theoretical and practical professionals, as well as by the leaders of the legal professions. In addition, the Ministry of Justice heard the new Ptk in four public debates organised by the Hungarian Law Association. various professional views on possible changes. Taking into account the interest of the Ptk. as a result of the principle of legal certainty relating to the continuity of the basic code of Hungarian private law, the Ministry of Justice treats the issues of the Ptk. amendment with strict professional basis. In view of this, the Ministry of Justice rejected the proposals for a short-term amendment and concluded that the amendment should be made in the most necessary and restrictive manner in the first half of 2016. Accordingly, the bill submitted to Parliament on 3 May 2016 is primarily the Ptk. It concerns its fifth book, the pledge regulation, and only makes a minimal change within the obligations and family law provisions, but does not affect the Third Paper on legal persons, except in some sections, and the Seventh Paper on the right of succession. In the following, I would like to talk about each case which requires an amendment, broken down by book. Since the amendments contained in the proposal concern primarily the pledge, I would first like to refer to the amendments concerning the Fifth Book. The pledge in modern legal systems is a very complex, complex, regulated legal institution of civil law. The pledge is essentially ancillary, it provides and adheres to a particular claim, but an exception is an autonomous pledge. The autonomous pledge is governed, inter alia, by Swiss and German law. The self-reimbursement is also the Hungarian private law before World War II and from 1996 the old Ptk. He knew and regulated it. It can be said that the independent pledge after the change of regime is the new Ptk. until its entry into force, it was present in Hungarian law for some 18 years and operated without abuse. The autonomous pledge of the new Ptk. terminated and replaced it by the institution of the separated pledge. However, this legal institution is not internationally known or recognised, it does not have the benefits of a self-reimbursing institution, but does not eliminate the risk of loss of collateral. On this basis, it can be said that he did not pass the test of practice. The pledge regulation is closely linked to the economy, primarily to credit life. In addition to the decision on lending, the pledge, like other collateral, plays an important role in determining the conditions for lending. There is a strong correlation between the pledge regime and the price of the loan and the rate of interest in general. This relationship is also well reflected in the fact that the interest rates on secured loans, covered loans and uninsured loans are different. Using pawn law, the risk to the creditor can be reduced and the transaction costs associated with the transaction can be reduced. The pledge regulation, which adequately meets economic needs, therefore has a price, interest and cost reduction effect. Taking into account the economic needs to this end, the proposal re-regulates the autonomous pledge, but in a renewed way compared to the previous regulation. The main reasons for its introduction are the following. Following the completion of the Ptk codification, a new development is the so-called CRR Regulation, the EU Regulation on prudential requirements for credit institutions and investment firms. It introduces the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision' recommendations in EU law, known as Basel III. The Regulation strengthens, inter alia, the provisions on own funds and capital requirements. The new requirements are mandatory from 1 January 2014. At the same time, that Regulation refers to autonomous non-ancillary mortgage rights as a means of reducing the exposure of mortgage credit institutions. This means that the Regulation in question places a positive risk weight on mortgage loans refinanced in combination with a stand-alone pledge. This allows for higher lending volumes, which may result in more favourable credit conditions and lower interest rates for the population. [[9.10]] In order to achieve these objectives, the government bodies of the Ptk. the amendment of its pledge provisions and the need to introduce a stand-alone pledge. This is also in line with government objectives for the development of the Hungarian economy. The re-introduction of the self-reimbursement can increase the lending volume and thus the competitiveness of the Hungarian banking system as a result of the new EU regulation referred to, and the upswing of the mortgage market. It can facilitate the growth of the mortgage credit market and allow lower interest rates for the population and increase the safe investment and savings opportunities of the population. The separate pledge is referred to as the new Ptk. the EU legislation, which was adopted after its codification, is not known and, in addition, due to partial autonomy, the benefits of a self-reimbursement cannot be compensated by the institution of a separate lien. In view of this, the proposal contains a re-regulation of the self-reimbursement in Ptk instead of a separate pledge. With regard to the autonomous pledge, I would also like to stress that its re-regulation and the need to change the Ptk. in general are not lobbying interests, but, on the basis of analytical work at scientific level, it was decided on a strict professional basis. The opponents of the self-reimbursement claim that there is a risk of double fulfilment of the pledge due to the transferability of the self-reimbursing pledge independent of the claim. The 2008 amendment of the German Civil Code, BGB, was made as a result of this danger, and the amendment also eliminated this threat by the German legislator. Bearing in mind and taking over the solutions used in the 2008 amendment of the German BGB, the proposal provides a reassuring response to the criticisms previously made against the autonomous pledge. It creates a balanced regime that fully ensures the protection of the pledge, since the debtor of the self-reimbursement cannot be placed at a more disadvantage than the debtor of the collateral pledge. At the same time, it does not deprive the autonomous pledge of the advantages that make this pledge arrangement attractive to the creditor: flexibility and transparency. In addition to the re-regulation of the autonomous pledge, further major amendments to the pledge regime are made to the proposal. The Ptk. the institution of bail has also been integrated into the scope of the pledge. This has caused a number of practical problems that the enforcement practice has not been able to solve. In this context, the proposal expands the range of bail assets, while making the bail rules clearer and clearer. An important innovation in the consumer protection of the proposal is that, with the exception of bail, a pledge can only exercise its right to satisfy the consumer by means of judicial enforcement. This means, therefore, that the proposal limits the scope of the "Ptk" in the case of a consumer pawn contract. the unilateral choice granted to the lien in the exercise of the right to satisfy. The new Ptk. that, as a unilateral right of choice for the liend creditor, the lien was free to decide, in the exercise of the right of satisfaction, to avoid judicial enforcement. However, according to the proposal, this unilateral right in the case of a consumer pawn contract is no longer entitled to the pledge. I would then like to turn to the additional provisions most affected by the amendments contained in the proposal. The Ptk. Amendments to the Sixth Book. The proposal clarifies the rules on the declaration of rights bound to a written form. Accordingly, a relative nullity clause is added to the provision that, in the case of a person who cannot write or write, or a person who cannot read, or a person who does not understand the language in which the document containing his written declaration is drawn up, such nullity of the document may be invoked only in their interest. The new Ptk. By being closely linked to the restructuring of the pledge regime, it stated, as its cornerstone, the prohibition of so-called fictitious collateral. This prohibition applies to atypical safeguards that were originally created for a different purpose, but in practice they started using these contractual arrangements as collateral. For example, the assignment for collateral purposes, the establishment of the right to buy for collateral purposes and the sale contract combined with the right to buy back. It is not justified to maintain the prohibition on such transactions as is unchanged, and therefore the proposal also reduces the so-called fiducia ban in line with the re-regulation of the autonomous pledge. On the basis of the proposal, in the future, this ban will only cover consumer transactions and consumer transactions concluded between consumers but not considered as consumer contracts. At the same time, the Ptk is neither economic nor legislative. Book Six, 99. the maintenance of the nullity penalty provided for in Section 2 of this Annex. However, it is also important to point out that consumer protection will be increased, since in the future this nullity penalty will cover not only the consumer's claim for money but any other kind of claim. The proposal would also change the rules on the transfer of contracts. The Ptk. Under its current rule of law, the transfer of the contract terminates the collateral of the contract. However, practical experience has shown that it is not justified that, in the event of a transfer of contracts, the security of the rightholder entering the contract should be terminated. The proposal therefore states that the transfer of the contract will result in the termination of the contract's security only if there is a change of subject on the debtor's side and the supplier of the collateral does not contribute to the transfer of the contract. Therefore, if the creditor's identity changes in a credit agreement, the security will remain, but if the debtor's person changes, it will cease unless the guarantor has contributed to the change in the debtor's person. All of this follows the logic of the transfer of debt regulated in Ptk. The proposal also amends the rules on securities within the Sixth book. The revision of the section concerned is necessary because the consistency of legislation requires the transposition of certain provisions into sectoral legislation. The Ptk became particularly urgent. and the 2001 Capital Markets CXX. Act - hereinafter referred to as "Tpt." - to match each other. Ensuring the consistency of the concepts set out in Ptk and Tpt is a fundamental requirement for the predictable functioning of economic life and legal certainty, and it is therefore appropriate that Ptk's fundamentals on securities are specifically governed by Tpt in the regulatory area. to be adapted to its provisions. Where's Tpt. - or other legislation issued under its authorisation - lays down detailed rules, such as in the case of the production, conversion or transfer of dematerialised securities, where the maintenance of the regulation in Ptk is not appropriate. However, the proposal continues to maintain the Ptk. by introducing decisive innovations. The Ptk. Amendments concerning his third book. The proposal provides for the correction of a new liability rule triggered by a major storm under the rules on the responsibility of the executive officer. The new Ptk. On the one hand, it re-regulated the so-called internal responsibility of senior officials towards legal entities. However, it also introduced a previously non-existent so-called external liability rule. It's Ptk. Book Six 541. The rule set out in Section 2 of this Article, which is also correctly formulated in language, has led to considerable uncertainty in practice. The proposal resolves this uncertain legal situation by repealing, on the one hand, the Ptk. Book Six 541. and, on the other hand, a new paragraph (2) is added to Article 2 of the Act. The third book is 24. §8 of the EC Treaty. This new rule restores the provision of the former company law that outwards, towards third parties, the legal person, the company, is responsible. This therefore means that, according to the proposal, the legal person is responsible for the damage caused by the managing officer to a third party, acting in that capacity. However, the proposal also states that if the damage was intentionally caused by the managing officer, the legal person shall be jointly and severally liable. This corresponds to the permanent judicial practice established under the provisions of the former Company Law. [[9.20]] In order to ensure consistency with capital market regulation, the proposal states that shares in private limited liability companies may be placed on the market in the public interest if the public limited liability company changes its operating form. This can therefore only be done in the event of a change in the form of operation, i.e. a transformation from a private limited company to a public limited company, in the event of the related placing on the market. This technical rule resolves the process of becoming a public limited company and makes it easier to enter the stock exchange. In addition to the above, the proposal includes two amendments aimed at stressing the obligation already stated in the Fundamental Law. The Ptk. Amendment concerning his second book. The proposal also emphasises the importance of Article VI of the Fundamental Law in the area of the general protection of personal rights. The rule that everyone has the right to respect their private and family lives, homes, contacts and reputations. The legislator's objective is to strengthen the high level of civil protection of personal rights. The Ptk. Amendments concerning his fourth book. Article XVI of the Fundamental Law This article expresses the responsibility of children for their parents by requiring that adult children take care of their parents who are in need. The same obligation applies to the 2011 CCXI on the protection of families. Act No. 14 It also appears in Section 2 of the Act, according to which the adult child has an obligation to keep under a separate law against a parent who is unable to support himself without his own fault. The detailed rules for parenting are set out in the Ptk. is arranged among the standards of kinship, i.e. parenting is governed by general rules of kinship. The current regulation of parental support does not change the current regulation of relative relations. The amendment creates only the substantive basis for the existing legal obligation. The maintenance obligation of adult children to their parents is of particular importance, also at constitutional level, in relation to other kinship obligations. The proposal therefore underlines the current maintenance obligation of adult children to their parents. In this context, the proposal also introduces a new possibility of reimbursing claims in the event that the needs of a parent in need of maintenance for reasons other than his own fault are met by a person who would otherwise not be obliged to do so instead of a child in charge of maintenance. The reimbursement of the consideration of such duly provided benefits may be claimed by the person providing the actual holding within a limitation period of one year from the granting of the benefit from the child liable to be held. It is therefore proposed that, in the case of elderly persons whose social benefits are provided either by public or non-public institutions or by other persons, and the elderly person is not able to finance or can only partially finance the compensation for the benefit, the unpaid remuneration may be claimed from an adult child who may be obliged to hold a parent. I stress that this does not apply at all to public retirement or free social benefits under subjective law, and therefore does not affect the state's current involvement in these areas. The new claim for reimbursement in the proposal concerns only care, care and care provided on a voluntary basis. In the reimbursement lawsuit introduced by the proposal, the court must, on the one hand, consider all of this on the basis of individual circumstances, which must be taken into account in a maintenance suit. Accordingly, it is important whether the adult child is able to hold, could indeed be obliged to support the parent, should the parent not be unworthy of maintenance, and should also take into account the provisions governing the level of maintenance in the claim for reimbursement. On the other hand, the court must also examine whether care, care, food and the rest provided by the parent or institution was really necessary for the care of the elderly person. It is an important guarantee rule of the bill that the claim for reimbursement can only be enforced for the future, i.e. in the case of the benefit granted to the parent after the date of entry into force of the proposal and within a period of one year after the provision of the benefit. The limitation of the enforcement option to a limitation period of one year was included in the proposal as a result of a comment from opposition parties at the four-party consultation held by the Ministry of Justice on the proposal. The Ministry of Justice accepted the justification for the amendment proposed by the opposition parties in order to reduce possible abuses. Finally, I would also like to point out that this new type of compensation lawsuit in the proposal is independent of the Ptk. Fourth book 208. Paragraph 1 of the Act provides that the district office may, with the consent of the parent, sue for the custody of the parent. The latter provision is not affected by the proposal. The Ptk. Amendment 3 is essentially not a political issue, but a legal issue. The proposal drawn up by the Ministry of Justice and presented to the Honourable Parliament has been widely discussed, thoroughly prepared, and I ask the Honourable Parliament to discuss and adopt it. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-05-18-2	Thank you, Minister. Dear Parliament, Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. I give the floor to Mr László Salacz, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-05-18-3	Mr President, Dear House, I believe that the civil code is a kind of standard measure in every rule of law, i.e. a measure of value for the development of the legal system. Because civil law is the most important factor in everyday life, giving the legal environment for the operation of the economy, and even often preparing it, preventing existing economic processes, as we have seen in times prior to the regime change. Of course, there is a great advantage in a civil code of value, for which perhaps the German BGB can be the best example. In this case, I would like to point out as a virtue that a rather long preparation preceded the adoption of the new code, which refers to well-thought-out and serious professional preparation. I continue to believe that leaving the civil code before the regime change was very timely and quite justified for our development in the market economy. It is precisely because of this preparation that this legal work should be applied, and it should be amended with the utmost caution, not disrupting the unity and coherence of the Code. In the present case, the practical experience of the past period and the interest of economic development are the two aspects which justify the amendment of the law before us. It's no coincidence that the T/10528. The general justification of the legislative proposal submitted by the Commission also states that there is no need for a comprehensive, short-term amendment to the Code as a whole. The National Ministry of Justice held a five-party consultation, where Minister outlined the content of the proposal we are discussing on a conceptual basis, with due regard for the importance of the amendment. With the exception of the absent socialists, both the LMP and Jobbik were constructively concerned with the proposal, expressing their doubts. I believe that the text-like proposal before us also responds to these fears, soothingly addressing the issues that arose at the time. The amendments contained in the proposal concern primarily the pledge. In particular, the changes that we wish to make in this area are necessary for economic development, if you will, our obligation to amend them. In order to increase the competitiveness and lending volume of the Hungarian banking sector, it is necessary to redefine the institution of the independent pledge in Ptk. An important argument in favour of re-regulation is that a stand-alone pledge through lending to the housing market can contribute to a low level of interest rates. It is also a great advantage of the application of a self-reimbursing pledge to increase the risk of safe investment and savings for the population. The Ptk. has introduced a radically new pledge regime. The new economic needs that have emerged or intensified since its entry into force have made it necessary to amend the pledge regulation. [[9.30]] However, the proposal also takes due account of economic operators' expectations of regulatory stability. In view of this, no complete and comprehensive restructuring of the pledge regime has taken place. The proposal tried to meet the new economic needs by introducing new provisions to meet them into the existing regulatory environment. Speaking of the German Civil Code, the proposal before us, bearing in mind the solutions used in the 2008 amendment of the German BGB, also provides a reassuring response to the criticisms previously made against the autonomous pledge. It creates a balanced regulation that fully ensures the protection of the pledge, but does not deprive the self-reimbursement of the advantages that make this pledge arrangement more attractive to creditors. The proposal therefore meets the economic needs that have arisen while also fulfilling the fundamental legal policy requirement that the debtor of the self-reimbursement should not be more disadvantaged than the debtor of the ancillary lien. I would also like to draw attention to the other change with relevance in economic life. The proposal is a Ptk establishing joint and several liability for the non-contractual damage to the senior officer and causing significant uncertainty in the case-law in the settlement of the rules on the liability of the senior officer. Book Six 541. In parallel with the repeal of Article 4 of the Act, the Commission notes that, in the present case, the Commission considers that the measure does not constitute State aid within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. The third book is 24. A new paragraph 2 is added. According to this, the legal person shall be responsible for the damage caused to a third party by the managing officer acting in that capacity. However, if the damage was intentionally caused by the Chief Officer, he or she shall be jointly and severally liable to the legal person. I see that this kind of regulation creates clear and clear relations with regard to the responsibility of senior officials. It is important to ensure that there is no deliberate injury without consequences and that compensation for the damage is always possible and that judgments can be enforced. Finally, I would like to refer to the rules on parenting, which are also included in the proposal submitted. I think that creating legislation without its enforcement is unnecessary. During the debate on the Fundamental Law, it was decided to establish a constitutional obligation for children to take responsibility for their parents. I would not recommend this debate again, since it would require a constitutional amendment. In my view, Parliament must, inter alia, assess whether the proposal contains adequate guarantees that this legal institution cannot be misused. In my view, the one-year limitation period gives sufficient seriousness to the merits of any claim enforcement. Overall, the bill responds in good time to the needs raised in practice, it benefits our economic competitiveness, and it also covers areas that have not been well regulated so far, with due care and a calm foundation. That is why I am asking for the support of the proposal. Thank you for listening. [[Applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2016-05-18-4	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The MSZP group indicated that the group's position was presented by two speakers. First, I give the floor to Congressman Gergely Bárándy. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-05-18-5	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Minister, Of course, there is no problem in itself that if a new code is introduced and adopted by the Parliament, then one or two years later or even less time later, the Parliament will change the problems that arise in practice, change the shortcomings that arise in practice, or replace them. We all know that legislation of this size, even if it is preceded by ten years of preparation, cannot be accepted flawlessly, and a number of legal institutions will be introduced that will indeed be tested in practice. In this way, of course, I will not criticise those parts of the proposal that are indeed minor amendments and that really deal with the problems that have been developed or crystallised by practice. However, there is a bigger problem with changing certain issues of principle, for example, the self-reimbursement. Here, too, the subject of professional debates is about whether it is even possible to apply such an important innovation or amendment after two years, since in two years, one does not see whether the new regulation actually fulfils its expectations or does not. In order to assess such a change in volume, the assessment of its functionality requires a more substantial period of time, in our view. I would like to say a few words - not long here - about the five-party discussion. I wouldn't have done that, but Mr Salacz once again pointed out that we didn't participate. That is true, Congressman, for the following reason. The Minister also wrote in his letter to us that there were 14 meetings of an expert working group that compiled a 150-page concept. We received five pages of this, about one or two working days before the meeting, and no text was attached to anyone, although, as it was later revealed, this standard text was already available at the time. And we do not like and think that we should be involved in the discussions that are not about real reconciliation, but that this genre can also be checked. I believe that if it is a fair five-party negotiation, as the BM has done with the terror package, for example, then that is where we are. If it is true that our substantive amendments are being considered and taken into consideration, then we will be happy to participate. However, I do not think that we can better show that this was a mock-up than that the Ministry of Justice has already submitted a set of standards one day after the conciliation. In other words, we already had this norm text at the time of the five-party settlement, but we couldn't get it, we couldn't comment on it, and once again, it was a rather odd five-party negotiation where this draft was submitted the day after the settlement. I would like to point out that, for example, what I refer to is a similar draft of the Ministry of Interior, which has been discussed for weeks, perhaps months, between opposition parties and the government side. There was the result of this, the five-party support. If this is the case, then, of course, we will be there, and we will still not want to participate in any of the mock-ups. As far as substantive matters are concerned, and I have to react very briefly to this, because my fellow Member, Mr Korózs, will be able to state our position: what is the change in the protection of personal rights, I would like to point out from the point of view that the Ptk is in force. Book Two, 42. § 7 correctly states the general rule of privacy, the essence and purpose of personality rights. Therefore, in our view, it is completely unnecessary, and even the law on legislation 3. It is expressly contrary to the provisions of Article 6 of the Fundamental Law, but it is obviously self-serving that the proposal is now literally repeated by Article VI of the Fundamental Law. Article 1 (1) as amended by Article 3 (1) (a) According to §, the text of the Fundamental Law cannot be repeated by law. The attention is, by the way, drawn from this provision by one word: everyone has the right to respect their relations. It is very bad, and I will be able to say the same with regard to senior officials, that when public events occur, where the problem is precisely related to Fidesz, it is followed by legislation. [[9.40]] When there is a problem with relations with Árpád Habony, when relations with Lőrinc Mészáros, the Secretary of State responsible for the ground programme have rightly ravaged the moods, then there is a Ptk. amendment about respect for relations. These are coincidences, Minister, which cannot be overlooked, and even if a proposal is so well-meaning, it would be appropriate for the author to pay attention to this, unless these events motivated him to initiate a change to the civil code. It is equally problematic for me, and I would like to point out briefly here that, under the new provision, this proposal reduces the remaining liability of the official in the event of damage to third parties caused by the head of the legal person. So far, the Chief Officer has been responsible for any such damage jointly and severally with the legal person, and now the responsibility of the Chief Officer is removed if the damage is not intentionally caused to the third person. Ladies and gentlemen, At a time when I can say again that this is exactly the case, because - but correct me, Minister - these provisions apply to the officials of private companies as well as to the officials of public companies; so now, when György Matolcsy is considering the responsibility of the President of the National Bank of Hungary, when he has a series of scandals with the Hungarian Electricity Works or even with the Post, or I am thinking here, let us say, of MÁV's senior officials, who are now losing their responsibility for millions of monthly payments, this burden is practically off their shoulders. When there are such public events, it is rather strange that the Ministry of Justice comes up with such amendments and intends to amend the civil code. I would like to comment briefly and in principle, despite the fact that Mr Salacz has tried to prevent this possibility in his speech, as regards social rights and the provisions on parental responsibility. So indeed, Mr Member and Minister, in the debate on the Fundamental Law, we have repeatedly said that we find it very damaging that the state is moving further and further out of the social sphere, seeking less responsibility for its own citizens. As some social fundamental rights have now become a state goal, so now this provision is also in the Ptk. and, of course, with the introduction of its detailed rules, but it is being revised or revised by the legislator. Mr Salacz, the reason why this debate should be reopened is because if there is a provision in the Fundamental Law, then in this case, the Ptk will, if you will, simply put it into change. The Ptk. Its provisions are necessary to ensure that this is actually applicable in practice. This ambition of the state is deeply reprehensible. Instead of taking responsibility for people who are already unable to take care of themselves after a life's work, instead, because they do not want to do so, they pass this responsibility on to children, which, in this economic situation, is a rather interesting and strange demand from the state. It is not that any person of good sense who can do this and who has the opportunity, should not take care of or care for his ancestors, his parents, his grandparents, at the highest possible level. It is not that; it is that the state, when it passes on this obligation and it does not want to take care of it, but instead obliges the children to do so, that, I think, is not a vision of a social and welfare state, but my fellow Member Korózs will talk about it more. Since the time has gone by, I will probably address the issue of a self-receiving pledge in my next repeated speech, leaving time for my fellow Member, Mr Korózs, to speak on the subject I mentioned as my last. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2016-05-18-6	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Lajos Korózs, at the expense of the time frame available.
u2016-05-18-7	Thank you very much. Dear House, Dear fellow Members, I'd like to pick up where Congressman Bárándy left off. So it is a matter of the fact that the adult child is obliged to take care of the parents in need, as my fellow Member has already mentioned, this was a condition of the Fundamental Law. Now there would be a new section of this law, which states that if parents are not cared for by their children, such as an elderly home or a neighbor, the caregiver may demand that the child be reimbursed within a year. The only question here is whether it really means that from now on lawsuits can be brought against children who are not going to keep their parents. My fellow Members, I see that, despite a lot of zigzag and turnaround, Fidesz has been consistent over the last six years on one thing, namely that the most needy people, people who are at the very bottom of society, who for some reason are vulnerable - whether this is on the social security side or on access to health - must be met by these people. Technically, they have always argued that the community of Hungarian citizens does not need to support people who, for some reason - usually because of their own fault - are in a bad situation. On the contrary, I think that the state should take care of people who, unfortunately, cannot take care of themselves, either by their own fault or by their own fault. With the measures taken by the Fidesz government over the last six years, it is clear that inequalities have been increased, it is clear that funds have been withdrawn from lower social groups. These funds have been directed to higher social groups in the form of all kinds of tax incentives; let this be the tax relief for children, let it be all kinds of contracts that have strengthened wealthy people and businesses. My fellow Member referred to it, but in my opinion, it is also rare for a child who would not help his elderly or sick mother, father, if he could; just like the mother, it is very rare that she would not help, and would not do everything for her children as much as possible. So, I think that there is no problem if we expect mutual care, but that is not at all what we are talking about, but that, in my opinion, the government, hiding behind basic solidarity in families, would like to establish another thing, a new status from the system that it has set up itself, so that a good number of people - possibly millions of people - should not have access to the public services that are common not only for years or decades, but also with their social security contributions, with their taxes, created the condition that they would later be entitled to certain benefits or services, whether this be financial benefits, or be provided in a permanent boarding facility. We know that there are several types of elderly homes in Hungary, including from the perspective of the maintainers: state, municipal, ecclesiastical institutions. We also know that there are tens of thousands of people living in these institutions. Yet, everyone is terrified of this information, which has now been circulating in Parliament for weeks. This is not just about people in boarding schools. I would like to remind my fellow Member that we have interpelled several times and asked the Secretary of State Ónodi-Szűcs a question. With regard to the outsourcing of chronic classes, it is the same thing that people who are forced to be placed in these chronic classes to this day do not know what their future will be, what their fate will be. It is clear that, over the past few years, the policy of Fidesz has led to an increase in workers' poverty to such an extent that there is no hope that these elderly people will be helped by their children, because they have quite rightly lined up the need to first look after the family, first the children and themselves, and if there is any wealth left beyond that, then it may be possible to prosecute the state's intention. As a result, we cannot support the adoption of the law. Thank you very much.
u2016-05-18-8	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr András Aradszki, Minister of State, lead speaker of the KDNP Group. [[9.50]]
u2016-05-18-9	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Minister, Dear House, The Ptk. It is our duty to speak on behalf of KDNP from a Christian point of view. He also teaches the Vatican Council that secular believers must be led by the Christian conscience, in all things of this world, since no human activity can be withdrawn, not even from the authority of God. I express my position with such thoughts, which is also the position of the KDNP on the proposed bill. The civil code adopted on 15 March 2014 was a long process, a product of long preparatory work, but it could be said that there was no good feeling in the Hungarian legal society, because there were no basic trends that were thought to be treated by many then. This is why, and thanks to the changes in the EU standards since then, the development of judicial practice and processes in economic life, the Ptk adopted on 15 March 2014 was justified. The Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) is authorised provided that all of the following conditions are met: As the Minister said in the expozee, this was preceded by a careful preparatory work and an even more viable Ptk tried along the lines of proportionality and moderation. contribute to its creation by submitting the amendment. I think it is a very important value of this proposal that, while the large principles set out in the provisional constitution that used to be in force, long-term, never attainable goals, the practical implementation of our Hungarian Fundamental Law is consistently carried out by the government, even by providing the means of achieving the objectives set out in the Fundamental Law in various laws. This is why the current amendment is also important, because it contains provisions that are explicitly reflected in the Fundamental Law along this principle, but in this case it is done with the Ptk. amendment. For example, the proposal also emphasises the importance of Article VI of the Fundamental Law in the general protection of personal rights. The rule that everyone has the right to respect their private and family lives, homes, contacts and reputations. On the basis of natural law, we find confirmatory criteria for the adoption of the proposed regulation, even because private and family life, the protection of home and personal relationships are fundamental in society, because the person and family were before the state, and therefore they have priority, because man is most like his Creator in his personality. The Ptk. With regard to the regulation concerning the third and sixth books, which rethinks the responsibility of senior officials, I must note that the basic item is Ptk. At the time of the debate, I tabled an amendment to this issue, precisely because the regulation on executive officers that they were jointly and severally liable for the company's debts caused serious, disproportionate and unmanageable situations. The Ptk. After its entry into force, payment requests came in order for certain companies to be sued to pay jointly and severally X. CEOs and the company in question HUF x million in things in which it was obvious that the manager had no influence on this. However, even the inequality that larger companies were able to protect such senior officials - rightly because they could - so-called senior officials had their liability insurance assumed the enforceability of compensation to insurers, so it was not paid by the senior official, whereas the senior officials of small and medium-sized enterprises were exposed to such risks. Therefore, such practical aspects also make it possible to approve and be eligible, and the amendment is acceptable. M With regard to the fourth book amendments, I have to say that the fourth commandment of the Old Testament includes the prominent place of parents in the child's life, and respect your father and mother! With a sentence. Postmodern and globalised individualism favours a lifestyle that weakens the development and stability of relationships between individuals and distorts family relationships. "'," writes Pope Francis, in the encouragement of Evangelii Gaudium. We want to put an end to this process when, according to the pope's words, swimming against the price is a priority for protecting the elderly and parents. In the extraordinary holy year of mercy, special emphasis is placed on the moral obligation to care for needy parents. The care and care of the elderly, the sick, the periphery are regularly a prominent part of the teaching of Pope Francis at both individual and social level. The elderly cannot be excluded from the family, but are an integral part of it. Therefore, we need to turn to those who gave us life with special attention and open heart. The maintenance obligation of adult children to their parents is constitutionally and is of particular importance in relation to other kinship obligations. On this basis, it is also appropriate to treat this type of maintenance obligation differently, but, as the national said in the expozee, this does not mean that the State will withdraw from the free supply obligation granted so far by the State. I believe that this proposal in Ptk, the inclusion of the Ptk. in this issue and the regulation of detailed clarification, is a good way of fulfilling the general human values based on the constitution and general nature law. This claim for reimbursement, which is included in this proposal, is not an unlimited and not unconditional claim for reimbursement. Of course, a number of criteria for judicial practice and for living situations themselves need to be presented in order to ensure that this claim for reimbursement can be enforced with sufficient funds and is not targeted at the well-meaning people who, in addition to their good intentions, are not able to fulfil their obligations or, with good intentions, to fulfil their obligations, but rather those who, forgetting their fundamental obligations, which the Constitution and the right of nature are to parents, do not live up to them and do not care for their parents, and they could do so. I believe that this institutional system, which is now contained in the Ptk. amendment, has had historical precedents. If my memories do not deceive - and they do cheat, but now I feel that they are not cheating - this is the social benefit law... - which may have been modified at the time of the secretary of state of Lajos Korózs, who is far from home, as if the institution could demand compensation for the holding of those receiving institutional care from its descendants, if it is adequately covered by the descendant concerned. I'm saying that it wasn't an old institution, it was also part of the practice of governments governed by the MSZP, it wasn't disputed by anyone. I believe that this should be judged on the same principles as it does, so that this constitutional principle should be applied and that there should not be any possibility of abuse, that is what needs to be achieved by the amendment of the Ptk, and I believe that the proposal presented can sufficiently serve this proportionality and the fairness experienced and desired under nature law. With regard to the pledge and the amendments to the Fifth book, it should be said that the economic, business and banking world cannot be excluded from morality, even though some say that there is no friendship in finance. [[10.00]] CHAPTER XVI This can be found in the encyclical of Pope Benedict in the middle of the crisis, which was issued in 2009 with Caritas in veritate. The social teaching of the Church maintains that authentic human, friendly, community solidarity and reciprocity relationships can also be maintained on the scene of economic activity, not just outside or after. The sphere of the economy is not an ethically neutral area, nor is it by nature inhuman or anti-communicative, part of human activity, and just because it is human, it is necessary to be guided by the structure of morals. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I don't think I'd go too far with the question of how the self-reimbursement is going. I am sure that due consideration has been given to the preparation of legislation in order to revive this autonomous pledge in the Hungarian civil code. In line with the papal approach cited above, I consider it important that, in the case of consumer contracts, the new legislation only allows the lien to enforce the right of severance after enforcement by court. I think that this is a very important regulation. When the discussions on foreign exchange lending took place in Parliament, I was a little deepened in this, and I saw that the European Court of Justice practice in this regard was unbroken in relation to consumer credit contracts, and in a Spanish case, he specifically objected to the fact that it was possible to enforce the creditor's claims against the debtor without legal proceedings. I hope that with this proposal we will attempt to remedy this deficiency of the Hungarian legal system. I must add that, since I do not practice law under the Act on the Status of Members of Parliament, but if my memories do not deceive me, there is another area that ensures such enforcement without a judicial journey. In particular, it was still the practice of the Supreme Court to include the right to buy as a guarantee among the enforcement measures, so the imposition of the right to buy and then the opening to exercise the right to buy under certain conditions could in fact be avoided. I believe that in the future, or judicial practice, we must turn back to the ancient source, when such an enabling practice, the practice established by the Supreme Court, will no longer be followed by the Curia, or the expression of this verbis may not harm the later case-law. On the basis of all this, I believe that the Ptk. amendment is well-thought-out, on a dogmatically correct basis, capable of accepting it, and we can support the adoption of the Ptk. amendment on the part of the KDNP. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of Fidesz.]]
u2016-05-18-10	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Gábor Staudt, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group.
u2016-05-18-11	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, First of all, I must say that if I leave after my speech - and I do not know when I will return - it will be because the Justice Committee has now been able to convene its meeting, where there are topics such as Tünde Handó's report, and it is very good that last Monday's 10:00 work was too early for Members of the Fidesz-KDNP, it seems, because we could have held the committee meeting at 8:00, and we could also hear references that this did not coincide with Parliament's meeting. This has now been done on two very serious topics. I just wanted to tell you that in the magistrate's office. There was indeed a discussion on the proposal before us, and we were pleased to attend. All I have to say is that we really couldn't see any norm at the negotiation. So we could talk about a lot of things, we could make a lot of suggestions, but obviously we've just had the opportunity to review the norm text, and in many ways it can still nuance the picture we can tell you about it. It is also true, listening to our fellow Member Aradski, that I do not think that the Ptk is as distant as, say, the Old Testament quotes. we should look back, because perhaps even adulterous women were stoned, if I remember correctly, and you laughed at Tamás Gaudi-Nagy when he referred to the Tripartite, the Trinity of Werbőczy, which is obviously thousands of years or at least one and a half thousand years later, even if you look at the New Testament. After this introduction, I would like to address some important issues. There are, of course, positive aspects of the proposal, and I would not like to highlight them in the absence of time, although I will refer to it a few times. I have already noticed in the general explanatory memorandum that, on the one hand, which is natural, they refer to the EU regulation, that this is why it was necessary to amend the Ptk. now, but in the case of the self-reimbursement, the low level of interest rates and the extension of the public's safe savings as a reason, it is only secondary to the proposal put forward by a judicial portfolio. If, let us say, this is presented by one of the economic purses, it may be important, but I see in the proposal the interest of banks and financial institutions, Minister; all the more so, because otherwise, interest rates are low today, i.e. the basic rate of the central bank is around 1 per cent. So I don't know how you want to push this down, but I'm afraid it's just an explanation for giving the banks certain facilitations here. But before I go to that point, what these facilitations are and what are the legal concerns that have been raised, please allow me to address some other issues. The fact that private and family life, home security, are included, that's fine. Even contact would be, although what Gergely Bárándy said made me think, I'll tell you honestly. Who a secretary of state keeps in touch with during working hours doesn't necessarily have to be classified as privacy protection, but I'm afraid that's where they're going to be. And this was a very good example, otherwise, which appeared in the press when our fellow Member Rubovszky and Vas, before a committee meeting, as a representative and senior president, arrived at the public meeting, and he was prepared to make recordings, and there they spoke among themselves as representatives, and KDNP responded that it was a private conversation, and why News TV made public that Viktor Orbán's view was that János Áder should not be re-elected. We don't know why, but we already know that President Rubovszky has information on this. That would be considered a private opinion or a relationship, so a Vas Imre-Rubovszky relationship, a private relationship, I think would be a little perverse. But I hope, of course, that's not what you're thinking, and it will reassure me if you deny it. Then the senior officials had indeed a long polarity at the meeting, and they partially accepted what we said. At the second stage, I would like to add, in addition to intent, gross negligence to my heart, and we were able to present an amendment last week, Minister. After all, gross negligence has established legal criteria, so what goes beyond what can be expected of a senior official; therefore, it is almost a form of potential intent. In this case, too, I'd like to make it possible. And here we have to think not only of the big companies who can actually take out insurance, but also of small companies that disappear after that, if, say, a more serious demand for the company stands in the direction of the company, and if this cannot be recovered on the executive officer, who in many cases is also the owner, then there may be problems. Then moving on, because 15 minutes is not so long when it comes to so many topics: the institution of child support. It's probably one of the most controversial... parenting, sorry. Child support is included, but this is less controversial. The institution of parenting, on the other hand, I told you at the meeting that this is a political atomic bomb, and I still feel like it. Of course, if someone up there has come up with this, let's say, who can decide the fate of János Áder, let's say he was born at a level like this, then you must implement it. So I can understand that. [[10.10]] But legally, that's gonna be a problem. All the more so, because it is not about the solidarity that is, of course, expressed in Christian people, and generally there is, and in the Ptk., you acknowledge in the explanatory statement that parenthood is still in play and that a lawsuit can be brought towards the parent's child. In fact, the district office can help if the parent is unfit to do so. You replied at the meeting that the parents would not sue. However, if parents do not sue, it is a very interesting thing to intervene in a private relationship in such a way that perhaps the parent does not want or did not want to, if he dies, and then it will take place - I will also discuss this in a moment. And, therefore, we are not really talking about parenting here, but it is true, the arguments that have been made seem true that the state is trying to withdraw from the social sector and pass on the costs of this to children. We also heard in the press that chronic beds are being moved from hospitals to the social sector, and then such a proposal comes, so it cannot be said that accidental - there are no coincidences in politics - and therefore the State will actually delegate its responsibility and even make a chronic class pay and try to collect in this form. This is only a problem or a problem, Minister, because in this case taxes and contributions should be revised. So it could even be legitimate. I'm saying that even, so it's a matter of decision, I'm not saying that it's a good thing, but there are systems in the world where taxes are minimal, when the state says that I don't take or take minimum pension contributions, that everyone should take care of their old age, or that they can raise a lot of children who can take care of it, or that they can put aside big money and pay comfortably. But in this case, the state will not give its hand to collect these very serious contributions in Hungary. I also think that it is not a good solution if the state withdraws, but once again a special situation will take place in Hungary, which in many cases also happens in public security, so that the citizen cannot defend himself, but the state will not protect him. It will also be that the state collects the contributions, but if you have to pay, you will retire. And what's going on now is one thing, but in a year's time, in five years' time, in ten years' time, in 20 years' time, at this open gate, how you're gonna get your feet in, or how a next government is gonna expand the possibilities, it's the music of the future. And then the fact that they mention the passage from the Constitution that older children are obligated to care for their parents in need goes against the legislative law. We have also tabled an amendment proposal, and the legislative law clearly states that the passages up in the hierarchy cannot be repeated literally. And now it comes in, and in the general explanation and in detail it is acknowledged that it is literally being transcended from the Constitution. This goes against the legislative law, so this should have been thought out a little more precisely from a codification point of view. And to raise a few more arguments, a limitation period of at least one year has been included in the negotiations. Of course, this is better than the way it started. I myself suggested that, on the basis of the basic proposal, the general limitation period would be five years, until this could be enforced retroactively, and the main problem here too - going forward and explaining - is that the child does not necessarily need to know that, say, the parent will be supported. Because, let's say, the child works in London - there is one - the parent may not even need to keep up, but let's say, the neighbor helps in a little, helps out a little, sometimes goes over and sees how he is. And even without the parent's knowledge or whatever, if the parent dies in the meantime, these demands can be enforced in the same way. Because with the death of the parent, the need - at least for a year now - does not go away, so one or two enthusiastic neighbors, one or two tricky law firms can very well stand up, like the lawsuits in Strasbourg, that the single old man passed away next door, sometimes looking at him, then you can sue the child who might be abroad. So interfering with private law in this way is not practical to me, and in addition, in general, six months in maintenance lawsuits is six months to be enforced retroactively. They're gonna make a year of this. And I know that we are not talking about the need for two people to hold each other, but the provider of maintenance is going to make a lump sum claim to the child, but it is still a matter of consideration that this time interval is going to double, even in this form, but it is going to double. Of course, five years is better than a year, but six months is still twice as much. And you write in the explanatory statement that we can also talk about state church institutions, and in these cases, I'm afraid, if this is described, this will happen. And then a few more thoughts about how I can see that banks are much better protected than citizens. The self-reimbursement - there's little time - I don't want to go along with it. Indeed, guarantees are incorporated into the law. But there's one thing they can't explain to me: why they put an automatic transformation into the proposal. An automatic conversion of current mortgage rights, so if someone has a property with a mortgage right, then the bank can convert it into an independent pledge with a unilateral declaration. That's not fair. 'Cause if we allow it in the future, we could argue, pro, versus argument, but I think that the bank can do that, and all it has to do is put on a return note, that he informed his client, and I think that's a little harsh. And it's okay for you to write that your situation can't get any more pregnant, well, ten-year legal lawsuits are about what's more pregnant and what's not, what's in the two pans of the scale. So we're not getting ahead of ourselves. In addition, it is too mechanical that the mortgage contract - Article 29. I am talking about §8 - it should simply be considered as a security contract. So, in connection with two legal arrangements, a legal arrangement just introduced and an earlier arrangement, the bank will transform it with a unilateral declaration, and a previous contract which was not concluded for this purpose, you will mechanically admit to the new contract. This will, in many cases, harm the consumer. And I'd like to say one more thing in the end, and believe me, there's going to be a lot of debate about this, and there's going to be a lot of debate about the 21st. If the contractual relations change, new parties enter the contract, then the person who has provided the guarantee must have his consent in order to ensure that this guarantee is clearly maintained. Yeah, but you can give that up in advance. It can be terminated in advance, and this will mean in practice... - and if a person resigns in advance as the debtor of the guarantee so that he can determine whether the new party who enters the contract will accept it or not, and only by notification will the exchange of the party become effective, this may in many cases be offensive to him. And they don't even say that you can withdraw it, but you can reserve the right to withdraw it when making the original statement. What's that gonna mean? Blanketta contracts on the part of the banks, in which, of course, it will be described that the right to withdraw is waived by the party who provides the obligation and does not intend to withdraw it in the future. So you can get him to sign off on being escorted up to the slaughterhouse again, and in fact, later in the fine print you'll tell him, "Well, please, the 21st." Ptk, as amended by §8. 6:209. §2 of the Act allows this to be done. And these will cause problems, Minister and Secretary of State, and I fear that in these cases, once again, the needs of the bank have been taken in and not given due consideration. That's why we should have had a standardized consultation. It is not too late, Minister, we will go and we will be happy to make these proposals in a narrower circle. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-05-18-12	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr András Schiffer, the lead speaker of the LMP Group.
u2016-05-18-13	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Minister, I would also like to make an introduction to the fact that, of course, we appreciated the gesture of the judicial wallet that, although it is a half law, it called a five-party consultation. I think it would be good for this political culture to gain civil rights in general governance. I say this with the fact that we also indicated at the conciliation that we have conceptual problems with the most important points of this Ptk amendment, and in itself we have a problem with the fact that the government wants to touch the civil code at all right now. [[10.20]] But I would like to stress that the task of an opposition party preparing for constructive governance is that if and if you call a five-party meeting, either by the government or by another parliamentary group, you should go that way and try to confront your political opponents. At the same time, I must say that this civil code amendment contains practically two mines and even two nuclear bombs; a social atomic bomb or a financial atomic bomb is ticking. One is parenting and the other is an amendment to the self-reimbursement. But before I go into this, I am arguing in my own right that, after so much time, after the entry into force of the new civil code, three years have passed, if I count it well, do we need to touch the civil code at all, with the nearly 20,000 standards that could be applied at all, the vast majority of which has not been sued, there is hardly any case that would have already been in the Curia, so the Supreme Court. For example, legal unit initiatives could not have been very successful. There is not much to talk about, whether, when I think about the liability of senior officials, that the case law, judicial practice is one of them or one of them - we do not know. Three years after this huge set of laws, the new civil code, was taken into the hands of the law enforcement authorities at all, there are not even very far-reaching cases to say that, because of the experience of the case-law, one or another paragraph should be touched. It is also important to emphasise this because, a long time ago, Professor Vékás began working on the concept of the new civil code, his work was stopped by the Gyurcsány government, and in 2010 one of the first decisions of the new Parliament was to abolish the Ptk concept prepared by the former Parliament and without Professor Vékás, and again invited the Committee led by Lajos Vékás to develop this now amended Ptk. Compared to this, we see that Professor Vékás, who is one of the spiritual fathers of this Ptk., protested not only sharply against the proposed amendment, but also did not want to hear his opinion, I suppose, nor did anyone else who otherwise participated in the work of this codification committee. At this point, however, I would like to emphasise that, after the civil code, the most fundamental law of the status of persons, of the turnover, is a civil code, in the case of the civil code, predictability, legal certainty, more important than in the case of many other laws. It is therefore very important that we touch it only in a really very thoughtful way, in a very justified case. For example, when Parliament extended the capital increase deadline, a practical problem was encountered by the legislator. But from the constant modification of the most basic civil law rules, I would be very careful to protect Parliament, for example, because one of the reasons for the pledge is how to keep the interest rate level down, for example, if there are predictable conditions in economic traffic. In 2013, the LMP already presented to the House a package of predictable laws, which limits how many times and in what extent and how the most basic financial and civil law rules can be amended, simply because investments will be made in a country, among other things, if there is a predictable legal environment for potential investors, people who take risks. This is not supported by such ad hoc changes to the Ptk. under the pressure of various interest groups, to put it mildly. As regards the pledge amendment, as regards the financial atomic bomb of this package of laws, the autonomous pledge was in force as far as the new Ptk was concerned. until its entry into force, if I remember correctly, perhaps from 1997. The self-reimbursement was different from the basic case of the pledge, the traditional mortgage law. The self-reimbursement is, in substance, the pledge already acquired to a third party, so in this case the ancillaryity is broken, and at least two pledges, otherwise there are that more is provided by a property. The danger is that if and if this domino line falls into the chain, the whole thing will fall. And these are precisely the phenomena that, by the way, partly triggered the 2008 financial crisis in America. Dogmatically, I would be careful not to smuggle items back into the Hungarian civil code - just in case other countries may apply such legal institutions - where there are fictitious safeguards. Such legal arrangements can lead to the development of financial balloons. We can think that this amendment proposal is closely linked to the CSOK and the government's plans to encourage the purchase of housing would boost lending. In October, the central bank announced that they would like to boost the mortgage bond market and refinance the banks. Apart from the central bank, those who can benefit from this amendment are the funds who will keep a certain percentage of a mortgage in their portfolio. The greatest risk in this is that the interest or capital of the mortgage will be repaid as the debtor pays. This is exactly where the avalanche started overseas in 2007 because banks have been printing more and more risky loans. This appeared to have been granted credit to people who were no longer stable from the point of view of credit rating. Here it can be considered that the first borrower does not know whether he will pay or can keep deadlines. The banks didn't care about this because the mortgage bond market was spinning so that they didn't even care that they only gave out good debt and reliable, stable loans, and so this market was completely diluted, and there were a lot of bad loans. Here, in order to blow up the financial balloon, people were too indebted, because there were three or four other loans besides this housing loan, but at the same time there was a basic interest rate increase in America, which increased the interest rates on loans. That's why the debtors couldn't pay, so they didn't pay the bondholders, and that's what blew up the financial crisis. It is in the interest of the banks, and that is why they want to bring this back so that they do not run the risk of non-paying debtors, but the investor buying the mortgage. And here we have come to the conclusion that this amendment is clearly not made by professional interests. This bill is not for the benefit of the people, it is for the sake of the banks. To quote a popular roganism, the fact is that you, honourable pro-government people, have sided with the banks instead of the people. That's the thing. This bill meets the needs of various banking stakeholders. What they couldn't achieve at the Vékás Committee is now being done by Fidesz for various momentary reasons. There are therefore three problems with this whole new or reactivated autonomous pledge institution. Relaxes the credit assessment because the lending bank decides to lend in the knowledge that (a) it sells the claim and (b) it receives a commission for the conduct of the business, i.e. it receives revenue without taking any risk. 2. Increased lending results in an increase in interest rates, as more loans earn funding from unchanged sources. 3. Bubbles are created on the real estate market, because lending increases, but the amount of property offered does not change. All these phenomena were noticeable before the 2008 financial crisis, in 2008 everyone vowed here, in Hungary, as well as abroad, to learn the lessons of this financial crisis. Man was waiting, seven or eight years ago, for these legal arrangements, which the government has now served up for the Hungarian parliament, to be simply banned in the OECD countries, we see that after the great threat has passed, everywhere else, not only in Hungary, they are starting to gamble again, which once led to a global financial crisis. These proposals favour certain banking interest groups and speculators. [[10.30]] I understand the stated economic policy objective that the main aspect of the Fidesz government is to keep interest rates low. It's okay, we agree. However, interest rates could not be kept low by precisely such means. Interest rates can be kept low on the one hand if there is an increase in demand. At present, economic policy does not act in the direction of demand expansion, but artificially reduces and keeps incomes low. I'm not talking about the incomes of central bank managers, of course. Secondly, it would be possible to keep the interest rates low and to keep them down permanently if the Hungarian National Bank, i.e. the central bank, were to reserve money and thus provide additional resources to the banking system. Compared to this, we see that the central bank is not doing this, but is illegally setting up foundations and paying the related networks the amount of money that could otherwise be saved, or it could be provided as an additional source for the banking system. Thirdly, in the long term, low interest rates are subject to predictable conditions in a national economy, if there are predictable conditions, then the price of external debt is not rising, so this is also indirectly in favour of keeping interest rates low. Compared to this, we see that there is no predictability in economic traffic in Hungary, personalised laws are in place, investors and domestic investors cannot be sure that they will not change the basic economic environment with a subsequent amendment, where they would otherwise have invested. We see that this whole self-reimbursement institution is in the interest of banking interest groups and that it is not an appropriate tool to keep interest rates at a lasting low level. What I would like to talk about is the release of the fiducia ban, so that guarantees can be transferred. By saying that the amendment will continue to be prohibited in consumer transactions, the fiducia ban will continue, yes, but the Ptk will continue. In its debate, we have already initiated to expand the concept of consumers, so let it be clear, for example, that micro-enterprises also belong to consumers. As far as parenting is concerned, it is quite clear that the state is preparing an exit from old care. This proposal, which practically eliminates welfare systems, is one of the brute neoliberal economic policies. You will have to prepare for parent - parent lawsuits where, on the one hand, they will prove that a child is not capable of being held up and, on the other, that the parent is unworthy. Is that what anyone in their right mind wishes the courts would be filled with lawsuits like this? ! Old age poverty was caused by the Fidesz government by at least three steps, which should be corrected. On the one hand, the burning of private pension funds; on the other hand, you have abolished the equity care fee; on the other hand, you have frozen the minimum pension. These measures should be corrected, but here it is pious to talk about the duty of children to parents, when you deliberately brought old people into poverty, that is simply impertinence. They withdraw from nursing care and transfer responsibility to ordinary people. There is something else to be done, and we also suggested at the conciliation that free benefits - whether inheritance or gift benefits - should be prohibited in the civil code for various elderly care institutions. As far as the responsibility of senior officials is concerned, I think it is a misunderstanding that the bill is about. The Ptk. the text is very clear if, by the way, the administrator acts on behalf of the legal person, they are jointly and severally liable. There are no final decisions taken through the Curia, and I think that we should actually think about expanding the institution of the underlying responsibility, in the interests of small entrepreneurs and consumers. This is what the civil code should serve. Thank you very much. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy applauds.]]
u2016-05-18-14	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Minister László Trócsányi, who wishes to respond to what has been said. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor.
u2016-05-18-15	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and Gentlemen, Dear House, We listened to very interesting comments during the general debate. I would like to respond to some, because I believe that I have actually responded to the speeches by the lead speaker in the Expo, because I have touched on these questions and I have also said the position of the Ministry of Justice. I should like to start by saying that I fully agree with Mr Schiffer's view that every amendment of legislation must be handled with extreme caution, and this is particularly true when we talk about a code. I myself, as a lawyer, think that the Ministry of Justice's pre-law department should act with due care and care when deciding whether or not to amend a law, a code or not. When I took office on June 6, 2014, I thought it was also my job to look at the implementation of each code. That is why it was decided in January 2015 - and now it is May 2016 - that is to say, from January 2015 we will be examining the entry into force and operational experience of the major codes within the framework of a working committee. We also have to add that we didn't make and worked in secret, there were extremely excellent lawyers on the working committee, I think they are well-known by the Members, so there were not banking professionals sitting there, but there were professors of law sitting there, lawyers, people who love the law and give themselves up, so that in some way they could say something about it outwards. There is no question that there are different views in the profession. Of course, that's okay, and I think that's democracy. So there's someone who thinks it's right, and the other one thinks it's right. But I think it's okay. I should also add that when we conduct these professional meetings, we do not do it in a closed circle, but we organise conferences, and everyone knows about these conferences, because the Hungarian Counselor Association organizes them. So what I cannot accept is that we did this job without being known to Members or to political parties. The Hungarian Counselor's Association has to go to his website, talk to Tamás Sárközy as president. Tamás Sárközy also makes sure - I must add - that people with different views appear and there is a debate about whether or not the legislation needs to be touched. So I'm forced - I don't like to use that word, but - to refuse that we did this job without being transparent. As Minister of Justice, I am particularly giving this, and that is why I think it is important to hold five-party negotiations even when this would not be a legal obligation for the wallet, citing it, but it is only worth two thirds, but for my part I think that the public is extremely important in legislation. So I can only say to Gergely Bárándy, honourable Member, that we have continued this work with great publicity for months, for more than a year. So the fact that we didn't send out the norm text for the negotiation, we sent out the concept on the basis of which the debate was based. And I also have to tell you that, from Lajos Vékás, we sent the material to all the great professors for an opinion. So they are aware of this, and I respect Lajos Vékás very much myself, and I also very much acknowledge his work, because it is true that the Ptk is. His birth is also known as his father, but we have done this work in such a way that Lajos Vékás and others were constantly aware of our work, as well as of what we are doing. That is why he wrote his open letter, which is, of course, a professional opinion, but he sees it differently. Still, let's look at the main questions. Oh, and to conclude, that's why we decided that there was no need for a novel change. The first is when we're talking about a self-restraint. I am also obliged to reject the fact that the wallet worked on the basis of lobbying interests. The people who were involved in this work were judges, lawyers, prosecutors, and representatives of scientific life, but there is no doubt that the government has bodies responsible for economic recovery. This is the case under the leadership of the Ministry of National Economy, Minister Mihály Varga, and obviously when the Ministry of Justice prepares a concept about this, it awaits the comments that come to us from other parts of the government. [[10.40]] In this, I must add, Mihal Varga and I were in complete agreement when we said that we were calling for the restoration of the self-reimbursement. In fact, I have to say that NGM, the economic portfolio, has indeed played a role in the close cooperation of the Ministry of Justice with the Ministry of National Economy. Of course, we also asked the Banking Association, and I will not hide this either, because Hungary's ability to have a good banking system is a natural interest. But I would like to stress that when we settled the issue of foreign exchange creditors, it was the banks that the judicial government acted against, and we brought back about a thousand billion to the debtors. In this case, we have heard that we are on the side of the banks. That's not how I see it. I think this is a fake debate, because it is not in the interest of the banks that the government is in - when we deal with the issue of foreign exchange lenders, we proved that - but it is about the government's economic recovery task. We think that in order for the economy to work better, we need to introduce this institution. In addition, as I mentioned in my expo, a European Union standard requires the introduction of this as a positive and positive condition. I would also like to emphasise that we should not cause alarms, because the situation of the pledges does not become more burdensome. In fact, it is the lien's case that there is a relationship between him and the mortgage bank he has created, and if the pledge is to pay the debt of the commercial bank, then he is virtually, not technically, but actually cancelled his pledge. So we don't impose any burden on the pledge in addition. There will be no relationship between the mortgage bank and the pledge. I only said that to clarify that, so that there is no misunderstanding that we actually want to put the pledges in a more disadvantaged position, because there is no such thing. As for the rest, I would like to talk very briefly about two more issues. One topic is parenting. There have been a lot of comments about this, and almost everyone has touched it more than the pledge, because the pledge does indeed have believers who say that they do not want this pledge. On the other hand, we live in a democracy, and the government has taken a position that the economic recovery role of the autonomous pledge is significant and has also voted for it. Of course, there could be a different kind of pledge, but Germany's example shows that it is a functioning system. It is our responsibility, of course, to establish a regulation that can prevent abuse. The next question is parenting. Again, I have to say that in parenting, the state does not retire. When it is said that the state withdraws from social care, well, the state does not withdraw, it is not included in this legislation. This legislation states that it creates the substantive basis for a certain requirement laid down in the Fundamental Law, which is, moreover, contained in virtually lower legislation. So simply, if I may say so, it creates a substantive legal basis for a provision that exists in the Hungarian legal system. I think that, on the big average, lawsuits are basically not going to start. So let us not think that big lawsuits are going to take place in bulk, and let us not try to create an image that will result in a mass lawsuit. Today, 70 percent of the descendants, children, contribute to the maintenance of parents. But I also think that the moral requirement is that a child should take care of parenting in his old age. Just as a parent has an obligation to care for his child when he is small, the child can likewise be expected to care for the parent. That's an important point. It's still part of the legal system. The case in which they are exempted from this obligation will be fixed by us, on the one hand, and by judicial practice on the other. I find it hard to imagine what happens sometimes - not sometimes, but often enough - to throw parents into an old home and forget that they have an obligation to parents. When the Ptk. When we accepted this, we were led to believe that moral aspects should prevail, that is, legislation must be moral, morality must prevail in the law. When there is a conflict between morality and legislation, we are not talking about justice or justice. We are called the Ministry of Justice, and the actions of the Ministry of Justice must include the truth, and this is required by the implementation of the Fundamental Law. However, we are open and, of course, we will examine the amendments, we will analyse them thoroughly, and on this basis we will make the decision on what we can accept from this because it is coherent. For example, the senior official had a problem with negligence. Negligence is not a concept of civil law, but a concept of criminal law, and it is therefore not appropriate to incorporate it in the civil code. We actually brought back what was contained in the old corporate law by amending the civil code. In my view, this minimum amendment of the Ptk. will be presented after a very large, broad consultation. We are not talking about a recent amendment, but this does not mean that the Ministry of Justice is not constantly investigating the enforcement of a law. If we fail to do so, then we can rightly be called to account that the Ministry of Justice is not responding properly. But let's just hope the Curia solves a lot of things. I agree with Mr Schiffer that the Curia has an important role to play in taking decisions on a legal unit. However, I would like to point out that the best solution for both practicing lawyers and the world is not that in five or six years' time a single law decision will come, but legislation must be predictable, norm-clear, that the lawyer who is involved in the client's case can say that this is what the law says. When the legislation is not clear, we say that we do not know, and we will see when the legal unit comes. Of course, let there be a unity of law, I fully agree with that, let there be a resolution of a legal unit, but let us try to put the legislation in such a way that this issue will not be brought to light in ten years' time, what is the responsibility, but that these laws should be fair, immediately understood and made clear to everyone. Let us trust that these rules of the Ptk. will be drawn up by the court. But if we consider it necessary to act, because legal certainty demands it, then the expectation of the judicial government is that it should act and put forward its proposals for amendment. There are still some corrective proposals today, and I have noticed that there has been no comment on them, because we agree on them. What we do not agree on is a self-reimbursement or non-subsidised pledge and parenting. I believe that there is only a minimum difference between opposition parties and government parties on the other issues. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of Fidesz.]]
u2016-05-18-16	I thank you, Minister, for your response. Dear Parliament, As independent Members do not take part in today's debate, we are now continuing our work with two-minute speeches. I give the floor to Congressman András Schiffer. Here you go.
u2016-05-18-17	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister, On the one hand, thank you very much for joining the debate, because this is not customary for the members of the government. On the other hand, I would like to make it clear that I certainly did not accuse you of not doing this law preparation transparently. I merely take the liberty of screening it, and I maintain this position that, as far as the return of the self-reimbursement, this is simply in the interest of a few banking interest groups. But I'd like to add an element to what I've said. An example close to us is the example of Slovenia, where the self-reimbursement was introduced, and this practically led to the collapse of the financial system almost completely. That is why I referred to the lessons learned from the financial crisis in 2007-2008. [[10.50]] Secondly, it is very right that the judicial portfolio is constantly following the validity of the great codes, but it is precisely that the Ptk cannot be that far. in its case, to reach conclusions on the basis of which the law is amended, because it is quite simply not yet the case law. And from now on, this new Ptk will be the same fate as the previous Ptk in the last 20-25 years. And I would continue to suggest that if something had to be changed for the elderly, because of abuse of the elderly, it would be necessary to modify it on the Ptk., precisely so that they are not able to eliminate old people, if any, by profit-making bastards, who, disguised as elderly homes, are turning these people out of their assets with various free transactions and inheritance agreements. One thing is parenting, and we do not agree with that, and this means the exit of the state from the social sphere, but in addition to this debate, it should be added that these free transactions, which benefit from a social institution, an elderly care institution, should be null and void, and we say this in the Ptk., because this is quite simply an abuse of the good faith and the vulnerable situation of elderly people. Thank you very much.
u2016-05-18-18	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, As no one has applied for a two-minute speech, we will now continue with the speeches. I give the floor to Congressman Bence Tuzson, Fidesz Group.
u2016-05-18-19	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, When one listens to this debate, in addition to professional arguments, it is sometimes the feeling that some of my fellow Members consider this legislation a Rorschach test, and to look at it, which comes to their mind in a visual way, they say about it. That is why I would like us to return to the original meaning of the legislation and why such an amendment is actually necessary and why there is a need to review the civil code at times. True, the creation of the civil code was a very serious work, and both Professor Lajos Vékás and Professor Attila Harmathy, who have done a great deal of work in terms of the establishment of this civil code. But this does not mean, of course, that legislation such as the Civil Code would be eternal, and that it should not be constantly monitored, on the one hand, the process of European Union legislation, which affects Hungarian private law, the development of Hungarian civil law, and, on the other hand, the real life, what challenges there are and how these challenges can be met. In this context, it is a very important amendment, which we are talking about here, and what is perhaps the most important part of this civil code amendment is precisely a change in the system of pledges, the return of the autonomous pledge system to Hungarian law, and I do not believe that any lobbying interest would justify this, but it is simply in the interests of the Hungarian people. If they are monitoring EU legislation, they can also see exactly how the reserve requirement is going to be behind the banks and how reserve provision is going to be, say, in the case of a mortgage loan note, and it is obvious that if mortgage credit certificates have a low reserve requirement, there are always lower interest rates behind them. In other words, the banking system works in such a way that the bank not only takes out the money out of nothing, the bank is backed by refinancing, so someone finances the bank's lending, and if on the refinancing side the bank gets a cheaper loan, then it can lend cheaper on the other side, and I think that it is in the interests of the Hungarian people, the interests of Hungarian businesses, that it is in the interest of them to obtain a low loan at low prices. This is supported by this legislation: in the current system, banks will be able to obtain long-term funding cheaper on the basis of the new legislation. In the case of mortgage loans, the basic feature of all such mortgage bonds is that it provides a basis for the bank to obtain a long-term loan, i.e. a long-term loan of 5-25 years, i.e. on the refinancing side, which allows it to make long-term placements on the other side and, on the other hand, to press interest. What András Schiffer just said - it's a pity he's not in the room now - is a whole different cause and effect relationship, bringing the US banking crisis into direct connection with mortgage loans. There is a completely different system, where credit financing is simply backed by real estate, so real debt is created between the debtor and the bank by the fact that the property is the only underlying asset and the debtor is only responsible for the debt with his property. There was a completely different system there at the time, and it was calculated in terms of debt that not only, say, 40-50 percent of the value of the property was loaned, but 70-80, and even the future value was calculated at the end, and the real estate was financed at up to 120 percent. Then these debts were wrapped in bonds and as an AAA bond, so they were best-rated bonds. This was a completely irresponsible practice - a very different banking practice in Hungary - and obviously the US central bank had the responsibility of Fed, too. Under Hungarian conditions, lending can only be much more stringent, so there is no danger at all. How does this mortgage and self-reimbursement work? It seemed to me that this was not entirely clear to some of my fellow Members. This is about the fact that, from the point of view of the mortgageholder, this is actually due to the collateral system that is behind this, it does not mean any particular change. So, as far as his legal relationship is concerned, he continues to have a relationship with the bank and the property is available as collateral, so if he has paid his debt, then the mortgage right will be removed from his property. The other issue is that this gives the bank the opportunity to issue a credit letter with several mortgage rights, so a mortgage, which they can then sell later on through a mortgage bank, but on the market. This is how the bank can obtain resources, long-term resources, cheap sources, which will provide cheap lending to the business world and Hungarian people. This is how this system works, and the introduction or re-introduction of this system into Hungarian law is, on the one hand, in my view, a Hungarian interest, an essential interest, in the interests of all Hungarian people and businesses. I think that those who speak against it either do not understand the consequences of this or do not care if the Hungarian economy goes well and the Hungarian people get cheap loans. There are two other very important issues that need to be addressed from the legal side, and the legal side is to have clear and clear rules, so it is in everyone's interest. This is, for example, the responsibility of companies' officials. In this context, the current legislation is not entirely clear. Why do I say that? On the one hand, there is a dogmatic reason, which means that if there is a legal person, then the legal person's responsibility must stand alone, but the legal person's responsibility must be lifted both in economic life and at all in the interests of legal certainty in business and in contractual relations is very rarely possible. In fact, the current legislation removes this responsibility by blurring out the liability relationship between the head of the legal person and the legal person. It is therefore not entirely clear from the current regulation when, in what cases, the head of the legal person, his executive officer is responsible for the damage caused by him, in all cases, let us say, jointly and severally with the company; whether the causal link is enough or not necessary; whether there is any need for reprisability or not. Therefore, if, where appropriate, a decision is taken by the Management Board in the decision-making of a company in the case of several executives or one company, let us say, in the case of a public limited company, the liability of the person not otherwise involved or voting against the decision may be established by this current regulation. This is certainly not good, on the one hand it does not meet the needs that I believe should regulate constitutionally the liability relationship, and on the other hand it will not meet the challenges of business and will not clarify the liability system. I thought about Gergely Bárándy earlier, when he spoke to this question, he would raise the question, which is a dogmatical question, whether or not the inclusion of the concept of criminal law in the civil code is dogmatically correct. We've done this before, by the way. This would be a question of how these two areas of law can be collided in this respect, since this is a real issue. In this respect, our fellow Member Staudt raised the question of which form of willfulness is covered by this current regulation. It's just a question of dogmatism, isn't it, because in this respect, the possible and direct intent, let's say, must be considered the same if we're just talking about intent. [[11.00]] But what we are really talking about here is the inclusion in civil law of a concept which is basically a criminal law concept, but it is obvious that in this case, since previous case law has already known this regulation, there will be no problem of interpretation in this regard. So I think that the wording of the legislation in this way may otherwise be justified. And the third fundamental question, which is really about parenting, is both a matter of world view and a moral issue. The reasons put forward here, which may be excessive, mean a reduction in the responsibility of the State, are strange references, because if we were to replace these references, we could actually extend to the holding of the child, even though there is no debate on that issue. So on the question of whether the parent otherwise has an obligation to his child, and if he fails to do so, the State will otherwise enter, and the State will fulfil these obligations on a legal basis, I stress: not on a voluntary basis, but on a legal basis, there is no debate in this respect. If we reverse the same question and place this obligation on parenting, then on the same basis no objection can be raised, since in the case of a person who does not have a voluntary but otherwise legally based maintenance obligation, this issue, as a matter of secondary responsibility, cannot be raised. The obligation of reimbursement also applies only to services provided on a voluntary basis. Therefore, when a person has a statutory obligation to supply, it does not necessarily result in an extension of liability, i.e. the obligation to reimburse him. So there must be a distinction between the two in this regard, but I think that it is absolutely important to introduce this moral obligation, also at a legislative level, because indeed, as the Minister said, the harmony of morality and law must be established in this respect. With regard to liability and legal liability, it would also be possible today, by law, to bring the obligation to reimburse into the case-law, since in the event that a person has an obligation and a third party fulfils the obligation, compensation could be obtained through several steps by means of legal reasoning. Obviously, it can create a much clearer situation if this issue is already directly included in the legislation. That is why I think it is justified to include this in detail and to lay down rules on the limitation of time. I can only ask or suggest to the socialist Members that they proceed to these discussions, because this is not just about formal negotiations. This legislation was also preceded by a detailed discussion of its content. I myself was present at this meeting. It is no coincidence, for example, that this one-year obligation, which was proposed by Jobbik, was included in this legislation, was a legal reason, and a well-defined legal reason that a five-year limitation period could be too long for such a maintenance to prove it. A one-year period may be sufficient and appropriate in this respect. There are a lot of professional issues raised, in which opposition representatives can, of course, take part, in addition to the forums mentioned here by the Minister, which, by the way, results in a wide range of social and professional consultations. I think it is appropriate to participate in such a legal conciliation process, and it is unfair, at least, to refer to this consultation as a formal consultation with the Minister of Justice. This was indeed a serious content consultation, and the results of which were obtained. And the fact that, on the one hand, the legislation, the draft legislation or proposal has already come before the Parliament, is the result. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2016-05-18-20	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Mr Gergely Bárándy, MSZP Group, has applied for a speech. Congressman, you have the floor.
u2016-05-18-21	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. On the one hand, I volunteered to speak again because there were some topics I couldn't talk about. I will also be able to talk about this in a shorter manner, as my opposition fellow Members have already said a great deal of my arguments here in plenary, which is the question of pledges. I'll start from behind. My fellow Member Tuzson spoke about the discussion and the need for it, and the Minister also addressed this in his reply when he spoke in the debate. I am willing to acknowledge that a more serious professional discussion preceded the submission of this bill, but I would just like to point out that we MEPs have never been invited to these professional discussions, which is not a problem in itself, but to refer to the fact that we have already been able to see what is in this law and what amendments the judicial portfolio intends to make, and I think it is not worth referring to them. These would be worth referring to if, by the way, there was a practice of inviting policy makers from opposition parties and government parties to such consultations. This is not fashionable in Hungary today. It would be worth making fashionable, because, by the way, because a Member holds this position, he can still understand something from a professional point of view; as I consider my fellow Member Tuzson to be an excellent civil lawyer, I think he could have been involved in professional debates with substantial speeches. I can say that we also have qualified lawyers who can take part in a professional debate or even have a scientific degree, so they can be competent even at this level of debate. It would therefore be worth inviting representatives to the professional meetings as well. Perhaps the Parliament could make more informed and unanimous decisions if that were to happen. At the same time, it is also possible to maintain the method that only representatives participate in five-party negotiations. Then I think that two things should be borne in mind if you want to call the negotiation meaningful. Especially if it takes months or years of professional consultation to prevent something, it is neither elegant nor practical to send out the invitation and the professional material one or two working days before the five-partisan meeting, as we also need time to do certain professional considerations or to conduct professional consultations not only with our own experts, but also, where appropriate, with the representatives of the profession. So it is the custom of the governing parties to send out the invitation, and then in virtually one day they are waiting for an answer to whether or not we are going, and let's say, from Friday to Monday, this is not a meaningful consultation - on the one hand. On the other hand, there is no meaningful discussion that they are sending us a five - page concept about something and that we do not know the norm. The substantive discussion can be said if the text is sent, as the Ministry of Interior has otherwise done, and I would like to emphasise once again, and give us sufficient time to study the relevant text so that we can develop our own position and be prepared to go to this conciliation. I consider this to be a substantive five-party debate and discussion. These are conditions that should not exist, it is a pity to attend such a meeting. The question of how much they consider opposition arguments is: that a date or a year instead of five years, which so often is said, was the only provision or comment. As I hear from my fellow opposition Members, at the five-party consultation, they could have had much more points and critical remarks. The fact that a bill is being tabled one day after the five-partisan suggests once again that you did not wish to conduct any substantive negotiations at all. The norm they didn't send was done. One day later, it was submitted in order to be able to say in the debate that opposition arguments were taken into account, so one was accepted and all the others were not. To put it bluntly, ladies and gentlemen, I think there is a great difference between the substantive discussion and what you have done on this subject. But let's get to the point. I'd like to start with what I didn't have time for, this pledge. This is not just a matter of speaking to my fellow Member, Mr Tuzson, but I would say to the Minister, too, since he has unfortunately left, that there are two solutions, who knows what is better, who knows what the dangers are; we will try one and then try the other. It is about knowing the self-reliance institution, because it has been done before, and we know exactly what negative practical experience has emerged in this regard. [[11.10]] For example, there was a negative practical experience with the regulation of a self-reimbursement, for example, that it was used in the context of vague transactions, the purpose of which was to create a creditor position at which position they did not want to see what title, basis and how this position was created, taking advantage of the fitness of the self-reimbursement. This is, for example, a negative one that we already know was a problem when the self-reimbursement was in force. Then we also know that, at the beginning of the two thousand years, the self-reimbursement was used in mortgage lending in the context of public interest subsidies, and many people have said that the introduction of CSOK justifies the re-regulation of this, which is planned to help keep interest rates low on residential loans. However, a bigger problem is that, of course, as Minister said gracefully, there is such a professional position and such, I agree, of course, that I cannot exactly quote it now, if I remember correctly, the sentence of Ferenc Deák, but the point is that, in scientific debates, the authority is never primarily important, but the truth or justification of the arguments. This is true for scientific disputes, but when we are making a right, I think there is a difference between the opinion and the opinion. There is a difference between what we say is being made from certain professionals or even from the law firm, and there is a difference between, say, the position of the Curia representing the highest level of law enforcement and its Civic College. There was a legal meeting where Norbert Csizmadia, the Chief Advisor of the Curia, made it quite clear that the Curia's Civic College did not support this planned amendment of Ptk., and I think that this opinion should have been strong enough to push in. So, in the legislative process, there are opinions that are a priority opinion on a given subject, as far as I'm concerned. Such is the opinion of the Curia, for example, when amending a civil or criminal law or administrative law law law or - to refer back to an earlier bill - such is the opinion of the National Election Office or Election Committee, in the light of, say, the amendment of a referendum law. That is why I think that not only the criticisms of the potential lobbying interests are correct, but that it would have been better to take into account the negative opinion of the Curia's Civic College before presenting such a proposal two years after - once again - two years after the adoption of the new civil code by the Parliament, and it is not, in fact, apparent whether this new legislation would actually stand up or if it really needs to be re-established. On the subject of dogma, my fellow Member, Mr Tuzson, on the issue of responsibility: indeed, the criminal justice system and the civil law concept differ in this respect. I myself am not a civil lawyer, I am a criminal lawyer, which is why I am very careful to go into civil law dogmatical issues, because I know that there are a lot of cases in the criminal field where criminal law does indeed apply a system of civil law. To give an example - I started to think while you were speaking - such as endangering the minor, which is also not a criminal concept, since he is a child and a minor, as far as the concept of criminal law is concerned, but still uses the minor. Therefore, I did not object to it dogmatically, because in this respect I do not feel professionally competent enough to judge from a dogmatical point of view whether it is right to include negligence as a concept or intention in this regard in the Ptk. But what I can say, as a lawyer and as a representative, is that it is the reduction of responsibility, the reduction and reduction of official responsibility that I object to. In this respect, it doesn't matter whether it is well or badly expressed from a dogmatic point of view. One thing is certain: the level of responsibility is falling, and I cannot agree with that in this respect. And finally, what is perhaps one of the most important problems with this proposal is the obligation to keep a parent. Ladies and gentlemen, Whether you are religious or religious, whether you are an atheist or an atheist, I think that there is no difference in moral judgment that children should and should care for parents in their old age. It is fitting and their moral duty to repay the care they received from their parents and to raise them. That's not the subject of the debate, I think. The moral basis of this is not the subject of the debate, but that in a social rule of law, such as Hungary should be, in my ideal, at least that, the state is taking care of its citizens; regardless of the fact that this obligation of care and morality always stands up for a parent and a child; it is a matter of time before which direction it stands between them. But what we see is that the Hungarian state has been moving further and further out of the obligation to provide social benefits since the Fundamental Law was created, and wants to take responsibility for its own citizens in less and less areas. We have already indicated this in the debate on the Fundamental Law when, for example, - and to stay on the subject - the basic principle of care in old age has become a state goal. Everyone said that, oh, it's just a question of grammatical wording, the same obligation, the same level of protection will be granted by the state as a state goal when it was defined as fundamental rights. We can see that you didn't. We see that there is no, and the most critical example of this is the civil law legislation that has been tabled. It was very legitimate for my fellow Member, Mr Staudt, to suggest that it is really necessary to decide whether the state should bear such obligations or to transfer them to the citizens. On the basis of my view of the state, which is about a social rule of law, I say that, yes, there must be a duty for citizens to pay contributions, on the basis of which and by which or through which the State can provide these services, but if that is the case, the State has an obligation to provide these services. The system is now about the fact that an elderly person who is involved has paid contributions, contributions - health, social and the rest - for a lifetime, and their children and grandchildren pay these contributions in the same way, and then, when the state has such an obligation, the obligation to provide care is passed on to the children. And, you know, if Hungary were to say that this would not be a problem, it would still be a little different, but today the reality is that older parents often care for their children and grandchildren, even from retirement, not the other way around. Unfortunately, there is such poverty in Hungary today. And that's why I think there's going to be a lot of lawsuits when the kids won't be able to pay for these obligations. So, to sum up, I think that, on the basis of these problems, this proposal cannot be supported, and I would welcome the State's position to withdraw from the social rule of law and to achieve something quite different, passing on these obligations to individual citizens. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2016-05-18-22	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I'm asking if anyone else wants to take the opportunity to speak. [[No one's reporting.]] I do not see an application; the general debate is closed. [[11.20]] I will ask Mr Secretary of State if he wishes to respond to what has been said. [[For signal:]] Yeah. I give you the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2016-05-18-23	Thank you very much, Mr President, very briefly. To a large extent, the Minister has responded evasively to the questions raised, and I would just like to make a few clarifications. Mr Schiffer mentioned Slovenia's financial system. There was a completely different regulation here. The current new self-reimbursement and mortgage-law institution is not identical to the previous one, as the German sample has provided a guarantee that no double claim can be made from the debtor of the mortgage, since if he can prove that he has paid his debt, he cannot be dealt with. In relation to the public, they were public on four occasions at the Legal Society, so the expert circle, the expert country of any party can participate in them. Even in relation to contributions: it is intended to cover both health and pension contributions, pensions and health costs, and that the state would withdraw from the social sphere, this kind of amendment does not entail any reduction in public engagement. This is a special case where, let's say, in nursing homes, the pension allowance part does not cover the need to be completed for the home. The Minister also mentioned that at least 70 percent of those who are already volunteering to do so. Therefore, only in respect of the remaining part can this obligation arise if someone, let us say, deliberately does not want to contribute to these costs, and there, too, the judicial route guarantees that he cannot endanger the support of his own or minor child. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2016-05-18-24	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Next up is the 2001 LXIV on the protection of cultural heritage. General debate on the amendment of law and of certain related laws until closure. Government referral T/10525. The information document of the State Audit Office is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr L. Simon László, Secretary of State of the Prime Minister's Office, author of the item on the agenda. Secretary of State, you have the floor.
u2016-05-18-25	Thank you very much. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, A year and a half ago, in December 2015, the Parliament discussed and accepted a comprehensive amendment to the Law on the Protection of Cultural Heritage. Over the past year, we have continuously monitored the new rules on heritage protection approved at the end of 2015, and we can now say that, although finer corrections are needed, the changes approved at that time have basically stood the test of time. The government remains committed to preserving our cultural heritage, which is why it is necessary for the state to play a greater role in protecting and promoting the preservation of archaeological heritage and heritage. In 2015, we predicted that the transformations started should continue. This was another step in the tax incentives related to historic renovation and good maintenance, the modification of certain tax laws and other related laws, which in the meantime was also presented to Parliament. The amendment of the Cultural Heritage Act and certain related laws is justified by making the system and task of heritage protection even more effective, which, as my fellow Members have already heard in a number of forums, can lead to the transformation of central background institutions. In its details, the draft law before the Honourable Parliament aims to amend a total of six laws. LIII of 1994 on judicial enforcement Act LXVI of 1995 on authentic instruments, public archives and the protection of private archives. Act No CXLI of 1997 on the Real Estate Register Act LXIV of 2001 on the protection of cultural heritage. Act CXXIII of 2007 on expropriation Act II of 2012 on infringements, infringement proceedings and the system for the registration of infringements an amendment to the law is being made under the draft law that has just been submitted. In most of the elements of the draft, it aims to clarify the law on the protection of cultural heritage, to preserve archaeological heritage, to protect monuments, to preserve cultural assets, and, for us, to expand our national monuments with two more locations. The main elements of the amendment to the legislation on archaeological heritage are the following. The archeological amendment of the Law on Cultural Heritage aims primarily to clarify the law, and the new model of the provision of archaeological tasks from January 2015 is substantially affected at one point. For the sake of clarity, we define the concept of earthwork and the provision of archaeological tasks. Also conceptual correction is an amendment to the purpose of the test detection. The rules for declaring archaeological sites protected are laid down in the Act. is currently included, but it has been put into a new chapter to make the law more transparent. The need to extend the obligation to draw up preliminary archaeological documentation to all external road constructions involving groundwork so that the implementation of investments requiring serious preparation is not hindered during the construction phase by the unexpected avoidance of previously unexplored archaeological heritage. The legislator has made sure that investments involving real groundwork are covered by the amendment, and therefore bicycle roads are not covered. In addition, the amendment includes further simplification of rules on archaeological excavations prior to large investments and increasing their efficiency. In this context, investments that the government has declared to be a priority for the national economy in the regulation have been removed from large investments, since there are, in general, shorter deadlines for the designation as a priority for public authorities, which we do not want to hinder. This amendment is without prejudice to priority road construction, which remains a major investment. Perhaps the most important change is that we have strengthened the role and possibility of central coordination in order to quickly and smoothly conduct the archaeological preparation of large investments. If the accredited establishment entitled to explore does not conclude a pre-emptive exploration contract with the investor within 15 days, a statutory heritage protection body shall ensure that the archaeological task is performed. The regulation is based on a case in North Hungary last year, when the investor was only able to enter into a contract thanks to direct intervention by the Prime Minister's Office, as the institutions entitled to accredited exploration were one by one. The simplifications concerning priority transport infrastructure investments are explicitly promoted by the National Infrastructure Development Ltd. The main element of the amendment is that, in the case of priority transport developments, archeological tasks are fully provided by the Forster Centre, which may involve the institutions with the right of exploration and accredited organisations. However, this organizational scheme does not bring back either the Cultural Heritage Services or the National Heritage Centre, as archeological tasks remain with the organisations entitled to exploration, which the Forster Center is looking for - the institutions, the institutions that are entitled to the archaeological tasks are visited by the Forster Centre. This structure is only available for priority transport infrastructure investments, as it is important that EU funds be tied down as quickly as possible and used as efficiently as possible. In the system becoming a one-stop shop, the investor National Infrastructure Development Ltd. direct contact with the Forster Centre and contracts with the Centre, but archaeological exploration is carried out by the institutions entitled to explore with the involvement of accredited organisations. Other amendments to the laws relating to the protection of archaeological heritage should be known to my fellow Members. The substantial change in the protection of archaeological heritage concerns the use of the metal-searching instrument, which needs to be further tightened on the basis of the experience of the last year and a half. Metal hunting has become practically a leisure activity, whose specialty is not only the thrill of searching and finding, but also the adventure of carrying out the forbidden activity, which is already promoted by the media, ignoring the fact that the activity is subject to authorisation and can be carried out on a limited basis. In order to show the gravity of the situation, my fellow Members, I must say that metal-seeking tourism has begun, and organized groups are travelling with buses to the right areas, where they systematically rob sites and even know of cases where they buy the site themselves to find metal there. This activity not only means theft, sale, and often taking of artifacts abroad, but also damages, and often destroys, and destroys sites. [[11.30]] We can only face this phenomenon if we establish the criminal liability of the looters and bring together the authorities involved in the infringement procedure in order to protect the sites. The 2012 II. on infringements, infringement procedures and the system for the registration of infringements By amending the law, the illegal use of the metal-seeking instrument becomes an infringement and, in addition to the police, a license to fine metal-seekers on the spot is granted to the Natural Protection Watch, the municipal nature guard, the authorised manager of the forestry authority, and the field guard, and even the legal confiscation of the metal-seeking instrument. The seriousness of the problem has also been brought to our attention by the authorities. The Alert Police and the Nature Guard, also faced with metal-seekers daily, support the changes. Ladies and gentlemen, The elements of the amendment to the rules on historic protection are as follows. The changes to the protection of monuments are both linked to the current legislative change processes, creating a coherent and coherent regulation with areas and strategic directions relevant to the sector, such as construction, national, public asset management, administrative reform and other clarifications, corrections, administrative elements of the toolbox for value protection in the areas of supervision, implementation and implementation. The main problems of the amendments are conceptual clarification, strengthening the new legal institution for two-step historic protection, bringing the powers of the authorities to ministerial level the procedures for cultural goods and public-credit registers, even simplifying them, excluding an appeal against a first-degree decision by the heritage authority; continuing the review of the classification of monuments, laying the foundations and reducing the ownership burden; strengthening the supervisory tools of the heritage authority, increasing the efficiency and possibilities of public intervention and increasing the fitness of at-risk monuments. Ladies and gentlemen, In the context of the restructuring of the construction rules, it is necessary to clarify and harmonise the concepts related to the field of construction in the course of this amendment. Building regulations define the concept of built environment, including architectural heritage, architectural value, and interpret the protection of monuments as national national protection within this structure. This definition is not only important because of legislative coherence, but can also be better adapted to the categories developed in the classification of monuments if the national level appears in the concept of monument value. In addition, the definition of monument conservation interests, monument maintenance, restoration of monuments and other sectoral features is used to clarify the concepts. The removal of the disposal ban is the appropriate means of getting the monument to a careful owner. The bill allows the owner, who fails to maintain his monument well, to alienate the monument in order to get to the responsible owner who is able to maintain it. By amending the Law on the Protection of Cultural Heritage, the effectiveness of State intervention is enhanced by the introduction of new legal effects linked to the public debt of an unpaid inheritance fine: a mortgage and an additional debit ban until its existence. This serves to increase the fitness of the loaded monument, thereby creating the possibility for the responsible owner to buy it, thereby ensuring that the execution of debts that are currently barely paid and barely recovered can be more robust and efficient. In the context of this amendment concerning the strengthening of the legal institution of expropriation, the concept of conservation interest is incorporated into the regulation. This amendment also allows and provides a legal basis for the continuation of the classification of monuments, so that further regular review of the classification of monuments can be carried out. Classification can determine the range of monuments that need to be classified in a higher category because of simpler legal effects - or their outstanding value - more stringent standards. In the course of classification, protections that are not lawful can also be identified, so that the burden of owners can be significantly reduced by eliminating protection. The review of the classification of monuments was a one-off obligation under the current law, which has already been completed, this work has been done, but it is necessary to introduce the possibility of a continuous review. LXXVIII of 1997 on the development and protection of the built environment in the interest of historic protection promotes the implementation of the Government's tasks, which have been given priority in the national economy. Laws may be removed more widely than at present, in architectural design and in official procedures. The Bond. still includes derogations from national construction rules and mandatory rules in order to preserve historic values. This amendment extends this derogation to settlement arrangements. The amendment defines the concept of the customer in the process of registering the value of the monument and thus the possibility of appeal against the decision of the authority which manages the register. This is linked to the fact that, during the process of making monuments, the parties concerned will be made after the preparation of the protected declaration has been completed and they will then be able to comment. In the area of protection and the elimination of protection, it is new that the temporary protection of monuments cannot be re-ordered in order to prevent misuse of the law and the cases of the abolition of protection are also clarified in the proposal. This also strengthens legal certainty. Most of the recent monuments have been abandoned because, unfortunately, the owner of the monument has failed to fulfil his good maintenance and maintenance obligations, so the protected values of the monument have been lost or, where appropriate, completely destroyed. The maintenance of monuments is a very costly task, and the government wants to help the owners. T/10537 is before the National Assembly. Bill No. 1 including tax incentives for the maintenance and renovation of monument buildings. Monument protection tax incentives can be used by corporate tax entities if they do good maintenance or renovation work on the historic building they hold. This is expected to greatly boost investment in the protection of private monuments without imposing a significant burden on the budget, since it is not a grant but a tax base reduction. The proposal would introduce, in the personal income tax system, tax-free income generated by the renovation or good maintenance of monuments owned or managed by a private person. The amendment before us makes the procedures for the protection of heritage equivalent by only bringing legal remedies against them. These changes will also apply to pending cases. Ladies and gentlemen, Let us also say a few words in this House about the amendment of other laws relating to the protection of monuments. This law is the Bond. LIII of 1994 on judicial enforcement. Act LXVI of 1995 on public documents, public archives and the protection of private archives. Act No CXLI of 1997 on the Real Estate Register Act CXXIII of 2007 on expropriation In addition, Act II of 2012 on infringements, infringement procedures and the system for the registration of infringements. It also seeks to clarify and amend law. It is necessary to amend the law on authentic instruments, public archives and the protection of private archives because this law, the Archives Act, designates the cultural heritage authority as the authority of cultural goods. The amendment clarifies the name of the authority, thus creating a coherent and coherent regulation in the area of heritage conservation. [[11.40]] It is necessary to amend the Law on Real Estate Records as a guarantee of the obligation to the owner of the historic property which has infringed the heritage protection authority's behaviour, pending the existence of rights in favour of the Hungarian State, because of the fact that there is a clear record of an additional debit ban. Abolishing the parallelness of the two rules will facilitate a clear application of the law. The amendment of the law on expropriation is the Act. 35. It introduces a new title among the reasons for the expropriation of the monument, in accordance with its §8 of the Act: the concept of unworthy use, the state of irreparable injury and the concept of danger appears. A new regulatory element is the Bond. State burden, such as the cost of forced recovery, can be included in the price of the property to be acquired and auctioned, thus reducing the amount of financial compensation. The remuneration of the works carried out by the heritage authority instead of the debtor's cost and liability shall be taken into account as a reduction factor in the proportion of the turnover of the monument. The expropriation law currently only regulates, in the case of expropriation necessary to eliminate environmental damage, that, in order to avoid double payment, the compensation amount should be reduced by the value of the value-added work carried out by the State, municipality or bodies requesting expropriation on the basis of legislation for the cost of compensation and not reimbursed elsewhere. In addition to the conservation aspects, the Ministry of Justice proposed that this case be extended to all the cases of expropriation for protection covered by the expropriation law, so this proposal contains this extended scope of regulation. The draft text on the amendment of the expropriation law was therefore drawn up by the Ministry of Justice. Ladies and gentlemen, Let us also say a few words about changes to cultural goods. The amendments to the regulation on cultural goods are of a technical nature in particular. Smaller conceptual and regulatory clarifications are being made. It is in the State's fundamental interest to prevent cultural objects declared protected from the public authority's sights, to ensure that data on protected cultural objects seized during enforcement are officially registered and to conduct the procedure for declaring seized and suitable cultural objects protected by the public authority. The above changes are designed to remedy the problems that arise in the application of the law, which ensure coherent and clear regulation. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, let us say a few words about the changes affecting national memorials. The amendment proposes extending the scope of our national memorial sites, declaring two new sites, the Széchenyi Castle Ensemble of Nagycenk and the Castle of Szigetvár as a national memorial place. István Széchenyi, the 225th anniversary of his greatest Hungarian birth, is a recognition worthy of his outstanding importance to the Széchenyi Castle ensemble in Nagycenk, and to the place of the heroic struggle of Miklós Zrínyi and the castle protectors in Szigetvár 450 years ago, to qualify the castles in Szigetvár as a national memorial. The Széchenyi Castle Ensemble of Nagycenk is inseparable from the first programming personality of the Hungarian bourgeois transformation and national modernisation, the largest Hungarian, Count István Széchenyi. So I guess I don't have to explain in more detail your qualification as a national memorial place here. In the same way, in the very exciting struggle of identity that is taking place today, I do not need to give a particularly detailed explanation here in Parliament of the significance of the 1566 siege in Szigetvár, the heroism of Miklós Zrínyi and the Hungarian and Croatian soldiers fighting with it, the historical weight and significance of this. So I would like to ask my fellow Members to support the designation of these two monuments of high value as a national monument. Finally, some other minor changes. The legislative amendment creates coherent and coherent regulation with areas relevant to the sector: construction, national, state asset management, reform of administrative procedures, and I have already mentioned these. A further objective is that the draft law, in line with the government's bureaucracy reduction programme, serves even more transparent regulation, the facilitation of the procedure, thereby speeding up bureaucracy. The exclusion of an appeal against a first instance decision taken by the heritage authority is in line with the reduction of administrative red tape, which is intended to gradually introduce a new general administrative order by removing certain administrative obligations. The draft takes into account the government's position on enforcing the deregulation of the laws and the content of the laws, as it proposes to establish fundamental rights and obligations pursuant to Article I (3) of the Fundamental Law and, on the basis of the law on legislation, to determine the essential guarantees relating to the achievement of the fundamental legal institutions and the regulatory objective. Deregulation requirements are enforced by the bill by standardising the concept of the subject at the same level. The bill standardises the concept of the subject and at the same time repeals almost twenty provisions. In doing so, the draft meets the government's expectations of enforcing the deregulation of the content of the legislation. In view of this, I would ask my fellow Members in Parliament to support the bill before you. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of Fidesz.]]
u2016-05-18-26	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Before we continue our work, the Parliament must decide on a meeting matter. Vice-President István Hiller wishes to speak during today's general debate. In the event of opposition by the representatives of the Vice-President, the sitting may be held in the course of further negotiations of a separate motion only if the Parliament agrees to do so. I therefore ask the Honourable Parliament if it agrees that Vice-President István Hiller will be able to lead the Parliament during the further negotiations on the motion. Please vote by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] Thank you very much. I declare that the visible majority of Parliament has accepted my motion. Dear Parliament, Now we're going to have keynote speeches. I give the floor to Mr Simon Róbert Balázs, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2016-05-18-27	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, I think we all agree that our cultural heritage is an irreplaceable, unique and unrenewable source of our country's past and present, an integral component of national and universal culture. In order to create the legal conditions for the exploration, scientific processing, preservation, protection, sustainable use and public domain of cultural heritage accumulated throughout national and universal history, the National Assembly established the 2001 LXIV on the protection of cultural heritage. A comprehensive amendment to the Act was made in December 2015. Following the amendment of the Act, the related implementing regulations entered into force on 12 March 2015, reflecting a strategic shift in the protection of archaeological and historical values, as they better coordinate the interests of the economy, owners and heritage conservation. The main changes in the field of archaeological heritage conservation are strengthening the principle of territoriality, accreditation of institutions eligible for exploration, introduction of differentiated, maximized public prices in the provision of archaeological tasks, and tightening the use of metal detection detectors, and the introduction of a category of registered monument values in the field of historic protection in order to simplify them, as well as the elimination of unnecessary burdens and restrictions. In my opinion, the most important task ahead of us is the introduction of new incentives and services that make the preservation of buildings more attractive to the owners, trustees, users and investors of monuments. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Parliament, The T/10525 we have just discussed. Thus, the amendment contained in the legislative proposal No.3 clarifies, corrects the regulation by reviewing the experience of the past more than a year, and makes it consistent with changes in the strategic decisions decided by the government, such as simplification of the construction process, reduction of red tape, simplification of administrative procedures or increase legal certainty. The draft law aims to amend six laws in total, and I am not going to list them now, as Mr Secretary of State has just done so. In most of the elements of the draft, it aims to clarify the law on the protection of cultural heritage, to preserve archaeological heritage, to protect monuments, to preserve cultural property, and, above all, to expand our national monuments with two new locations. Firstly, I will briefly talk about the elements of the amendment to the legislation on archaeological heritage. The archeological amendment to the Law on the Protection of Cultural Heritage primarily seeks to clarify the law, and the new model of the provision of archaeological tasks from January 2015 is substantially affected only at one point. The main element of the simplification of priority transport infrastructure investments is that, in the case of priority transport developments, archeological tasks are fully provided by the Forster Centre, which may involve exploratory institutions and accredited organisations. [[11.50]] The substantial change in the protection of archaeological heritage concerns the use of the metal-searching instrument, which needs to be further tightened on the basis of the experience of the last year and a half. Here are some thoughts on the elements of the amendment to the legislation on the protection of monuments. On the one hand, the amendment is linked to the current regulatory and amendment processes, creating a coherent and coherent regulation with areas of importance to the sector such as construction, the management of national state assets or the reform of administrative procedures, and on the other hand clarification and corrections resulting from the application of the law strengthen the administrative and administrative elements of the value protection toolkit in the areas of supervision, implementation and implementation. This amendment allows and provides legal basis for the continuation of the classification of monuments, i.e. the possibility to carry out a further regular review of the classification of monuments. The review of the classification of monuments was a one-off obligation under the current law, which has already been completed, but it is necessary to introduce the possibility of a continuous review. As I mentioned earlier, the material we are discussing contains, in addition to the cultural heritage law, amendments and clarification of other laws related to the protection of monuments. Thus, the 1995 LXVI on public documents, public archives and the protection of private archives. It is necessary to amend law because the Archives Act designates the cultural heritage authority as the authority of cultural assets, the amendment clarifies the name of the authority, thus creating a coherent and coherent regulation with regard to the area of heritage conservation. The other is CXLI 1997 on the real estate register. As a guarantee of the obligation of the heritage authority to the owner of the historic property which has certified the infringement, it is necessary to amend this law because of the clear recordability of the fact of a further load ban until the rights registered in favour of the Hungarian State are maintained, and the elimination of the parallelity of the two rules will help to ensure a clear application of the law. The 2007 CXXIII on expropriation The purpose of the amendment to the Act is to introduce a new title among the reasons for the expropriation of the monument, the notion of unworthy use, the state of irreparable injury and the concept of danger appears here. Finally, changes to national memorial sites. The amendment proposes to extend the scope of our national memorial sites, to declare two new sites, the Széchenyi Castle Ensemble of Nagycenk and the Castle of Szigetvár a national memorial place. As a member of the parliament of Győr-Moson-Sopron county, I am pleased to point out that it is worthy of its importance to honor the 225th anniversary of the birth of Count István Széchenyi, the largest Hungarian, to declare the Széchenyi Castle ensemble as a national memorial place. This memorial is not only related to a historical family and its most significant representative, but also represents the Reform Age, which is outstanding and still decisive in the rise of the nation, through the presentation of its greatest Hungarian way of life, spiritual aspirations and practical works. Miklós Zrínyi and the soldiers who fought with him, and the Castle of Szigetvár is the site of an outstanding historical event in order to protect the independence of our country and our nation, which is of paramount importance to Hungarian integration, which is why it should be added to the list of national memorial sites. Ladies and gentlemen, Based on all this, as the lead speaker of the Fidesz faction, our faction will support the bill. I'm asking you to do the same. Mr President, thank you for the floor. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-05-18-28	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr István Hiller, Vice-President of the House, lead speaker of the MSZP Group. Mr. Vice President.
u2016-05-18-29	Mr President, Congresswoman and Congressman Lords! Dear Secretary of State, The presentation should be divided into two parts. In the first part, I will talk about where there is no debate between us, and I can even say that I find in it thoughts that I think are particularly forward-looking, correct and useful for the good of the country. This is an additional part from national memorial sites. There could be a longer mention of historical events, the location or part of which is the area or place to be classified as two now national monuments, but since there is a complete consensus between us and I think that we are thinking very similarly about the sites and the events that have taken place there, I consider it unnecessary to waste time. [[Sándor Lezsák, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] Nevertheless, it should be said that Nagycenk, Count István Széchenyi and his family's residence, his estate centre, was a defining area of political activity. It is worth not only because of the anniversary, which is really celebrated everywhere in the world where Hungarians live, and that is what is right to think; the entire oeuvre that Széchenyi put down, the Széchenyi Castle in Nagycenk, the exhibition or exhibition showing his activity, at all, everything we want to think about on his birthday anniversary will be properly represented when we assign the Nagycenk castle to our national memorial sites. Similarly, the memory of Szigetvár and Miklós Zrínyi was not because of the update, but simply because of the Hungarian national consciousness, the real defining moments, the days and weeks of our identity, which Zrínyi and the people who fought with it fulfilled in 1566 for the Hungarians as a whole. Obviously, historical memory is based not only on resources, but also on ideas that later became part of the legendary, which indicate this feat, resistance, self-sacrifice in the struggle for the country and for the country as a whole. That it is also an anniversary, and that the government announced a Szigetvár and Miklós Zrínyi commemorative year in 2016 on this anniversary, I fully agree with that, I think it is a good thing. It is not easy to celebrate it in a dignified way, but since this series of celebrations is not the subject of the present proposal, I suggest that we discuss this on another occasion. Here it is worth listening to the thoughts of the poet and general, a late descendant of Miklós Zrinyi, who highlighted the heroic act of your predecessor in the island, and I must say that he did this for a reason, and he was right. However, what happened in Szigetvár in 1566, the nation as a whole, in national memory and to this day as a rightful feat, is an example with which every young Hungarian and adult deserves to know and identify, so the classification as a national memorial in this respect, as well. There is also a surprising part that we agree with - it will not be much now - for example, with technical amendments that could be called clarification, or permanent additions, such as a metal detector fake tourism, which is relatively detailed in the presentation of the Secretary of State, which is indeed a threat to our common good. It is therefore right for the State to take action in this regard. Obviously, with the development of technology and the change of thinking at all times, legislation must keep up, so that is the right thing to do. [[12.00]] What is, in substance, the other half of the law, and - and I say it for non-spread reasons - affects the essential part of it, there is a strong debate between us. I see a direction in one direction, I would call this current amendment a step, the history of which can be broadly felt throughout the government's activities from the second half of 2010. I have to say that there is, of course, inconsistencies in this, because in the organization of institutions, the conservation of monuments and the protection of heritage, it is very clear that you did not have a decision and you do not have a clear and clear political decision, but where you create an institution, where you amend it, where your own established institution is torn apart and virtually destroyed, but I consider this to be a variety of manifestations of a current concept - it is certain that Hungarian heritage protection is of no use. How fortunate it would be if we were able, through governments, to create a system of institutions that, by the way, treats our common treasures, heritage protection, historic protection, and, above all, would be the difference between us in assessing its activities! Since we are in the middle of the cycle starting in 2014, three-quarters of a trip, don't take a target photograph, hoping and working that this will only take a quarter of a time, I would like to present an opinion on the directions, but we will definitely say and bring the final result in 2018. I see a fight, as a whole, in the bill, which - I repeat once again - is not only reflected in this amendment, but is clearly reflected in this amendment. One of the two opponents is the economic side of the economy, for the sake of simplicity we call investors; we all know that it is not only investors, but also in governments and governments, wallets and interests that represent economic interests represent one of the parties. On the other hand, the protection of monuments, the protection of heritage, the kind of cultural professional company, which, by definition, tries to protect our cultural heritage, which is not yet known, but has not yet been discovered, with dedication and its own interests, to take the necessary steps to protect our already known cultural heritage. It was not the current government, nor the former government, nor the specialty of the previous governments before or before us, that the conflict of these two important interests could be found during the period of the current government. At times, balance has been maintained, and at times this balance seems to be increasingly disturbed. In this amendment, I see this power imbalance, not as a first sign, but as a strengthening direction. I suggest that we stop discussing whether the Buda Castle should be renewed, before we cause a particular political debate, the one who doesn't want to fix it, sees the Buda Castle in honour, is stupid. Three quarters of a century after the destruction of World War II, it is necessary to renew it in the original beauty of the Buda Castle, preferably with the most thorough professional work. This is not the debate between us, the political function of the debate between us, but since this is not the subject of this proposal, I would just like to make it clear that I am not one of them, and that our opinion is not in the line that does not want to see, maintain or take action in the best possible state of the country's cultural assets. But here, please, it's not really government philosophy, but very powerful economic interests that dictate the proposal that we have ahead of us. This economic interest can be felt by the fact that, if an investment is planned and then started, it will be carried out as quickly as possible, in line with the economic interest alone, preferably by overshadowing or negling all other interests, and with as much profit as possible to them. It's real. In this interesting way, heritage conservation and archaeology play a specific role, since let us be honest that we do not know all the archaeological sites to be explored, our country is not mapped to know what is under each square metre - as there are very few countries - so the possibility that if an investment is made, we already know what is there, so that it can be prepared in time is unrealistic. We don't know that. Obviously, as an archaeological, cultural property-rich area, a country, we have, in case of investment, we need to spend time on this, and I would like to sum up my opinion on the fact that over the years we have managed to cross that normal line as a result of various legislative amendments, where, even in the case of such investments, heritage protection, archaeology security, guaranteeing quality exploration, can carry out its work. In the case of the previous amendment of the law, he was on his limit, and in this amendment he crossed it. I cannot judge, but I do not want to explain the advantages for a government, if it upsets the balance of power between the two interests mentioned above, or if it is not able to hold on to one of them - here I see the submission to economic interests to the detriment of the protection of heritage. I am sure that there would be representatives committed to other areas, who, if this balance of power had been reversed in the other direction, happen to be against economic investment, they would have spoken - I have often heard such opinions in the past, during my government mandates. But the status quo, the bilanza, should have been kept, because as a result of the amendment of the law, they will not be able, if necessary, to preserve our cultural heritage assets, which you consider important, by adopting the amendment of the law. It is a generality, as in the vast majority of the laws, but this amendment goes beyond what has already been approached in recent years through their legislative amendments, but now it is for the benefit of the economic interest, the investor's interest. Therefore, we fully agree with that part of the amendment of the law on national memorial sites, not with the essential part of it, with the banning of heritage protection. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[12.10]]
u2016-05-18-30	Thank you, Vice President Hiller. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman László Földi, representative of the Christian Democratic People's Party.
u2016-05-18-31	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, CHAPTER XX The century was a century of dispersal in Hungary, and our human and material possessions were lost and scattered around the world. The damage is invaluable. This happened because sometimes the nation couldn't, and sometimes it didn't want to take proper care of the values left to it as an inheritance. He had to endure aliens destroying or abducting them, but sometimes he threw his treasures on fire himself. That had to be changed. Since 2010, the government has taken bold steps in many areas to restore the self-determination of Hungarians. The government and the Fidesz-KDNP fraction are working to re-invent and honor our possessions with respect and intelligence. The era of dispersal and squandering has been replaced and replaced by the age of collection and growth in the context of rationalization. This is what the motion before us, the 2001 LXIV on the protection of cultural heritage, serves. T/10525 amending Act T/10525 and certain related laws Submitted by the European Parliament and the Council on behalf of the European Economic and Social Committee. I would like to highlight one or two of these things. Obviously, Mr State Secretary, the people before me have noted a number of things about the law, and I would like to highlight the reduction of bureaucracy, which serves to amend legislation that is coherent and compatible with the area of heritage conservation, and to remove the possibility of parallel action. The amendment also includes taking into account experience to further simplify and strengthen the coordination of the rules of archaeological heritage, archaeological excavations prior to large investments. According to the experience gained in the application of the law of the previous bill, which has passed since the law was amended, a significant part of the amendment contains clarifications. Another objective is to make the amendment even more transparent, to facilitate procedures, thereby speeding up, to reduce red tape and to exclude an appeal against the first instance decision taken by the heritage authority, with the removal of certain administrative obligations, to gradually introduce a new general administrative order. I was very pleased to read the section of this draft on national memorial sites, since Nagycenk, Szigetvár, Széchenyi are included in this fantastic environment, becoming a national memorial place, and indeed it serves the outstanding territory of Hungarians. Ladies and gentlemen, The preservation of cultural goods, their smart management and care are our joint task, national authority, the sacred duty of heirs. They carry the key to the survival of Hungarians, they are encoded by our ancestors, thus sending a message from the past to the present, that the future is only for the community that knows and cares for its past. We have to be proud and worthy of it. The KDNP fraction supports the adoption of the draft law, and we ask our fellow Members to do so. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-05-18-32	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to Mrs Loránt Hegedűs, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group.
u2016-05-18-33	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, It seems to me that the speakers before me, so all the parliamentary groups, in essence, agree fully on the expansion of national memorial sites, and I can even say on behalf of my group that the whole group supports this enlargement, and I particularly celebrate the inclusion of these points into national memorial sites. At the same time, I cannot hide my critical remarks, which I have already made in relation to my previous speeches, when we amended this law, I had to tell you about the laws of the Orbán government which have been typical of our heritage protection for the last six years. So I have the same critical remarks that I said earlier in relation to previous legislative proposals, and in summary, let me give you a few points. We did not support or support the rough reduction of the possibility of archaeological exploration and the acceleration of certain official procedures in connection with large investments and investments of some national importance. We could not support the expansion of what you call a cover-up, because our past must not be hidden, but revealed. In relation to the above mentioned point, we have also refused to limit the time of exploration to 30 days, regardless of the weather. But we also had a problem with reducing the institutional background, protesting against the abolition of the Memorial Protection Office and then the destruction of the Cultural Heritage Office and the destruction of this entire administration system. We also did not support archaeology, to return for a sentence, to participate in explorations in addition to accredited institutions, or to grant the possibility of changing functions due to economic aspects in the case of certain monuments. This is, therefore, our opinion on past, previous legislative proposals, and I must say that the same line, which was also reflected in the previous legislative proposals or in the context of legislative amendments, is what continues and which is reflected in the current bill. But I am obliged to mention one more thing here, in front of the House, and this has been said earlier, that the revision of the protection of monuments has been carried out at the end of last year, and that in the case of more than 80 real estates, MVM has abolished the protection of monuments - this is 4/2016. MVM Regulation - and now I have to, even to show the Orbán government's policy and true spirit of monuments in a dignified or sufficiently graphic manner, a few elements from this MVM regulation. So in what cases did the Ministry terminate or terminate immunity? For example - for example, let me do one or two things in an exemplary manner - the historic protection of many folk houses has ceased, and the protection of the basic walls of a round church has ceased. Why do we usually care about round churches in the Carpathian Basin? Because they prove that Hungarians came to the Carpathian Basin as Christians, so we knew Christianity, and we also had a constructive culture about it. Therefore, they are particularly painful and I think they should be reviewed. The protection of a lot of windmills, landscape houses, cantors, the protection of the ruins of the St. Michael's Chapel in downtown Budapest has ceased. The historic protection of a synagogue, the protection of a Trinity pillar, and then the historic protection of, say, a blacksmith's workshop has ceased, because it cannot be found, it has not been found when they wanted to review it. These explanations - of course, I know that the law required you to write them - are astounding, for example, that the monument-protected property or movable property cannot be found, and that it does not meet the purpose of promoting monuments. [[12.20]] Then I ask the question: How was it once declared so? The monument value was destroyed or irreparably lost and so on. Then, for example, it is particularly interesting when it is written that after a plot formation, the statue of St. John of Nepomuki, somewhere, was destroyed. Don't be angry. Theodolith is not a copper cannon. I don't know how an otherwise historic statue can be destroyed in connection with a plot design. But one of the strangest things, and let me mention this, is that for some inexplicable reason, the Castle of Vajdahunyad, the Museum of Agriculture, the chapel and, in general, the conservation of the land of the historical building group will cease. I find that difficult to understand, even because what you write here is only an explanation that it does not correspond to the purpose of making a monument. This is the part of the City Park that's inside the water ditch. In fact, why can't we maintain the protection of monuments in this regard? I would be very happy if Mr Secretary of State could help me explain this, even because I asked for a detailed reply in writing in order to give me concrete reasons why these monuments have ceased to be protected. But nothing happened. Let me mention one more thing. The protection of a reformed bell leg, pastor's house, press house, granary, and so on, and once again, the protection of a Pauline church ruin. In any case, in total 86 such units ceased to be protected from monuments. One wonders where the authority was when these property under historic protection was so irreparably damaged that it had to be removed. How many inspections have been carried out in the past, what calls have been made to owners, what obligations, what fines have been imposed by the authority? Oh, there's no authority anymore, because you guys are so broken down, you've narrowed down this frame so much that there's no man to check these monuments? I believe that there is nothing more typical than this MVM regulation to illustrate the policy of the Orbán government on the protection of cultural heritage. You simplify your own business in that you do not protect monuments with due care wherever possible, because of economic sustainability, you also force the change of function and the change of ownership. In Hungarian, as has been said here earlier, the interests of investors are being promoted. Of course, these investors may disguise themselves as state investors, some relatives. We know that the policy of the Orbán government is quite familiar with the rogue, brother-in-law, comic relationship system. However, I believe that they are causing significant damage to Hungarian heritage protection overall. A few more thoughts - not to waste too much of Mr. Secretary of State's precious time - which I think support from a section of the bill that I have said. On the one hand, for example, it also applies to pending cases. What are the pending cases of an order of magnitude which may require that a law be amended to do so? I can't help but think about the reconstruction of the Castle, but of course, the Liget may come up, it may come up, or the issue of the last-built canal monument may arise in this sense. Beyond that, the 36th. §) The protection will not apply to the whole of the historical gardens, but only its protected parts will not be eliminated. I'm moving on to 43. According to §, it will be possible to partially break down or rebuild the protected monument value, and certain energy upgrades should not cause irreparable damage, it is even okay, but they will greatly increase the possibility of dismantling if, for example, this is necessary for the worthy use. I do not think that legally it is a particularly accurate concept to use it in a worthy way. Just like the 23rd. As regards the enforcement of the historic interest in the section of the section, it is possible to derogate from OTEK, HÉS, because of certain aspects of public interest. Well, with all due respect, what is more public interest than the OTEK itself, or the local construction code, which is created by a community not in short, but in a very long process? Then 23/E. According to §, if an accredited institution refuses to conclude a contract with an investor in connection with certain exploration, then the designated heritage protection body shall provide for archaeological exploration with immediate effect. The purpose and method of trial detection is the 21. §) will no longer include the preparation of preliminary archaeological documentation. In addition, one more clarification: in connection with the promotion of monuments, customers are expanded, but at the same time the possibility of scientific preparation for the promotion of monuments is narrowed down, and so on. I could put it a little longer, but I promised Mr. Secretary that I would try to put our opinions together. Overall, I must say that the bill is integrated into the policy that we have rejected, which I have already mentioned. It creates additional opportunities for investors and investors that do not serve the protection of Hungarian cultural heritage, so we cannot accept this bill. Thank you so much for listening.
u2016-05-18-34	Thank you, notary. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. No independent Member has applied for a speech. We now have two-minute speeches. I don't see a signal here. He did not apply for any further speeches. I will ask if anyone else wishes to take the opportunity to speak. [[There's no candidate.]] No further comments were made and the general debate is therefore closed. I give the floor to the rapporteur, Mr L. Simon László, State Secretary, who clearly wishes to respond to what has been said in the debate.
u2016-05-18-35	Thank you very much. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Thank you very much for the preparation and comments of my fellow Members in the debate. If I understood correctly, then the pro-government factions supported the bill, and there were only two factions from the opposition, and the LMP did not participate in the debate. My fellow Member, István Hiller, basically agreed with one part of the law. All I would like to say is that, thanking you for what you said about the renovation of the Buda Castle, and appreciating these thoughts, indicating that clearly what you meant meant meant was basically the palace, if I understood correctly, and because we are going to the palace for cultural functions, this debate really is not worth continuing here. But there's only one thing I want to respond to. My fellow Member said that heritage protection will yield to the economic side and to the investor side, and that we will not succeed in keeping the status quo that has been characteristic for a long time. That is not how I see it, honourable Member. I think that rational steps are needed that do not serve the interests of the investor side, but simply put the everyday life of archaeological exploration within a normal framework. I referred to a specific example of the Salgótarján case. By the way, from similar considerations at the time, I presume that the Cultural Heritage Services were set up for similar reasons. There is a problem here that there is a museum with accredited archaeological activities in vain. We have kept what we promised, and this bill does not change the fact that we will not undermine the collection circle of the regionally competent museum or its capacity to perform tasks, so that is still the case. [[12.30]] However, we have to face the problem of public authorities coming here, public authorities going there, accreditation here, accreditation there, unfortunately there are situations where the investor simply cannot agree with the specific museum which has the right to explore in the area, the negotiation may take months. If you like it, this is to prevent a business negotiation that could take months to build a road or any investment. So this is about speeding up, which doesn't mean that archaeological interests are being damaged, it's just that if the investor can't agree with the regionally competent museum within x time, then the Forster Center will take over from him, and then the Forster Center will agree with other accredited institutions. So we simply had to move in a rational direction. I don't think that's gonna hurt the interests of heritage conservation in any way, or that heritage protection is gonna surrender to the investor side. In any case, I do not think that it is sensible to constantly confront economic interests, infrastructure developments and cultural interests or the interests of heritage conservation. It is in our interest that, on the one hand, archaeological findings in Hungary, which are in the ground, should not be damaged, and, on the other hand, what we can discover and show, we process them scientifically in museums, and on the third, we do this work professionally, taking into account national cultural interests. I think these three are in line with the law. And my fellow Member did not say any specifics about what he saw this submission in, only said such political slogans, so I cannot agree with his suggestion. I would also like to thank Mrs Loránt Hegedűs for her contribution. What I would like to say is that, on the one hand, the Member has received the answer from Minister Lázár, on the other hand, on the specific point made in connection with the written question on Vajdahunyadvár. [[On the sign of Mrs. Loránt Violin:]] So you have received the reply from the congresswoman, but I can offer you this, as this is not the subject of this law, which you have spoken about, that we can inform the congresswoman about any specific deletion, and that we can show the documentation itself, the historical documentation, to the congresswoman, that she can look into the historical documentation. So you have to believe that our colleagues are doing very thorough work when it comes to removing monument value from the historical register by decree. In the event that something is included in the regulation during the six-monthly review, there is a very good reason. It is not in our interest to lose monuments, but, unfortunately, we have to face the fact that the state's assets are not effective enough, that we have just started with this bill and the provision of tax incentives. So unfortunately, many monuments have been destroyed in the last two and a half decades, and if they have been destroyed, lost, or if their professional renovation cannot be completed, then it is appropriate to remove them from the historical circle. But once again, the congresswoman does not have to ask in the form of a written question. If you contact me, I will be happy to be at your disposal, and in the past period, in connection with any monuments entered in the decree of the Prime Minister's Office during my term of office, or with the previous monuments on the list of cancellations, I can give the congresswoman information to reassure her that our colleagues are doing very decent and thorough work. But I do not want to discuss this in more detail, because this is not the subject of the bill, which is not the subject of the bill. If you think it is worth continuing a political polemic here in this House, even in a committee meeting about the situation and state of the Hungarian monuments, then I will stand open to this, and I will be happy to talk to or talk to the congresswoman about it; it is not necessarily necessary within the framework of the House, but also in my office. Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I think it will make sense for me to respond to even more in the debate later on in the Commission and in the final debate, that is all I wanted to say. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-05-18-36	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, There will be a general debate on the bill to amend certain laws concerning spatial planning until closure. The government referral is T/10531. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr Nándor Csepreghy, Secretary of State of the Prime Minister's Office, rapporteur of the item on the agenda, within a 30-minute time frame. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2016-05-18-37	Mr President, Honourable Members, Thank you very much for the floor. The aim of spatial planning is to create a harmonious structure in Hungary, while preserving our outstanding natural and cultural heritage, in line with economic interests, with a view to development, specifying the long-term development of the country and its regions. As you know, the Hungarian institutional system of spatial planning was established in 1996 by the adoption of the Regional Development and Regional Planning Act. During the subsequent period, the plan for spatial planning of the national, Balaton's Most High Resort and Budapest's agglomeration priority areas was adopted by law, the waterfront rehabilitation study plans in Balaton by ministerial decree, and later each county municipality prepared its own county spatial planning plan. By evaluating the experience of spatial planning over the past nearly twenty years, taking into account the new municipal law that has been passed in the meantime and the huge development in spatial information, the government decided in 2015 that the spatial planning system and spatial planning plans should be renewed. We intend to implement the government's decision in two steps. At the first stage, to which this bill is linked, we want to change the way the plans are being prepared, to extend the competence of the county plans and to prepare for the simplification of the Balaton plan system. In the spirit of cutting red tape and legal certainty, this bill provides a basis for the revision of spatial planning plans in a new planning system, which will be due at the second stage in 2017. The bill contains amendments to four laws, namely the law on spatial development and spatial planning, the national spatial planning plan and the law on the two priority areas, namely the Balaton Highest Holiday Region and the Spatial Planning of the Budapest agglomeration. The proposals for the amendment of the laws were drawn up in the framework of a working group involving renowned designers and chief architects of county municipalities, and the proposals were also discussed with the national association of Hungarian municipalities, the Hungarian Architect Chamber, the Balaton Development Council and the county government offices. The bill contains the following in detail. In the course of the amendment of the Land Development and Land Planning Act, we want to standardise the review of the national, priority and county spatial planning plans so that they need to be prepared at the same time, every seven years, in line with the development and planning cycles of the European Union. The reason for this is that spatial planning plans at different levels are drawn up at a distance in time, and their consistency is limited in time. The preparation of the plans at the same time therefore serves legal certainty and predictability. The amendment to this Act also includes two minor amendments. One of these reduces the time limit for the administration of the spatial planning authority procedure to verify consistency and the other also shortens the time limit for the coordination of spatial planning plans. The latter can be achieved thanks to the development of IT and can save both the cost and the time to be mailed through digital consultation. Detailed rules for negotiations will be governed by government regulations. During the modification of the spatial planning plan of the Balaton Highlighted Resort, it is of particular importance for the government to preserve the integrity of the coastal lane. With this objective in mind, the amendment proposal contains two very important elements. The first aims to simplify, clarify and improve the applicability of the Balaton design system. Among the plans of the Balaton Act and the settlement of coastal settlements were the waterside rehabilitation study plans, which regulate the use of coastal areas in almost exaggerating detail. [[12.40]] These study plans were adopted by Ministerial Decree 2004-2006. Its decisions are either incorporated into the plans already in the settlement, or they contain decisions corresponding to the spirit of that time, which are past, and the municipalities cannot identify with them. It is necessary to modify these study plans, which are cumbersome, time prolonged and, in many cases, increase bureaucracy, so it is a burden on the public administration, to implement the changing local government vision. The government has therefore decided that waterside rehabilitation study plans should be removed from the design system in such a way that their natural and built environmental and defence concepts do not cease. The preparation of the implementation of the study plans is included in this bill, but their final implementation can only be carried out in parallel with the revision of the Balaton Act, with the main defence decisions of the study plans being incorporated into the law, so the level of protection cannot be reduced. However, in the case of investments that are of some national importance, we are already allowing the decisions of the waterside rehabilitation study plans not to be hindered if they do not meet other legal requirements. Of course, this concession is exempt only from the municipal plans concerned, but not from the authorisation of the investment. The requirements for the lack of integration of the coastal band and the protection of the green area provided for in the Lake Balaton Act should be ensured even for these investments. The most important element of the change to the national spatial planning plan is the extension of the regulatory autonomy of county municipalities. So far, county spatial planning plans have not been able to make a separate mandatory decision on the use of land for the municipalities, but only to convey the decisions of the national spatial planning plan to the municipalities. The changed municipal system, on the other hand, now allows us to resolve this strict planning rule. Accordingly, it is recommended that county authorities be authorised to create separate, individually defined zones that meet their specific territorial conditions and development opportunities. Of course, these zones and rules should only apply to the definition of land use and should not unduly put any municipalities at a disadvantage. A multi-group consultation with the Minister responsible for spatial planning will therefore be recorded in the law. The national spatial planning plan also includes a minor amendment to the designation of forest areas in the deployment plan. The reason for this is that some municipalities are forced to designate areas as forests because of strict rules, which are not currently forests, and even in the long term, it is not realistic to plant forests there. Of course, this does not jeopardise the achievement of the target of 27 per cent of Hungary's forest frying. The amendment to the agglomeration spatial planning plan in Budapest concerns the deadline for the revision of the plan. Since this has been laid down uniformly in the Land Development and Land Planning Act, it is unnecessary to fix it here. Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, In accordance with the Government's decision, the bureaucracy reduction of the spatial planning and planning system, simplification and the elimination of legal uncertainty will be met by this bill and will provide sufficient ground for a modern review of the spatial planning plans in 2017. On behalf of the Government, I call on Members to support this proposal. Thank you, Mr. President. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2016-05-18-38	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. First, I give the floor to Mr Sándor Hadházy, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2016-05-18-39	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, The proposal before us aims at strengthening legal certainty and simplifying the spatial planning system, reducing bureaucracy and reducing administrative burdens by ensuring consistency between spatial planning plans. Furthermore, the aim is to bring spatial development and spatial planning together in order to ensure that development aspects and the territorial positioning of certain investments are sufficiently justified. The bill proposes to amend four laws on spatial planning, such as the Act on territorial development and spatial planning, which was published in the Official Journal of the European Union of the 21st of 1996. Act CXII of 2000 on the Law on the Regional Planning of the Highest Holiday Region of Lake Balaton. Act on the National Land Planning Plan Act and the agglomeration Spatial Planning Plan of Budapest. I would like to say in advance that the proposals for the amendment of laws have been drawn up in the framework of professional working groups, which involved renowned designers and county municipal chief architects. The proposals were also discussed with the National Association of County Local Governments, the Hungarian Architect Chamber, the Balaton Development Council and the county government offices. The amendment to the Spatial Development and Spatial Planning Act is outstanding in that it adapts the revision of spatial planning plans to the European Union's planning cycle and provides for the adoption of the country's spatial planning plan within one year of the adoption of the national territorial development concept, thereby ensuring the realization of the spatial planning aspects of the spatial development document. The amendment excludes from the time limit for applications for territorial area use the spatial planning authority procedure for verifying consistency, the deadline for which is set at 15 days, which contributes to the reduction of red tape. By reducing the time of coordination of spatial planning plans from two months to one month, the development of a spatial planning plan will be accelerated, which can be set as a realistic goal in the digital world today. The proposal concerns a plan of measures for the restructuring of construction and related tasks 1567/2015. the first stage of implementation of the spatial planning points of the government decision. CXII of 2000 on the adoption of the spatial planning plan for the Balaton Highest Holiday Region and the establishment of the Balaton Regional Planning Code. The amendment of the Act creates the legal conditions for integrating and simplifying coastal and coastal rehabilitation planning into a spatial planning plan. It is necessary to prepare for the launch of waterfront rehabilitation study plans from the design system in such a way as to maintain the public utility of the shore of Lake Balaton, the protection of natural and environmental values, and to support priority investments by not taking into account waterfront rehabilitation study plans if the investment requires the modification of the settlement arrangement instrument. The study plans are integrated between the Balaton Act and the settlement planning instruments, which almost take over the tasks of settlement planning instruments, and regulate the use of coastal land in excessive detail. These study plans were adopted by a ministerial decree between 2004 and 2006, its decisions have either already been incorporated into the municipal plans, or they contain decisions corresponding to the spirit of that time that have passed, and the municipalities cannot identify with them. The implementation of the study plans is planned permanently only in parallel with the comprehensive review of the Balaton Act, so that the values of the study plans can be incorporated into the law, so that the level of protection is not reduced, but the municipal government can decide on the use of the land within the framework of the law itself. [[12.50]] Our aim was to make investments of major importance for the national economy, to facilitate a high level of use of tender resources by introducing waterfront rehabilitation study plans, which have been overdue in many cases, without taking into account the need to modify the settlement facility due to the investment. This facilitation is necessary in order to ensure that priority investments are made in the next one or two years as a result of the difficult revision of study plans. Based on experience, the time needed to change study plans is one to two years. Then it is also necessary to modify the settlement arrangements. The concession therefore constitutes an exemption only for the municipal plans concerned, but not for the authorisation of the investment. Furthermore, the use of the shore of Lake Balaton for public purposes, as far as possible, remains the primary objective in line with quality tourism developments. The protection of coastal green areas and coastal promenades and the non-installing of coasts should therefore continue to be respected. The level of protection is therefore not reduced. This law is passed by the President of the Republic 13/2013. The municipality of Balatonakarattya became an independent settlement from 12 October 2014. In view of this, the proposal is made under the Balaton Act 1/1. In addition to the Balatonakarattya village, the Annex to the Balaton's Highest Holiday District is proposed. In this connection, let me mention that the village has long struggled with the problem of the big brother Balatonkenese benefiting from the development funds at the expense of the younger brother Akarattya; likewise, as in the central region, Budapest and Pest county. This small settlement also has a beautiful panorama and a good talent, so we can trust that independence will result in the flowering of the settlement, if this opportunity is well managed. The proposal also complements the authorisation provision for waterfront rehabilitation regulatory requirements with the authorisation for shoreline regulation requirements. XXVI of 2003 on the national spatial planning plan The possibility for county municipalities to create an independent regional zone and the relevant rules will be created by amending Law No 1 to enable the counties to enforce territorial specificities more effectively in the settlement arrangements. These standards must be applied by the municipalities. In view of the fact that county spatial planning plans are municipal regulations, the amending proposal contains guarantee rules to avoid overregulation of county municipalities. Amendment to the Act on the National Land Planning Plan, as amended by 1/1. In Annex I, it is necessary that the CCXXV of 2015 on the amendment of certain laws relating to road and rail transport and consumer protection be included. Act No.2 amended the text concerning road transport with effect from 7 January 2016, from which the list of main roads 2 was deleted. The amendment removes legal uncertainty by adding 1/1. The Annex to Annex II, containing the elements of main roads, shall put into effect again before 7 January 2016. The 2005 LXIV on the Spatial Planning Plan for the agglomeration in Budapest. The amendment of Law No 1 will repeal the deadline for the revision of the agglomeration law. Ladies and gentlemen, With the adoption of the proposal, legal certainty can be eliminated... - legal uncertainty, which contributes to reducing the number of forced changes to spatial planning plans and urban planning instruments. We hope that by extending the autonomy of county plans, the county will be able to contribute more effectively to the use of EU development funds dedicated to it. The proposal also helps to create a more transparent, cost-effective and more flexible planning system by creating legal conditions to simplify the spatial planning system of the Balaton Highest Holiday Region. Ladies and gentlemen, Please support the proposal. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2016-05-18-40	Thank you very much, Congressman. I now give the floor to Congresswoman Anita Heringes, the lead speaker of the Group of the Hungarian Socialist Party.
u2016-05-18-41	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear House, Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, The proposal, which lies before us, is a basically short proposal of 13 stages, yet it raises many questions in our group, as in most of the people around Lake Balaton. It is interesting in the beginning when, during the presentation of the 2017 budget, the government is submitting a large number of laws to cover up the small things that they do not want to be noticed by the population, voters or possibly local mayors. In the proposal amending the Lake Balaton Act, the guarantee provisions on shoreline regulation are deleted, and we do not believe that this is beneficial. We are particularly concerned about the transitional rule that, in the case of priority investments, the requirements of the waterfront rehabilitation study plan can be ignored. A spectacular softening of the existing legislation raises the suspicion that the proposal will serve to carry out investments that do not comply with the existing rules on the shore of Lake Balaton in the future. Ladies and gentlemen, the doubts are growing in the minds of opposition representatives and citizens, because we have seen a lot of things recently. This bill loosens the requirements of the Balaton coastal regulation. This can legalise not only the illegal beach uploads so far, but also give way to new investments. The move is a real gift for the wet world, so we can see this coming. The Balaton Act currently categorically prohibits the reduction of the lake bed, the change of the coastline and permanent structures and facilities entering the lake bed. In principle, this restriction is effective in protecting the lake, but in reality we know that it is not. In recent years, these regulations have been regularly ignored and left out by local communities. For example, in Balatonfenyves, they could build a giant polo wedged into the lake at a depth of 500 meters. However, the government would now legally facilitate the conversion of the coastline, and in the legislative proposal to amend the spatial planning laws, they would change the Balaton Act without the need for waterfront rehabilitation study plans in the future. My fellow Member, the Fidesz lead speaker, said - and it was probably a language error - that legal certainty could be removed. We hope that doesn't happen. I hope that this was really a mistake in your speech, and that is why you improved it as soon as you could. Ladies and gentlemen, As you have said, and the speaker said, in order to take the action prescribed by Ab, the compensation rules should have been established in the previous cycle, but they are still missing from the legislation. On the other hand, Balatonakarattya was included in the legal text of the settlements of the Balaton Highest Holiday Region, which I am sure György Matolcsy will be pleased to see, since his wife is the mayor there. I suppose your wife is one of the relatives, although György Matolcsy denied yesterday that these proposals are not about relatives, but I suppose your wife is somehow just a relative, and if it is the Balatonakaratya that is entering this high resort zone, we think there is a reason. And it has recently become an independent settlement, since then Mr.György Matolcsy has been the mayor of this territory's wife. In the settlement, the foundations of the Hungarian National Bank recently bought a former MÁV resort, which is also an interesting point of this story. But it's okay for this brother-in-law world, my fellow Members, to end at some point. Just half an hour ago, we handed over the letter of resignation to the President of the Hungarian National Bank - the representatives of the Hungarian Socialist Party faction - which we hope to take seriously and to do so. [[13.00]] What is shocking is that as you enter the National Bank of Hungary, you are posted on a large board that is a family-friendly workplace. We now understand, ladies and gentlemen, what a family-friendly job is, when relatives are entitled to everything, and those outside of kinship are entitled to nothing. Thus, of course, the MSZP fraction will not be able to support this proposal. It can't be better just for friends, friends and relatives, there's still 9 million 800,000 citizens here who want to make a good living in this country. So, fellow Members, they must also be allowed to live. Thank you.
u2016-05-18-42	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. I now give the floor to Mrs Loránt Hegedűs, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group.
u2016-05-18-43	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, It may not be a great surprise if I tell you that the Jobbik faction will not support the bill before us, and now please allow me to analyze why it is not, from item to item, to amendment of law. The amendment of the Regional Development Act may be the least significant issue in this package before us. I must tell you honestly, it could actually be agreed that the revision of national, regional and county spatial planning plans will be brought into line with the financial cycles and funding cycles of the European Union. At the same time, it is a question of what this actually says, that we do not decide on our own whether the national spatial planning plan, the priority regional plans, and therefore the county area plans, should be revised at what rate, but that we should also tie ourselves to the European Union's chariot in this sense. I think it says, at least in part, that we are going to tailor our plans to what the European Union is giving money to. So we are not asking or asking for money, we are rightfully asking - you are saying that we are actually getting our own money back, so we could, in fact, dictate it to the European Union in this regard - so we are not asking for money for what is in our plans, but we are changing our plans compared to what the European Union is willing to give money to. I think that this message is wrong, and that is why this point is questionable to us. The fact that social consultation is reduced from two months to a month is not such a surprise for us, obviously we will not support it either, but let us say here that it is not the electronic procedure that makes it easier. There has already been an electronic procedure, and you obviously like to simplify and narrow down the scope and scope of the debate, and that is what this proposal is about, nothing else. The amendment of the Law of the Balaton Highest Holiday Region raises much more serious concerns. After communism, after the National Planning Office ceased - allow a brief historical outlook, Mr President, Minister of State - it took six years to build a framework for territorial development in Hungary. But after these frameworks had been established in the Act of the year, the national spatial planning plan and the priority regional plans, the county plans and so on were not immediately born, but for some reason the Parliament gave priority to the Balaton Highest Holiday Region. So you can see that it has 2000 dates, compared to Otrt. He was only born in 2003. Obviously, this hasn't been a coincidence, and the importance of this law was so important that this plan was made. Probably because it was such a damaged landscape that it was no longer possible to draw on this very serious and special regulation. Now you are not trying to soften this up for the first time, but for the second time, and let us say it: what the Secretary of State said is not true is that the aim is to maintain the lack of integration, because in another part of the explanatory statement - if you had been able to look further - it is important that the waterfront rehabilitation study plan as a concept should sooner or later be out of the regulation in order to achieve investor interests. You say that investments of particular importance for the national economy are particularly important here, but we know that any investment can be classified as such, only one government decree. And if the question of the waterfront rehabilitation study plan has been raised, although our fellow Member Kepli will speak more on this issue, let me mention one thing: the case of Club Aliga. We know that, compared to the investment in Sukoro planned by Joav Blum, there could have been about ten times the damage suffered by the Hungarian state, here we can meet an investor named Zvi Frank, both of which came to Hungary from Israel, which is out of the country. Well, I was just going to mention that in parentheses. However, in both cases, especially in the case of Club Aliga, there was a problem with the waterfront rehabilitation study plan, which became a rule of law in a TNM regulation, and, yes, one of the main obstacles to the investment. At the time, when even I and the Commissioner responsible for accounting Buda filed a criminal complaint on this issue, that regulation was or would have been violated by the investor, and this was one of the foundations of our criminal report. So you want to abolish this regulatory framework. For whose sake? - That's a fair question. With regard to Balatonakarattya: yes, the relatives are quite numerous, so I think that the scarcity of the development resources - which our fellow Fidesz spoke about here - hindered the development of the Balatonakarattya part or part of the settlement. Now this will change, and indeed the time for prosperity will come. Just because, by the way, between Kenese and Akarattya, his Will was doing well, just in relation to the waterfront, he had more waterfront shares than Kenese had left. Not to mention that the seat of the Kenese Parliament itself was placed in Balatonakarattya, which is a bit of a strange contradiction in our opinion. The Otrt. Here's what I want to say. This is not the first time that you are changing the percentages between the national land use categories and the priority county and regional land use categories or between the municipal categories or units under them. We're currently at 75% and 75%. So it was 75 percent and 85 percent respectively between national and county, county and municipal. This means that about two thirds of the areas listed in Otrt., which are in fact forest areas within the area of forest use category, are actually forest areas, i.e. two thirds of which are actually forest areas. Now that you're down from 85 percent to 75 percent, only half of it will actually be forest. So what we're recording at Otrt is that the forest will in reality only be half of it. In fact, in the explanatory statement, I did not see the real reason for this, why this idea, this step, and in this matter, Mr. Secretary of State's exposé did not help, I tell you honestly. Besides, the Otrt. This change is also about the fact that you are abolishing recommended county zones and instead you are considering introducing these specific zone options. The recommended county zones have always been involved in Otrt., such as the farmland area. In Hungary, this is a very typical, say, region category typical of the southern lowland area, Bács-Kiskun, Csongrád. Of course, there is another area requiring landscape rehabilitation, an area subject to investigation for the installation of wind farms, and the flood risk management area. [[13.10]] These recommended county zones are also abolished, but it is particularly painful for me to abolish the farmland area as an opportunity. I know, I understand that you'll probably be able to stay in the county plans as a specific area zone in some way, but in fact, why don't we give this kind of installation... - which is one of the richest inheritances in Hungary's history and territorial development, which should be a goal. In fact, rather than being recommended as a county zone, it should be mandatory where this type of installation appears, it should appear in county plans as a protective installation option or method of installation to be protected. But compared to this, you are increasingly narrowing this framework, because this is no longer the first time you've touched the possibility of recommended county zones, I don't know why. Anyone who knows the forms of installation in the lowland, the farm areas that are otherwise very rarely populated, connected to a rare settlement network, knows and understands precisely the purpose and the justification for it. So that's why I don't think it's important. You said I didn't know how many professional organizations you talked to and consulted in this regard. I do not believe that today there is a serious professional organisation in Hungary, which would support the abolition of this recommended county zone. So that's all I wanted to say briefly. In short, once again, we will not be able to support this bill. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2016-05-18-44	Thank you very much, notary. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. I'll ask if there's an independent congressman in this room. [[There's no such signal.]] No. No one's applied for a two-minute speech. I give the floor to Members of this House to Congressman Lajos Kepli, Jobbik.
u2016-05-18-45	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Of course, I would like to comment on the Balaton Act and the waterfront rehabilitation plans as a representative of the Lake Balaton. Since the birth of the Balaton Act, we have been waiting for many things on the shore of Lake Balaton since 2000, including when the free coastal promenades required by the Lake Balaton Act will be established in accordance with the legislation. At the time, this was required to make 30 percent of the inland coastal section of the settlements available in the form of a free coastal promenade. To date, this ratio has not been achieved in most settlements and has not been achieved. There have been various studies and plans on how much property needs to be acquired in order to achieve this ratio and what steps should be taken, but no concrete steps have been taken since then. The answer to my last question has already been that expropriation is not an appropriate instrument, nor is it a guarantee that this 30% ratio can be achieved at all and that the appropriate biological status of the lake can be preserved. We can accept all the answers that if there is some kind of concrete action plan or even a vision of what will happen to Lake Balaton, because for now there is huge chaos and confusion on the shore of the lake. The other one, which has been returning for years, is the dismantling of illegal stations and beddings affecting the shoreline of Lake Balaton, which the government has promised for many years. From time to time, I ask the Minister of the Interior with a written question as Minister for Water, and I get answers. For example, I received the latest reply in December 2015, where the Minister informed me that there has been a survey of the open water surface of the lake on the geodetic scale, and that the National Water Directorate and the Central Transdanubian Water Management Directorate are jointly carrying out the development of metroline control export plans containing the dismantling of illegal uploads and entrances, as well as the necessary land office registration and construction work. We can't find any trace of it since then. We haven't seen it on the Lake Balaton since. There are hundreds of illegal uploads, illegal entrances, blocks in many places. These were assessed years ago, specifically, how many such facilities there were, only to break them down, where there was a lack of money, and sometimes with other obstacles, the government did not start. If we are talking about shoreline regulation, this must be mentioned, as this is also part of protecting the lake and ensuring proper access. After all, these illegal uploads often occur on private property isolated from the waterfront, either by concreteizing part of the beach, or by exterminating the reeds, and also by creating illegal entrances, docks, docks, which is certainly not good for the ecology of the lake. As certainly is not good for the 500 - meter pier of Balatonfenyves, mentioned above, which led to mudification in nearby areas. And all of this is due to the fact that we have a Balaton law in vain and we have a waterfront rehabilitation plan in vain if the necessary measures do not take place. We feel, now, for the eleventh time, that Balaton never had a real owner at government level, there were Balaton government commissioners, ministerial commissioners, but that the decisions relating to Lake Balaton would have been really professionally concentrated, whether it was water, architectural or coastal tasks, we did not see them. As a result, such free robbery management has been carried out, even with regard to waterfront properties, some examples have already been mentioned here. I would add to this the anomaly of the campsites on the shore of Lake Balaton, which is also linked to the Balaton Act, in such a way that the municipalities of the three Balaton delimiting counties, Veszprém, Zala and Somogy counties owned the shares of Siótour, Balatontourist and Zalatour, which owned these campings on the shore of Lake Balaton. These are the most valuable properties of Lake Balaton, which were sold in 2007 by these three county municipalities. This sale was, by the way, well below the price. Then there was a moment here in Parliament when the then governing party and Fidesz, which was in opposition, voted unanimously to amend the Balaton Act, which, by the way, multiplied the value of the real estate owned by the SCD Group at that time, as it increased the construction capacity, the height of the building and created positive changes from their perspective. Even then, the password was that there would be major investments in these properties, in the order of hundreds of billions. We know that these investments have become nothing, and that the SCD as such no longer exists, has been freed from its portfolio in Balaton. Since then, these campsites have been auctioned and tried to sell; the competent authorities have been trying to recover them. Some of them are more successful, some are less, depending on the party position of the mayor, unfortunately I have to say, because while the city of Balatonfüred received a HUF 700 million non-refundable grant for this purpose, let's say that the municipalities of Balatonszemes and Badacsonytomaj have failed to handle me at the Ministry of Interior. Secretary of State Tibor Pogácsás offered them the opportunity to borrow money as an opportunity, with which I think that these municipalities might even be happy to live in order to recover their campsites and make use of them, but not under the conditions they are available at the moment. So these are just a few of the problems that affect Lake Balaton at the moment, which can be traced back to the Lake Balaton Act and to the waterfront rehabilitation plan that is now being abolished, which, in the absence of compliance, does not guarantee the protection of the Lake Balaton. So for these reasons, my fellow Member Mrs Hegedűs said that we cannot support further weakening these instruments, or even further weakening the laws that are available at the moment. In vain, the explanatory statement states that this is a regulation at ministerial level, which may rise to legal force, but we do not see the guarantee that this will protect the Lake Balaton, the interests of Lake Balaton, by rising to the legal level. It is much more apparent that there is a much mentioned HUF 300 billion EU resource, available in the 2014-2020 cycle, which you are trying to bring into your own interests as much as possible, and obviously, this will also bring about developments on the shore of Lake Balaton, and from this you will have to roll the obstacles out of the way at the legal level. Such consideration may also arise from these legislative amendments. [[13.20]] We can already see that we have already said that when we announced that everything will happen here at Lake Balaton from HUF 300 billion, then we held a press conference that we said that we would have to pay attention to the fact that, where such an amount appears, the possibility of corruption will certainly come up, and the view that has unfortunately been taken over recently, is that the funds are being provided to businesses in their own interests. It happened, 100 billion out of 300 billion, so one third of them landed in the interest of Lőrinc Mészáros, this is the southern Balaton railway development - again we are at Lake Balaton. The renovation of a 50-mile railway section between Szántód and Balatonszentgyörgy spends nearly HUF 70 billion from EU and domestic sources, as well as the renovation of the Fonyód-Kaposvár railway line, which is also very commendable, but when it was discovered that this was won by a consortium of Lőrinc Mészáros's interests, the cost of the investment suddenly increased from 9 billion to 19 billion, as it was increased from 53 billion to 72 billion, at the sledd-balatonszentgyörgy section. So it also shows that these suggestions are realistic that these development money will disappear hand-to-hand, and that Lake Balaton will not actually benefit from it - and now they are trying to embed these processes by means of such legislative amendments. Of course, we cannot support this in any way. We would support that if we finally had a government intention to have a single owner of Lake Balaton, there would be a concept that would define the direction in which we want to go with Lake Balaton, whether it is fishing tourism, whether it is sailing, how many more sailboat ports we allow on Lake Balaton, how many sailboats the lake is capable of receiving, or - there are a lot of questions about our goal with the waterfront - to be accessible to everyone, or to be monopolized, installed and blocked by everyone. These issues could be discussed up to sundown, and I'm very fond of Lake Balaton anyway, but obviously this is no longer closely related to this bill. But I think there are enough reasons not to support this bill. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-05-18-46	Thank you, Congressman. I will ask if anyone else wishes to take the opportunity to speak. [[No one's reporting.]] I don't see any contact. Dear Parliament, The general debate is closed and I give the floor to the rapporteur, Mr Nándor Csepreghy, who wishes to respond to what was said in the debate.
u2016-05-18-47	Thank you for the opportunity to speak, Mr President, and I will try briefly, on the one hand, not to abuse Members' time, and, on the other hand, because the factions have advanced the negative decision on the support of the bill sooner, so its rejection, and the arguments sometimes crackle, so allow me to highlight only a few of them. First of all, I would like to say to Mrs Heringes that, following the change of government since 2010, the opposition has always attacked the government by not consulting the organisations concerned, and then somehow I see that they are trying to ignore this new attitude, because, in connection with either this law or other laws, the National Association of Local Governments in County, the Chamber of Architecture, other Associations of architects, members of the Balaton Development Council, all of the dozens of the municipalities involved in it, are involved in this bill. I accept that this means a lot of work for Members, although you are an elected Member of the Council, I am not, so if I make criticisms, allow me to do so with respect and perhaps confidence in development, but I certainly think it is worth saying that it is a perfectly sensible concept on the part of the government that it will, in parallel with the amendment of the budget law, bring in a number of laws which, by definition, also stem from the budget law. For example, cutting red tape: cutting red tape is a type of step that requires less resources to carry out certain public tasks in the 2017 budget, but if there is less resources, the amount of work to be carried out from the source should be added accordingly. Thus, the reduction of bureaucracy and the amendment of the budget of 17 or, where appropriate, the amendment of the budget of 16 are definitely interrelated in this respect. We would like to raise the protection of this to a higher source of law in relation to the issues of integration on the shore of Lake Balaton. I believe that the principle that the Member, Mr Kepli, also mentioned, according to which 30 percent of the Balaton coast section of the Balaton settlements would be theoretically free coast promenade, which is not fulfilled, I think, by raising this protection to a legal level, also in terms of implementation, the control bodies that are entitled to do so give a much more serious legal guarantee that they can actually enforce it. I understand the political polarity of the village of Balatonakartya and the trajectories, but, Congresswoman, you said that the municipality and, as I understand it, the central bank bought a resort there, which means that it has been active as a holiday zone, despite the fact that it was not part of the resort area. [[Anita Herring: But she's a priority!]] Here you go. [[Anita Beringes: He's a priority! The president's ringing the bell.]] It is a priority resort area, as are many other settlements - we regularly forget about this. Congresswoman Loránt Hegedűs asked me to address the answers to Congressman Kepli and then convey them to each other. [[Defiance in Jobbik's ranks.]] On the one hand, with regard to the question of the instilability of farms and the protection, I am sorry, which takes into account the characteristics of the construction of the farmland, here I propose to take account not only of the bill that Jobbik has just discussed, but also of the decision adopted last week by the government, which, in the case of properties located outside the territory - and this regulation applies to farms - increases the installation threshold from 3 percent to 10 percent. So if there is a government that protects farms as an existing form of culture and as a rural form of Hungarian social organisation, I think it is precisely this government, and with such a measure it opens the possibility not only for the farms to start a new dynamic development, but also essentially to allocate resources to it, as family home support may be partially supplemented in the case of developments on land-based property. I find it difficult to deal with the debate when Members resent how much time there is for a debate to be held. We are talking about a significant reduction in this number or rate, from two months to a month, thanks to the digital authorisation procedure. In my view - and this may be my subjective view, and allow me to say that perhaps because of my age or the job I have to attend to, I think so - a debate that cannot be held in a month cannot be conducted in two months. I therefore believe that this will not create the opportunity, or this will not take away the opportunity for any interested organisation to comment, that this debate should take a month instead of two months. Our aim is to create a construction regulation in Hungary that ensures that the existing cultural and natural heritage can be protected, its values can be highlighted, and to give the country a developmental perspective that really gives the country the possibility of economic prosperity that, through tourism, for example, gives 10 percent of domestic GDP, which, through tourism - which is particularly important for the Balaton region - provides the livelihood of about 200,000 Hungarian families, which I think can be further increased if the developments in Balaton are actually implemented. You are a representative from the Balaton region, if you are sure you know and have witnessed how many governments have promised priority funds for the development in Balaton. Why? On the one hand, in order to develop the infrastructure, the majority of which was still created in the Kádár system, to truly worthy conditions, to make this region competitive, if we look a little further away, with the Croatian coast available on the motorway, because we have been very diligent in building the motorway towards Croatia, and we look at the fact that we cannot provide quality services on Lake Balaton, that even the part of domestic tourism that could be held through Lake Balaton in Hungary is actually taking that free, spendable income out to Croatia, for example. The other big question in the case of Lake Balaton is to create a cooperation between the affected settlements that can give Lake Balaton the image and the development idea that can actually push seasonality from the spring to the beginning of autumn. In this, we see that there is no compromise yet, but they are present in this direction. Therefore, the government has made a decision on the HUF 300 billion you are talking about, which basically leads the municipalities to seek compromise, as we have said that this HUF 300 billion can only be used if the municipalities concerned are engaged in these developments by mid-2017 essentially at the level of projects. The Member criticised the decision to link the override of these spatial planning plans to the development cycles of the European Union. The reason for this is not that we wait for Brussels to dictate on these issues, which is part of a compromise on which agreement it can conclude with the European Commission, whether Hungary or the other 27 Member States of the European Union. [[13.30]] However, the fact that resources open at the beginning of these development cycles justifies and makes sense why the government has the opportunity and why these amendments should be made every seven years. In addition, in the context of changing development concepts each year, along with changes in spatial development concepts, the development of a single concept in the direction of either the Balaton or other regions, where appropriate, across political cycles that the opposition or parliament has asked for a great deal of attention. Mr President, I would like to comment briefly on what has been said by the magistrate.
u2016-05-18-48	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The 2013 XXII on the Hungarian Energy and Public Utility Regulatory Office follows. General discussion of the bill amending the law until closure. Government referral T/10524. is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr Nándor Csepreghy, Secretary of State of the Prime Minister's Office, author of the item on the agenda, within a 30-minute time frame.
u2016-05-18-49	Mr President, Thank you very much for the opportunity to speak again. I would like to briefly summarise the substance of the proposal. There is an opportunity before the Parliament that we recommend for consideration and support to honourable Members of Parliament and factions, which at the same time strengthens the aspirations of the Hungarian energy policy and at the same time gives the country an additional opportunity for economic diplomacy. This is nothing more than the Regional Association of Energy Regulators, an organisation called ERRA, which was established in 2001 at the initiative of Hungary and has been operating its headquarters in Budapest for 15 years, in respect of another legal classification, operating in another regulatory environment. The members of this organization are energy regulators and service providers in 36 countries of the world, and the association was established by the Hungarian founder, the legal predecessor of the Hungarian Energy and Public Works Regulatory Office, the Hungarian Energy Office. The core objective of the organisation was to create a stable, predictable regulatory and thus adequate investment environment in the energy and regulated public utilities sectors of the Member States and to promote the development and functioning of regional energy markets by harmonising some of the regulation, in order to ensure security of supply and consumer benefits. In essence, this organisation operated as a knowledge centre, under the name of a summary, which, in addition to the knowledge centre function, also established a good network of contacts between these Member States, i.e. covering some 36 countries. The Regional Association of Energy Regulators for Hungary, we think it is a strategic organization, given that today Hungary's energy policy objectives must be achieved in a very intensively changing environment, and to do so, we think that the knowledge base that is available here will be valued or given the opportunity to be competitive in many ways, whether in regulatory instruments or in the daily practice of operation; it is competitive by being able to operate in the light of appropriate market trends and, where appropriate, bring back knowledge that ultimately points to efficiency gains and cheapness or cheaper energy use in the use of public energy or for business. Several countries have built their own energy regulation systems among member organisations, building on the system that this organisation operates and provides as a benchmark for other Member States in Hungary, and this not only provides an opportunity to create a similar energy regulation framework at some level in the Member States concerned, but also to open up the possibility of Hungarian investor groups appearing in these Member States by adapting the ideas received from Hungary. Honourable Members, We would therefore like to ensure that this organisation is given, not privileges, but an opportunity to operate within a different legal framework from Parliament, compared to a system based on classic, association-based legislation, which takes into account the specificities of this sector. The above objectives and the amendment to the law that we are discussing can be achieved if the organisation is not bound by the association's requirements in relation to certain internal organisational issues and records. On the basis of the bill, the organisation would continue to function as an association, but at the same time it would be subject to specific rules on registration, judicial oversight and termination of legislation, taking into account that the members of the organisation are energy regulators established by different states, so that the official Ministry of Economic Diplomatic Relations, which governs international relations, is the most appropriate organisation to register and supervise this. The following points are recorded in the draft. On the one hand, certain tasks relating to the organisation's register and legal supervision would be carried out by the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Foreign Affairs. The organisation is removed from the court register of civil society organisations, instead it is registered by the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Foreign Affairs in the public register kept by it and, in the event of its termination, the statutes of the organisation that, unless otherwise provided for by its supreme body, the distribution of the assets among the members is made in proportion to the contribution. To do so, we ask for the proper support of the Parliament. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2016-05-18-50	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. First, I give the floor to Mr Gábor Varga, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2016-05-18-51	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The 2013 XXII on the Hungarian Energy and Utility Regulatory Office. T/10524. We have tabled a bill to the House. As Chief Speaker, I would like to highlight the background and the new regulatory need behind it, and, of course, these solutions. The Regional Association of Energy Regulators, the cooperation leading to the establishment of ERRA, began in 1997 with a conference, and in 99 the energy regulators of 15 states agreed on the principles of its establishment. As a result, 15 regulatory authorities signed ERRA's rules and statutes in December 2010 in Bucharest. The signatory countries are Albania, Bulgaria, Estonia, Georgia, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Latvia, Lithuania, Poland, Hungary, Moldova, Russia, Armenia, Romania and Ukraine; currently 36 members of this organisation. Member States have paid an ever-increasing membership fee since 2004 and ERRA has become fully financially independent in 2009. The legal predecessor of the Hungarian Energy and Utility Regulatory Office was a founding member of ERRA. MEKH plays an active role in the operation of ERRA from its establishment. The ERRA is a specific interinstitutional organisation bringing together energy regulatory authorities in the participating countries, whose main objective is to promote, deepen and exchange experience between national energy and utility regulatory authorities. ERRA was registered as an association in Hungary in April 2001. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The need for new regulation arises as a legitimate issue. In view of the special composition, nature and operation of the organization, the current form makes the internal organisational and administrative processes of ERRA difficult, disturbing the smooth operation of Hungary. On the part of the membership, the possibility of transferring the seat has already been raised. In order to facilitate the functioning of the ERRA, it is necessary to establish a legal environment appropriate to the form and functioning of the organisation. The proposed amendment to the law has been introduced to address this. What are the benefits of this? It is justified, honourable House, that ERRA should continue to operate in Hungary, for the following reasons. In view of the increasing strategic importance of the energy field and the ability of international energy cooperation to generate direct economic benefits for Hungary, taking into account the number of countries involved in the operation of ERRA and the size and economic role of energy markets they represent, ERRA plays a prominent role in international energy cooperation. ERRA has an excellent network of connections in the energy market of its Member States. The ERRA conferences and other events will include experts from regulatory authorities, as well as high-level energy government representatives and energy actors from each country. [[13.40]] T/10524. A legislative amendment proposes solutions to this effect. The members of ERRA are foreign authorities, with the exception of the Office, which, given their specific nature, are justified in order to establish rules which are partly different from those applicable to associations in Hungary with regard to State control, legality supervision and registration. The 2013 XXII on the Hungarian Energy and Utility Regulatory Office. ERRA continues to act as an association on the basis of a proposal to amend law, but in some areas it is subject to special regulations other than the laws applicable to associations, Ptk, civil law, in the case of registration, legal supervision or termination without legal successor. In view of the international nature of ERRA, its activities are closest to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade's profile, as well as the KKM is currently keeping records of international organisations, so that it has the appropriate competences to carry out ERRA's registration and, in part, legal oversight. The proposal therefore appoints the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Foreign Affairs to carry out these tasks. The submission shall specify the data content of the register and the order in which the data change is reported and, when restoring the legality of the operation, shall primarily appoint the Minister and then, following the usual rules of association, the Tribunal as the body exercising legal oversight. Dear House, The submission settles the issues relating to the fate of ERRA's assets in the event of the merger or termination of ERRA with other associations, essentially requiring the application of the rules laid down in the organisation's statutes, in the absence of such rules as to guide the decision of its supreme body. In the event of termination, unless otherwise provided for by ERRA's statutes or supreme body, it shall require the distribution of assets between members, taking into account the proportion of the contributions of the members to the property. Members are required to be jointly and severally liable for unsatisfied claims, which allows domestic creditors to ask the MEKH to satisfy them in this case. By laying down the above rules, the proposal lays down conditions which are adapted to the specificities of ERRA, which correspond to the organisation's membership and operating conditions, and creates a simpler protocol compared to the detailed rules governing domestic associations. The proposal settles as a transitional rule the necessary issues in the context of the conclusion of the current ERRA court register, and the draft legislation does not contain any financial privileges for ERRA. Our faction supports the amendment. I ask the opposition to do the same. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2016-05-18-52	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to Congresswoman Anita Heringes, the lead speaker of the Group of the Hungarian Socialist Party.
u2016-05-18-53	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear House, Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, The MSZP faction is not known to justify the amendments under the bill, since ERRA has been a registered association in Hungary since 2001 and has its headquarters and secretariat in Budapest. It aims to promote the transfer of experience and voluntary cooperation between regulatory authorities and to train professionals. The bill reduces the powers of MEKH, the Hungarian Energy and Utility Regulatory Office, to become a member of another organisation in the framework of international cooperation, as the amendment only allows MEKH to be a member of the ERRA, but, for example, it cannot have membership in the Council of European Energy Regulators. This could cause significant damage to the international relations of the MEKH, in our opinion. At the same time, the bill unduly expands the powers of the government, including the foreign trade and foreign minister, at the expense of the courts. The Hungarian Socialist Party does not support the bill because there is no real professional reason for changing the legal supervision of ERRA, but the proposed regulation can cause significant damage to the international relations of the Hungarian Energy and Public Works Regulatory Office. Thank you very much.
u2016-05-18-54	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. I give the floor to the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group, Mr Lajos Kepli.
u2016-05-18-55	Thank you very much, Mr. President. On the other hand, the Group of the Jobbik Movement for Hungary sees no reason, unlike what has been said above, not to support the bill before us. In energy diplomacy, we see that there is a great deal of work to be done by the government, not only in relations with regulatory authorities, but generally in international energy diplomacy in recent years, we have not been able to exert too much lobbying power. In this regard, there is indeed a place and a place to catch up. However, in how the government changes the supervisory powers of the association bringing together energy regulators, we do not see great dangers for the energy sector at the moment. So, in practice, we will support the bill with our vote. I don't think I have to justify it any more than that. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2016-05-18-56	Thank you very much. I'll see if anyone wants to comment. [[No one's reporting.]] I don't see any contact. Dear Parliament, The general debate is closed and I give the floor to the rapporteur, Mr Nándor Csepreghy, who will obviously take advantage of the opportunity to speak.
u2016-05-18-57	Mr President, Thank you for the support of Jobbik, I accept the rejection of the MSZP. On behalf of the government, I ask Members to change their minds on the part of the MSZP, learning from Jobbik [[Anita Herring: Not much!]] Perhaps they could do so now, then support the proposal. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2016-05-18-58	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the discussion of our agendas today. It is now time for the speeches after the agenda. Dear Parliament, Mónika Bartos has applied for a post-meeting speech:. This year's TeSzed! the title of your experience. I give the floor to the Fidesz Group representative in five minutes.
u2016-05-18-59	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, We repeat to boredom between the walls of this House and beyond the need for a paradigm shift. A paradigm shift is needed to overcome one of the greatest threats to mankind, the destruction of the natural environment that provides us. I said destruction, but I should have destroyed it. When I talk about the natural environment, I mention the natural systems that keep us, and the transformation of them, I mean not only the climate, but also climate change; although there is no doubt that this is getting the most attention, but even this is not getting enough attention. President János Áder spoke last week on our UN Framework Convention on Climate Change agenda, starting his speech with the famous Einstein quote that the most pressing problems of today cannot be solved at the level of thinking that we are at when we caused the problems. In other words, it means order must be made in our heads, in our heads. [[13.50]] We need to change our thinking and look at our situation from a completely new approach. But how can this be achieved? How can this be achieved when, as President Áder said, serious progress has been made at the level of international senior management, but time is pressing and we cannot wait for implementation? How can the theory be translated into practice? How can many be addressed, addressed by crowds, because real change requires everyone? Unfortunately, luckily, there are no uniform recipes. There are a number of recommendations, but the best way, the most effective method, must be found by each country in line with the situation itself, adapted to the national features and options. But perhaps we can agree that personal experience, personal involvement, emerges from attitudes-forming practices. It doesn't take long to explain why. We've all been through how much a glass of water means after a long, embarrassing day. We wonder more about nature's power once we've experienced a great storm. And you know how hard it is to wash with your hands, whose washing machine is broken. In our comfortable world, we take many things for granted, even though most things are not natural. Clean drinking water, food, nice clean environments aren't free. But in order to truly understand this, to truly appreciate it, we have to experience its absence, we have to experience how much effort it takes to create all these things. That is why I consider Teszd to be a very important, approach-forming tool! its actions, organised by the National Waste Management Directorate for the sixth time this year by the Ministry of Agriculture. In Sopron myself, I used students from the Institute of Applied Arts to collect the waste that was thrown away, the illegal waste. I would also like to thank my fellow Members and colleagues, Mr Firtl, for all the help and excellent coordination work, and for the enthusiastic help of the students. It's good to see you're taking it. How successful and well-known he has become in recent years, since the Teszd! Action has grown into the largest voluntary garbage collection movement in Hungary; the numbers also testify to this. The number of registered volunteers in 2011 was 35,000, which increased to 115,000 by 2015. By 2015, the number of sites and clean areas had risen to 1590. The amount of waste collected also tells us a lot about the effectiveness: in 2012 3 thousand cubic metres of waste and in 2015 2300 tonnes of waste and 9 thousand cubic metres of waste were collected by volunteers. And this year there were 10 percent more registered, 128,605 registered for the program, and the sites affected 2240 seats, 40 percent more than in the previous year. I think it is a great achievement that people's responsibility for the environment has been strengthened because of participation and personal involvement, but the programme's role as a community builder and its impact on voluntary activity is at least as important. I hope that it will continue next year, and we will be there together on the TeTedd! It's a movement. Thank you, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of Fidesz.]]
u2016-05-18-60	Thank you very much, Congresswoman Mónika Bartos. After the agenda, Congresswoman Bernadett Szél, from the Group of the May Other Politics, asked for a speech. It's an address. You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2016-05-18-61	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Last week, Lajos Kósa, head of the Fidesz faction, responded to the commission of inquiry into the abuse and sexual crime in competition, "Anytime you kick a man on the ground, the police arrest him for easy assault, at least. But at a football game, maybe that's why you don't even get free kicks. Because the judge considered the case to be something that allowed the game to go on. The words of Lajos Kósa are, unfortunately, difficult to misunderstand. These sentences reflect his belief that rape in competition sports is like an irregularity in football. If leading athletes commit gang rape in the swimming pool area, then sedate and wash the victim with prepared vinegar to avoid becoming pregnant, it is a consequence of competition sport. And the game can go on. I would like to point out that since the Kiss László case started, the pro-government politician has spoken twice. First, it was John Lazarus who said that he did not want to judge, and that a career should be judged as a whole, and that there are ten Olympic golds in the other pan of the scale. The other pro-government speaker was Lajos Kósa, who quoted earlier, who claimed that rape is a natural component of competition sport. To this day, no politicians mentioned here have excavated themselves. You know, when this case broke out, we stood up on the opposition side, and we gave a series of opinions on what should be done. I was talking about the responsibility of politicians and the social message of the government's attitude towards violence against women. I have said how important it is for politicians in positions of responsibility to be aware of their responsibilities; that their words have an impact on the social perception of violence, that these words and these people are a model of how others should think about violence against women. What do the words of Mr. Lajos Kósa Group leader say, and what do the words of Minister John Lázár say? And what does the government's deep silence even say? Because it is also necessary to see that the Hungarian government has not officially spoken, no one has stood up and said it - and I would like to say a few sentences that I would like to give to the government, because about these sentences should be said to a responsible Hungarian government in such a situation - that we deeply condemn rape, and we sincerely sympathize with the parents who are now asking themselves what was going on, what is going on in the swimming pools. Are our children safe? We would like to reassure them now, the government will do everything in its power to ensure that such cases never occur again or remain unexplored. If competition sports is an infected area, we will cooperate with the competent association and launch an investigation and take immediate action. If this happens today, there's no way that the perpetrator can work near children, no matter how promising he is. It's about the safety of the kids. - Those are the sentences that should have been said to you. Instead, what does the government's deep silence say, and what do the words of Mr Lazarus and Mr Kósa say? Two things, for sure. One message sounds like rape is a private matter of sport, and it has nothing to do with the government. Otherwise, it is not difficult to discover the similarity with the 1960s, the early days of Kadár, when it was in the best interest of power to keep such cases unexplored, to remain secret when the system was allowed in sports legitimizing its achievements, and the crimes could go on without consequences. And the other message might be that rape can be legitimized. If it's in competition sports, it's a different judgment. There are Olympic gold, which may even justify the fact that it was worth giving the unsub the opportunity to go near young girls and work as a coach. Such messages were said by these politicians, such messages were made towards Hungarian society. That is what I say, gentlemen and ladies, that the game cannot go on like this. The game has to end here. It is unacceptable for the Hungarian government to regard violence as a private matter, pushing away responsibility and competence for the action itself. It is unacceptable to relativise violence, to make it acceptable. This is exactly the attitude that recreates and constantly recreates the social environment where these events can happen again and again. I would like to point out that we expect strong action from the Hungarian government. They do not provide one or two billion forints from EU funds to increase the capacity of crisis areas, but the amount of resources needed to increase the number of seats in crisis centres. Professional training is needed, prevention programmes and the adoption of the LMP proposal, so that rapists are not allowed to work near children or to participate in such training. Please finally ratify the Istanbul Convention and support our proposals. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-05-18-62	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches after the agenda. I would like to inform you that the next Spring Session is expected to take place on 23 May 2016. I thank you for your work, the meeting is closed. [[The meeting ended at 1:59 p.m.]]
