u2016-03-21-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] Good afternoon, everyone. The 10th day of the spring session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that István Tiba and Ádám Mirkóczki will be attending the meeting to help me. I welcome all those who monitor our work. Dear Parliament, Today we start our work with speeches before the agenda. After that, the questions will take place from 11:50 a.m. to 13:20 a.m. to 13:20 p.m. to 14:20 p.m. to the hour of immediate questions and answers. Dear Parliament, Mr Gergely Bárándy, Member of the Council, MSZP, asked for a pre-meeting address on current affairs. Here you go.
u2016-03-21-1	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, Some of the public events of the past period are drawing a clearer picture of the fact that Fidesz is afraid. He fears for his power in dogs and fears for people to give their opinions on important matters. It is now becoming clear that in 2014 the two-thirds majority was acquired by a series of electoral frauds. The Committee on the Cleanliness of the OSCE Elections is not only talking about fraud, but is also talking about slowly investigative documents. On the basis of a written question last year, which my fellow Member put to the Attorney General Péter Polt, more than 30 cases are being investigated for election fraud. The most outstanding of these may be the Budapest VI. district case, according to which the data of nearly 150 people on Fidesz's signature collection sheet are also included in the signature collection sheets of a party otherwise known as the left-wing party. During the investigation, they listened to these people, all of them, and according to all of their statements, they only gave their data to Fidesz on the signature collection sheet. Well, ladies and gentlemen, there are two things that must come from this. One is that Fidesz committed a specific electoral fraud, and the other is that when the electoral law was created, they deliberately allowed fake parties to start up in order to distort elections. These parties, of course, remember you, received about as many or less votes in the election as they received a recommendation, which in itself proves the fact of electoral fraud. It is now a fact that Fidesz stole two thirds and stole Budapest by rewriting the electoral law with two thirds stolen. It has created a distorted system whereby despite the fact that opposition parties have received significantly more votes than Fidesz, it has obtained a two-thirds majority in the Parliament. But, fellow Members, whatever the polls show, Fidesz has lost 14 out of 16 interim elections since 2014: all four of the most important ones, all three parliamentary elections and one county mayor election, and uglyly. The voters have taken away two-thirds of you. However, power is not only afraid of parliamentary elections. It is a sure sign of fear when he sends thugs and bald hooligans to the election office to stop the referendum on Sunday's lockdown, where people can repeat their views. He's afraid when he feels he's setting up a propagandaistry to turn billions of taxpayers into a lying government propaganda. He is afraid when he tries to destroy one of the two largest commercial TV stations by administrative means, and he plays the other into the hands of one of his oligarchs, and he finances it with public money. He is afraid that when he has MTI and public media forging news, and more recently, Habony is a private person, Árpád is now making it on TV2 occupied by the government by a tabloid journalist who has been turned from scandal heroine to news director. On the Internet, the method you're following is a laughing stock and cynical comment. How can you achieve all this, my fellow members of the Government? On the one hand, it's legit and illegal theft, gangsterism, mafia-state methods. On the other hand, the occupation of the constitutional institutional system, the breakdown of the system of brakes and counterweights. In the last cycle, even fewer people have done so, but now the system is working. Today, the majority of constitutional judges make their decisions on the basis of party sympathy. Today, the National Election Committee votes against the fact that the panel can even look at the external videos on which it is clear that bald thugs forced István Nyakó to stop him from submitting his referendum question. Ladies and gentlemen, Today, when the MTI forge news and the National Media and Infocommunications Authority does not investigate it, today the court will now pronounce instead that it is obliged to investigate it, and I will hold in my hand a final court order. Ladies and gentlemen, Today, it is clear that all constitutional institutions are managed by one hand, practically Viktor Orbán tells us which and what to do. It is a despicable power that can preserve its power only through its oligarchs placed in the occupied institutional system and position. Ladies and gentlemen, This will end in 2018. Thank you very much.
u2016-03-21-2	Thank you very much. I'll ask if anyone wants to answer on behalf of the government. [[For signal:]] Mr. Csaba Dömötör, State Secretary, will be on the floor in five minutes. Here you go.
u2016-03-21-3	Honourable Congressman, Allow me to react briefly. As far as your comments on the election are concerned, I find them extremely uncredited and unfounded, because when there are results in Salgótarján and, let us say, Veszprém that you may be more pleased with, they do not raise these aspects at all. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: That's right!]] So I would like to reject the concerns about the Hungarian electoral system. As far as fraud is concerned, I find it extremely untrue that a party that is itself full of corruption matters is speaking of it. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: What does this have to do with election fraud? Explain it to me.]] It's enough to think that to date, you can't know where Gábor Simon had 200 million forints and fake passports. Budgetary fraud against the former vice-president of the MSZP which is particularly detrimental to property [[Dr. Gábor Staudt: Do you need to read, Csaba?]] - you mentioned the word "fraud," so it's important to mention it - and other crimes have been prosecuted. Among other things, the socialists also did not clarify why the black casket, such as the one in the yoga town, was operated, and how many places there are even similar black caskets in the country. [[Dr. Gábor Staudt: Like Miskolc!]] There is still a criminal prosecution against one of their MPs, Dezső Believer. It's a shame they've been out of power for six years, but at the same time, your corruption cases have made the country loud. At the same time, he tells us all about their party, that fallen politicians like him are applying. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: Watch out because you won't have time to answer! You haven't even started the answer yet.]] According to press reports, the party leader, such as Gyula Molnár. You gave me the address of your speech to allow me to tell you what we believe are the current cases. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: Just answer me!]] For example, the fact that the Hungarian economy is performing well in international comparison does not exist, and these results are now recognised by the European Commission. You may also be pleased that real earnings have increased by 6.4 percent in January, real wages have been increasing steadily for three years, and this is the most outstanding figure in 11 years. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: That is not what the congressman asked.]] Fortunately, inflation is almost completely gone, with a 0.3 per cent government debt on a declining path [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: Which government debt?]] and remains below 3 percent of the budget deficit. I think that when we talk about current matters, it would also be good to raise these questions. [[Lajos Korózs: You cheated the elections...! Dr. Gergely Bárándy: That's how good a propagandaistery is! Márta Demeter: Where is the answer?!]] I would like to ask you, Congressman, not to discuss these results. Thank you very much. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: At least you'd be good in communication if there was a separate ministry for this! Applause in the ranks of the MSZP.]]
u2016-03-21-4	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, István Ikotity, Member of the Council, LMP:. Teachers also have the right to strike. It's for the congressman. Here you go. [[11.10]]
u2016-03-21-5	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear House, The last week has shown that the government has still not supported the solution, still has no interest in the change, in the development of the 21st century education system. According to the Prime Minister, the call of teachers on 15 March - I quote the Prime Minister - sounded funny. He thought it was a joke. It seems that Viktor Orbán still does not understand what the joint stand of the participants in education is about. Szilárd Németh, Vice-President of the Government, who compared the message of the teachers to the Bolshevik dictatorship on 15 March, also discussed communist leaders and his own underwear. Dear House, According to the LMP, despite mocking teachers or scorning them, they are no longer allowed to sweep those problems under the carpet, no longer be allowed to smear them on the part of the government. This objection cannot be broken by the usual means of power or by habony communication. The indignation was strengthened by tangible decisions affecting people's daily lives. At the same time, educators are not just about improving education. Teachers and connected teachers stand up for their basic workers' constitutional rights. Fidesz-KDNP has previously declared itself on the side of employees. Even in 2008, Viktor Orbán himself spoke about the need to put the government under pressure by strike, among other things, and to persuade him to make a 180-degree turn, and the right and opportunity of the strike should apply to everyone. Then, in 2010, the majority of governments abolished the right to strike, created a legal situation that has made it impossible for workers to stop working and thus express their protest. Dear House, The LMP would restore workers' right to strike. The Parliament's Committee on Enterprise Development will finally discuss one of the proposals submitted by the LMP a month ago tomorrow. We, by amending the strike law, would allow the strike to be held within a regulated framework. If the pro-government majority votes against the proposal, the Fidesz-KDNP government clearly assumes responsibility for the cessation of work by teachers and other workers using the legitimate means of civil disobedience. The LMP's proposal would allow them to do the same, in accordance with their constitutional fundamental rights, within a legal framework. If the proposal is not accepted, then the government will have civil dissatisfaction. forcing tens of thousands or even hundreds of thousands of workers to cross the legislation. László Palkovics had already told us that the employment of the teacher of Zugló, who refused to sign the ticket, and then, as a graduate class, should be terminated, although the teacher only invented a fair solution in an unfair situation compared to the circumstances. In light of the foregoing, what can be expected from the government that, although calling the players to the negotiating table, laughs at them from the other side, insults them, threatens them? Nearly 200,000 educational workers are being blackmailed, so that if civil disobedience has previously been used as a means of justice by Fidesz-KDNP, they will be fired. Dear House, As Viktor Orbán said in 2008, the government must be put under pressure today, if it does not go any other way, by means of a strike, it must be persuaded to change its policy. Make no mistake, the real change will not be born on the round table, where the government dictates the conditions, and there is no guarantee of what and how they will change. The real change will be launched by the actors in education, where the government does not play the role of the aggressive party who wants to dominate everything, but one among the actors who accepts the consensus objectives of the parties and sees its intention to change. Dear House, If the LMP strike bill is voted down, the government will no longer have the right or credibility to attack the civil dissatisfaction announced by teachers. If the legislation is unfair and restricts fundamental constitutional rights, then workers must stand up for themselves by other peaceful means, for the future of education, or Hungary. Thank you for your attention. [[Sallai R. Benedek applauds.]]
u2016-03-21-6	Thank you very much. I'll ask if anyone wants to respond on behalf of the government. [[For signal:]] Secretary of State of Rétvár, please.
u2016-03-21-7	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Dear House, We are after a period when it was the teachers who received the highest wage increase in Hungary, so for many people in Hungary it is incomprehensible why those who are prepared not only for strike but also for civil disobedience, for whom the government has provided the largest wage increase, and with whom it is constantly negotiating on the round table for public education in order to correct other issues. There are many who would also have enjoyed the 40 percent increase in wages, and they would have done so without a strike, without civil disobedience. Therefore, it is surprising to many why some people speak on behalf of those who receive the highest wage rise, because here we do not wash everyone together, because, as it turned out, when this action was announced that they would hold a one-hour stop on the 30th - which is not legally a strike, but a civil disobedience, as has been said there - they did not agree with those on behalf of whom this was announced, because the 700 organisations that would in principle form this movement were informed of what they were saying on their behalf. This is how we see the negotiations not only moving with the government on the part of the leaders of the Teachers movement, because they do not come to negotiate with the government, but they also seem to have failed to consult with the organisations that they themselves have placed behind them. As regards the announcement of the strike and its interpretation: we know that it is not a strike, it has legal requirements, for example, the Government is in a collective contractual relationship with the Teachers' Union and other trade unions, where trade unions have renounced the possibility of advertising the strike, precisely because they want to solve problems at the negotiating table, and in the last week, 18 out of their 25 points have already achieved results and negotiations continue on the remaining points. But you can't legally declare a strike here, because the collective agreement is in place. But the National Pedagogical Faculty was also on the same trail this weekend, which also protected its members from illegal movements, and said that there was only a trial to solve the problem of teachers, and that the public education round table was seen in its best form, and urged that negotiations should proceed as quickly as possible. But the trade unions, together, said this weekend that they would not encourage their members to take any illegal action, said János Czövek, president of the League Trade Unions. You have to stay within the limits of legality, and you must not cross it - that's what the union leader literally said. László Kordás, president of the Hungarian Trade Union Association, also said that the members of the trade union are not encouraged to make any illegal decisions. András Földiák, Head of the Cooperation Forum of Trade Unions, apart from all of their criticisms, but it has been made clear that the trade union does not encourage its members to act against the law, they suggest that what goal they want to achieve - which the trade union also partly agrees with - are being achieved by legitimate means by the members of the trade union. I'd also like to quote you on a strike. Although they support the aims of the strike, the authors of the statement say, that is, they are dissatisfied with the situation of educational institutions, the living and working conditions of teachers, but they consider the cessation of work to be an irresponsible action that could lead not to results but to the death of workers, said the Teachers' Union in 2006 when the Gyurcsány government was in power in Hungary. There they called the cessation of work an irresponsible action, and they did not recommend or join it, even though there they explained in detail the problems they thought there were at the time in the system of public education. I add, there were then, because at that time the government had dismissed 17,000 teachers, in 381 places it closed the public education service, and at that time there was one who had declared a strike, but at that time the Teachers' Union clearly did not join. Many also smiled that there would be a spring break for this day, so you would have to go in to get someone to stop working. I think it's very important that if we're looking for a solution here, we're looking for it in the negotiations and we're looking for it. As I looked at it this weekend, former Minister Hiller and I were able to sit down at a negotiating table, we should not do anything but sit down with the former Minister, we should sit down with the current Secretary of State, we should sit down with the current head of education, and then we can achieve results. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] To quote an old, veteran socialist politician, not only must be independent, it must also be seen - to parafraze. This should be pursued and a solution could be found at the negotiating table. Thank you very much for your patience. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[11.20]]
u2016-03-21-8	Thank you very much. With all due respect to the House rules, even if you mention the chairman by name. Thank you very much. Mr Gergely Farkas, Mr Jobbik, asked for a pre-meeting address with the title "Rejected from the Reality." Congressman's got the floor. Here you go.
u2016-03-21-9	Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, I have given my speech before the agenda the title of distancing myself from reality. I suppose this has led to serious thinking in the ranks of the governing party about what area I would like to talk about, because this wording is true in many sectors and areas, because your communication panels are not in a thank-you relationship with reality. But I will help you: I would like to talk about the issue of emigration, emigration, just because Prime Minister, recently at the opening of the Hungarian Chamber of Commerce and Industry, he said in a brief line of thought about what he thought about these young people on the subject of emigration. Allow me to quote this. The most moving and courageous young people cannot be prevented from going abroad. The desire to know the world works in young Hungarians. Gotta go, it's in the young Hungarians. Preventing this is a fool's errand. Prime Minister Viktor Orbán said. I believe that the Prime Minister has reached a peak, because in this short line of thought he has also succeeded in expressing three completely unreal ideas that are far from reality. But first things first. He talks about the bravest young people in this issue. But let me remind you and draw your attention to the fact that today, the bravest young people are the ones who are staying home in the country you created and trying to get along at home. In a country where we talk every day about problems and chaos in the public education system, there are demonstrations, and young people are simply unable to plan or learn, the education system is equivalent to failure, on the brink of collapse. In a country where you are no longer trusted by young people, where young beginners are best able to choose between public work and the vulnerability of multinationals. But let's continue with the Prime Minister's sentences: we have to go, it's in the young Hungarians, he said. I'm sure there are such young people, but I'm sure there are many, many more people who want to stay home, who want to get along at home, want to start a family and have children at home. However, the country you created does not allow this. And then what you say is absolutely insensitive because you forget about the broken families - and there are tens of thousands of such families - who have been torn apart by this problem, and where the granddaughter is very often seen by the grandparent only on Skype, where young people are absent at Sunday family lunches because these young people are forced to work abroad. In the case of these people, what you say is not true is that it is involved in young Hungarians. These youths went abroad under duress because they did not see an opportunity to prosper here. Orbán also said that preventing this is a fool's errand. No one wants to prevent these young people from going abroad for six months or a year to increase their language skills and professional skills. If someone has such a desire, Jobbik has always supported it. We consider the scholarship programmes to be good, and we consider it important for young people to try themselves abroad; no one wants to prevent them from doing so. This is, therefore, a problem where the Prime Minister gives the opposition ideas that have never been said. Let me also quote the Prime Minister's statement here at this season's opening. Orbán also said that we need to make economic policy to bring these young people home. Orbán used to raise good political thoughts, but I think that he was a huge self-goaler with his sentence, because there is nothing more to show that you have not been able to create a country that would be attractive to young people who have migrated abroad. Because there are almost no young or small numbers of young people who want to come home today. It's a good example of how you've started this, come home, young man! A program and HUF 100 million were intended for this purpose. There are billions for everything these days, but you only wanted 100 million forints. Today, even an NB III football team gets more money for their football stadium. You have committed 100 million forints to this, and you have been able to bring home 57 young people in total; there may be sixty-some of these numbers, and you will be corrected if you think so. So I think that Viktor Orbán shot a huge self-goal with this, and he managed to issue his own certificate by saying that he wanted to create a country, working to bring young people home. I'm telling you, you failed, you failed, young people don't come home to the country you created. There is a need for a change of perspective, and I ask you to do so very quickly, because there will be disastrous consequences for the future of our country if you do not deal with this issue in accordance with its importance and weight. Thank you so much for listening. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-03-21-10	Thank you very much. Before I give the Secretary of State the opportunity to respond, on your behalf I welcome with friendship and respect the students and educators of the Székács József Evangelical Primary School and High School of Orosháza. From Dunaújváros, students of Szabolcs Vező High School and Secondary School. I'm glad you're here to monitor our work. Now it's up to the Secretary of State. Here you go.
u2016-03-21-11	Honourable Congressman, We do not want to be partners in making Hungarians working abroad look like economic refugees. In fact, we thank them for helping their families with their home transfers. Nevertheless, the Hungarian government is doing everything in its power to ensure that young Hungarians can also find their calculation at home. I think there are three basic conditions for this: a stable economy, a good job and a home. As far as economic results are concerned: we already told you about this a few minutes ago, but it is important to say that the Hungarian economy is increasing by more than 3 percent, real earnings are increasing, and the other macroeconomic indicators are okay. As far as job creation is concerned, you can't drive away that there are 550,000 people working in Hungary today compared to 2010, which also means that more young people have jobs. There is a general tendency throughout Europe to increase youth unemployment, while the trend in Hungary is opposite, more young people have jobs. I think you should be happy about that, too, because it will help you find your calculations at home. As far as home creation is concerned, the government has also launched the new home creation programme because it is confident that it will also promote the housing situation of young people. By the way, the survey carried out for the government confirms that four fifths of the Hungarian population think it is a good help for young people to receive support through a home creation programme. As far as details are concerned, a young family with three children can receive HUF 10 million. Finding such families in your ranks is a good help for them, too. They can receive a discount loan of HUF 10 million, as opposed to the previous period when they were trapped in foreign currency loans; and indirectly, the VAT reduction helps them to obtain housing more easily. An important fact is that young people living in rural areas can find a good solution to the home creation programme, and they can find their own calculations. Allow me to conclude by saying that it is extremely hypocritical that the Jobbik faction is alarming me about emigration in the case of working abroad, since it is known that one of your fellow Members had a share in a company that carried Hungarian doctors abroad. Your fellow Member even boasted to a foreign news portal that he had managed to place dozens of doctors abroad in six months. Therefore, in relation to foreign employment, the better alarm is rejected. Nevertheless, the government is doing everything in its power to ensure that young Hungarians can also find their calculations at home. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. György Szilágyi: You have time to say something about Béla Kovács!]]
u2016-03-21-12	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Before the agenda, Mr Péter Harrach, Head of Group, KDNP:, The Roots of European Culture. You have the floor, Mr. Group Leader.
u2016-03-21-13	Mr President, Dear House, The week begins, Easter approaches, the greatest festival of Christendom. Of course, I do not want to talk about the religious content of this, but about the message of Christian teaching to society and, in a sense, to politics. Huntington drew our attention to the fact that, after the Cold War era, which meant a bipolar world, a multipolar world has now emerged: the fault lines are along cultures, and they are impenetrable. I guess we don't have to justify this item today in the era of migration. But we can ask how the position of Western culture stands in this struggle. [[11.30]] And here again, I'm going to use a quote that says: "Asian civilizations are increasing their economic, military and political power, we are witnessing the explosive demographic growth of Islam. And what we see, especially in the last hundred years, is that the position of Western culture is deteriorating. What could be the reason for this? Let me give you an example: anyone who loves boxing knows very well that it is not just the preparation and not just the impact that is important, but the confidence. That's the way it is in the fight of cultures. Members of the community who belong to a culture must have a sense of identity and a strong sense of identity. And that may be more important than economic and military power. We also know that the roots of a culture are deep, because it takes centuries, not decades, but even thousands of years. Only by respecting them can we maintain our identity. Europe's roots go back to its Christian past. Let me refer to József Antall's repeated saying, which, of course, we understand in a cultural and non-religious sense that everyone in Europe is a Christian. Today there are fashionable views in Europe that reject these roots. People living in Western culture do not have a certain sense of identity, such as other cultures, Asians or Islam. And now I would like to emphasise a question that feeds on it. A spectacular example of refusing our roots is the EU's response to the persecution of Christian communities in the Middle East. In a way, we do not distinguish between religions, so we do not offer them increased protection. Thus, a two thousand-year-old community living locally is calmly destroyed in the name of another culture. The words of the leaders of the Union show the attitude of the losers. In our opinion, our responsibility is in concentric circles, deep down there are those closest to us. This is how we view the persecution of Christian communities in the Middle East, their intention to destroy them. The message of Easter is culturally addressed to everyone in the Western world. If we want to stop the decline of our civilization, we must not forget our roots. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-03-21-14	Thank you very much. Secretary of State Rétvári responds on behalf of the government. Here.
u2016-03-21-15	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Chief of Staff, Dear House, If we are talking about persecuted Christians, it is important to know their magnitude, including before Easter and all other times. Every year more than 100,000 Christians lose their lives as a result of their religious beliefs, including Catholics and Protestants. Sadly, four Christians out of every five people in the world who have been murdered because of their religion, and almost during the time that this post before the agenda is made, a Christian is martyred somewhere for his faith. Around 200 million people worldwide in over 60 countries are persecuted because of their Christian faith. These are only Christians in 60 countries, 200 million who are persecuted for their faith. In general, where religion is persecuted, the freedoms of the majority society or the rest of society are greatly reduced. Thus, it can be seen that Christianity is today the largest group persecuted by its religion. I believe that people who even give their lives, but who do not deny their faith, do not stumble from the faith of their parents, grandparents, or from the faith they themselves accept, recognized and undertaken, truly show the value of faith. After all, as the Member said, Europe would be unthinkable without Christianity. There are many different qualities in European peoples, there are many different distinctive signs that separate these nations, but what connects them has all Christian roots and Christian foundations. We can think not only of religious structures, temples, but also of musical works written to Masses, or fine arts, which are also ecclesiastical, or of all the respect for human dignity that is different from other world religions. And Easter is the greatest celebration of Christendom, although consumption habits are the most important for Christmas, but the true gospel for the church is the message of Easter. He carries for all of us the message of self-sacrifice, following the example of the Lord Jesus, who gave his own life for the sins of men, when he did not suffer for his own sins, because they were not, but for the sins of mankind he sacrificed himself as sinless. Besides, the really good news is the joy of the resurrection that our earthly existence here is not just for this material, 50-70-80-100 year, for whom time is measured, condemned, but for the spirit that lies in man, the morality that is worth living after life. Therefore, respect for human dignity and the value of human life are very important, and we could also say that it is a civilization of life. We may have taken this for granted until recently, but when we see that people are willing to kill, blow up, and kill others, or themselves, out of religious fanaticism, we can see that suicide is like an absolute alien from all kinds of Christian thinking; of course, it is also far from real religious foundations. At the same time, other world views, other beliefs, in their extreme version, consider this to be a useful tool, which kills the human value of both its own and others. That is why it is important to appreciate this European tradition. What we see, and for man, is an emptiness when European leading politicians from Brussels or elsewhere simply do not respect or treat these values as their local value, when they think that the words of Christmas, Easter, neighborly love should be driven out of political use, or questions of moral moral Christianity are also taboo issues for European politicians. The legacy of centuries and millennia is denied by those who do not appreciate the achievement that a Christian Europe has created in a Christian culture. Those who immediately urge everyone to withdraw from their worldview and Christian worldview affiliation, if followers of other religions appear, do not sufficiently respect Christian tradition, Christian roots, Christian achievement, the performance of European people, their work, if they want to build the future not on the people here, on the traditions and on the religion here, but on other import ideas and on imported people. We should be proud of this thousand-year, two thousand-year tradition, we should be proud of performance, because in Europe Christianity has not only its root but also its future. In fact, only Christendom has a future, or there will be no Europe. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-03-21-16	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Mónika Dunai applied for a pre-meeting speech, Fidesz, on behalf of whose behalf? It's an address. It's up to Congresswoman. Here you go.
u2016-03-21-17	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, We, the politicians of Fidesz, believe that the child at school is the first. At school, everything and everyone must work for the child. It is in our interest, Fidesz's interest and purpose that children gain competitive knowledge and that teachers can gain both moral and material respect. We provide a helping hand, a partner hand for teachers. That is why we asked all the teachers in the country how to further develop our education system. While there is intensive further development of education in these weeks and months, the attitude of the opposition and some self-proclaimed civilian leaders, so to speak, in the field of education, is all less understandable. On the street, the professional aspects expressed by educators and which represent sound professional needs are becoming increasingly blurry. [[11.40]] These were replaced by dubious claims. They are all less visible in whose name they are formulated, in whose behalf they are formulated. Alleged representatives of the opposition and teachers suggest that the government will return schools to the municipalities. We don't know when the teachers asked for this. And when they asked for representation of this case from the self-proclaimed advocates. We know that over time there have been huge differences between schools. In the knowledge of children, in the wages, benefits of teachers, in the recognition of teachers and even in the payment of their remuneration, due to the very different financial situation and attitudes of the municipalities, which can only be balanced by the normative behaviour of public funding. Ladies and gentlemen, We must therefore work to ensure that this funding, in addition to the uniform treatment of the incomes of teachers, is more effective in ensuring that other conditions are met and that the quality of education is improved. However, we do not know that the earlier unjustified wage differences, the wage gap, would be recreated by teachers or that the representatives of the local government association would have stood up for the return of school maintenance, even by force, after many of them had not long said that they could not carry out the task. Ladies and gentlemen, The education government has heard the need for teachers, parents, students to reorganize the KLIK, reduce the curriculum, correct the rating system, make it fairer, reduce the workload, reduce the administration and many other issues. The portfolio announced immediate and short-term measures to the satisfaction of teachers, including as a result of roundtable negotiations. Teachers see that decisions have been made or are being made to meet their expectations and that this has been achieved by their professional representations. In view of this, it is difficult to understand when the pedagogical society has formulated the need for trade unions, unlike their professional organisations, to refrain from participating in round-table negotiations, or for their self-proclaimed civil representatives to initiate a legally one-hour cessation or an illegal strike, according to trade unions. Teachers also know that it would be weird to ask the President of the Republic to apologize to them, because the President of the Republic has embodied an independent branch of power since its existence in Hungary, which does not harm or harm the decisions of the Parliament or the executive authority, the government. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: Never an independent branch of power is the Presidential institution of the Republic.]] We see that, unlike the professional aspirations and professional authorisation of teachers, there are many proponents of issues far from the real needs of the educator society. They are far from the true interests of children, far from professionalism. I ask you, it's a rhetorical question, but I hope everyone will think about who's interest is and what's the purpose of it [[The president's ringing the bell.]] That the school should not be the child first, but politics. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2016-03-21-18	Thank you very much. Once again, I respectfully call on everyone to comply with the Rules of the House in the matter of time. Mr. Secretary of State, please.
u2016-03-21-19	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, The government has always been open to negotiations with everyone, including one of the leaders of the Teachers movement. Secretary of State Palkovics went to Miskolc and spent three or four hours there, because that's where this initiative began, at the Herman Otto school there, and there he talked to the teachers about the current issues of public education. He would have liked to have gone to school in Zugló, but unfortunately, the director couldn't give him an appointment - the school secretary of education couldn't even meet the invitation to participate in the round table for public education. I think it's strange, to put it mildly; I don't know how other people could afford to accept it first, call back the secretariat three minutes later, cancel it, and postpone it a week later, and essentially avoid the possibility of a meaningful settlement. And in Hungary, anyone who says that the right to strike cannot be lived under the current law, I ask how, from 28 March, a Volán worker strike will take place if they say that it is impossible to have a legitimate strike in Hungary. If you could do it in one case, you could probably do it in the other. It's probably a different purpose for those people. At the same time, it is very important that what they say is actually criticism or self-criticism. What do I mean? What I mean is that people who speak the loudest and criticize, say, the alternative round table, the so-called Civil Education Platform, the current system of public education, formed part of the segment of this, and did not do it for free. If we look at one of the main critics, Péter Radó, who says that within a single government cycle, a system-wide change of this magnitude has never been forced through an education system, he is the one who says that the current system of public education is unsuitable in all its tastes: well, he himself was part of the construction of this system, as he is the leading analyst of Expanzio Human Consultant Ltd. It's cvt. Since 2011, since the establishment of the new system of public education, he has given 200 million forints, 200 million forints of commission, and let me tell you a few topics about his involvement in the construction of the public education system, which he completely considers unsuitable in all its tastes. For example, in 2012 for HUF 48 million for the Education Office, he studied the situation of institutional quality management programmes, while these issues related to the quality assurance system are now being raised as one of the main problems. In 2014, so in the last year of the first cycle, change management was trained for 5.3 million HUF. Obviously, there was a very large change in public education in 2013, and this company, of which Péter Radó is the leading analyst, was involved in the development of the new system precisely in connection with the implementation of this change management. But I could mention, for 42 million HUF 925,000, the research and development and innovation activities of the pedagogical qualification system project, which were demanded first to be terminated by the government: 42 million for HUF 925,000, they also participated in it to develop as it evolved. But there are, of course, additional contracts: if I look at the issues of making funding for education more effective at the Institute for Education and Development, for example, in 2013, and now they are talking about how underfunded education is, it is possible that it was not quite the same. And for another HUF 2.5 million in 2014, this Kft., the head of which is the Head of the Civil Education Platform, carried out an institutional analysis of the changes and interventions. However, in 2015, the future of the development of content was examined, for example, within the framework of the nine-year school. But we can go on, according to István Nahalka, who is a member of the Network for Freedom of Teaching Round Table, in an interview in HVG, the teacher qualification should be abolished. Well, in 2015 his company, Nahalka and Associates Education Organizer Bt., was responsible for the development of the quality assurance system. and Qualitas Kft. jointly, for HUF 31 million, he wrote a study on the development of the quality system. It seems that at that time this system was more acceptable to them, that millions, tens of millions and hundreds of millions of years of studies were carried out, and when these were completed, they became the main critics of what they had worked out in part, since some of the tasks were carried out themselves for serious millions and tens of millions. Let's not mention that Aurél Puskás, who is the head of this Civil Education Platform, was also a politician from MSZP-SZDSZ in 2002; his Tinta Consultant Ltd. was also involved in TÁMOP projects, and was then the main critic and spokesperson of critics. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2016-03-21-20	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that today's speech following the agenda has been submitted by MEP László Varju, independent; Representative Zoltán Kész, independent; Representative Tibor Bana, Jobbik; Member Gergely Farkas, Jobbik; Member László György Lukács, Mr Jobbik; Member István Szávavay, Member István Jobbik; Member Lajos Kepli, Mr Jobbik; Member Mrs Loránt Hegedűs, Mrs Jobbik; Member Balázs Ander, Mr Jobbik; Member R. Benedict Sallai, Member LMP; Member István Ikotity, LMP; Member Zoltán Magyar, Mr Jobbik; Mr Dániel Z., representative of Jobbik. [[11.50]] Now, at 11:50 p.m., we're gonna start discussing questions and immediate questions. The questions come first. Dear Parliament, Congressman Gergely Bárándy, representative of the MSZP, would you like to ask the Minister of Human Resources a question: "Is there really not enough time for admissions? It's an address. Congressman Gergely Bárándy has the floor. Here you go.
u2016-03-21-21	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, I'd like to ask you a relatively current professional question. According to the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights, it is not in line with the education management cycles of universities and colleges that the time limits within which requests for redress in connection with the admission procedure should be considered. This prevents a successful appellant from enrolling before the start of the training period. The legal time limits necessary for the examination of applications for review of the recruitment procedure are rather limited. By the time the appeal procedure reached a favourable decision for the student, the period of subsequent enrollment and the interview took place, while the school year began. Dear Secretary of State, Do you think that the right of candidates to a fair trial and redress is guaranteed? If you consider that you do not, when do you intend to amend the legislation accordingly, so that the time limits for redress for the higher education admission procedure are in the interests of everyone? Do you think, Mr Secretary of State, that conditions have been provided for the effective treatment of appeals? I ask you, Mr Secretary of State, to take a professional position on this, because I think this is not a political issue, but it is indeed about the need for a possible amendment of legislation in the interests of candidates. And if not, I look forward to your answer as to why we are not seeing and seeing this situation. Thank you very much.
u2016-03-21-22	Thank you very much. Secretary Bence Rétvári responds. Here you go.
u2016-03-21-23	Thank you very much for the floor. I don't think you have to apologize, Congressman, either if you make a political or professional contribution here in Parliament. But I'll give you the answer you ask. In this regard, I can inform you that we have tried to shorten the time of proceedings in the second degree procedure. Here, the 40-day extension period, which is also included in Nftv., has been reduced to 35 days, precisely so that the procedural deadline for the second degree is shorter, and the problems that you mentioned should be less complicated. Two minutes is not enough to explain exactly how this rather complex procedure is taking place. It is provided for in the Higher Education Act or Government Decree. The applicant's right to appeal is guaranteed throughout the entire period of the higher education admission procedures, as they may lodge an appeal not only against the classification decision but also against any partial procedural action. The time limits are determined by law by the Ket. according to its rules, with the differences described in Nftv. During the examination of the application, the body acting at first instance shall have 30 days from receipt of the application, during which it may amend, correct or supplement its decision. The application shall be submitted within 15 days from the date of notification of the classification decision to the applicants, the time limit for making the classification decision shall be laid down in the Regulation, in the case of the cross-annual admission procedure no later than 25 January of the year in which the training is started, in the case of a general procedure not later than 5 August before the start of the training and 28 August of the replacement procedure. As I said, in the second-degree procedure, the administrative deadline under the applicable law from the previous 40 days to 35 days has decreased significantly without the possibility of an extension. The institution and the applicant shall be notified of the decision at second instance immediately after the decision has been taken. This is how we were able to speed up the procedure. We hope that this will reduce the possibility of anyone getting into an awkward situation. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2016-03-21-24	Congressman Tibor Bana, representative of Jobbik, wishes to ask the Minister of the Interior: "Why are the Körmendi and Szentgotthárdi punished? It's an address. Here you go.
u2016-03-21-25	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Jobbik's position is clear and clear: we do not want immigrants in Körmenden or in Szentgotthárd. [[Intercoms from Jobbik's benches: That's right!]] While the closure of the refugee camp in Nagyfa may be due to public safety problems, the Orbán government will establish reception stations in Szentgotthárd and Körmenden. There will be two reception stations, Körmend and Szentgotthárd, no more,' said Lajos Kósa, leader of the Fidesz faction last week. You're playing a double game again. They stand up against immigration in words, but in reality they are opening refugee camps in our beloved cities, ignoring the opinion of the locals. Together with Gábor Lábodi and Miklós Auer, local government representatives from Körmend, we have expressed our concerns about what will happen if migrants stay longer in the settlements this time. I'd prefer not to be right, but unfortunately, things are in this direction. The Szentgotthárdi, the Körmendi and the inhabitants of the region can count on Jobbik. We will act with every means possible against the camps for the safety of our families, our loved ones. It's unfortunate that the mayors of the two cities who are pro-government don't do that, but agree to all kinds of extortion. We do not know how many immigrants can arrive in our region as a result of the closure of other camps. All due respect to the soldiers and the police who protect us, but their options are limited. If the government has promised, then defend the Hungarians, and the Fidesz mayors stand up for the people, not for their party. Dear Secretary of State, If the other refugee camps are shut down because of public safety problems, what guarantee is there that we will not face a similar situation in our beloved cities? Why are Saintgottharians and Körmendi punished? I look forward to your substantive answer. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2016-03-21-26	Thank you. Mr Károly Kontra has the floor. Here you go.
u2016-03-21-27	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, First of all, we have not placed any migrants in the city of Körmend or in the city of Szentgotthárd. So once again, neither Körmenden nor Szentgotthárd have any migrants. You know that very well, Congressman, because you live in that area. I am very sorry that you are using it for political gain, alarming people, scaring refugees, scaring the Körmendi and the Szentgotthárdi. [[Lajos Kepli: You say that.]] The facts show that to date, no migrants have been placed in any settlement, Körmenden or Szentgotthárd. [[Tibor Bana: But what?]] The fact is that in the city of Körmend, the OKF established tents in the area of the law school, but we did not plant any migrants there. And we didn't even set up tents in Szentgotthárd. So what we would like to do, and I would also like to say to this House, is that it will not be necessary, but if it is necessary, we are prepared to take these steps to ensure the safety of the people in the settlement. By the way, I would like to thank the towns of Körmend and Szentgotthárd for their cooperation, for acting responsibly in this situation. At the request of Körmend's body of representatives, the fence of the law school has been strengthened, we will cooperate, we will strengthen public security, the county chief of police will take measures if necessary, if migrants are placed there to ensure the safety of the people living in Körmend. Honourable Congressman, I ask you to act responsibly, not to frighten, not to frighten people, and if you experience any violations, please inform me of them. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2016-03-21-28	Congresswoman Bernadett Wind, representative of the LMP, wishes to ask the Minister of the Interior a question, "Why do you gamble on the fundamental security of people?" It's an address. Here you go.
u2016-03-21-29	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Dear Parliament, The restructuring of the chimney sweeping industry has already resulted in a number of scandalous government measures. In this sector, too, the government has followed the well-known algorithm used for energy suppliers and waste managers: first, they increase costs with separate taxes and all kinds of public burdens, then artificially, through public intervention, and finally, the state will take over the market from the impossible businesses, and the loss will fall on who else than the taxpayer. But it doesn't seem to be enough that due to the reduction of the rent, the sales of small Hungarian-owned small enterprises who were only sweeping chimneys have decreased by 50 percent, and therefore they have failed in a series. It was not enough that the companies that remained on their feet were forced to make significant wage cuts, so the workers there saw the damage, but we are now at the point of taking serious sums out of the pockets of workers who physically perform the work that is particularly important for the safety of people. [[12.00]] It was not enough that during the nationalisation period, the work done so far by professionals was entrusted to untrained people, firefighters were persuaded to sweep the chimneys in a second job, and now they want to reduce the amount of services actually to be carried out. What we see is that on the altar of the measure lying to the reduction of overhead, people are now being sacrificed their basic security when plans are being made to require inspections of chimneys only every two years. The May Other in Politics believes that when it comes to the safety of people, such action cannot be taken. It must be seen that the measures, the public services that guarantee the safety of people, must be properly paid. The heavy burden on households is because the wages in this country are so low that people can barely afford bread at the end of the month. There's a very bad wage level in this country. This cannot be compensated by the introduction of such a measure, because there are about half a million neglected and life - threatening chimneys in this country. I believe and the LMP believe that, for the sake of human safety, the number of inspections should not be reduced. So I'm asking the honourable wallet: they really think they can play with people's lives. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Is this really how they keep up with this public-dangered reduction? [[It's a rare applause in the lines of the LMP.]]
u2016-03-21-30	Thank you very much. Secretary Tibor Pogácsás responds. Here.
u2016-03-21-31	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and The state of the chimneys in Hungary, especially in the big cities, is indeed serious, and the renovation and replacement of these chimneys would be necessary. It can also be seen that the chimney sweep service, which has been carried out so far, has not been able to resolve the fact that the population has involved resources in the renovation of the poor chimneys. At the same time, the firing equipment has been continuously transformed and modernized; in the case of a modern turbo boiler, the chimney itself functions as part of the gas apparatus and performs a completely different function than the chimneys of conventional combustion boilers or conventional combustion equipment. It is therefore clear that this technique must also be changed, and it is clear that a service of the right quality for age must be provided. I would like to draw the Member's attention to the fact that, at the moment, the chimney sweep is not carried out by the public service provider, but by private service providers, and if the work of these private service providers is satisfied by the local authorities, they can continue to do so, but in many cases the municipalities have otherwise terminated the contract with these companies. And I can't put that any different than nonsense when you're talking about firefighters doing this kind of activity. On the one hand, disaster management is not doing this, and on the other hand, disaster protection is in negotiations with chimney sweeping companies so that workers can take over and do it. I mean, we're aware of that. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] that this is a serious profession, which requires appropriate training, can be carried out with a suitable school, not a mess of the way you speak. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-03-21-32	Dear Parliament, Congresswoman Bene Ildikó, representative of Fidesz, wishes to ask the Minister for National Development: "Szolnok and Budapest" It's for the congresswoman. Here you go.
u2016-03-21-33	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, In Szolnok and the surrounding settlements, we are pleased to see that the government, in cooperation with the local governments, is doing everything in its power to turn our county into the country's economic circulation. I must admit, in the county seat and its surroundings, it was quite difficult to accept that the construction of Hungarian motorways and motorways had so far escaped our area. The period when the Gyurcsány government promised EU support for development to reassure the public left a deep impression on the people, but in addition to misleading EU decision-makers, nothing actually happened for the fast-track connection of our region. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: Who shut down the M4, Ildikó?]] This is primarily the reason why people only believe when they see road - building machines with their own eyes. Of course, we also need to see that the real work started with the government of Fidesz, from then on it became a goal and not just an empty promise for the highway connecting Budapest with Szolnok. In the agreement between the Municipality of Szolnok and the Government, the M4 road connecting the city and Budapest can be built as part of the Modern Cities programme. Szolnok and the region's direct motorway connection with Budapest can bring great economic development, as the working capital is very happy to be located next to motorways. The favourable location of Szolnok would thus be even more significant, since the capital would be safely available within an hour. This is precisely why people in and around the city are looking forward to the start of the investment, as this significantly increases Szolnok's strength of preservation. In addition, it can accelerate investments that create jobs and turn investment negotiations in a positive direction, which are a prerequisite for fast-track connections. In Szolnok, the public is also very interested to know when the M4 section between the Abony and the Gun can continue. Dear Secretary of State, When can the construction of the M4 section between Budapest and Szolnok begin? Where do the works start? When can a major investment be completed? And when can we expect to continue with the Abony-Weapon phase that has already begun? Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-03-21-34	Thank you very much. Secretary of State László Tasó responds. Here you go.
u2016-03-21-35	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and The main road number 4 is the most important traffic axis of the Great Plain, so the M4 motorway is also a priority road for Hungary. Accordingly, the expansion of the current one-track road twice will occur twice to two lanes. As you asked - and you obviously know - the Hungarian government made it clear, according to the agreement of Szolnok County City, that Szolnok's connection will take place in 2018 at the latest, the fast-track connection will be established, as the government's programme indicates. To your specific question, I asked you exactly today about your position in the direction of Cegléd on the M0 section. This week will be on quality assurance, and I am sure that in August this year the work can also start, as the remaining time is enough to start the work. And the next stage, which means Cegléd-Abony-Szolnok, in the spring of 17 I hope that in a year's time you can start - also otherwise - and I am absolutely sure that by the end of 18 we can complete this stage, and thus the relationship will be realized. What you asked, and what is about the section between the so-called Abony-Argument, as you well know, was a question about this on several occasions: the review of entrepreneurship needs is now on the line, their technical and other needs are being examined, and everyone in this room knows, by the way, that the Hungarian Competition Authority has an investigation, which, after running it, the government can decide when to start implementing this phase. This section, as previously mentioned, has changed its technical content, but it will start. We are interested in making sure that the right start is made in the next six months. It is in our interest that all cities with county rights should be connected and the missing section should be completed as soon as possible - which is why we will also be working in the coming months. Thank you very much for asking. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-03-21-36	Dear Parliament, Congressman Zsolt Legény, representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Minister without a wallet for national policy: . How does the government intend to help the border health institutions and the health care of the Hungarian community in Transcarpathia? It's an address. Here you go.
u2016-03-21-37	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Deputy Prime Minister, State Secretary Bence Rétvári reported that a total of HUF 27 billion of medical resources had arrived in Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg County, of which county hospitals, together with university teaching hospitals, received HUF 23 billion for infrastructure development. However, the Minister of State's information did not reveal the period during which these amounts were received and the actual need for funding from the health institutions compared to this. However, the county hospital has deteriorated a lot over the past few years. Despite the announced hospital developments, the physical conditions, buildings and public utilities of hospitals have not improved. The current state of the wards sometimes hinders basic care. The hospital, which won the Hospital of the Year in 2007, and then in the same year, is important not only for the population living in the county, but also for the Transcarpathian Hungarians, who use an increasing number of healthcare services in Hungary. Due to the state of the Ukrainian health institutions and the lack of service, Hungarian health services were used in large numbers even before the outbreak of the war conflict by Hungarian patients in Transcarpathia, and this number increased significantly after the conflict. The Hungarians in Transcarpathia affected by war, drafts, inflation of more than 50 percent and emigration have to face the gas price increase of more than 400 percent. I believe that the Hungarian Government must take responsibility and play a role for the future of this community, take decisive steps and help to overcome the challenges and difficulties. [[12.10]] On the basis of the above, I respectfully ask: on the basis of the proposal of the leaders of the Hungarian churches in Transcarpathia, the government examined the possibility of the Hungarian budget taking over the obligation to pay contributions. In addition to the private hospital built in Transylvania, what assistance does the government offer to the Hungarian community in Transcarpathia? Do you wish to strengthen border health institutions in order to provide for Hungarian patients in Transcarpathia? I'm looking forward to your reply.
u2016-03-21-38	Thank you very much. Before I give the floor to the Secretary of State, on your behalf, I would like to welcome you with respect and friendship to the Bartholomew Secondary School of Miskolc. [[Lajos Korózs: Yay!]] College students and teachers. I'm glad you're here. Good afternoon. Secretary of State Árpád Potápi responds, please.
u2016-03-21-39	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Ladies and gentlemen, The Hungarian government is doing everything it can to ensure that Hungarian patients in Transcarpathia have access to the Hungarian health system. At the initiative of the State Secretariat for National Policy, the Ministry of Health decree was amended on 15 July 2012 according to which many people have been able to receive treatment in Hungary in recent years. In 155 cases, HUF 34 million was granted in 2014 and in 162 cases HUF 45 million in 2015 was granted by the Ministry of Human Resources to eligible applicants with the help of the Rock Foundation. The foundation operates offices with the Christian Health Center in Munkács and the branch organization of the Christian Health Center in Tiszaújlak. Our Secretary of State supports its operating conditions by HUF 10 million a year. Our aim is clearly to give Hungarians in Transcarpathia access to higher quality health care in their native country, which is why last year the government decided that doctors communicating in Hungarian would receive gross HUF 150,000 per year, while graduates would receive HUF 100,000 per year. The government supported this with HUF 100 million and completed it with HUF 80 million. However, we want to continue the work. We'll take the programs as well. István Grezsa, responsible for the coordinated development of cooperation between Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg county and Transcarpathia, has given György Velkey a mandate to develop the [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Transcarpathian Hungarian organizations and historical churches bring together the concept that they can help and expand care. Thank you very much - also patience. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-03-21-40	Thank you very much. I also welcome the students of Deák Ferenc Primary School, High School and Primary Art School in Zalasztgrót and the teachers' colleagues. I'm glad you're here. This joyful announcement was most helpful to MEP Zoltán Magyar, who was at least able to unpack [[Defiance.]] And now it's his turn to ask the Minister of Agriculture: "The future is at stake! Stop privatization of state land immediately. It's an address. Here you go.
u2016-03-21-41	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Fellow Members! The easiest way to increase private wealth is to rob the national wealth, values, and funds accumulated over generations. You're very good at this. In order to prevent this process, we humans are organized into states. The problem becomes irreversible when, by the way, the State itself moves to the side of the capital that wants to exploit this process. Dear Secretary of State, Today, it is hard to find anyone in this country who believes that you would really support small and medium-sized family farms. The process I outlined earlier has been poisoning the public state of our country for decades, increasing its debt and squandering the opportunities of future generations. However, the truth and the facts that support the truth always make their way. There are three areas that need to be highlighted, which determine how a government intends to influence its own rural and agricultural situation: the legal environment, aid policy and land policy. In all three cases, you have failed badly in all three types of manipulation. In the field of legislation, we have established the land law, and it is no coincidence that Jobbik, when it was adopted, even took over the presidential pulpitus, and we have often brought down the cover for support policy, since under your governance, the seven biggest agricultural interests increased its support by HUF 24 billion. That's more than 50 percent increase. Here's to you, little guys' support. On this basis, I ask the Secretary of State whether it is acceptable that, at the time of the sale of state land, about a fifth of the winners and a third of the most fortunate counties were locally resident. Why do they allow the urban rich of Budapest and large cities to take their centuries-old heritage away from the locals? I look forward to your substantive response to this. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2016-03-21-42	Thank you very much. The question is answered by the State Secretary for Agriculture Bitay Márton Örs. Here you go.
u2016-03-21-43	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Honourable Congressman, Fourth, fifth, local, non-local - we have been trying to introduce you and the opposition for about three years to what exactly the land traffic law means by its resident concept. Obviously, you know it, and I know it, and everyone who is familiar with this subject knows that within 20 kilometers, living within a 20-mile radius of the land in question, is living locally. That is the logic, my dear Member, because obviously we do not want to fear the owner of the neighboring settlement. [[Voices from the benches of MSZP: Ah!]] So this is a very shady calculation of what you're saying, but I'll give you another example: out of the 50,000 published space numbers, 40,000 under 10 hectares. I think it's not in itself a question of who we believe or who we don't. The announcements are up there. This no longer proves that anyone, at least large plants, would benefit from the land sale programme. If you look at, say, in a 150-acre estate that we have announced, a total of 10,000 hectares were sold compared to the announced nearly 200,000 hectares, another talkative number that does not measure it, but all the areas, if I look at it, are small or large quantities of land that were sold in this way. Honourable Congressman, The land sale program is about enabling Hungarian family farms to buy land. It is my great pleasure that there are almost ten thousand customers who have been lucky at state auctions, and just in order not to have a debate about who it favours or who does not, so under legal conditions, these land properties can be acquired at a public auction. I think that anyone who goes to these auctions and is entitled to it, and makes use of a credit line of almost HUF 300 million, which is guaranteed to all natural persons, can buy. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] in this program. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-03-21-44	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Congressman Sallai R. Benedek, representative of the LMP, wishes to ask the Minister of Agriculture:. Why is the profits of the GMO multi more important than the health of Hungarians? It's an address. It's the congressman's turn, here you go.
u2016-03-21-45	Thank you for the floor. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, The Member States of the European Union have recently postponed a vote on the re-approval of a potentially carcinogenic plant protection product. As far as I know, the representative of the Hungarian Government did not oppose the extension of the permit. Glyphosate is one of the most widespread, broad spectrum plant protection products in the world, the use of which is closely linked to gene-treated crops banned from the territory of the country by the Hungarian Constitution. This is a total herbicide that can destroy all plants other than GMOs with artificially implanted glyphosate resistance genes. The chemical was previously described as harmful, but it was recently added to the list of potentially carcinogenic chemicals. For this reason, more than 180,000 European citizens have recently signed a declaration against the recertification of glyphosate. Their concern is clearly understandable, since it appeared not only in the environment but also in the human body. A German study presented by Greenpeace demonstrated the presence of glyphosate in 75 percent of the population, it was everywhere in their urine, and obviously this carcinogenic substance can be seriously harmful to health, and it can be particularly dangerous for children under the age of 9. Glyphosate has been shown to be carcinogenic in animal studies and its DNA and hormone toxicity have been confirmed. The European Chemicals Agency will review the effects of glyphosate this year, and there is no acceptable explanation why a 15-year authorisation should be issued before it is completed, before the European Union has said anything. According to Politics, no foreign profit interests can control the right of Hungarians to health, nor can they override the right of Hungarian citizens to health. [[12.20]] This is a plant protection product marketed by Monsanto, and the interests of Monsanto cannot be more important than those of Hungarian citizens. For this reason, I ask the Honourable Secretary of State what the position of the wallet on the authorisation of glyphosate is. What is the government's position and what will it represent in Brussels over the next period? I'm looking forward to your reply. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2016-03-21-46	Thank you very much. Mr Róbert Zsigó, State Secretary, responds. Here. [[Dr. Wind Bernadett: Will there be a freedom fight in Brussels?]]
u2016-03-21-47	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Indeed, the authorisation of the pesticide active substance glyphosate in the European Union is currently being revised. A product should be subjected to a number of tests in accordance with very strict requirements before it is authorised to be used. The applicant shall provide the Commission with all the information at its disposal. The Commission invites an EU Member State to evaluate the information and prepare a draft report. In this case, Germany is the reporting Member State, which is known for its thoroughness and rigour. The review should, of course, take into account the decision of the International Agency for Cancer Research as a cancer enhancer. It should be noted here that it is not known what documentation was used by the Agency for the evaluation. On the basis of the review, the European Food Safety Authority considers the risk associated with the use of the active substance. On the basis of the available studies and assessments, Germany, as a reporting Member State, does not recommend the classification of glyphosate as carcinogenic. Dear Parliament, We consider it particularly important to enforce the precautionary principle. In Hungary, the active substance is an active substance9. Under the EC Regulation, we are not authorising pesticides, but plant protection products and well-defined uses, none of which have harmful effects on human health and the environment. The Government will continue to do its utmost to ensure that plant protection products are authorised and banned. [[Dr. Wind Bernadett: What's the position?]] only on the basis of sound scientific studies to ensure the safety of users, the environment and consumers. We are committed to protecting the health of Hungarian people, reducing environmental risks, representing the interests of Hungarian agriculture and maintaining our GMO exemption, which is also enshrined in our Fundamental Law. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-03-21-48	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Member László Salacz, representative of Fidesz, would like to ask the Minister of Human Resources:. What results can we see in the area of tertiary dual education? It's an address. Congressman!
u2016-03-21-49	Dear Secretary of State, For the first time in the history of the Faculty of Mechanical Engineering and Automation Technology at the Kecskemét College, students took over their degrees in dual training. In 2012 at Kecskemét College, dual training was launched on a German sample, with the assistance of two major automotive companies. Taking into account the experience of the dual training model of the Kecskemét College, the government created an opportunity to spread the training model nationwide in 2015, so in September 2015 dual training was launched in 19 higher education institutions. But what does dual training mean in practice? The theoretical training of students is carried out by higher education institutions and by dual partner companies and organisations, i.e. students in higher education spend part of their training time outside the higher education institution, at a company cooperating with the institution. The great advantage of this system is that students can gain practical work experience even before they graduate from higher education, and there is also an opportunity to establish a relationship with companies that can help students later on at the location. Graduating students can thus enter the labour market with a higher degree in respect of the local economy. Together with this, companies also benefit from dual training, as dual students can form a potential workforce base, and of course we know that all beginnings are difficult. During the first semester, students should be educated, but in time, trainees can be expected to be a valuable workforce for the rest of the training. Furthermore, in recent years, there has been a tendency to see more and more in the same direction, thanks to the cooperation of the institutions, industrial partners, the professional requirements expected by the corporate side [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] and the knowledge provided to the students in the institution. On this basis, Mr Secretary of State, I am asking you what results we can see in the area of tertiary dual education, and what is the government's vision of strengthening this training system. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] How important are the first results of the Kecskemét training model [[Interviews from the ranks of the MSZP: Time! Time!]] for the future of the tertiary dual training system?
u2016-03-21-50	Okay, thank you very much.
u2016-03-21-51	I'm looking forward to your reply. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2016-03-21-52	And I expect you to comply with the Rules of Procedure. I'm asking you to take this into account. Secretary Retvári responds. [[Interviews from the ranks of the MSZP: Say so much less!]]
u2016-03-21-53	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, The dual training was a success of the Hungarian education system, the Hungarian higher education not only at the Kecskemét College, but in several places in the country, since the University of Pécs, the Budapest University of Economics, the University of West Hungary, and its Zalaegerszeg training, has expanded the number of dual training places at the Széchenyi István University, the University of Miskolc, the University of Dunaújváros, and in the future the number of dual training places has expanded from this year at the Eszterházy Károly College. For a very long time, many people have been talking about how important it would be for future employers and labour market players to receive young people with skills that are practical skills that can be used immediately for work. This is precisely what dual training, as the Member has very well pointed out, serves, as many where the practical part of training is spent in dual training can then find work. This reduces employers' time to search for and to hunt for workers, and reduces their working time, since if they will work where they have spent the training, this is obviously important and beneficial for both of them. At the same time, it is important to say that now that there is a huge shortage of truly qualified people, especially in Transdanubia, but already in an increasing part of the country, and that there is an increasing need for employers and companies to be able to get into work immediately, it is particularly important that we have completed dual training. I think this is where the private sector and the state can work well. If Hungary could have done this 25 years ago, how much further ahead could we have been, everyone should think about this! It is important to tell what numbers we can boast in this area. 46 different dual training courses have been launched, Master's programmes have already been launched, and the previous technical, IT and agricultural sciences courses are being regularly recruited by natural sciences and social qualifications. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] So together with 500 companies, we announced 2600 training places in 46 courses. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-03-21-54	Dear Parliament, Member László Teleki, representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Minister for National Development:. What does the government intend to do to enable the road network and sidewalks in Zala County to be accessible in South Zala? It's an address. Here you go.
u2016-03-21-55	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Why do you consider the county of Zala by the Fidesz government as stepdads? I would like to ask you this, because we see that the current resources available in Zala County are not enough to repair and build the road networks that the population of Zala County needs. But this is even more true of South Zala, because if you look at South Zala, you can see that a total of HUF 3.5 billion is being spent on the roads this year, and it will be enough to improve the road section of 11 kilometres. A total of 2.6 kilometers of roads will fall to the south of Zala County. That in itself means that he is the stepchildren of the entire Zala county, as I said, to the government, but South Zala even more. If we go further off the road networks, you can see that the sidewalks and bicycle roads are also treated as step-hauls in Zala County, because they are not built and those bicycle roads are not developed, the sidewalks that would otherwise be badly needed. Therefore, I think that the government should do everything in its power to make Zala County feel no outside of the country, because today it feels that it does not belong to this country, because the sources of support that appear do not benefit Zala County. It is therefore very important, I asked Mr. Secretary of State what they would like to do with Zala County, whether they wish to improve the road network, whether they want to improve the pavements, whether they want to improve the bicycle roads, because if they do not, I think that Zala County will be lost. I do not think that this is your goal, so what you promised in the election campaign should be observed and try to keep to the fact that the Hungarian people are important to you. What I see is that Hungarian people are not important to you, and Zala County is not important to you at all, so I would ask Mr Secretary of State to reassure Zala County that there will be development. Thank you very much.
u2016-03-21-56	Secretary of State László Tasó responds. Mr. Secretary. [[12.30]]
u2016-03-21-57	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Dear fellow Member, Mr. Péter Cseresnyés, our secretary of state, who was the mayor of Nagykanizsa, is very close to the South. [[Interview from the ranks of the MSZP: Governmental!]] Zérintem is a great supporter of all the development of Zala county, as is the Hungarian government, because if we look back at what the figures show, when a bit more than 12 and a half kilometers of the main road section will be built from the current 69 billion programme. [[Interruption from the ranks of the MSZP.]] What is very important is that 40 percent of the TOP framework will otherwise be implemented in South and West Zala counties. So I think the numbers you've said are incorrect. However, contrary to what has been experienced in your period of governance, not only do we want to renew Zala County, but we want to renew Eastern Hungary, the whole rural Hungary, for the purposes of transport development, and it is clear that all roads that are now very difficult to pass or have completely deteriorated during your period of governance will be restored within the framework of our five-year renovation programme. We really can't accomplish everything you've ruined in recent years, but we're trying to move at least as fast as we've been steering for eight years in the second year. Believe me, in the coming years, there will be such important developments in the field of transport development that will raise Hungary's economy, and not only will it be possible to talk about a break-down, but also East Hungary will catch up with Western Hungary, along with South Hungary, North Hungary, and believe me that there will be no difference in the world of transport in Hungary. That's our goal, the government program, will make that clear, by the way. So once again, we are always paying attention to the proposal that individual Members make in addition to the proposal of the profession. We will also pay attention to what we need to do immediately from the point of view of the emergency order, and, if we have the opportunity, we will have at least such a framework for the following year and will also help to develop Zala County. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-03-21-58	Dear Parliament, Representative of President Novák, representative of Jobbik, would like to ask the Prime Minister whether there will be a government consequence that the population loss has increased to 40,000 people in Hungary in 2015 compared to 35 thousand in 2014. It's an address. Here you go.
u2016-03-21-59	Mr. Prime Minister, He's not here. I don't know who's gonna answer.
u2016-03-21-60	I would like to inform you that, on behalf of the Prime Minister, Minister Zoltán Balog, the Minister of Human Resources, who is competent and competent on the subject, responds and, in his name, Katalin Veresné Novak. [[Defiance.]] I already have the answer.
u2016-03-21-61	I am very pleased about this, Mr President, and also that when time is beginning to count. Dear Secretary of State, After the population loss in Hungary increased to 40,000 in 2015 compared to 35 thousand in 2014, Jobbik again advocates more serious population policy measures. Last time we presented our bill aimed at reducing the VAT burden on child-rearing products to 5%, but unfortunately you have wiped it out, leaving the 27 percent VAT as an EU record in these cases as well. Unfortunately, the government did not say at our repeated request, which Jobbik stated in its programme that the most serious problem of Hungarians outweighs any other difficulties in the catastrophic demographic situation, which, without radical change, is not only the pension system, but the entire public finances are unsustainable. The government should finally face the ageing of society, on the one hand, the population explosion of gypsy and the emigrating of active-age, working Hungarians to the West in nearly a million, which actually makes the situation worse than the official KSH data. Jobbik recognises and supports the government's family policy efforts, which, let's face it, have proved to be little. That is why we are calling for greater support for the birth of the first child, the extension of support for full-time motherhood and the abolition of the nursery care fee you have introduced for those who choose to work in parallel. We find it urgent to establish a predictable family support system, like the pension system, which follows inflation, and to increase the support of the flask baby programme due to infertility, as well as the humanization of obstetric care, for which hundreds of us marched yesterday in the framework of the civil society initiative called the "Other State in the Obstetrics." Among many of our proposals, I would also like to highlight the introduction of parental annuities promoted by the Population Round Table to automatically support their parents from the child's personal income tax. In some way, it would also be good to recognise childbearing in the pension system. Jobbik therefore calls for a halt to the increasing rate of population loss, but my question is: [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] whether the government recognises that its family policy efforts are insufficient, whether it is willing to accept at least some of the above proposals. [[The president's ringing again.]] I'm looking forward to your reply. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-03-21-62	State Secretary Katalin Veresné Novák responds. Here you go.
u2016-03-21-63	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Honourable Congressman, We may agree that, fortunately, the government is not the first-place authority in matters of life and death. Why there is no current country in Europe where there are enough children to maintain their population, while the world's population is growing, that is a good question. That the population has been declining for 35 years in Hungary today, and this is indeed a phenomenon that we have not only faced, but that we are also trying to compete with our own instruments. That is why we once again announced family-oriented governance in 2010 and, in addition to what Mr President said here, I would like to remind you of all we have done. I would also like to remind you that while the average of OECD Member States is 2.4 per cent of GDP, which is spent on family support, the same figure is 4 per cent in Hungary today. So we spend 4 percent of GDP on family support. Again, it takes three years, and we traced it back to what the previous governments took away. More than 50,000 families have received the ged extra, and this was also a new, very important step. Not only have we actually introduced the family tax relief, but we have continued to expand and expand it in the future. Now parents don't pay any personal income tax at all in a family of three children, average earners, two earners. We are developing, continuously expanding, transforming the nursery system, and we have just launched a larger home creation program than ever before. In addition, we have launched the job protection action; just to list a series of measures that we have taken to ensure that the desired, planned children can be born in Hungary, so we are trying to break down obstacles that stand in the way of families. And as for statistics, fertility is at its 20-year peak, Congressman. This means that 20 years ago, the average number of children born in the same family as in Hungary. The number of marriages has increased by 30 percent over the last five years. I'm not saying we can sit back and calm down, because the population is still falling. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] Thank you very much for your suggestions, and we will continue to work on the same in the future. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-03-21-64	Dear Parliament, Congresswoman Bernadett Szél, representative of the LMP, wishes to ask the Minister of the Prime Minister's Office a question: Here you go.
u2016-03-21-65	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister, New information has been released recently, referring to Rosatom at the Ria Novoszty news agency. I'm on my way to reading the Russian news agency if I want to hear anything about Paks. What you need to know about this basic news is that the Leningrad II, which is still in the building stage, is still under construction. A nuclear power plant was reported to be our Paks II. The reference project of our block. I think we could have gotten a little worse news than that. On the one hand, it turned out that the Orbán government intends to install a type of reactor in Hungary that is not yet operating anywhere in the world, ergo there is no operational experience, and on the other hand, according to the latest information, I could basically talk about it as a failure or a time bomb. A specialist working there, Viktor Petrovich Alejnikov, has been in the service of the Leningrad nuclear power plant since 91 and is working on the construction of these reactors. This nuclear specialist wrote an open letter and leaked it, and now the whole world knows that construction of the new blocks of the Leningrad nuclear power plant involves a series of design, design and construction errors. I think that, on the one hand, we should pay tribute to this nuclear expert for speaking honestly about this issue, but then it is my duty to ask the Hungarian Government to declare whether the Orbán Cabinet is completely serious about adopting as a government of the European Union a type of reactor that has been black-whitely revealed to be struggling with design and design errors and cannot even comply with Russian technical requirements. I would like you to tell us here in the Hungarian Parliament what efforts you are making as a government client and the competent authority in order to ensure that these series of abuses and errors do not occur once Paks II is built. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] I hope they will never do this - but let's talk about nuclear safety now.
u2016-03-21-66	Minister János Lázár responds.
u2016-03-21-67	Thank you very much. Your Honour, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, I appreciate the activity of our fellow Member, who obviously speaks Russian and understands that Russian news is being kept up-to-date. [[Dr. Wind Bernadett: I went to school. Interview from the lines of MSZP: He can speak several languages.]] It is respectable that someone is familiar with so many subjects and speaks so many languages, which is indeed a big deal. If I may, Congresswoman, I would like to start by saying that you are constantly campaigning against the Hungarian nuclear power plant with Russian technology, but you are not campaigning against the Russians, but against Paks I. [[12.40]] In this country, a nuclear power plant has been operating with Russian technology every day for 30 years, providing 40% of the total Hungarian power supply and electricity demand. Congresswoman! The next nuclear power plant will operate as well with Russian technology as this one. The Paks I nuclear power plant, in which thousands of Hungarians work with Russians and alongside Russian professional advice, has been the most stringent nuclear power plant in recent years. What's wrong with you, Congresswoman, with the work of the people who work there on Paks I? [[Dr. Wind Bernadett: Paks II...]] I would like to ask what is wrong with this technology, which guarantees 40 percent of cheap electricity for Hungary. I don't understand why you're campaigning against the daily work of 6 to 7,000 people. [[Dr. Wind Bernadett: What are you talking about?]] Congresswoman! We have also told you, very often, very clearly, that we have concluded this contract at a fixed price, with a fixed technical content, and this is the most important point, and this is that all international, EU and domestic safety standards must be complied with. We will get it ready and with a fixed content, which means that it meets all international security requirements. Congresswoman! I would also like to draw your attention to the fact that last year the European Commission's technical notification approved the maintenance of the Paks Nuclear Power Plant. I can't answer any more than that. [[Applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2016-03-21-68	Dear Parliament, Member István Tukacs, representative of the MSZP, would like to ask the Minister for National Development: When will the Government fulfill its promise on the Szabolcs roads? It's an address. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-03-21-69	Thank you very much, Mr. President. As we can see, today is the day of the road in Parliament, as my fellow Member Ildikó Bene spoke for the M4 and my fellow Member Teleki spoke for the roads in Zala. Knowing the choreography of Parliament, if a pro-government representative asks, he can ask in the confidence that the matter is already in order. However, opposition representatives do not do so. I would be very happy to have my fellow szabolcs sitting here in Parliament asking the following problem. Under socialist governments, the last eight years before the last six years, the M3 motorway reached the heart of Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg. This is a huge economic development force, it attracts businesses, and it will attract businesses in the near future. However, there is a problem that has been promised to be solved by Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg County, namely that businesses have a problem getting on the highway with their products, with their finished goods. I know that this is a pleasant problem, because at least there is a motorway already, but at the same time several businesses have been critical of the fact that they are unable to transport to the track under normal, safe conditions. To do so, some roads should be fixed, especially in Nyírbátor and its surroundings, from which these entrepreneurs indicated. Dear Secretary of State, So I would like to ask you, if you have already mentioned East Hungary as an area serving as a model project for roads to Mr Teleki's comments, then what will happen to these roads. After all, this is not only a strength to keep jobs, to keep businesses working, to keep them safe, but let us be honest, to ensure safety and, above all, comfort for those on these roads. I'm looking forward to your reply. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2016-03-21-70	Thank you. Secretary of State László Tasó responds. Here.
u2016-03-21-71	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, We were able to build the M3 at two paces, in 2013 and 2014 until Vásároshnosnámény, and I'm sure you know that M34 is also being prepared. You also know that from our 69 billion-dollar program, which we have just discussed, we can renovate only 45 kilometers, which is a huge number, in Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg County, with a total of 5.5 billion. In the area of Nyírbátor, specifically in the birbátor district, 13 kilometers are refurbished in three stages on the 471. In Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg county, we also specifically renovate 13 kilometers between New White Lake and Nagykálló. So I don't understand why Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg is talking about the county of Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg because Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg county has given special support to the world of road development. And what is very important is whether you have considered how much more we could spend on developing, maintaining and improving the road network, if you do not approve a PPP scheme in 2009, according to which Hungary will pay 100 billion every year for 30 years. So if we had 100 billion forints each year, which you do not, there would be about 5 billion forints more opportunities in Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg County every year. [[István Tukacs' intervention.]] The fact is, therefore, that Hungary has been indebted to Hungary for 30 years, and we need to take funds from the tolls for 30 years, from the domestic budget, so that the maintenance of the road network is achieved and the quality is not reduced. So that's why I always say, you have to think about what you were doing in this situation when you could govern. [[Peter Cseresnyés: That's right!]] Compared to this, we can make significant domestic resources available in the coming years. You are aware that 750 billion forints will be provided only from domestic sources for road development. So I'm saying it's good that if you look at the numbers, and you know that road development is indeed a priority area in Hungary, and the numbers prove that we can make a lot of progress in this area. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] And I hope that everyone will see that we're serious about this and we're serious about it. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2016-03-21-72	Congressman Gergely Farkas, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Minister of Human Resources: Will the government give up the fight? It's an address. Here you go.
u2016-03-21-73	Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, Drug use is dangerous in Hungary. Tenths of the adult population and fiveth of the school age have tried drugs. You can see that design drugs are gaining ground, which has made drug use dangerously cheap. It is a fact that the National Anti-Drug Strategy was already adopted by the Parliament in 2013, but the action plan derived from it was published only on 29 December last year under the name of a policy programme. We could say that it was worth waiting for nearly a year and a half, but the finished material is only four pages long, and in essence it lacks only concrete tasks, those responsible, resources and deadlines. Moreover, in recent years, the funding for prevention has been reduced to a fraction. While HUF 1.8 billion was available in 2004, less than 1 billion in 2010 and less than HUF 400 million in 2014. It is also a problem that, in an incomprehensible way, there are no surveys, no research that can tell us how many young people have been reached and what method has been used in the programmes that have been implemented. Not only preventative sources, but also the number of school drug prevention programmes has decreased significantly compared to five years ago. In addition, police programmes form a major part of them, although there is no doubt that skilled social or health professionals are needed in preventive action. In view of this, the fact that the National Drug Prevention Institute ceased from 1 January this year is no longer an unexpected event. Unfortunately, the drug-free vision of Hungary seems to be unavailable, and even a step backwards has taken place in certain areas. In addition to closer cooperation between the state and the profession and a stronger drug policy, appropriate prevention and treatment would be needed. Dear Secretary of State, On this basis, what policy considerations justify a reduction in prevention resources for you and, in this context, the complete impossibility of domestic drug prevention? I look forward to your substantive answer. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2016-03-21-74	Thank you very much. Secretary Bence Rétvári responds.
u2016-03-21-75	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, I believe that in Hungary there is one of the most effective actions to prevent drugs, if, for example, even Btk. We're looking at rigora or the government's consistent action. The greatest threat, as the Member said, is design drugs today, because they reach many more people, young people and middle-aged people alike. They go to a lot more places because they're much cheaper. These can be purchased for a few hundred forints, not only for thousands of forints or tens of thousands of forints, like the previous drugs. At the same time, it is more uncertain about its origins, composition and impact, so no one knows exactly what effect it will have on it. But we do know that there are people who stab themselves with these designer drugs several times a day, even every two or three hours. That is why we said that this government would be the one to clean Hungary of the drug mafia by 2020. Prevention is also an important part of the strategy, since those who do not try drugs need to be strengthened to do the right thing and stay in this state, while at the same time eliminating the loopholes that were available to drug dealers in the legislation. For example, if someone said it was true that he was a drug dealer, but he was also a drug addict, then he had a chance to escape a diversion or other way of punishing a drug crime. There was an opportunity for someone to use the possibility of diversion more than once, in fact, not according to real legislative intent. At the same time, we have made the regulation more flexible, since it is now easier to include active substances and substances on the list of new psychoactive substances, which are already a ministerial regulation and therefore responds more quickly than the C-list introduced by this government; 49 active substances are included in this list. In addition, Btk. has included a misdemeanor of abuse of new psychoactive substances, which can be punished by imprisonment of up to three years. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] And I could go on and on for a long time. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the benches of the governing parties. Gergely Wolf's intervention.]] [[12.50]]
u2016-03-21-76	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Congressman Sallai R. Benedek, a representative of the LMP, wishes to ask the Minister of National Economy a question, "Why does the government isolate the countryside?" It's an address. On behalf of the Prime Minister, Mr Miklós Seszták, Minister for National Development, who is competent and competent on the subject, will answer the question. Congressman, please.
u2016-03-21-77	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, It is no coincidence that I addressed the issue to Minister of National Economy Mihály Varga, because basically I wanted to see budgetary resources, because - as my question reveals - between 2011-15 the Hungarian government took 3300 billion forints from excise charges and network maintenance charges for the maintenance of roads and spent less than one third of that on the maintenance of roads. In order to be realistic, as has been said in the reply given by the Secretary of State, in the current budget, and in 2015 we spend 69 billion on this, and at the same time 67 billion on stadiums. That's about how important it is to maintain the roads! On 12 March, 100 people demonstrated between Túrkeve and Mezőtúr, including the Fidesz deputy mayor of the settlement, in order to draw attention to the fact that all rural settlements that are already unable to reach public services during centralisation, where they have to commute on a daily basis to the workplaces in the surrounding settlements, and where there is no rescue station, the ambulance should arrive from the neighbouring settlement, it is unacceptable to have such a large amount of potholes, holes, benchholes and all kinds of road faults, with which the Fidesz-KDNP administration will bring real increases to residents, because all the costs and repair costs related to the maintenance of motor vehicles have to be paid by residents because they do not have these resources. I was not looking for Minister Seszták with this question because I felt that we should be on a platform with the State Secretary, which should provide much more resources for the Ministry of National Economy to carry out these tasks. It is obviously insufficient that less than one third of the resources we collect from Hungarian citizens for this purpose will be used for road maintenance. My respectful question to the Minister is how it is possible for these three and four-digit connections to be maintained with significantly greater resources and substantial budgetary support in the next budget planning. I look forward to your reply, Secretary of State. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2016-03-21-78	Thank you very much. Secretary of State László Tasó responds.
u2016-03-21-79	Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, The total length of the road network is 31 804 kilometers, and there are about 170,000 kilometres of municipal roads in Hungary, to be exact, 172 thousand. They are a joint responsibility for Hungary. And, of course, the large number mentioned, the HUF 3300 billion, is a figure of which much else needs to be translated and given an opportunity. But in order to return to your question and signal regarding the development of the road network, I would like to point out that in 2013 we were able to implement a programme of 34 billion people, in which four and five-digit roads were renovated. There is still money in a 69 billion-dollar framework for the renovation of higher but lower roads. We plan to spend at least this amount or more each year for the development of the road network for five years. It is true, but it is always necessary to consider the potential of the Hungarian economy. We know very well that if the Hungarian economy is to grow, it will give us the opportunity to strengthen the road network, which will help our economic growth. And it is certain that what we have done so far has been a step to stop the deterioration, but it is not enough. Hungary can naturally devote much more to the development and maintenance of the road network thanks to economic growth, but we still hope to increase these frameworks further. Remember a few numbers: we've renovated 500 kilometers in the last five years, built 250 kilometers bypass, and I've already told you about the highways in my answer. But we also know very well that we are not stopping with this process and program. 750 billion Hungarian funds are already clearly secured, and at least 350 billion HUF is needed in the framework of the Modern Cities programme to deliver the road network development promises. And, of course, the trip to Custodian will also be prepared, and the renovation, as I have indicated to Congressman, will happen. Between Túrkeve and Mezőtúr, we will start from the TOP source to implement it. It will not be fully ready yet, but I hope that in the next wave we will completely renew the path in question. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-03-21-80	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Congressman Lajos Korózs, a representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Minister of Human Resources:. What will happen to patients if they disable the hospital in Eger? It's an address. Here you go.
u2016-03-21-81	Thank you very much. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, When I presented this question, I said - I would like to quote literally - that the situation at the hospital in Eger was getting ugly. Doctors and serious technical problems are becoming less and less difficult to operate, but luck is the only reason that no life-threatening situations have recently developed in the Eger hospital. Even though the problems were reported in time to the hospital's management, nothing happened. Compared to that, the situation has changed in a few weeks. Mr. Secretary, I'm sure you heard that a young man hanged himself in the psych ward two weeks ago. There is nothing to be surprised about, since there are only three nurses who perform the tasks per shift. Another such scandal occurred at the Eger hospital that the gastric probe was introduced into the abdominal cavity and the unfortunate patient died from treatment. I'm sure you know that for weeks, almost months, the sterilizer didn't work, that for weeks there was no hot water in some department of the hospital, that there was no heating in rheumatology for weeks during winter water, and that there was no doctor in the emergency department, there were paramedics treating the patients and the injured. And I'm sure you've heard that six X-ray doctors have resigned at the same time at Markhot Ferenc Hospital in Eger. That's why I'm asking Mr. Secretary of State what happens to patients if the hospital in Eger really doesn't work. Why did it take six years to start the reconstruction work? Why aren't they responding to the bar petition? Thank you very much, I look forward to your reply.
u2016-03-21-82	Thank you very much. Secretary Bence Rétvári responds. Here.
u2016-03-21-83	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Dear House, In recent years, the hospital has developed a total of HUF 10.5 billion, of which only HUF 7.4 billion was developed. Almost all of the different examples that you have listed are related to some kind of development that you have said about the infrastructure. Other cases are, of course, regrettable, but they are not directly related to government developments, but local medical issues. For example, you said there was no water for weeks. It was said that a new technological array was built, and as long as its plumbings were connected to the system, water consumption really had to be limited to a few hours, but this was announced in advance. So it wasn't an accident, it was the connection of a new building block to a full hospital. He said there were no sterile devices for months. Steam sterilization is also an area under development, renovated by the hospital from 150 million forints. This modernisation is part of the EU project, and in this period there was continuous supply from the hospital in Gyöngyös until the first half of January in relation to steam sterilization. There were also repairs in the heating system, which were planned and foreseeable, which allowed the supply to be stopped for a shorter period of time, if any, in one or the other part. Overall, this HUF 10.5 billion is therefore a significant step forward. Obviously, there must be a very serious disadvantage in the hospitals in Heves County, because in the period before 2010, they were more of a disadvantage, rather than just withdrawal of money and resources, and now they have to be replaced. But what you have given as an example in the infrastructure is all ancillary to the activation and start-up of a development and its installation. And I can also tell you that the large radiological equipment has been tested continuously, a CT device can be used from these, and an MRI can be bought from 400 million forints by the hospital. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-03-21-84	Mr Ander Balázs, representative of Jobbik, wishes to ask the Minister for National Development:. High cleaning at the MÁV. For whose sake was 15 billion wiped out? It's an address. Here you go.
u2016-03-21-85	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Cleaning out of MÁV Installation Operator and Vasútőr Kft. is a really greasy wall, since the three-year bill of the tender issued to keep a good 3 million square meters of the nearly 10 thousand MÁV structure will cost Hungarian taxpayers HUF 15 billion. It is clear that spring cleaning has started at the railway, but we have some comments on how dirty this may be. [[Dr. János Latorcai, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]] First of all, the obvious question is whether there was an impact assessment, a cost-effective calculation of the outsourcing of cleaning activities, because if not, there is a legitimate suspicion that this might have been done in the interest of a buddy company at political pressure. [[13.00]] We also demand an explanation of why the MÁV had to increase the amount to be spent on cleaning by one and a half times when this activity is being outsourced. Will private companies do so much better work? Or will they give jobs to 1.5 times as many people as they've done so far? Will they raise the money of the hardworking little people by 50 percent? It is also a good question whether you have heard of the unacceptable working conditions of some subcontractors in this area. On vulnerable, formal part-time workers, but in reality on workers who have been sucked out of political protection by money-hungry sharks, on the pay black employment system from the pockets, on leave only on paper, for whom Silka is not wearing a jacket, but often without a miserable work uniform? If they do not know this, then government decision-makers really live in virtual Hungary of urizing consultants. If so, do they not feel that the outsourcing process is even more brazen, since the Railway Union called the whole process outrageous, manipulative and repulsive for a reason. When will the lobbyists of the meat pot be chased away? When will you end the need for transparency in public money? I'm looking forward to your reply. Thank you. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-03-21-86	Thank you very much, Congressman. I would like to welcome my fellow Members. State Secretary László Tasó will answer the question. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2016-03-21-87	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Nine years ago, if you had asked the question in Parliament, you would have done so, but believe me, the situation is completely different, the reality that you just said. The opposite is happening, because the number and number of MÁV companies have been reduced in huge quantities, and in recent years we have been able to take steps, and the MÁV group has been able to do so, with the help of which we have stabilized its operation. Not in large amounts, but we have managed to ensure, for the first time in recent years, a wage increase of 2 per cent and then 3 per cent for the employees of the MÁV, and we will naturally also pay attention to it if there is any change in the process of work or in the area of work, then let each person concerned and naturally the trade unions take care of it. So when the succession took place, and you mentioned the company's name, you took care of how the employees were being taken over, and to take all their existing licenses with you, provided by the company that employed them. It is also important to note that, in previous years, only the existing areas of the MÁV were cleaned on the basis of the contract concluded, and not the newly built ones on the basis of the MÁV. So we're talking about a significantly larger amount of cleaning, otherwise. Naturally, what you said is a question that we will be able to answer when we see the quality of the work. The important task and responsibility of the MÁV group, MÁV Zrt., is to monitor the outsourced activity. I am sure that the responsibility of the MÁV is strong, and we will naturally pay attention to the fact that this work that you have to do in this regard will be fully done. We do not see the problem you have said, and I hope that it will not happen in Hungary. It's not the world that sells freight wagons in waste irons like it used to be. Believe me, it is that the MÁV Group, MÁV Start Zrt., does its work in an organized and truly quality that they also pay attention to it in Europe. Thank you very much for your attention. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-03-21-88	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Congressman Sallai R. Benedek, representative of the LMP, would like to ask the Minister of Agriculture a question, "How long does the Chamber of Agriculture blooper in local land committees?" It's an address. Congressman's got the floor. Here you go.
u2016-03-21-89	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, The government cannot be accused of being too hasty to set up local land committees, which it itself has legislated. In 2013, the legislation of which 72. §2 of the Act ordered the Government to lay down rules for the operation of local land committees in a regulation, but this has not happened to this day in practice. The deadline was 1 May 2014, when, in practice, a transitional measure was adopted to amend the law, which authorised the agricultural chamber of Magos, elected without legitimacy and representing large owners and billionaires, as the official form of Magos, to act in the jurisdiction of local land committees. This magosz agricultural chamber of the Fidesz government is the same with the land committees as Hungary before the regime change with the Russian troops, that they are temporarily stationed here. Seems like it's really hard to get them out of that power. Just as they were only temporarily resident in the country, now the Chamber of Agriculture has been temporarily, but for years now it has been possible to decide, instead of local farmers, who can buy land and who can't. The public administration has been thinking for years about how to comply with the legal requirements it has set itself. Dear Secretary of State, Since 2013, the Fidesz government has not been able to regulate the issue of local land committees, which is obviously a failure that would be good for us to overcome, and for the benefit of local communities, the transformation of the land committees to finally stand up. My question is, when are you expected to see the right to dispose of communities in accordance with the spirit of the Land Traffic Act? How long can the Magos Chamber of Agriculture for the rights of local farmers to comment on land sales contracts? Is there finally a political intention for these local land committees to stand up everywhere, or were they just ornaments in the Land Traffic Act? In fact, was it originally intended for the magos agricultural chamber to have the right to decide the land over the heads of local farmers? In this regard, I would like your answers to the Honourable Secretary of State. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2016-03-21-90	Thank you very much, Congressman. The answer will be given by Secretary of State István Nagy. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2016-03-21-91	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, My dear fellow Member, Allow me, in the strongest possible terms, to reject the adjectives of both the Magos and the National Agricultural Chamber. Undeserving accusation, since the National Chamber of Agriculture is also a public body with very broad legitimacy and election, with at least ten times the legitimacy, if that is the case, has at least ten times the legitimacy, as the previous Chamber of Agriculture was elected. Magos is the broadest advocacy organization in the world. The reason why this hurts you so much is because you can see that almost every Hungarian farmer is a member of this organization and has such authority. I must say to you that according to the provisions of the Law on the circulation of agricultural and forestry land, farmers, agricultural cooperatives and other natural and legal persons who use land in the administrative territory of the municipality form a local farming community per municipality. The representative body of the local farming community is the local land committee elected from among the members of the community, the establishment and operation of which, according to the original idea, would not have been provided for by the Land Traffic Act, but by a separate government decree. However, on the basis of the signals received from the bodies of the European Union, this government regulation could not have been drawn up. At the same time, the Land Traffic Act 103. Pursuant to § (1) of the Act, if the local land committee has not been established in the settlement, the agricultural administration body, the acquisition of ownership of the land in the procedure for official approval, the territorial body of the National Agricultural Chamber shall be sought for the purpose of issuing a resolution according to the location of the land. That is, the Chamber does not usurp this authority, as you have said, but the law gives it this right. The Chamber is therefore not acting in the jurisdiction of the local land committee, but is acting as a substitute by law. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]] In accordance with paragraph 1 of this Article, if the local land committee has not been established in the municipality, the agricultural administration body shall seek the territorial body of the National Agricultural Chamber of Economics as defined in the procedure for obtaining the ownership of the land in order to issue a resolution. That is, the Chamber does not usurp this authority, as you have said, but the law gives it this right. The Chamber is therefore not acting in the jurisdiction of the local land committee, but is acting as a substitute by law. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. (A round of applause in the pro-government benches. )
u2016-03-21-92	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Congresswoman Márta Demeter, representative of the MSZP, would you like to ask the Minister of Defence a question: - Finally, do you abandon professional soldiers who have served several decades? It's an address. Congresswoman Márta Demeter has the floor. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2016-03-21-93	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Professional soldiers must meet far more stringent health and psychological requirements. This is entirely justified, given the high degree of natural risk-taking associated with military service, significant physical and psychological stress. At the same time, this increased burden is more likely to lead to deterioration in health, which in many cases leads to the failure to meet strict eligibility requirements, apart from their own fault, long before the old-age pension age limit is reached. The state cannot abandon people who have spent their entire lives defending the lives and wealth of their fellow citizens and have sworn to carry out their vocations even at the risk of their lives and physical integrity. Many of them are affected by the problem of being removed from the herd after 25-30 years of service at 52-55 years of age and until the retirement pension age limit is reached, which is now 65 years of age, they will not receive any benefits. This life situation was previously corrected by the service pension system until it was abolished by the Orbán government. According to government promises, the new insurance scheme provided for in a government decision issued in 2014 would be intended to address the resulting problems and to alleviate unfair situations for professional workers. [[13.10]] However, nothing has happened to this system in the last year, not to be heard. In fact, at the end of last year, even the government resolution on this matter was withdrawn, and we protested it loudly. The protest seems to have been successful in that they were forced to address the problem, but according to the Ministry of Interior, in February only the possibilities for implementing the insurance schemes were discussed. [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] Mr. Secretary. This system should be working long ago, so I'm asking when the promised insurance system will start. When will professional soldiers finally get their former existential security back, knowing that after decades of service, in case of trouble, the state won't let them down? I'm waiting for your answer. Thank you very much.
u2016-03-21-94	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Tamás Vargha, State Secretary, answers the question he has spoken to. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2016-03-21-95	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and The Government adopted its decision in December 2014 on the introduction of a new military career in the new public service career and the associated salary system and the increase in salaries. The second pillar of this model is housing support and the third is the establishment of a savings insurance scheme. According to the Decision, a system of support for the management of unexpected life situations has already been developed to further develop the military career. On 10 February 2016, the Ministry of Interior and the Ministry of Defence held a conciliation meeting as part of a professional law enforcement and military career, in order, inter alia, to establish a savings insurance scheme for those employed in professional and contractual military relations. This consultation was attended by employers' representatives, trade unions and leaders of the Hungarian Law Protection Faculty, since it is in our interest to make informed decisions, not prematurely, but duly substantiated. There is therefore every chance that the government will discuss this as soon as possible after the consultation, so that all three pillars can work together. Thus, the government turns with appreciation and appreciation to the soldiers serving for decades, all the more so, because we must never forget that our soldiers have served, have served and will continue to serve in the interests of the country. This is also important, I think, because the last significant and comprehensive salary increase for the soldiers of the Hungarian Defence Forces took place in 2002, during the first government led by Viktor Orbán. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-03-21-96	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Congressman Zsolt Egyed, representative of Jobbik, wishes to ask the Minister of Human Resources a question: why did the government also destroy the provision of general medical care? It's an address. It is for Congressman Zsolt Egyed. Here you go.
u2016-03-21-97	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Just like the entire health care system, the general medical care in this area is being bled out. In addition, we are hover drives in the EU in terms of life expectancy, and in the first place in vascular diseases, inexplicably in the financing of health, we are constantly at the end of the line between OECD countries. For years, various studies have indicated a growing shortage of doctors, which will soon be catastrophic, complete areas without a GP, but the government does not bother to develop a long-term thinking program that can guarantee the launch of practices. Practicing doctors are overwhelmed, elderly and underpaid, working as entrepreneurs, so the question is whether they can make a living from the practice. At present, it can be calculated that it is impossible to make a living from these businesses. Understand that it is not money-shoving that will increase health care, but a clear, transparent, long-term concept that is accepted by general practitioners. If you sit down and calculate your options, you need to find a solution that shows the profits from the practice. Where appropriate, their existence could be established by either an apartment or a car. Dear Secretary of State, Don't you think it was an irresponsible statement from Gábor Zombor, former State Secretary for Health, to mention the career model without any research? They've been working together for years, secretary of state coming and going, but they can't put a long-term perspective in front of the GPs. What's that all about? Is there any external pressure on you people to get medical attention on purpose? I look forward to the Secretary of State's honest and straightforward reply. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-03-21-98	Thank you very much, Congressman. The answer to the question raised by the Member will be Mr Bence Rétvári, State Secretary. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2016-03-21-99	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Dear House, The Member mentioned everything in his speech, but not facts, figures and figures, especially because he should have been talking about GP funding then, and should have said, in addition to the many critical voices, that we have increased the financing of basic care by 40 percent in the last five to six years. Now there is 40 percent more available to GPs and the whole basic care system than it was available six years ago. This means, for example, that the last plus 10 billion in resources, which we continue this year, is an additional source of 130 thousand forints for each general medical practice. This could have been spent last year on what they thought it was, whether it was the rent or the employees. This year we will continue to increase this 10 billion by HUF 10 billion, precisely because we have seen in the years before, decades, that the number of applications for the general practitioner has been steadily reduced, there are areas where the doctor is missing from a few practices, and the proportion of doctors who work here is getting old. It was very interesting to hear from you that the lack of a doctor is a disaster due to emigration. Look above your right shoulder, Congressman, where you will find Congressman László György Lukács, who lived with his family at the same time as the doctors who were posted abroad. Release this kind of criticism above your right shoulder, perhaps you will find direct experience of what the Hungarian medical emigration is like, and who make a good living from the fact that it is getting worse for Hungarian patients. We, on the other hand, want to support the general practitioners. You said you might need a car or something. Honourable Congressman, Two support programmes run: one of the HUF 250 million grants non-refundable grants for the purchase of the practice, several million forints; another half-billion is available to the general practitioners every year, last year as well as this year with free use. If it's been vacant for a year, they'll take over at least a thousand people's supply zones and plan their future there in the long run. [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] Whether you buy a car or equipment, you can buy anything from this grant. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-03-21-100	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Congresswoman Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, representative of the MSZP, would like to ask the Minister of the Cabinet Office of the Prime Minister:. The Ministry of Propaganda takes care of everything? Or why do they think that if they use giant letters to advertise that the Hungarian Reforms work at Home Creation Program, then this program will work? It's an address. Congresswoman Ildikó Bangóné Borbély has the floor. Here you go.
u2016-03-21-101	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, I am sorry that the Minister just walked through one door, and when he learned that there was one more question for him, he left the other door, leaving you to answer the question. On 1 March, Minister Rogán signed a regulation which organises detailed rules for advertisements and advertisements on family home creation discounts and on interest rate subsidies for home creation in the Hungarian Gazette, over nearly 20 pages. The regulation specifies which formal requirements, image elements and slogans should be applied by banks in their CSOK advertisements. The image manual in the appendix describes with considerable detail what font, color code, the logo should be displayed without distortion, but the regulation also states that at the end of the given TV commercials it should be said: . The family home creation discount in the advertisement is provided by the Government of Hungary.Why doesn't the government use its energies to provide the opportunity to create homes for the broadest possible groups, the security of housing, Mr. Secretary of State? Why does the government require banks to declare what and how? Why should a government campaign be regulated in a regulation, Mr. Secretary of State? Perhaps the legislation itself and the bill should have been dealt with in such detail, and perhaps it would have been better, Secretary of State. You can see from the numbers that tens of thousands of people were interested in the CSOK program, but the regulation itself failed so badly that there are very few families who can claim it in Hungary today. I look forward to your reply, Mr. Secretary.
u2016-03-21-102	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. The answer will be given by Secretary of State Csaba Dömötör. Here you go, Secretary of State. [[13.20]]
u2016-03-21-103	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and In his speech he referred to the home creation programme, which was launched by the government on 1 January, with the aim of making sure that all Hungarian families have access to their own apartments or houses at affordable prices. The new programme will also contribute to the birth of more children, according to the government's intentions. It is an important fact that home creation benefits and state-supported housing loans can also be claimed through banks. At the same time, it is also an important fact that resources are provided by the state and the Hungarian taxpayers. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: Taxpayers!]] It is therefore self-evident that, in order to provide adequate information, it should be stated that this aid does not come from the banks, but from the state and ultimately from the Hungarian taxpayers. When the government decided to do so, it took into account international examples, above all the British example. The British Government, in a similar way to Hungary, defines in its image manual how the government logo should be displayed in the case of the home creation programme there. I've got this image manual in my hand. [[He's showing it to me.]] , hold on, font and color code are provided in the same image manual. Perhaps you agree that if this solution is appropriate for us in Britain, which has hundreds of years of market economy and democratic tradition, perhaps it will do the same for us. This is not the first time you've defended the interests of the banks. [[Bangóné Borbély Ildikó: That was not the case!]] The same was done when foreign exchange lending was allowed. The result is well known: foreign currency loans increased from 150 billion in 2004 to 3000 billion in 2010. Socialist housing policy has brought nothing but indebtedness and new housing. [[Dr. Tamás Bellozó: No?]] In your speech, you suggested that the government provide the opportunity to create a home for as wide a layer as possible. This is exactly what the government is doing with the $10 million CSOK, the VAT reduction or even the simplification of authorisation procedures. We ask you to stand on the side of the Hungarian families instead of being a bank representative and support the government's new home creation programme. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2016-03-21-104	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, Congresswoman Dóra Dúró, representative of Jobbik, would like to ask the Prime Minister's Office: what fate does the government intend for the Batthyány Castle in Kébér? It's an address. Congresswoman Dóra Dúró has the floor. Here you go.
u2016-03-21-105	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Minister, The Batthyány-Wenckheim Castle of Kishér's complex and stud estate were the citadel of Hungarian horse breeding from 1853 to 1945. This is where my legendary Treasure and Imperial were born. After the war, the castle functioned as a hospital, today the monument is destroyed, without function. The national castle programme aims to develop and manage 35 castles which are part of the national cultural heritage. By 1 March 2015, the relevant government decree provided for the 19 monuments managed by the National Asset Manager to be transferred to the Forster Centre's asset management. One of these 19 monuments is the small mansion complex. It's been almost a year now, and unfortunately, there's no way to know exactly what fate the building is meant to have. According to the information provided by the municipality, although Forster's staff visited the building, there has been no concrete consultation, no negotiations on the use of the building have taken place in the last year. If the municipality wins the tender, the national castle program will certainly not have enough for a maximum of HUF 1.5 billion to be spent on a building to complete the renovation, with the maximum possible repair of the roof structure. From the current draft, we have only learned that improvements are planned between 2014 and 2020 and that the renovation of the small manor house is planned to take place at the second stage. I ask, on the basis of all this, Minister, whether you already have precise ideas regarding the exploitation of the small mansion; and whether you wish to involve the Batthyány family in the planning of the Batthyány Monument Ensemble, which is committed to the fate of the castle. I look forward to your substantive answer. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2016-03-21-106	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. The answer will be given by Minister János Lázár. Here you go, Minister.
u2016-03-21-107	Thank you very much. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, I would like to thank our fellow Member, Madam President, for the activity and the question of her representatives about the fate of the Batthyány Castle in Kishér, before the Second World War. I would like to reassure you that the government has given priority to this issue, and I have also taken care of the rapid transfer of assets, which we hope will be better placed by the Hungarian National Asset Manager, the protection of monuments and the protection of heritage. We have many reasons to take memory policy and memory preservation seriously. The first, obviously, is the memory of the former owners, which you mentioned. Lajos Batthyány was the last national reed in the 18th century. In the century. And we can mention Batthyány Kázmér, who is the Minister of Foreign Affairs of the Szemere Government, and from whom this property and property was confiscated, according to the legend, by the personal order of Ferenc József, and that's when the state stallion was established, which was partly the centre of the Hungarian Defence and Hungarian sports horse breeding until the liquidation of 1961. There is no chance of restoring the stud estate, but it is a question of what fate we intend for the highlighted, first Baroque and later classicist monument ensemble. I believe that this should be consulted. We can build and repair fantastically - the question is what is the internal content. Last weekend I saw in Gyula that using the resources of the local government, civilians, the Hungarian state and the European Union, a project was created that provides a very high quality exhibition and exploitation, with close hotel capacity, restaurant capacity and intelligent use of leisure time. Before spending one and a half billion forints on preservation, I think that we need a joint cooperation between the family, the traditionalists, the social organisations, the municipality and the state. We should begin to complete the renovation if we know exactly what we will use the building for; until then, our most important task and duty is to keep the building on a daily basis. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2016-03-21-108	Thank you very much, Minister. Dear Parliament, That concludes the questions. Now it's time for immediate questioning. Congressman Bertalan Tóth, representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the President of the Hungarian National Bank an immediate question:. Would you mind stopping? It's an address. Mr President has appointed Vice-President Márton Nagy as a response to an urgent public task. I respectfully ask the Member whether he accepts the person who is responding, or whether he will personally expect an answer from Mr President.
u2016-03-21-109	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, I will wait for the President of the Hungarian National Bank to reply. Thank you very much.
u2016-03-21-110	Thank you very much. I would also like to inform the Member and the House that the President will have to answer at the hour of the next immediate questions. Congressman Gergely Bárándy, a representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the President of the Hungarian National Bank an immediate question:, Are you ordering a salary of five million, Mr President? It's an address. Mr President has appointed Vice-President Márton Nagy as a response to an urgent public task. I respectfully ask the Member whether he will accept the person who is responding, or whether he will personally ask the President for an answer.
u2016-03-21-111	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would also like to wait for Mr President, and I would ask Mr Vice-President to give him that he is not obliged to come in only for the fourth time, and he could do so in the next one. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare applause from the ranks of the MSZP.]]
u2016-03-21-112	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr President will have to answer at the hour of the second immediate question. Congressman Csaba Tóth, a representative of the MSZP, wants to ask the President of the Hungarian National Bank an immediate question: It's an address. Mr President has appointed Vice-President Márton Nagy as a response to an urgent public task. I respectfully ask the Member whether he accepts the person who is responding or asks Mr President for his answer in person.
u2016-03-21-113	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I am quite sure that Vice-President would also give an excellent answer, but I would like to know President Matolcsy's personal position, so I would like to wait. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare applause from the ranks of the MSZP.]]
u2016-03-21-114	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr President will have to answer at the hour of the second immediate question. Dear Parliament, Congressman Tamás Harangozó, representative of the MSZP, wants to ask the Minister of the Prime Minister's Office an immediate question: how long will he stand by and watch lawlessness in the Fidesz municipalities? It's an address. Congressman Tamás Bellozó has the floor. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-03-21-115	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Minister, as a member of the government governing government offices, you are responsible for controlling the legality of the municipalities. In view of the scandals of the Fidesz municipalities, there would be plenty of work to be done, Minister, but nothing usually happens. One of the most outstanding examples is the Kecskemét municipality, from whose company KSE Kft., Kecskemét, was shoveled 450 million forints using fictitious invoices. The company that has been in liquidation since then, damaging many Kecskemét businesses, left a further HUF 335 million in debt. The damage is thus close to 800 million forints. It took the authorities four years - with some pressure from Parliament - to complete the investigation of the otherwise not-so-complicated case and to prosecute. [[13.30]] But let's be understanding, it was a difficult and time-consuming task for the authorities to shape the procedure in such a way that, in the end, the Fidesz local government leaders would remain untouched in this process. Mr. Lazarus, you don't think that the mayor of that time, Szemereyné Pataki Klaudia, has any responsibility for the scandal of the company he oversees? What do you think of the local government manager whose company under his supervision can easily be stolen from HUF 450 million? Do you not think, Minister, that it is possible to go without saying that Gábor Zombor, who was the mayor at the time, gave this kft. a municipal grant of HUF 54 million in 2011, and then the municipality accepted the fictitious bills of non-target use without saying a word? The most important toaster, however, is that Zoltán Fejér, KSE Kft. Former managing director of Kecskemét, who has already been prosecuted, remains a senior associate and employee of one of the schools of Kecskemét municipality. Minister, what's going on with the Fidesz-led municipalities? As a responsible minister, as the responsible leader of Fidesz, do you not feel that there is something to be done about these matters? Thank you so much for listening.
u2016-03-21-116	Thank you very much, Congressman. The answer will be given by Minister János Lázár. Here you go, Minister.
u2016-03-21-117	Thank you very much. Honourable Congressman. You put me in a difficult position, given that in a specific criminal case, which, if I understand your words correctly, is already in charge, you may already have a decision or negotiations, you are asking specific questions. Of course, unless this violates the independence of justice, I will be at your disposal if I know what this is about. As I understand it, you, or you, the socialists, have filed a criminal complaint concerning the operation of Kecskemét's city. As I understand it, the criminal report was not rejected, but the criminal report was ordered. As I understand it, the investigation ordered came to an end because the investigation was effectively closed by the D.A.'s office, and an indictment was filed against someone who may have committed a criminal offence on suspicion of the prosecution. As I understand it, the trial is taking place, and we can trust that justice and justice will be served at the same time. I'm asking what your problem is, Congressman. What was supposed to happen? As I understand it, your problem, Congressman, is that despite your criminal report, Mayor Szemereyné Pataki Klaudia is still in place. Yeah, because we're not in the '50s, or in the late '40s, when your ancestors reported someone, a politician, they took him away by the police, and then they locked him up, and then they turned him out of political life. Think, Congressman, that not everyone you report is a criminal. I believe that Kecskemét is an excellent city run by the county, the mayor was elected by a high majority, and it would be good for the local socialists and the local opposition to respect this election result, and we are also very pleased that Kecskemét's economic growth contributes greatly to the economic growth of the region and the country. I'm sorry if you want to settle your election failures with criminal reports or by influencing criminal proceedings. He is a very good ally of the government for every voter in Kecskemét, whether he voted against or against the mayor, and the mayor, together with the body of representatives, is doing an excellent job. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-03-21-118	Thank you very much, Minister. In return, the congressman shall have the floor. Here you go.
u2016-03-21-119	Dear Minister, How this worked in the 1950s, and compared to what cases there are in Hungary today [[György Balla: You know that very well! István Szilárd Németh: He is sure of the family almarium!]] I'm sure you can't tell me. [[It's constant noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] Some of my former fellow Members and a lot of people, after the change of government in 2010, have reported a lot about the methods you use. But, Minister, make up your mind: now the problem is that 450 million forints have been stolen, and the deputy mayor who was responsible for this money, why are we hurting him anyway? Because, Minister, we think you have a responsibility. Is that such a question, you know, that it's possible to account for it in your ministry with fictitious accounts and shovel hundreds of millions of dollars that you don't have any responsibility for it? Can a mayor grant municipal support for youth and supplies to accept for image design the bill for 54 million forints that were practically stolen? And you don't think that man has any responsibility? You are simply defending people who should have been held accountable on a political basis, and we continue to demand that, if not on a criminal basis, at least on a moral basis, the Fidesen should be in order. Thank you very much.
u2016-03-21-120	Thank you. A one-minute rejoinder was given to Minister János Lázár. Here you go.
u2016-03-21-121	Your Honour, my fellow Member. Dear House, As to the responsibility of the former deputy mayor, I think that if I understand your words correctly, and if I remember correctly the press interpretations of the case, there has been a thorough investigation for several years, where, if I understand correctly, it has not occurred to me that the former deputy mayor, Kecskemét, today's mayor, would be charged. So you don't have any legal responsibilities. I would add that a complaint can also be made against suspicion, if the crime had been denied, a complaint can be made against it, and that the court's decision has not been or intends to influence it in any way. So, according to you, there are no reasonable grounds for suspecting a crime involving the current mayor. As regards political responsibility, in 2014, the citizens of Kecskemét, after a thorough knowledge of this matter, elected the Mayor as their mayor by a high majority. I ask you to respect the will to vote. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-03-21-122	Thank you very much, Minister. Dear Parliament, Congressman Gábor Vona, representative of Jobbik, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: What will enrich the Prime Minister's environment with the title "3"? Congressman Gábor Vona has the floor. Here you go.
u2016-03-21-123	Mr President, Mr. Prime Minister, I've made you two chivalrous offers to set up two committees of inquiry. One committee of inquiry would have examined your suspicions of Russian support for Jobbik, and the other committee would have examined the enrichment of your personal environment. Instead of giving a meaningful answer to this question in any case, you reacted both times with anger, accusations, and slashes. At first, he said that we're a party of criminals, that Jobbik is full of criminals. [[Intruder from Fidesz: That's right!]] And second of all, Prime Minister, you said that I was only interested in money and that my libido was driven only by money. Prime Minister, you said, I would like to add two things. These emotional outbursts don't usually describe you. I think the fact that you've started such a mess proves that I've touched a delicate, uncomfortable, painful point when I ask you about your environment. The other, Prime Minister, which I would also like to add that what you are saying about me, about my party, is in fact true of you and your party. Fidesz is full of criminals, Fidesz is a party of criminals, and Prime Minister, you're the one whose libido is driven by money. Look at you, Prime Minister, what really happens here is that in your answers you constantly project your own demons at us. I therefore ask you once again with great respect, Prime Minister, to have the courage to set up these two committees of inquiry. If you have any other unanswered questions, in which you ask me questions, we should also set up a committee of inquiry on them, examine the criminals of Jobbik, perhaps, if you see them, and consider my personal property situation, Prime Minister, if you would like to know. By the way, my family and my financial situation are public, and I'd like to tell you this, but let's look at it, if that's what you're asking. But I ask you, Prime Minister, to have the courage to finally stand up this committee of inquiry in connection with the enrichment of your personal environment. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-03-21-124	Prime Minister Viktor Orbán has the floor. Here you go, Prime Minister.
u2016-03-21-125	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My fellow Member, I have never given in to these provocations, nor will I. I am fortunate that I have been a Member of Parliament since 1990, I have always fulfilled all the obligations associated with it, and therefore my life is an open book for Hungarian voters. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: Just don't let anyone turn the page.]] You have to search the Jobbik's house. I am trying to speak calmly, although there is no doubt that there are some of us in this House who are not happy that you are constantly making the Hungarian Parliament a place for subpar debates, but if that is the case, of course we will not back down from this battle. In any case, if you are so sensitive to the honor of your party, I would suggest that Jobbik has an eight-member presidency, and at least one of those seven will receive at least one close relative, or party money, or party position directly from you. What else do you want to know, Your Honour? [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-03-21-126	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. Mr. Gábor Vona's group leader will take the floor for a moment. Here you go.
u2016-03-21-127	That's what I'm curious about, Prime Minister, if that's what you think it is, then let's set up a committee of inquiry. I'm asking you not to ask me if I ask you, I didn't make up this genre, I didn't write the House Rule. The Rules apply to you as well as to me. You're the prime minister, and I'm just an opposition leader, and in this line of work, the thing is, I'm asking the questions, and you have to answer them. I will continue to ask, Prime Minister, whether you are finally willing to account for the wealth of your own environment: Lőrinc Mészáros, Árpád Habony, Andy Vajna. [[13.40]] So, I ask you, Prime Minister, to stop running, to make accusations, not to read to me what Árpád Habony wrote on his paper, but to answer the question, Prime Minister, who is Lőrinc Mészáros: Lőrinc Mészáros is a talented, well-off entrepreneur who, as a golden man, achieves everything and achieves everything he does with his axe, or is Lőrinc Mészáros, Prime Minister, your personal stróman? That's the question that should be answered. This committee of inquiry, for example, would examine this possibility, and we ask for an answer, and we ask for courage to do so, Prime Minister. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-03-21-128	Thank you very much. It's the Prime Minister's word. Here you go, Prime Minister.
u2016-03-21-129	Of course, any opinion which accuses the Prime Minister of committing a crime - you have done so now - I must strongly reject it. In Hungary, all Members of Parliament and all members of the Government must constantly state their financial situation through their declaration of assets in a manner consistent with reality. I've been practicing this for 26 years. Everything you read there is true. What's beyond that, rumors, assumptions or political accusations, it's all untrue. Secondly, the government does not operate as a restaurant where someone comes in and orders what committees of inquiry should be set up. Thirdly, it is a good offer for everyone to set up one, but if we set up a committee of inquiry for all your corruption cases, there would be no free representative here among the members of this House. And to increase it by one again - every time I will help you to clean up your party, I will help you again - I suggest that you see that Jobbik's faction and party foundation have taken up a total of two billion forints since 2010, and of which 520 million forints have gone to all companies whose strings are held by one mysterious man. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-03-21-130	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. Dear Parliament, István Ikotity, representative of the LMP, wants to ask the Minister for National Development an immediate question: "Dudes, parties, casinos? It's an address. The Minister has appointed Mr János Fónagy Secretary of State to respond to his urgent public mission. I respectfully ask the Member whether he accepts the person who is responding or asks the Minister for his answer in person.
u2016-03-21-131	Mr President, By the nature of the case, I would like to wait for the Minister to answer.
u2016-03-21-132	Thank you very much. The Minister must reply at the hour of the third immediate question. Congresswoman Bernadett Szél, representative of the LMP, wishes to ask the Minister of National Economy an immediate question: å How many public service jobs will be replaced by cheaper public works? It's an address. The Minister has appointed Mr Péter Cseresnyés State Secretary for his response to an urgent public task. I respectfully ask the congresswoman if she accepts the person who is responding. [[For signal:]] Yes, I see that Congresswoman is indicating that she accepts the person who is responding. Congresswoman Bernadett Wind has the floor. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2016-03-21-133	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, I accept your identity, although I would prefer to talk to the politician who was originally addressed, because it is a phenomenon that cannot be tolerated to stop it; it is a phenomenon that goes on the skin of small people; it is a phenomenon that is one of the most disgusting things Hungary had to experience during the Fidesz administration. It is about the fact that the public work programme in this country is largely - and is increasingly about - that people have been kicked out of their regular jobs and are being re-employed either as public workers or others. By the way, you've admitted that in black and white, I have a report in my hand that you've found such people with a nice number, and you've given it out of your hands. However, in March, the National Council of Civil Service Interests held a meeting, requesting detailed information from the government, which it did not receive. It was also said at the meeting that public work actually works backwards, not that it leads people back to the labour market, but that it is essentially about replacing public service jobs. They replace workers who are under oath or in a skilled job with people who do this job at a cheaper rate, because they have no other option, but do not have the skills. The most terrible thing is that this completely illegal practice is fully openly supported by the Hungarian government. Every year, the proportion of public workers in the public sector is increasing, and last year it reached 20 percent, so let's just say that the system works with one in five public workers. According to the trade unions, there could be 45,000 public workers who had previously had public service law. I tried to find out in the BM - who are supposed to be running this whole program - to account for this phenomenon, and I am sad to say that there is no piece of information about it, practically the wallet controlling public works has not been included in its report. I respectfully ask what your strategy is. What is the government's strategy for settling the situation?
u2016-03-21-134	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. As I mentioned in the introduction, the answer will be given by Secretary of State Péter Cseresnyés. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2016-03-21-135	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and I took part in the OKET meeting, and I asked the speaker there, who expressed a similar sentence and thought, to give concrete examples, because these accusations are usually made, but no concrete examples have yet been given. As a former municipal manager, I would also like to know which local government manager, as an employer, dares to risk doing something against the law. So when you make such thoughts and try to suggest some maladministration, please also support this with concrete facts, because public employment, as you well know, was born in the interest of people who have not been able to work for a long time, and most of these people have a low school education, so not only do they have difficulty in finding a job, but it is simply essential that they can be employed in public employment. I would like to point out that I would also like to ask for concrete examples because it is the 2011 public employment report. CVI. Law No. 1 Pursuant to paragraph 2 (2) (e), a public employment relationship may be established for a work which is intended to carry out a task conducive to the achievement of Community objectives defined by the Government or to create the conditions for the performance of tasks, and is not required by law to perform it by a public servant, public service or government service. That's been the case from the beginning, which is why I find it strange that you're trying to make accusations like this, so you're trying to make ideas that suggest some kind of maladministration. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-03-21-136	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. A one-minute rejoinder from Congresswoman Bernadett Wind.
u2016-03-21-137	I'm not just trying, I'm putting it out there. That means the opposition will have to clean up the government structure. It would have been appropriate for Kontra to go to Charles and ask him for the BM report in which they themselves acknowledged the return of 3,000 people. True, Sándor Czomba was the Secretary of State at the time, and you may not have seen this dossier, but the Ministry of Interior admitted that 3,000 people had been re-employed, even given the name. For God's sake, don't make us look like birds now. For 3,000 people, the government has admitted that the system has gone wrong. I'm talking about 45,000 people that the unions are talking about. If it's up to you to meet someone who's been through this kind of thing, then turn on the TV, because there are people on the news like this, but I'm very happy to see you in my office, where the woman who's been doing the payroll for hundreds of people as public workers, the public worker, is here to do the payroll. So I think you need to back off a little bit, find each other, find the Ministry of Interior and you, and now let me know what happened to the 3,000 people the government has guaranteed that this illegal practice will be terminated, and they'll get a decent job. What happened to those 3,000 people, Mr. Secretary of State? [[István Ikotity applauds.]]
u2016-03-21-138	Thank you very much. A one-minute rejoinder from the Secretary of State. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2016-03-21-139	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Of course, no one denies that abuse can occur in an employment group of 200,000 people. But if I count it correctly, that's 3,000 people, about 1.5 percent of all public employees. Measures have certainly been taken by the Ministry of the Interior, so we will try to avoid maladministration that may arise or what you have been trying to quote, but that from 3,000 to 45 thousand suddenly, we must prove that. That is why I say that specific numbers and specific examples should be presented in the event that you try to present this as a general phenomenon. So I ask you not to try to undermine public employment, which gives about 200,000 people temporary employment opportunities, in front of society. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-03-21-140	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, Representative Kristóf Szatmáry, representative of Fidesz, wants to ask the Minister of the Interior an immediate question: å How transparent is the Hungarian Socialist Party? It's an address. The Minister has appointed Mr Károly Kontra as Secretary of State for his reply in response to an urgent public task. I respectfully ask the Member whether he accepts the person who is responding, or whether he is personally expecting an answer from the Minister. [[Kristóf Szatmáry: I accept, thank you very much.]] He'll take it. Thank you very much. Mr Kristóf Szatmáry has the floor. Here you go, Congressman. [[13.50]]
u2016-03-21-141	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, The Hungarian Socialist Party has recently announced the establishment of a so-called working group on corruption or transparency. The main explanation for this is that he wishes to investigate himself because of his own corruption cases, and I am not referring primarily to cases that have been made public to the press concerning the necessary measures taken against Gábor Simon or the Budapest Vice-President of MSZP, where, in fact, he was found to be guilty of fraudulent treatment before the court, or the case of Ferenc Juhász or his State Secretary, or not to be prosecuted for bribery against an active Member of the MSZP. But there's a specific matter I'd like to bring here. Csaba Czeglédy, an ambitious politician of the MSZP, is at the heart of this particular case, who was president of the Board of Directors of the Régus School Co-operative between 1997 and 2000, but one year has been suspended for four months due to the commission of economic crimes. However, not surprisingly, he may still be the joint group leader of the MSZP-DK in Szombathely, but unfortunately, the past is haunted, as according to recent press reports, the prosecution has indicted the leaders of the Copernicus School Association currently under forced cancellation. Two of the former leaders of the Csongrád County Public Prosecutor's Office are charged with budgetary damages of HUF 550 million in their indictment at the end of June 2015. The threads of the case - not surprisingly - lead to Szombathely and Csaba Czeglédy. In Szombathely, the Human Operator Zrt., which also provided student work to the Copernicus School Association in recent years, and interestingly, half a dozen school cooperatives were registered at the headquarters of the Copernicus School Association in Bodajki. The question is that Human Operator Zrt. The role of Csaba Czeglédy in this matter is played by the chairman and his representative of his Governing Board. Thank you very much. I'm waiting for your answer. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2016-03-21-142	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary of State Károly Kontra. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2016-03-21-143	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, In response to your first sentence, allow me to comment on the decision of the MSZP that it is very right that such a working group should be set up - better late than never. That's all I'd like to remember about this decision. As far as the rest is concerned, the police will use all available legal means and will take all investigative measures to fully determine the facts and bring the guilty to justice. The police act decisively against all criminals in all the settlements of Hungary in order to maintain citizens' safety of life and property, public order and public security. Hungary is a state of law, where no one can be above the law, every man who breaks the law must be held accountable for his actions. The government has announced zero tolerance against corruption and is committed to increasing confidence in the state and to guaranteeing, by all means available, responsible management of national wealth and public money, effective action against corruption. The legitimate expectation of people is to reduce crime and to act effectively, quickly, proportionately and legally against criminals. I would like to inform the honourable Member that the investigation of tax offences falls within the competence of the National Tax and Customs Office. I can assure you that, like the police, the National Tax and Customs Office will use all legal possibilities to apprehend and prosecute the perpetrators of the crime in the event of suspicion of a criminal offence. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2016-03-21-144	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. It's a one-minute rejoinder, Congressman. Here you go.
u2016-03-21-145	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. It is also important to clarify the case because the latest news shows that the student association whose employer is Csaba Czeglédy's managing director did not pay the students in the last case. I think that the case is particularly important, because the student associations themselves are doing a very important job in Hungary, and unfortunately, this case can be suitable for their demise, this is a series of frauds, so it must be punished as soon as possible. Perhaps it will be up to the MSZP to clarify that Csaba Czeglédy, their head of the group in Szombathely, who has already been convicted of crimes related to the economic activity of school cooperatives, has played a role or role in this hundreds of millions of HUF fraud. I think the MSZP should answer that as soon as possible. Thank you so much for listening. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2016-03-21-146	Thank you very much, Congressman. For a moment, Mr. Secretary of State. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2016-03-21-147	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, We trust that the MSZP will also give us the answer, but if this does not happen, we are even more confident that the authorities, in particular the National Tax and Customs Office, will, after the necessary procedure has been carried out, find out the truth and inform the public thereof, and that the infringer will, in the event of an infringement, be subject to appropriate sanctions by the determining authority. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2016-03-21-148	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Mr István Tukacs, representative of the MSZP, wants to ask the Minister of Interior an immediate question:. What is the result of the investigation at Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg County Police Headquarters? It's an address. Minister Károly Kontra has appointed Secretary of State to respond to the urgent public task. Before I ask Mr President whether he accepts the person who is responding, he will indicate that he will accept it. Congressman István Tukacs has the floor. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-03-21-149	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, As Secretary of State, I'm sure you remember, and of course you remember, I've recently asked who ordered the officer on duty to ask if the teachers wanted to go to protest. This happened in my narrower Patria, Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg County. At the time, the Secretary of State replied that no one had given such an order. At the same time, his reply, which he had received in writing, contained that because there was news in the public domain, he would order an investigation at the county police headquarters. Dear Secretary of State, It is my signal that not only was the news in the public, but the actors have confirmed what I am saying, and this is also included in the minutes of one of the faculty meetings. Therefore, I think that the time has passed, Mr Secretary of State, will give me an opportunity to ask whether the investigation has been carried out and what have you determined? What is the result of an investigation that, unfortunately, did not suspect what you were just talking about with the police? Because it is the duty of law enforcement - and of course not to restrict anyone's rights; to exercise the fundamental right of assembly, freedom of speech, whether teachers or others. These cases in our county, which have been confirmed once again by the actors, do not carry a good message. Not even because I think the smaller the place, the more people know each other, so everyone knows what they're doing, when they want to live with their rights, and why. So, Secretary of State, I'd like to ask you, what was the result of the investigation? Thank you for the opportunity, Mr President.
u2016-03-21-150	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary of State Károly Kontra. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2016-03-21-151	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, As I said in reply to the question you asked earlier, I can now confirm that neither the national police headquarters nor any other police force have issued instructions to ask the person of the participants at the educational institution in the context of the pedagogical demonstration. The police did not collect, nor did they naturally record, data concerning the participants. However, given the fact that, as you have confirmed in your immediate question, news has appeared in the press, the head of the Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg County Police Commissioner has ordered an investigation by the County Police Commissioner. As a result of the investigation, it was found that the police officer determining the role of the district agent requesting information at schools acted unprofessionally, since the request for information could only have been aimed at how many buses were used by the participants in the demonstration, not at how many persons and in what way they plan to travel. For buses, the police needed them to be parked near the location of the demonstration. In view of the fact that the district commissioner's information did not meet this objective in part, disciplinary action was imposed against the determining officer due to unprofessional work. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2016-03-21-152	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. A one-minute rejoinder is the word of Congressman István Tukacs. Here you go.
u2016-03-21-153	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Admitting a mistake, even punishing it, is always a very right thing to do. [[14.00]] However, I would like to say to you that these settlements are so small, that if not the faculty, but the apraja-grandmother of the settlement, would want to go from breast-sucking to old-fashioned, there would be a need for buses; there are not so many teachers. So I feel - how should I put it - the argument is a bit lame. But let's face it. Secretary of State, agree with me that appearances must also be preserved. At a time when bald and bloated young men hinder a man from exercising his rights, and you see no reason to take action when the investigation of the Norwegian civil society fund involves so many armed law enforcement officers that it would be enough to overthrow the regime of a medium-sized banana republic and so on and so on, then the appearance will be greatly impaired. Thank you for the floor, Mr President.
u2016-03-21-154	Thank you very much, Congressman. For a one-minute rejoinder, Secretary of State Károly Kontra has the floor.
u2016-03-21-155	Thank you very much. Mr President, in all cases, the police respect the right of citizens to peaceful assembly, as enshrined in the Fundamental Law, and ensure the conditions for the peaceful conduct of the event by implementing the measures under their responsibility. That was also the intention in this case, and I was able to inform you about it. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2016-03-21-156	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. President Novak, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: why can Andrew G. Vajna build the media empire of Fidesz with public money? Mr. President Novak has the floor. Here you go.
u2016-03-21-157	Mr. Prime Minister, At least in disguise, you'd venture out to the electorate and have a direct conversation with them. [[Moraj from the benches of the governing parties.]] You will learn that according to the public opinion, Viktor Orbán is not a friend of the two-armed workers, but of the two-armed robber Andrew G. Vajna, because the state-owned and government-led banks give him billions of forints of credit, after he is not satisfied with his billions from the casino. In addition, in order to buy TV2, Eximbank, which was supposedly set up to encourage foreign trade activities, granted a loan of HUF 6.7 billion to Vajna's company, which has since established a company with zero revenues, while people are leaving the country because, for example, they cannot implement their ideas due to a lack of capital. To put it mildly, it is not realistic for John Lazarus to explain that Vajna was granted credit under conditions such as any other mortal on earth. After all, your oligarch did not turn to commercial banks operating on a market basis because, by taking advantage of its excellent public relations, it was clearly able to obtain loans with a favourable interest rate. Therefore, I turned to Eximbank with a request for data of general interest to pay off the oligarchs nearby by the Prime Minister to disclose the details of the credit agreement, in particular with regard to interest rates, but on the basis of bank secrets, the CEO rejected this request for data of general interest. It is particularly outrageous that this loan has nothing to do with the bank's original responsibilities, but we still cannot see clearly. Moreover, MKB, which is also state-owned and government-led, provided loans for the purchase of the commercial channel, but the State-owned bank also referred to bank secrets in detail. That's why we'd like to ask the public for your help. And we know that from the exclusive casino, Andrew G. Vajna, or since the home is where the profits are, it is now reported to be called András György Vajna, well, he received a profit of HUF 3 billion in 2014, even more in 2015, but it doesn't seem to be enough. After that, can we see clearly, Prime Minister, what kind of discount loans will your oligarchs receive? [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2016-03-21-158	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Prime Minister Viktor Orbán. Here you go, Prime Minister.
u2016-03-21-159	I'd stick to the facts about buying the media. Here's what I can tell you: you're wrong about the bank's responsibilities. I suggest that you study the public documents in this regard. As far as the specific case is concerned, I can tell you that Eximbank has formally and repeatedly confirmed that it has not paid anyone any state-supported loan to buy media. The question is therefore pointless. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2016-03-21-160	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. A one-minute rejoinder from President Novak. Here you go.
u2016-03-21-161	Prime Minister, it's a little like your proposal to change the basic law, which isn't secret, it's just not public for 30 years. It seems that Eximbank has not paid any preferential loans, but somehow they do not dare to disclose what any other mortal on Earth has access to. Prime Minister, I said that we are talking about the Eximbank originally created to encourage foreign trade. Undoubtedly, it is a fact, as you do, that the law has already been adapted by personal legislation, otherwise normally it is illegal, so I didn't say it was illegal. I said it's unethical, and it's unacceptable that you're encrypting it. It's amazing that after they've reduced the public media into a party mouthpiece, the government wants to build its own media empire with public money. It is unacceptable that state-owned banks have become a paying place for the oligarchs near the Prime Minister. For example, István Garancsi also received billions of HUF for the purchase of the Kopaszi dam, the details of which we also do not know. I think it is unacceptable that, by double standards, the Oligarchs near Fidesz and near Viktor Orbán receive the state loans with reduced interest rates that the one-time Hungarian people do not. Does the Prime Minister think that's acceptable? [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2016-03-21-162	The Prime Minister is entitled to a rejoinder. Here you go, Prime Minister.
u2016-03-21-163	As far as the credit needs of ordinary people are concerned, I understand that one of the most successful, highly preferential credit programmes of the past period was the subsidised loan announced by the National Bank. I understand there were tens of thousands of them. So, unfortunately, the starting point in your statement does not correspond to reality. The operation of the banks in Hungary is subject to the same rules and rules for everyone, for their internal operation and for their publicity. If this does not suit you, you can suggest that they be changed, but you cannot ask anyone to deviate from the rules that apply to you. And as for the point of the case, I don't know why we're avoiding the hot porridge here. The thing is, we all know that in the one-armed robbery business, the people who supported Jobbik and Jobbik were involved. [[Deterioration from the pro-government benches. Crying in the same place: That's right!]] This system was liquidated by us. We have set up a transparent, clear system in which Andy Vajna is indeed involved. You don't like this, and that's why you're angry with Andy Vajna, and you get revenge every week. That's what this is about, isn't it? It's quite unworthy. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2016-03-21-164	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. Dear Parliament, Member László Szászfalvi, representative of the KDNP, wants to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question:, What help can Hungarians in Transcarpathia expect? It's an address. The Minister appointed Mr Bence Rétvári Secretary of State to respond to an urgent public task. I respectfully ask the Member whether he accepts the person who is responding. [[Laszlo Szászfalvi: Yes.]] The congressman indicates that he accepts the person who is responding. Congressman László Szászfalvi has the floor. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-03-21-165	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Today, we have almost all our attention to modern-day migration, but in doing so, we must not forget the Hungarians living in Transcarpathia of some 150 000, and that is why I am asking you this question. In addition to our responsibility for Hungarianism beyond the borders, we Christian democrats must also do everything possible for the economic, social and spiritual unity of the sporadic Hungarians, so we are very pleased to know that today the Charity Council held its first meeting in Transcarpathia. This is important because the Transcarpathian Hungarians have been able to survive so far, thanks to the strong support of the mother country, a war that requires lives and extreme deprivation in this region which is not very rich. Dear Secretary of State, In addition to the fact that Ukraine's partner is thinned by the support provided by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in the field of Hungarian education and culture under the Eastern Partnership programme of the European Union, this year the government will significantly increase the amount of aid granted to the historic churches of Transcarpathia to maintain local Hungarians, to live their faith and to strengthen them as a community. In Transcarpathia, the work of church charities and civil society organisations is particularly important, as help reaches the needy families directly. Dear Secretary of State, Seeing and experiencing the enormous work that is being done in Transcarpathia of the historic churches, I respectfully ask the Secretary of State what concrete measures we can expect and what financial support the difficult families of Transcarpathia will receive. What possible further plans do the government have, and how can we together help them further? I look forward to the honour of the Secretary of State's reply. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2016-03-21-166	Thank you very much, Congressman. The answer will be given by Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2016-03-21-167	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Where possible, through schools, families, churches, summer camping or family organizations, charitable organizations, Hungary wants to help Transcarpathian Hungarians and Ukrainians beyond Transcarpathia in all ways, if they are subjected to deprivation. [[14.10]] In the past period, Hungary has done this more than ever since the outbreak of the conflict, and we have done this because we have twofold responsibility: for the Hungarians there and for the Ukrainians there, because Western Europe's attention is directed precisely at immigration, it does not address the humanitarian emergency at the immediate border of the European Union, in Ukraine, in Transcarpathalya, and therefore there is less attention that goes in this direction, which is why Hungary needs to take an increased part. Families who, fortunately, are few, have lost family support and head of the family in the battles are in a very difficult situation, but there are more who are permanently away from the head of the family who can care for the family. For this reason, Hungary, through the Charity Council, sought to provide support primarily for them - half a thousand families. In addition, we contributed to the recreation of Ukrainian children in Hungary in 2015, and in June we launched an aid shipment worth 8 trucks, worth about HUF 100 million, over the Carpathians and in the Carpathians, so we tried to give a concrete signal of our solidarity. This is obviously also a very significant value in terms of its value. In Transcarpathia we have established contacts with a large number of partners, who reach the smallest settlements, these are the churches in particular, we also tried to preserve the built heritage, provide Community funds between 2011 and 2015 with a total amount of HUF 462 million. We also doubled church support, i.e. support for the wages and incomes of church persons, which was HUF 84 million. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] From the spring of 2015 we delivered a package of 85 million forints for a year, consisting of food, hygiene, cleaning and clothing. I'll continue from here. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-03-21-168	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. In return, Congressman László Szászfalvi has the floor.
u2016-03-21-169	Thank you very much for the Secretary of State's reply, and thank you very much for the Government's significant assistance to the Hungarians in Transcarpathia at the same time as we have to face the greatest difficulties, even during the period of illegal migration flows. For us, it is of particular importance that the Hungarian community in Transcarpathia and all Hungarian national communities across borders live with the widest possible rights, individual and collective rights and social welfare - clearly the responsibility of the mother country, especially in the spirit of our new Fundamental Law, and, of course, it is a significant opportunity to expand, strengthen local government sisterhood relations, strengthen church relations and cooperate with civil society organisations that live and operate in Transcarpathia. Thank you very much for the Secretary of State's reply and please continue to observe the events for the sake of Transcarpathian Hungarians. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-03-21-170	Thank you very much, Congressman. A one-minute rejoinder from the Secretary of State. Here you go.
u2016-03-21-171	Thank you very much. I would therefore like to continue where I left off: from these grants, especially from the 85 million items, we also strive to provide additional income to teachers who teach, teach in Hungarian in Transcarpathia, and pay for the meals of students who go to school, and to ensure that they receive several healthy meals every day for students and young people who attend Hungarian schools. We hope that we have been able to help both students, teachers and the community-forming clergymen and priests there. In the beginning of the summer, humanitarian shipments of several trucks were also launched with the participation of six member organizations of the Charity Council; the Maltese Charity Service, Catholic Charity, Hungarian Ecumenical Relief Organisation, the Red Cross, Reformed Charity Service and the Baptist Charity Service Foundation were the largest aids in the delivery of private and state donations. We will continue to do this with the support of teachers, summer holidays, deepening relations; the government will devote significant amounts to this. I believe that there are few European countries that would provide such humanitarian assistance to Ukraine as Hungary does. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-03-21-172	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Member István Ikotity, representative of the LMP, wants to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question:. Health cannot be gambling? It's an address. The Minister appointed Secretary of State Bence Rétvári to respond to his urgent public mission. I respectfully ask whether the Member accepts the person who is responding. [[For signal:]] The congressman indicates that he accepts the person who is responding. Mr István Ikotity has the floor. Here you go.
u2016-03-21-173	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, Just a few weeks ago, in the Prime Minister's year review, he said that the government had put health care in order. It is difficult to decide what is more worrying: if the Prime Minister really thinks so, or if he is deliberately distorting the facts so much. The facts show something quite different. Hospitals have no proper disinfection, no medication, no doctors, and especially there aren't enough nurses, no ambulances, no assistants. Of course, we all know the promises well, but unfortunately nothing is happening in reality, just as it hasn't really happened in the last five years in this area. They also talk about the new super-hospital and spend billions on its preparation, but they didn't get any further, while in many hospitals, you may still feel like you've gone back a few decades in time, where you didn't get EU funds, where the government didn't spend anything on development. The solution to this situation would not be a super hospital, but it would be that all hospitals would eliminate the unblessed conditions and guarantee that they could provide care for patients once they have been directed there, which is currently not insured. In the same way, it is not ensured that if an ambulance arrives at the patient, the patient will be provided with care in time. In Budapest, nearly half of the time, ambulances have to waste time before hospitals can take over the patient, and this is not only about labour shortages, underfunding, but there are also serious errors in organizing. Therefore, I would like to know how they intend to do so as to reduce the amount of time spent on bribery, which is only 1 696 210 minutes a year in Budapest. What are you gonna do not to have to spend half a day in the waiting room after an operation and take the patient home? What are the medical carriers gonna do to get all the patients to the hospital? [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Not just the ones you've just had time for? What are they gonna do to make sure someone gets sick on the street gets into the hospital? I'm waiting for your answer.
u2016-03-21-174	Thank you very much, Congressman. We will hear the answer from Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2016-03-21-175	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, In the last five years, there has not been a year when the amount of the E Fund, the Health Insurance Fund, would not have increased in a greater proportion than inflation, the value of the financial deterioration. That is why we can now say that, instead of the previous HUF 1900 billion, it is over HUF 1900 billion that the Health Insurance Fund can manage. The biggest winner of the past period was basic care, the general practitioners, with the increase of ten billion forints in funding, which increased the budget's amount. Overall, the amount that could be used for basic care increased by 40 percent and supplemented these card money, which meant at least 130 thousand forints a month, and once again this year, the state provided serious multimillions of non-refundable grants for the establishment of general practitioners and the purchase of the practice. You yourself pointed out that there has been a 500 billion-dollar hospital and health development in the last five years, mainly from EU funds; this meant more than 100 billion forints of modern equipment and equipment in hospitals, hospital building development above 300 billion forints. And in many cases, honourable Member, instruments have been replaced from these more than 100 billion forints that have been put into service in the hospital 40 years ago and have not been upgraded since then, although at least one such development should have taken place in a lifetime, but obviously much more frequently. So it was not two or three years of problems that had to be solved, but several decades of problems had to be dealt with, and those parts of rural hospitals that could benefit from development are now of European quality, but access to health insurance services, access to healthcare services are much simpler in Hungary today than in England, America or many other developed Western countries. This was complemented by the 27 percent increase in wages that we would naturally like to continue, but it affected both nurses and doctors. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-03-21-176	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. A one-minute rejoinder is the word of Congressman István Ikotity. Here you go. [[14.20]]
u2016-03-21-177	Dear Secretary of State, When I ask you about these, the medical conditions, you're always giving me a long, glorious overview of what you've done. The thing is, Mr. Secretary, this host is like when a warlord comes home from a losing war, and he's doing this army inspection, or he's telling us how many armies he's gone to war with. Secretary of State, that's very little. Experience has shown that if you look at the SAO report, whether you go to a hospital, how many percent of the walls are moldy, how many nurses get on a patient or how many doctors, so if you look at these numbers in a European comparison, or if you look at the fact that you're an army driver with respect to the wages of nurses, or any other data like this, you'll always get to the point that what you're wasting small amounts of money compared to what you need is little. You need to take a more decisive step, a fire extinguisher, to get this country back on track. The Deputy State Secretary for Health has also acknowledged that there will be very serious shortages of care here if no action is taken. Please answer my question as to what you will do to reduce the delay time in the case of ambulances. I'm waiting for your answer.
u2016-03-21-178	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, Congressman Font Sándor... oh, I'm sorry, it's a one-minute rejoinder for Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2016-03-21-179	Thank you very much. We cannot leave without reply the question of the Member, which he asked in the last one minute. I would not say, as an analogy, honourable Member, what you said in connection with the losing war. What I'm saying is that in a losing war, a lot of areas have been lost, which we've been trying to get back over and over again over the last few years, to put back the money that the socialists took out from there, whether with wage increases or with improvements. Obviously, not everything can be done in one, two or three years. But you said backup: from the program we started at the ambulance service, we built 22 new rescue stations, and 60 of them were dynamicized, renovated. You know very well that the Socialists simply stopped purchasing ambulances in the last year of their government, and we had to replace this in hundreds of sizes, not just the five years we were in government, but the two or three years before the socialists bought them. With this additional source, more stations, more ambulances, and better equipment, we try to make sure that ambulances arrive sooner and better equipped. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-03-21-180	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, Congressman Sándor Font, representative of Fidesz, wishes to ask the Minister of the Interior an immediate question:. Whose interests do the left-wing opposition represent? It's an address. Minister Károly Kontra has appointed Secretary of State to respond to the urgent public task. I do not have to ask Mr President, because he is already indicating to me that he accepts the person who is responding, so it is up to Mr Font Sándor. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-03-21-181	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, At last week's EU summit, it became clear to all Member States that cooperation with Turkey is the only way to resolve the refugee crisis. It seems that it will be possible to control illegal immigration and to comply with the Schengen rules. The sensible proposals that the Hungarian Government has been stressing for months seem to have finally been understood. Well, almost everyone. The consequences of the agreement with Turkey are not yet clear today, but the Hungarian government is firmly insisting that Hungary's citizens cannot be introduced into Hungary without the consent of its citizens. It's not the opposition. Government measures to protect the interests of Hungarian people are under constant attack at both national and local level. Some 3500 people in my constituency, Kalocsa, protested against the compulsory resettlement quota. As a result, one of the local Fidesz municipal representatives submitted a proposal for a decision to the body of representatives stating that they do not support the compulsory resettlement quota and any negative consequences that might affect the city. What was the reaction of left-wing municipal representatives to this sober and public request? They reject that the body of representatives takes decisions for party policy purposes. Fortunately, with the majority of the independent mayor and independent representatives, the proposal for a resolution has been made, but it does not seem to be understood on the left that the government is taking real action against real threats and needs everyone's support. Dear Secretary of State, I therefore ask what steps the government is taking to safeguard the safety of Hungarian people. What measures are needed to curb the re-enrichment of migrant flows? I'm waiting for your answer. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-03-21-182	Thank you very much, Congressman. The question will be answered by Secretary of State Károly Kontra.
u2016-03-21-183	Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, I would also like to confirm here that Hungarian people, Hungary, are safe, we protect Hungarian people, we protect Hungary. As a result of the laws adopted in September of last year, thanks to the physical, legal and living protection, we have achieved that we have been able to protect the country. But at the end of last year, we have also said that the threat has not passed, because the European Union has not yet found a solution to this historic-scale illegal migration, this migration. If we look at the data of the last few months, we can say that this year the police have captured 4772 people for illegal border crossings, of which 4,700 people for the Serbian border section. The Immigration and Nationality Office received a total of 5254 asylum applications. All indications suggest that if we cannot respond quickly and collectively to illegal migratory pressures, there is a threat similar to or close to last year. I would like to reassure the honourable Member that we are taking the necessary steps to strengthen the border closure. It can also be seen from the data that the Hungarian-Serbian border is most affected by illegal migration, and this route has been rediscovered. Since Bulgaria and Macedonia have closed their borders, the crowds that are rehabilitated and trapped there are likely to search for the old roads again. The government is determined in this respect, it has taken the necessary decisions, and it also provides the necessary resources to physically strengthen the southern border, the Hungarian-Serbian border, to strengthen the number of border hunting centuries, and the defence is also carrying out activities in cooperation with the police that can guarantee greater security in the southern, Hungarian-Serbian border section. I'll continue for the next minute. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-03-21-184	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Congressman Font has the floor for a one-minute rejoinder. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-03-21-185	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, It seems to me that Hungary is very fortunate that the voters decided in 2010 and 2014 to entrust the Fidesz-KDNP government with the leadership of the country. Now we can clearly see that if this had not happened, the left-wing opposition in the government would have virtually turned the country into a group of migrants, along with all the consequences of what we see in Western Europe: terrorist killings, sexual molestations that threaten girls and women, and I could say more. The real question, therefore, is whose interest the left represents with this attitude, how they weaken the government in the domestic and international negotiations. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-03-21-186	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr Károly Kontra is also entitled to a one-minute rejoinder.
u2016-03-21-187	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, I would also like to thank the citizens in your constituency for their signature against the compulsory resettlement quota, and I would also like to thank the municipalities - there are over nine hundred such municipalities in the country - who have decided against the compulsory resettlement quota. I believe that this national cooperation strengthens Hungary's positions. The government's position is clear from the outset: we reject the compulsory resettlement quota, we attacked it at the European Court of Justice, and we initiated a referendum against the compulsory resettlement quota. I believe that the strengthening of borders, the clear speech, the rejection of the compulsory resettlement quota all contribute to Hungary, the Hungarian people and the tourists visiting Hungary living safe in this country. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-03-21-188	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, This brings us to the end of the hour of immediate questioning and to the end of the discussion of today's agendas. We now have post-scheduled speeches. Mr László Varju applied for a post-meeting speech with a title concerning the events of the last week. I'll give you the floor in five minutes. Here you go, Congressman. [[14.30]]
u2016-03-21-189	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, If Hungary was lucky, then it was truly fortunate that in 2004 it decided, with common wisdom, to exist and work as a Member State of the European Union. One of the important consequences of this decision is that it has the opportunity to make use of resources that provide ways and opportunities for development and development. It is therefore of particular importance how we use this. Common values are created in this way, and such a newspaper is welcome to be published by the government, in which we see Mr. János Lázár on the first three pages, first from a distance, then more closely, then more closely. [[He's showing it to me.]] However, the acquisition and achievement of these common values are clearly assessed in different ways or in different ways by the government and, if I think so, by me. On a specific project, I'd like to show you what you're doing. This is of national importance and should therefore be addressed here and now. This project has more than 300,000 stakeholders, 66 settlements involved in accessing healthy drinking water in Békés county. This project was initially HUF 13 billion, then suddenly, after the first call for tender failed, it rose to HUF 33 billion, and thus Lőrinc Mészáros was given a seat and opportunity in the consortium that could have won the implementation of this project. In the implementation of this project not only Lőrinc Mészáros, but also representatives of Fidesz are present, and the process of implementation was promised to be completed on 30 September 2015. They were five years late when they started, but they couldn't finish last September 30th. Dear House, I have in my hand the contract that proves that after the deadline of 30 September, the contractor is obliged to pay a daily penalty of HUF 5 million if he does not do this job. The work is clearly still taking place today, and the real question is how this source could have been called and paid for by 31 December. John Lázár was proud that the 100 percent payment had been made by 31 December. If and if this project was involved, it had to be verified by representatives, mayors, who today are subject to public outrage, by the way, how they could give their name to half-work, how they could justify doing this work, while today walking through the streets in mud and pits from Békéscsaba through several, as I said, 66 settlements. This construction work seems to have been jammed. Even if, by the way, the authorities were in a hurry to help Lőrinc Mészáros by reducing the six-month probation period required by law to one month, they could not provide this one month. During the three days of probation, there have been numerous problems. The real question is, of course, whether, after spending 33 billion forints, the citizens of Békés County, 300,000 people will have the opportunity to obtain healthy drinking water - it is arsenic-free - or they are still at risk, and they still do not meet the requirements of the European Union and Hungarian rules. Of course, the normal thing would be if the Hungarian authorities, or if they do not do otherwise, because the authorities here appear to be involved in the violation of the law, then it is the Attorney General who intervenes in this matter. However, the Attorney General is silent. But now you can hear not only from the press, but also from Parliament's minutes, and accordingly I expect you to carry out investigations at home and investigate whether all this money, this huge resource, has been spent, used and effectively done in Hungary's largest project. Because apparently everything that's done hasn't finished. That's why it has to be said for many, many people. Thank you very much for your attention, Mr President.
u2016-03-21-190	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr Zoltán Készér applied for a speech on the agenda entitled 'Previous to the victims of Italy'. I give you the floor. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-03-21-191	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, On March 23, 1945, without two days, there was a war crime in the Italian village of Veszprém County that still hurts those living there. For no reason at all, the Russian soldiers invaded 32 local young men. They were all civilians and innocent. At that time, he lost three sons of István Szeged. The eldest was already married, his wife was with child. There was also a victim who held a small child in his hand. When he was driven out of the shelter cellar, the little one was taken away from him and shot immediately. Others hid in the crevice of a cave, but they found them, and they were not pardoned. Though they didn't deserve any mercy. For mercy can be given to the sinner, but they were sinless. The Russian military leadership has not given any explanation since then, only from the mouth of their commander: everything can happen in war, and it is also a mistake. Well, what the Russians do is make a mistake, it's a scar that doesn't scar the survivors. As for the Russian officer, a half-spoken sentence, we were interrupted by a life story, 32 interrupted life stories. The settlement still hasn't fully recovered from the trauma. Some women have not once been able to enter the major where the greatest killing took place in the past 71 years. A documentary about the events was also made with the title... of the victims of Olaszfalu. I recommend to all my fellow politicians whose bread is war rhetoric, inciting, and who is so stupid that he doesn't know who casts winds, reaps storms. I also recommend these sad pages of the modern history of the Italian village, who today look to Putin with unreasonable hope. Russia today is a map of democracy, like the skinheads in the National Election Office. They know only the power, cast the wind, and we will remain in the storm. Because let's see the facts. Let's see who Viktor Orbán's greatest role model is. Russia, led by Putin, intervened with arms in the 2008 Georgian-South and Georgian-Abház conflict, then launched an armed invasion against Ukraine, where there is no peace today. Ukraine is a neighbouring country. Due to Russian aggression, members of the Hungarian minority are also enlisted. Putin's men are shooting at our countrymen. In honor of the 32 memories of the Italian village, I ask the Hungarians to say no to the Eastern threat. Let's face it, the Russians have never given us anything good in history. Just because our prime minister needs the friendship of a dictatorial role model, let's not make a deal with the Russians. Just because there's no greater potential for corruption for current power than the Russians' funded nuclear investment in Paks, we don't want to be a Russian colony. We have to look to the West. We must belong to the West. That's what common sense dictates, that's what our history is like, and that's what the Italian village victims say. Thank you very much.
u2016-03-21-192	Dear Parliament, He applied for a post-meeting speech: Mr Tibor Bana, Member of the Jobbik Group, NB I, Körmend, 40 years ago. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-03-21-193	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Körmend, the town of Batthyányak, has a significant history and active community life, while keeping its citizens together, is also famous for one thing throughout the Carpathian Basin: three-time Hungarian champion and now seven-time Hungarian Cup winner basketball team. On March 15, 1976, 40 years ago, the team in Körmend played their first home-leading match. By the way, before the Hungarian match against Falco on Saturday, there was a small ceremony, which began with the singing of the familiar faces song Without You, led by Mayor Tamás Szombathelyi of Molnaszecsőd, MTE fan. The match was won by Körmend 100-64 against the single champion county rival. Let's look at the history of the first NB I game in Körmend. In November 1975, the Red Blacks had three rounds before the end of the NB II Championship, after defeating the Péti MTE team in Székesfehérvár to 86-78. At that time, however, Körmenden did not have a sports hall in which an NB I meeting could be held. [[14.40]] The legendary Palazzo del Gango, today's theatre hall, was no longer suitable for this. The solution could have been today's Somogyi Béla, the gymnasium of the then primary school in the district, which was built to be larger than the school's needs, according to the requirements of basketball players. However, it was not ready for the scheduled date, so in the first seven rounds of the championship, which started in early 1976, the red blacks played in a foreign way by replacing the right to choose the course. The team's first NB I success gave a final boost to the construction of the hall for a long time. On 16 February 1976, in Székesfehérvár, the MTE won with one point in the extension against the Builders.One victory and six defeats were the 11th-place rookie's balance, when it arrived on 15 March 1976, the first Hungarian NB I match, where the VIP was the winner of the heavy-duty MAFC. Although Dr. László Kristóf's students tried, the more routine team won. The final result: Dózsa Körmendi FMTE-MAFC 67-75.The list of players entered the first NB I game in alphabetical order: József Farkas, Péter Fodor, Sándor Fodor, György Lendvay, István Németh, Imre Patonay, József Szűcs, László Trummer, József Vajda, Sándor Vavra. The team coach was Dr. László Kristóf. The department was led by Avar New Year's Eve and then by Dr. Gábor Faragó. Within the club, Imre Györkös, István Kocsis and Gyula Tahin worked alongside the team. Csaba Szlávik could not be a member of the team in the first season because of his military service. Jenő Szekeres and Jenő Mogyorósy were no longer included in the NB I, but they were both active participants in the NB II successes. According to his own memories, Gábor Rózsás was already a member of the frame in 1976, but he has not yet entered the field in the first NB I match in Hungary, only later than Sándor Szendrey, who arrived during the first NB I season. With three exceptions, István Bebes, former player of the team, mayor of the city, and the club's player icon, current CEO-owner Ferenc Zsebe greeted them before the iron rank. István Németh, Gábor Rózsás and Jenő Szekeres could not attend the ceremony. Let's go back to 1976. The first national NB I victory had to wait nearly two weeks. In the 11th round, on 28 March, the Red Blacks defeated the Pécs VSK to 98-83. József Szűcs scored 30 points in this game, which contributed to the fact that he was the first to be invited to the Hungarian national team in the history of Körmend basketball. It was also a great success that the guard ended their first season in the 14 team championship in 8th place. This was four decades ago. Since then, the team in Körmend has been a member of the first class in a unique way. On 12 April 1987, the Hungarian basketball player gave a sports history event. Under the leadership of Imre Patonay, Dózsa Körmendi became Hungarian champion for the first time. The gold medal was celebrated in front of 3,200 viewers. Every year, the red blacks in Körmend are among the best. Seven times, just a few weeks ago, they won the Hungarian Cup, and in 1996 and 2003 they won the championship again. The MTE boasts 6 silver medals and 6 bronze medals, and, as I mentioned earlier, has been a member of the first class championship ever since its arrival in 1975. Exiting the international arena, the team presented their enthusiastic fans with a number of memorable matches, thus contributing to the improvement of the reputation of Hungarian basketball. As a dedicated supporter of the team, I trust that we can have many wonderful experiences in the coming years, which are worthy of the Hungarian basketball citadel, the past of Körmend. Go, Körmend! Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2016-03-21-194	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------;----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Let your opinion be made at the National Assembly. Mr Gergely Farkas, Director of the Jobbik Group, has applied for a campaign titled after the agenda titled Jobbik Youth Study. I give you the floor, Congressman.
u2016-03-21-195	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Let's hear your voice. Let your opinion be made at the National Assembly. The Jobbik Youth Department launched a campaign for young people. Our aim is to channel the opinions of nearly 1.3 million young people involved in public education in solving the problems related to education, because we feel that this age group, this generation whose voice is least accessible here, his words are not heard in most cases by the government or by the decision makers, and we want to help them. In 2016, Jobbik announced a genuine national consultation on three topics: education, health and corruption. These are the three areas in which we feel that we cannot wait until the change of government in 2018, but that we need to take steps now to force the government to make decisions that will improve the problems of these three areas. Our consultation, launched by Jobbik's Youth Group, would like to channel the views of young people in the field of education. In addition to consulting young people, we will consult, as appropriate, professional organisations, civil society organisations and experts in the real national consultation, so we will consult organisations representing students within this campaign. Within the framework of the campaign, we would like to give young people the opportunity to express their views on education or other problems affecting them, and we, Parliamentary representatives of Jobbik, will undertake that we will say as many of these problems, ideas and opinions as possible in Parliament's speeches here in the hope that they will be heard by you. We also believe that this is important from the point of view that students can come up with new aspects regarding the transformation of the public education system. Our aim is not only to convey our opinions to the government, but also to aggregate the responses received and, as the most popular party among young people, to keep the government under constant pressure on these problems and to ensure that the necessary steps are taken in relation to these problems as well. Our goal, too, is not to give Jobbik's programme or ideas about education to as many young people as possible. We consider this campaign to be important because we believe that it is youth that is the biggest victim of the problems of the past 25 years caused by Fidesz and MSZP, which we are currently seeing in education, the chaos that we can witness every day, about which protests, various movements are taking place, and we can see through countless concrete cases how big problems there are in this area. I don't want to get into this right now, but at the level of the list, I'd like to mention a few. Students are overwhelmed, there are too many hours, there are too many teaching materials, it would be important for teachers to be able to deal with the education of students rather than dealing with their own problems, but unfortunately, they too are overwhelmed, they too have a lot of administrative, bureaucratic burdens, so this is also at the expense of teaching. You could mention experimental textbooks as a problem. Today's young people are taught by books full of hundreds of mistakes. The circumstances are often inadequate, the opportunities for teaching or keeping daily physical education lessons, but I could also say that changing graduation or admission regulations make it impossible for young people to plan, and there is still a long list of problems that young people in the public education system experience every day, which is why it is important to involve them in the development of solutions, which is why we started this campaign, so that we can listen to their words as well. Within the framework of the campaign, we would like to hold this consultation online, we have created a separate website, we are also waiting for comments through www.bábikit.hu/hallasdahangod, but also members of Jobbik Youth Group and activists in hundreds of settlements of the country will use more than one hundred thousand flyers, with the help of them. [[He's showing me a flyer.]] deliver our opinion to the young people and give them the opportunity to send their views to the Parliament through these small leaflets. So I encourage all the young people to participate in this campaign, say their opinion, and we undertake to interpret them here in Parliament and try to convey their views to the decision-makers. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2016-03-21-196	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr László György Lukács, Member of the Jobbik Group, spoke after the agenda for an advantage of breath and a fight against TB. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2016-03-21-197	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, The World Health Organization (WHO) declared 24 March as World Tuberculosis Day in 1982. At the beginning of the last century, Robert Koch discovered tuberculosis bacteria on that day. A third of our planet's population still carries TB in their system. To this day, it is the most deadly infectious disease. [[14.50]] Nearly 8 million people worldwide suffer from TB, and about 2 million people die every year of the disease they now believe to be defeated. Back in the day, leprechaun, plague, smallpox, tuberculosis, and cholera were considered to be the five great whips of mankind, which, from ancient times on, caused massive epidemics over and over again. Who would have thought, for example, that we lost Paul Kitaibel in TB, the famous Hungarian botanist, chemist, or Swedish physicist Anders Celsius, astronomer and name giver of the temperature scale, and half a hundred more famous people? Their list is almost inexhaustible. I have already spoken about these in a speech and about the literary and artistic depiction of the disease, but this day, the world day, is perfectly suitable to draw attention to and draw attention to the slick facts that should remind us of the dangerous disease. The reason why you shouldn't think of the infection as missing is because you can only browse past time and find news that doesn't seem to fit here, but still shows the daily presence of TB. On 13 February 2016, the spring season of the football OTP Bank began with five matches, which is not surprising, everyone knows this, but few of them know that the MTK-Paks match was postponed by MLSZ at the request of the guests because two people became TB in the framework of the Paks team, and the match had to be postponed. The Paks told us that the team probably got the bacterial infection from their training camp in Turkey. All of this has been reported by News TV. However, we cannot lose sight of the pathogen itself because in ten years, for example, 420,000 cases have been reported in Western Europe, in the subSaharan region, where we can see that there is a continuous supply of people's movement, 9.2 million, while 28 million diseases and diseases have been reported in the Far East, north and south. On average, we can break down the statistics - on Earth 4100 people die of the disease every day. It can also be said that Hungary is, in contrast, a country with extremely positive indicators in the area of grafting, and it is often exemplary for our public health in this area. Since 1954, all newborns have been vaccinated against TB in Hungary, BCG vaccination protects infants and young children from purulent meningitis transmitted by TB and whole body TB. Of course, there was also a bad time in this, this was the summer of last year or the spring of last year, when, because of the supplier and the manufacturer, a serious shortage occurred not only in Hungary but also in the neighbouring countries, which, after a very long time, may have been restored after too long, and the vaccinations have been able to reach all hospitals again. Therefore, increased attention will always be needed. But vaccination is only one way to protect ourselves against tuberculosis. The second is to reduce territorial inequalities and territorial inequalities in the social and health state. Unfortunately, there are several areas, and one of them is my constituency, the district of Kunhegyes, but also the district of Borsodi, Gygándi and Gönc, where there are extremely poor general social and hygiene conditions that are particularly suitable for causing such outbreaks. For example, health - conscious lifestyles are measured as the lowest or least desirable lifestyles. It can also be said that the North Plain region is the second worst in proportion to infection, while the north-Hungarian region, which also includes the districts of Borsod, is the third worst, so in these places, particularly where there are areas of backward social disadvantage, there is a need for increased vigilance. There is yet another very interesting aspect of tuberculosis, and this is the migrant crisis, and the risk that TB will be again introduced into our country or the European continent, the otherwise well protected European continent. After all, there are Western countries where vaccination is not mandatory or there are gaps in the shield, such as the Hungarian example of screening that was mandatory in 2014, which, if the international trend develops, it will be time to rethink and possibly to give everyone another chance and make it mandatory again to filter TB. Therefore, there is still a reason for increased attention, and it is very likely that not only on the World Day for Combating Tuberculosis, but also every day, we need to draw attention to this. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2016-03-21-198	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr Lajos Kepli, Member of the Jobbik Group, spoke after the agenda, with the title 'Protection of our water'. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2016-03-21-199	Thank you very much. Since 1994, 22 March is the World Water Day thanks to the UN, so tomorrow is the World Water Day. We all know that water is the most important element in our lives, or, if you like, its compound, since both our organization and the Earth contain this material in the highest proportion, and without it, our lives are unimaginable. However, we tend to overshadow our daily lives, perhaps precisely because, at the moment, drinking water is still available in the right quality and quantity, in the Carpathian Basin at least. However, they are not so fortunate everywhere in the world, as more and more people are not getting healthy and adequate drinking water. Unfortunately, this ratio is increasing year after year, both as the population of the Earth grows, and as the water bases become polluted and the wells dry up as a result of climate change, increasing areas become deserted and lack sufficient quantity and quality of water. Perhaps one of the biggest challenges of this century at a global level is how we can provide the right quality water, and here in the Carpathian Basin, how we can develop a water management in Hungary, which will help us, on the one hand, to run the inland water during extremely rainy periods, which is still causing a huge problem not only in the fields but also in all areas flooded with water. Thousands of hectares are under water, perhaps even at the moment, but during the great rains in February, huge areas were flooded. At the time, drainage systems that had been built have ceased. On the one hand, they were plowed, and on the other, they were buried. Today there is no proper water management, no proper drainage. In recent decades, the Hungarian water issue has focused only on raising the dams of rivers, which is very important, as it can protect lives and wealth during a flood, but it is far from enough. A complex water management involves much more than that. For example, it aims at measures that not only serve drainage during high rainfall, but could, for example, generate and promote water retention during more droughts, thus creating an opposite process, which is also extremely in its infancy in Hungary at the moment. Water reservoirs are not or are not very present, and where they are, they are intended for temporary storage of tidal waves, not a permanent water-covered area from which water can be irrigated, which could be used for sport and recreation purposes, and which increases the size of the country's water surface. This is therefore the debt of the governments of the past decades, as is the lack of protection of drinking water bases, as we hear more and more about cases where pollution from recent decades has remained or has recently been affecting water bases, drinking water bases, or is polluting them, as has been the case in recent years. It is important to know that if adequate preventive measures are not taken and a drinking water base is contaminated, then it is either very expensive or cannot be cleaned at all, it is lost to the future. In spite of the fact that Hungary is still doing well in terms of drinking water, if we use it in such an irresponsible way, and we do not care so much about how these drinking water bases are being contaminated, then it is possible that even we will need to import water in the future, not because we have the right amount of water, but because we will not have the right quality. Therefore, at least once a year, on World Water Day, it is important to draw attention to the fact that, without drinking water, human life is unimaginable. Areas where drinking water runs out sooner or later, but sooner or later, people will be depopulated, emigration and migration towards areas that are more rich in drinking water, such as the Carpathian Basin, such as a major part of Europe. This is only a small part, but it is already the cause of the current migration, but perhaps one of the most important factors of the migration waves in the coming decades will be the lack of healthy drinking water for people in an increasing number of parts of the world. I therefore ask the Government and my honourable fellow Members to pay even more attention to the protection of Hungary's drinking water. In the Jobbik Hungary Movement programme, the protection of our water management and water resources has always been a priority. Jobbik, of course, will implement the issues I have mentioned above, and will pay much more attention to the protection of drinking water. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]] [[15.00]]
u2016-03-21-200	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr Ander Balázs, representative of Jobbik, spoke after the agenda with the title Liberation Nazis. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-03-21-201	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Even the second law of Moses thus waved against double standards: "There shall be no two kinds of weight in your bag, one heavier, and one lighter. In your house, do not keep two scales, a larger one and a smaller one. Let your weight be flawless and accurate, flawless and accurate, so that you can live long... Because it is an object of hatred in the eyes of the Lord, your God, who does such a thing, who cheats, but this is not of any interest to those anti-Hungarian liberal Nazis, whose double standards we are so often confronted with. The two weeks of the "Home to the World" The gift of God by the Hungarian Movement is the III. a national population conference has caused a lot of hatred among those whose spiritual ancestors covered the statues of the Millennium Monument proclaiming the greatness of our nation and our thousands of years of statehood with red rags already in 1919. The waves of the well-intentioned, nation-fearing conference also left far away, as there was a country newspaper about the war criminals of the Second World Burn - of course not the murderers who turned Dresden or Hiroshima into a sea of flame - associated with it. The poor bastards who suffer from the Móricka effect think of everything as fascism, Nazism, racism. Their spiritual ancestors were fascists as well as folk writers of the tragedy of single-handed ormanship Hungarians, and Gyula Fekete, who spoke bravely about not only one of the greatest national dangers, but also the demographic catastrophe in the Kadár era, was a fascist. According to the liberal Nazis, everyone here is fascist, who only recognizes and dares to say that Hungarians are in peril because of population failure. They're the ones who really need 5-6 million Hungarians here, obviously they're just maids. They're the ones who spit in our faces between a regular dread and a suitcase wrap because they hate us more than we hate them. They are the ones whose Scriptures are the words of the Romanian liberal politician Bratianu in 1920, in the Bucharest Parliament, which says: "We cannot rest until the Hungarian people are completely destroyed economically and militaryly, because as long as there is a spark of viability in Hungary, we cannot feel safe. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. The racist hatred of the liberal Nazis is derived from their being, and the traceable scum is raised everywhere - from Sweden to Germany to Hungary - to Oikophobia, i.e. suicidal self-hatred, because they are not only believed to be an antique and Christian race, but also to be eradicated by European nations. The problem is huge. In Hungarian population figures, the apocalyptic drama of the country's future is gloomy, which the liberal Nazis say cannot talk about or if it does, is xenophobia, exclusion, fascism, net racism. But since we refuse to submit, we will heed the warnings of Illyés, Babits, Lajos Fülep and Gyula Fekete, according to which we must speak, cry and weep until someone finds the defense. This isn't about conservation. This would be the salvation of an ambitious and precious spirit dedicated in his fraternity, which we can only save if we save the people who are alive in the pasture. Once the Hungarians are destroyed, they will die unmemorable, unmistakable. Nobody barks at us. The crow doesn't scream after us either. "It's true," wrote he. I quote them all the more because I come from Somogy, a county where the population has fallen from 360 thousand to 310 thousand in the last 35 years, and I live in Barcson, a town where the number of children under two years of age was 355 in 2007 and only 258 last year. And whether you like it or not, the liberal Nazis, but we dare say that the question of population loss is even more dramatic if we look at statistical data without the increasing demographic potential of gypsy. Because just as the combined unemployment or educational data do not say much about the truly devastating real labour or school situation of Roma, it is absolutely right that the very different statistical indicators of the majority and the minority are also separated in the case of demographic issues. Because even if the liberal Nazis don't like it, we believe the Reformed Bishop László Ravasz, who dared to say it, dared to write down that the country belongs to the one who gives birth. And it should not be racism if we want Hungary to remain Hungarian. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-03-21-202	Thank you very much. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. To speak after the agenda on an apostle of nature, Mr Sallai R. Benedek, from the group of the LMP. Happy birthday, Congressman. There you go. You have the floor.
u2016-03-21-203	Thank you, and thank you very much for the floor. Dear Parliament, On 22 March 1994, young Dr. Zoltán Tildy died in Szeged, on the occasion of the anniversary of his death, I wished to commemorate his work in Parliament. He was born in Dombóvár in 1917, where, among the family's ancestors, Grandpa was executed in 1919, after he was a member of the directorium in Dombóvár, and evidently began his career with this tradition, this legacy. In the settlement of Szeghalom, settled in the Alföld, the artist's father, Zoltán Tildy, who became Prime Minister first and then President of the Republic. His son was born in 1917 by young Dr. Zoltán Tildy, who also began to act as a small farmer politician, and in many cases he was exposed to journalistic activities. After finishing his high school in Szeghalom, he became a PhD in State Science at the University of Oradea, a lawyer, and thus began his work as a conservationist and natural filmmaker. For a long time, his fate was condemned by his father's political legacy, including in 1944 he was arrested by the Gestapo instead of his father, and he was held captive until Horthy's attempt to jump out, when he escaped and got out. After that, he began to deal with the Hungarian forestry issue, he tried to make legislative proposals, led by the forestry industry, for the Hungarian forests, and for the preservation of the truncated forests of Hungary. Then it was the completion of its forestry course that he was able to start his nature conservation-related work in 1950. He rehabilitated and created the National Environment Council, and from there began the modern legislative period of Hungarian nature conservation, when a very significant part of protected areas was created; the White Lake in Szeged, the Kis-Balaton, Gemenc, Badacsony, was protected in connection with the work of the Hortobágy National Park, and his work created the network of these protected areas, which is a well-established nature conservation activity. It was partly put aside in 1971 for political reasons and removed from the leadership of the National Environment and Nature Council, then continued as a deputy, and then retired in 1974. However, besides his nature conservation work, his nature photography and nature film work was decisive. It is worth mentioning that during the period when you had to photograph a glass sheet or a plate or a film, and there was no digital technology, and the available peak of the technique was a 200 or 300 telephoto, young Dr. Zoltán Tildy sometimes spent a whole week in a lasso in the Kis-Balaton to capture the life of birds. With this work, he raised the authority of bird photography in Hungary to the European level, and he did not only do so, but also did a great deal for bird protection, and it was accordingly that Hungary asked him to be the president of the International Bird Protection Council in that political environment and in an international environment. In 1950, his work on the White Lake in Szeged was first published with photos of black and white colour, and three years later he appeared at the Kis-Balaton, then he appeared in the Sun in 1956, the Puppies and their chicks in 1959, the Buzzed Friends in 1960, Nature Photography in 1964, and Pro natura in 1975 and Birdwings in 1984 as his last work. With all these natural photography traditions, he has added the Hungarian nature photography to the European scene, whose heritage is maintained by the fact that the Hungarian nature photographers can receive awards named after it each year in the national nature photography applications. [[15.10]] It is also worth mentioning that his work could not be bypassed in the previous system. In 1969, Balázs was awarded a Béla Balázs Prize, then in 1975 he was awarded a Prize for Artist and his independent exhibitions were held in many cases in Hungary. Today's Hungarian nature photography continues the legacy of his work, where they try to commemorate the care of his work and heritage, which is a worthy continuation of the activities of young Dr. Zoltán Tildy. Twenty-two years after his death, I planned to commemorate his death. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2016-03-21-204	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr István Ikotity, from the LMP Group, asked to speak after the agenda with the title 'Strengthening the student-friendly approach', which is also necessary for doctoral training. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2016-03-21-205	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, I would like to draw attention to a practical problem with which a PhD student approached us. Unfortunately, there are a lot of administrative procedural errors in today's Hungarian higher education, which can also be observed in the context of doctoral training. This is due, among other things, to the fact that there is still no uniform regulation on the functioning of doctoral schools. Perhaps we can say that while there is relatively large room for manoeuvre in doctoral schools on the management side, there is a disproportionate lack of redress for students. Specific examples show that the two options for the student to turn to the educational ombudsman are excluded and would also request a judicial review of his student case. Dear Parliament, Why is it not possible for the educational ombudsman's legal aid proposals to be adopted as binding decisions with higher education institutions? Why does a student case have to go to a third-degree trial for irregular conduct, to a court stage, forcing students to bear a number of procedural and legal costs? We know that administrative obligations place a heavy burden on higher education institutions, but shortcomings resulting from internal organisational regulations should not be at the expense of communication obligations of higher education institutions to their students. In our opinion, we should give a special role in the process of legislation to the student-friendly approach, with a more active role for student interest representatives, but with a concrete example for the National Federation of Doctorandus. Wouldn't it be better if the advice of doctoral schools couldn't make decisions at a more stringent decision-level than the principle-level provisions of their own social document, since a decision only gives rise to the practical application of the reference? Also, if the advice of doctoral schools couldn't go against their decisions, their own curricula and their rules of study and examination? It can lead to unfair situations where there is no control over the internal order of doctoral schools. Remedies are being reduced. Dear Parliament, Higher education institutions should not ignore administrative procedural rules, including compliance with deadlines. Today, however, some decisions have been misplaced, and when the student calls on his own institution to comply with the law-abiding behaviour, he is in an awkward situation. Who protects the listener and gives him assurance that his affairs can be dealt with legally? On the principle of justice, it would be expected that, if doctoral schools rightly impose obligations on students, certain obligations should apply to them at organisational level. Service providers should also be strengthened in higher education institutions in the spirit of student-friendly administration. Dear Parliament, Young generations are the future. Special attention should be paid to the heads of doctoral schools for the fact that they also have decisions about human fate. It is regrettable that the leaders of our institutions cannot or want to distinguish between study evaluation and administrative obligations as a condition. It is not entirely clear what constitutes a study evaluation and what is a research evaluation. In the case of a listener-friendly approach, we believe that further anomalies could be detected and avoided. Remember, too, that many learn at work, sometimes paying heavy and sometimes disproportionate reimbursement fees. That is why we should place greater emphasis on quality assurance at national level. Dear House, The aim of the student requesting us is to draw attention to this problem and the need for a complex approach. His specific case is not a single example, because he is in an unfair situation because of the failure to comply with the legal obligation of the institution in respect of certain deadlines and information. Several other students are affected by this problem. The possibility of enforcing student rights is hampered in many cases when the student is in conflict of interest and disputes with his own institution. Student rights should therefore be strengthened and more assistance given to students. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from the benches of Jobbik and LMP.]]
u2016-03-21-206	Thank you very much, Congressman. A summary of the Ángyán reports was submitted by MEP Zoltán Magyar from Jobbik's group to speak after the first title. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-03-21-207	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Fellow Members! The city and its countryside share a common destiny, and agriculture is the backbone of the countryside. This quote comes from the European Charter for the Rural Areas, 1996 and I think that, along these principles, we should deal with a lot more laws here in Parliament. I have also undertaken this series because I believe that both the Ángyán reports and their lessons and the content of this quote are very rarely explained here in Parliament, while they contain very important findings. I also thought it would be good to explain the reports of József Ángyán a little bit more in the National Assembly, because he can authentically show what is going on here with regard to state lands, even because he saw how the system rots from the inside. Moreover, as I have already mentioned, these reports are rarely mentioned while processing countless useful information, and many of these have been quoted by the press before. I think basically we should clarify in the first round what the problem is, in general, about the earth issue, and why it is now in the spotlight, why the earth has become so important to those close to the government oligarchs, to circles of friends who have not dealt with this area at all before. What we need to see is that land is not just a natural resource, it is not just a tool through which we can then, say, make a profit, but also affect the modern security of nations and local communities, and in serious situations it can be decisive how a nation can survive a particular crisis. So it also raises food and food safety issues, but we also talk a lot about water and security of energy supply. It is important for environmental safety, and that is why we often mention why it doesn't matter who has the natural resources, the condition, the use and the possession of our systems. Land is in relatively good condition in Hungary, by the way. Unfortunately, we talk little about the fact that the number and proportion of natural micro-organisms itself has decreased by roughly one magnitude in the soil, so we should definitely talk about a type of degradation, but this has not been a bad time for those who want to use this natural resource. In such a way, I will explain it in another speech. What is the difference in interest, conflict of interest? On the one hand, there are global capital and local residents, whom we have already mentioned a lot in Parliament today, and there are interests of local communities and the environment, which are closely linked and can strengthen each other. The problem is when the state, which we as a group of local communities maintain, stands on the wrong side and deserts those who maintain it and switch to the global or local residents of capital. At the Fidesz government, we can see that the existing corruption, which looks back on decades of traditions in our country, has changed strongly, and we see some sort of 21st-century corruption, when the nocical boxes are no longer the cool ones, and the decision-makers do not want to pay off through nocical boxes, but the mafia families who want to raise their people to the most diverse levels of decision making, want to get their own resources. Undoubtedly, this method has been raised and perfected by the fidesz government of the last six years. [[15.20]] By the way, that was the basis for earth speculation. This also has a number of motives, since there is a kind of food industry outlook when we see the global population of the Earth growing. This obviously brings with it the need for more food and thus the value of this natural resource has increased. The monopoly situation, which has been developed by some of the great interests in Hungary, is certainly dangerous, not only for small players from the agricultural land, but also for the Hungarian nation as a whole. That is why it was very painful and incomprehensible for us when, in the summer - almost a year ago - the government decided that the state would also sell the remaining natural resources and get rid of these fields. This kind of liberalisation process has not already started, as we have already seen action in this regard during the Medgyessy government, and we have also heard some signs of concern for the future, as the forest is supposed to be the next natural resource that the government will put under a hammer, but I will discuss them in my next speech after the agenda. Thank you, Mr. President. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-03-21-208	Thank you very much, Congressman. He applied for a post-meeting speech from the Jobbik Group. Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát. I give you the floor. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-03-21-209	Mr President, Dear House, I find it amazing that, more than twenty days after the eviction moratorium expires, when the removal of people from their homes is again operational in Hungary, there is still no meaningful government reaction that would reduce at least the effects of this catastrophic phenomenon. We can also see that, while the government and its predecessors have once contributed to the operation of the legalized looting machine during the operation and run-up of the so-called foreign currency loan, it is now as if they were doing so for the second time when they organised a state pilot game at NOK instead of saving the victims. But let us consider the government's proposals to help victims of any kind, at least those where they appear in the communication space. It was quite amazing to hear Fidesz State Secretarys call the National Asset Manager an example of the government's largest home creation program, while it is known about the National Asset Manager that he takes away the property of those concerned and after he took the property of those affected, he can then rent it back from the state, of course, for a printed rent, but it may be inappropriate to call it a home creation program when people take away their own home. However, this solution seems to be working only with a quota of 35,000, and since 32,000 people have already been contracted in some way, there are actually 3,000 free seats left for almost 140,000 victims who have been unable or unable to fully repay for 90 days. Therefore, we can see that this is not the way to expect a comprehensive solution. We can also examine the so-called CSOK institution, where in many cases we have used life-like extension proposals to support not only the upper middle class and richer ones with a grant of up to 10 million HUF, because we see that the interested, interested and then 90 percent of the Hungarian people who work are simple people who cannot afford a more expensive property from their average salary. In their case, at least preferential loans should also be allowed for meaningful expansion, energy modernisation and renovation in the real estate used. This could be expected to be a real rise, but once again we see the amazing philosophical gap between us and the Fidesz-KDNP, that they want to put the upper middle class and the richer in a favourable position, but we want to stop the whole middle class from breaking down. To this end, the family home-building discount should be extended, but what does the government do? In the name of NOK, it advertises a state-legalized pilot play, which is even worse than bank loans, because at least there you seem to get the apartment, payback, and then either take it away from it along with bank abuse or not. Here you pay in advance, and at the end you either get something or you don't, but we are mostly tilting towards the non at the moment, because we see that there is no guarantee element in the event that those brokerage companies close to the government, made up of friends of the government, - in a conditional way, that is certainly true - which will manage state subsidies for commission, help assign them to those involved. We see that, since the Deposit Insurance Fund is not in place, the National Bank of Hungary is not in a position to take care of the quality of its supervision - we should remain in doubt about this, since we see that this institution is performing outstandingly in terms of expanding its portfolio of paintings, arts and real estate, but that during consumer protection raids it is slightly below expectations - we can say that this state-legitized pilot game alone, where, pathetically, it is left to a bid on who can own real estate, does not offer any systemic change. With regard to the MNB mentioned, the more than 200 billion resulting from the so-called settlement of foreign exchange creditors, and a surplus, profit, which has accumulated in the institution, should indeed be invested in a compensation fund in order to try to settle the fate of those who are either evicted or who are out of their own right in a difficult situation that cannot be resolved by them alone. Finally, we have to mention that there is a painful lack of a public home-building and rental-building programme, as tens of thousands of apartments are missing from the market; in Budapest, in large cities, a Hungarian youth is no longer able to pay rent and prices. There would therefore be a place to intervene, and it should be immediately called upon the government to take a meaningful step instead of tolerance for eviction and the organisation of pilot games, to extend the eviction moratorium, and to enable all ordinary Hungarian mortals to receive assistance in the field of home creation. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-03-21-210	Thank you very much, Congressman. If we have to consider the whole course of life when considering Bálint Homan, then let us do so in the case of Imre Nagy, too, after a speech from the Jobbik Group, Mr Szávay István.
u2016-03-21-211	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, 26 years after the fall of the party state, there may still be debates in Hungary about whether the names of the most murderous ideology in human history, the people helping to establish and operate communism, should be removed from our public spaces and the facade of our public institutions. This has already happened in Szeged, as the communist police killer Endre Ságvári no longer bears the name of the university's practicing high school. I am proud that my personal appearance has contributed to this renaming. Ladies and gentlemen of the Government, Mónika Dunai, who is here alone! Unfortunately, in your civil Hungary, however, it is still possible to name Béla Biszku, a communist mass murderer, who created the ÁVH, in Budapest, a college of higher education; it is also possible that Béla Biszku, who lacks cruel retaliation, has received two years of suspended imprisonment for his anti-national atrocities. [[15.30]] Not to mention the accountability of the other communist criminals, the withdrawal of their luxury pension, the disclosure of the agent files and the renaming of the remaining Szamuely Tibor squares and the Red Army roads. Dear Parliament, Sadly, on such sensitive issues, there is no progress in dealing with the red past, such as Imre Nagy and his historical role. Imre Nagy, born 120 years ago, is now one-sidedly positive in our society. This is nourished by, among other things, the resolution of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences, its unacceptably unilateral position that, I quote, the public area that bears its name may feel honored. At the same time, this resolution does not say a word about the operation of Nagy in the Soviet Union and that he was a member of the Soviet terrorist organization, Cseka; he does not talk about Imre Nagy's work in crushing the Hungarian democratic experiment after the Second World War, his attic sweeping minister of collection or his activities during the inhuman and brutal evacuation of the Germans in Hungary; it is only about his attempts to reform the communist regime in Hungary, even though these facts are inseparable in his career. Dear fellow Member, Let us say that Imre Nagy was a communist to the core, so his goal was exactly the same as that of his friends: the complete transformation of Hungarian society, the slavish copying of the Soviet model, only a little slower compared to Rákosi. As Minister of Interior of the Tildy Government, he submitted a Resettlement Order based on the collective guilt of the German-speaking population in Hungary, which resulted in the brutal and persecution of more than 200,000 Germans in Hungary from the land of his ancestors, in a manner similar to the deportation of Jews. Although he had to hand over the post of Minister of Interior 70 years ago, on 18 March 1946, to his good comrade László Rajk, after his fall, he was able to retain his mandate as a representative, and he took a great deal of effort to break up democratic political forces, especially the Little Farmers' Party. In the year of the revolution, 1948 he was appointed head of the Department of Agricultural Policy of the University of Economics, and in 1950 he was thus elected by the Hungarian Academy of Sciences for political direction, despite, of course, fulfilling the only criterion of membership. Imre Nagy graduated from eight generals, six months of high school and one year of commercial school in today's context. The only thing that can measure the dubious value of his three agricultural studies is that he was able to fill his publications with the most recent Stalin quotations because of his knowledge of Russian language. A total of three books were published in his life, one of which contained his political speeches. After all this, the question is how Imre Nagy can still be a completely unworthy member of the MTA and when he will be deprived of this title. Dear Parliament, In 1952, Imre Nagy signed the attic sweep order that destroyed the lives of tens and hundreds of thousands of peasants. Despite all this, Imre Nagy Square, primary school and cultural center, streets and squares are also known throughout the country. However, just as Imre Nagy, László Rajk, is not relieved of the responsibility of his former horrors by the fact that the killing machine they created eventually turned against them and became victims of the system themselves. I can only hope that, in the light of his entire career and brutal actions, Imre Nagy's work will soon be thoroughly re-evaluated, and we can take another step towards destroying the spirit of communism that still lives with us. According to the Balliberal opinion dictators, despite being a great scientist and doing much for Hungarian education and culture, Bálint Homan has to consider his entire career. The question arises as to why we do not do the same in the case of Imre Nagy. I myself believe that Imre Nagy lived and behaved for a few weeks or perhaps just for a few days so that posterity could look positive. Other than that, he was a despicable, evil, and dark-hearted communist all his life. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2016-03-21-212	Mr Congressman, when speaking in Parliament, the aspects of grace must always be enforced. [[István Szávay: I do not feel offended, Mr President.]] Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that the next Spring Session is expected to take place on 29 March 2016. Thank you for your work. The meeting's closed. I wish you all blessed, happy Easter holidays! [[The meeting ended at 3:32 p.m.]]
