u2016-05-09-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I welcome you all with love. I also welcome all those who watch our work on television or on the radio. I would like to inform you that in the chair of this meeting, Lords Lajos Szűcs and Dezső Szűcs will be of assistance to me. The 22nd day of the spring session of the Parliament is hereby opened. Dear Parliament, Dear fellow Members, Today, the 9th of May, Europe's double celebration: the day of ending and starting over. On this day the Second World War ended on our continent, and five years later, the story of a united Europe began on this day by the French Foreign Minister Robert Schuman's proposal to reorganize Europe. This was the first step towards creating the European Union. In a statement, Schuman called on France, Germany and other European countries to join forces, proposing that European countries, which have been hostile and fighting each other for centuries, coordinate their production of coal and steel. His plan has put international relations on a completely new footing, but he has already said that Europe cannot remain at the level of an economic cooperation: we must give him a soul. Europe will only live and remain if it is aware of itself and its responsibilities. "You," he said. So 9 May 1950 was just the beginning of a process. Over the years, more and more nations joined the initiative of the six then countries, and after the regime changes in Central Europe, the fragmentation of Europe became absurd. However, the unity created was neither meant nor meant the merging of the Member States, as Schuman said: there is a need for alliance, cooperation, but mutual respect for each other and the preservation of diversity are equally necessary. Ladies and gentlemen, Today, the European Union is facing new challenges. We must preserve Europe's unity under changed economic and political conditions for future generations. In line with the 2007 Berlin Declaration, we must do everything we can to ensure that conflicts in the world are resolved peacefully; so that people do not fall victim to war, terrorism or violence; so that human rights are not harmed under any circumstances. So today is a good time to look back on the history of the institutions of the European Union awarded the Nobel Peace Prize and to put faith in the values that have been jointly undertaken and considered important. Thank you very much for this spontaneous expression. We now have speeches before the agenda. Congresswoman Bernadett Szél, from the group of the LMP, applied for a pre-meeting speech:, Can we not even reach the Visegrád countries in wages? It's an address. Congresswoman, please.
u2016-05-09-1	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen of the Government, Something unusual happened last week: the President of the Hungarian National Bank gave an exclusive interview to one of the newspapers. In the interview, György Matolcsy was also asked what he thought of his salary of HUF 5 million. Of course, he doesn't think there's anything to see here, all that happened was that the salary of the MNB's executives was adjusted to the payment of the Czech and Slovak central bank presidents. He modestly added that the performance of the Hungarian central bank is as good as that of a number of other EU national banks. So he basically agrees with the $5 million salary. Let's talk a little bit about this performance. Because all this was said by the person who admitted in the interview that the Hungarian National Bank won HUF 136 billion on the exchange rate gains generated by the forinting of foreign currency loans. At the same time, he also lied that it was the Curia's obligation to do so, even though we agree that the National Bank could have freely sold the Swiss franc to foreign exchange lenders for what the MNB had paid for it earlier. Finally, in the same interview, he also said that he could indeed have paid the 267 - I repeat: 267 - billion into the budget, otherwise he could have easily compensated the foreign exchange lenders, but he considered education important. For example, what was in this education? They published a book on their own achievements for 70 million forints. György Matolcsy, after saying all this, agreed that he had a salary of 5 million, but, as we know, this unique performance was not only recognized by György Matolcsy on behalf of the majority of the government. The entire management of the central bank, the members of the Supervisory Board, such as President Ferenc Papcsák, has been paid three times as a result. Let's just get back to this performance for one more sentence. Technically, this is the central bank that has completely arbitraryly withheld hundreds of billions of forints; legally created and squandered foundations to disperse this public money in secret; they also crushed the public procurement law with two legs, and the government rewarded the President of the Central Bank for all of this. However, the picantria of the story is, and we will continue to talk about it, that it was done with reference to the Visegrád countries. It's not the first time, and I'm guessing it's not the last time we hear these arguments. We remember that Chancellor János Lázár began to explain the same thing when it came to raising the wage ceiling of state managers by 2.5 times. We all remember that last year the salary of the top managers of MÁV, Magyar Posta, MVM, Szerencségy Zrt., the National Asset Manager and a number of other state companies was raised from 2 to 5 million HUF. What did Lazarus say then? What else: wages were determined on the basis of Czech, Polish and Slovak practices. So here is the point, ladies and gentlemen, and now listen very carefully, please, from the government side. Because while the reference to what is going on in the Visegrád countries in catching up on the wages of state leaders, you are basically making comparisons on the government in order to give you the right salary increase, they have not done the same with the workers' wages to this day. In terms of wages, Hungary is significantly behind not only the EU, but also within the Visegrád countries, 15-20 percent. And to pay a little more attention to what I'm saying, let me tell you some money. If we correct the net minimum wage with the price level, this is HUF 73 800 for Hungary; HUF 87 300 for the Czechs; HUF 90,000 for the Slovaks and HUF 118 thousand for the Poles. In all respects, therefore, Hungary is also an absolute driving force in the whole region in terms of the purchasing power of the net minimum wage. We are the last of you, Ladies and Gentlemen. In the meantime, you guys keep eavesdropping on the leaders. And then let me offer you another comparison: one month's salary will be paid to state company managers and central bank presidents to the extent that a Hungarian nurse works for 24 months. A Hungarian social worker with more than 36 months of work creates the money that these leaders put in their pockets in one month - 24-fold, 36-fold differences! All this in a country where three doctors and two nurses leave us every day and go to work abroad to make a living for him and his family. The knife opens in your pocket, fellow Members. It is not acceptable that completely undeserving leaders make as much a month as a Hungarian nurse earns with almost two years of hard work, and a social worker has to work more than three years for this. Ladies and gentlemen of the Government, Now that state leaders, executives, all kinds of central bank presidents and practically the entire staff of state companies have been squandered so thick here, I would like to know from you when they are going to make wage increases for the workers, because there is no such thing as Visegrád countries being considered as a basis for raising their wages, but we do not consider it a basis for raising their wages. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] when it comes to employees. [[13.10]]
u2016-05-09-2	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. State Secretary Péter Cseresnyés responds to the speech before the agenda. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2016-05-09-3	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and I think we can say that our government has seen it as its main goal, since it entered into government, to ensure decent work and the possibility of increasing salaries for people. It would have been good if you had addressed this emotionally-excited speech to the Socialists in the first place in order to look at where we started in 2010. [[Dr. Wind Bernadett: But they are not in power! Deterioration in the benches of MSZP and LMP.]] In 2010, you will know that if you have read the newspaper or you have been looking at the literature, or you have taken into account the current political and economic situation, that we have taken over a country in a state of bankruptcy, where we had to take very serious steps to get the economy out of the pit at all, so that the economy can start at all on the road to development, and if the economy has started on the road to development, then, as far as possible, people can also make more money and take more home after their work. Let's look at what we've done to achieve this, because you don't seem to know that. Let's look at what's happened in the past few days. Let's check the minimum wage first. The government, in consultation with the social partners, raised the minimum wage from HUF 73 500 to HUF 111 000 from 2010 to 2016 [[Dr. András Schiffer: What about the tax burden?]] So he raised it by 51 percent. And if we look at the fact that I think the faction leader is aware of the real value and nominal value, I would like to say that this minimum wage has increased by almost 20 percent, slightly more than 19 percent for the minimum wage. The data you said, Congresswoman, may not be true in the way you said it. [[Dr. Wind Bernadett: But it's true, we've calculated it.]] In recent years, we have also been able to significantly improve the purchasing power parities against, for example, the Czechs. You might want to look into this. But let's look at another data. How did the net minimum wage increase for families with young children? Families with two children with three children have increased their net value by 24-60 percent, the real value of the minimum wage. But let's not just talk about minimum wage, let's usually talk about wages. According to KSH data, between 2010 and 2015, real wages increased by more than 15 percent, precisely by 15.4 percent, which is roughly twice the GDP growth. This means that families with two children, for example, have increased by 20 per cent or slightly more than 20 per cent, and those with three or more children have increased by 42,6 per cent, so that is how much real wages have increased over the past period. [[Dr. András Schiffer: VAT?]] And let's look at the last time. The latest published February wage data also show very favourable figures and figures for workers. At national economic level, gross average earnings were 5.9 percent in the first two months of the year, the net average earnings were 7.5 percent, and real earnings were 6.9 percent above the levels of one year ago. [[Dr. András Schiffer: That's not what you're talking about.]] Here the interrogators asked for VAT and other taxes. Surely, if you had listened, you would have known that personal income tax had decreased by 1 percent in 2015-2016 and that we significantly reduced the VAT on a number of goods, especially food. So we have done everything - I will continue to stress - to make real wages worth more, to buy more of their returned wages than before, not only by raising salaries, but also by tax cuts. Growing real earnings and increasing employment help to increase domestic demand, which also contributes to the growth of the Hungarian economy, which has also been ongoing in recent years. Let's look at what happened in the competition sector and what happened in the public sector. Once again, wages in the public sector have increased step by step in relation to economic opportunities. [[Dr. András Schiffer: Whose is it?]] This can be said for teachers, it can be said for law enforcement workers or other uniform workers, steps have already been taken in terms of social workers, and a career model is being developed in higher education, and progress has also been made in health care to help raise wages and raise real wages. So I ask Congresswoman to read the data more carefully, and in this case she will find out and see that over the past few years, [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] how much the government and parliament have done not only to increase wages nominally, but also in real terms. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-05-09-4	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Representative Tibor Bana applied for a speech from the Jobbik Group before the agenda:. Why are Hungarians not protected? It's an address. Congressman Tibor Bana has the floor, here you go.
u2016-05-09-5	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, The reduction of immigration, the security of Hungarians is a national matter. There is a clear link between the growth of migration and the sharpening of the terrorist threat, and for a moment there was no question for Jobbik to support government and government initiatives that led us to take a decisive step against migration. This was the case with regard to the deployment of the military, we assured the two-thirds majority, and in connection with the construction of the fence, it must be said that not only did we support it, but it was our mayor, László Toroczkai, who proposed this first. It cannot therefore be said that we would not have been constructive in these matters, and that we would not have had the interests of the country in mind, which was clear to us. Unfortunately, this is not what we can see from your side, because the professional proposals made by the Jobbik faction have been rejected. I am thinking of re-establishing a separate border guard, which is particularly important because this is how the southern border section could provide substantial lively protection, and it would not happen that, when the fence stands, hundreds of illegal migrants arrive every day on the territory of the country. And our other very important proposal, which was formulated a few weeks ago, is to record the fact that we are standing against the quota system and all quota-like solutions in the Fundamental Law. We believe that this would be the best solution, it would be much cheaper than a referendum, because about HUF 5 billion will be spent on the basis of their proposal presented today, which, I add, our faction will naturally support, because we also say that it is important for the country to express in some way that we reject this mentality birth on behalf of Brussels, the quota system, but we say that we must also reject all similar solutions and deportations. Unfortunately, it seems that you do not wish to follow this proposal; this is what the meeting of today's Justice Committee has pointed out. For you, political gain is more important, since in the coming months they will try to put the reference at the centre of their communication. But what happens while we're on communication? In words, you are very combative, as we have seen many times. Prime Minister Viktor Orbán said that refugee camps and reception centres should be located outside the territory of the European Union. What do we see in practice? In my hometown, Körmenden, a migrant camp was opened just a week ago, and since then there have been an increasing number of immigrants. There are only about 120 of them now, but we have received information that new groups will soon arrive in Körmend. This camp is currently suitable for 300 people. [[13.20]] Last Friday, Dániel Z. Kárpát and I attended a demonstration together, where hundreds, about half a thousand people attended, and the Körmendi expressed their strong opinion, calling on the government and the city's pro-government mayor, István Bebes, to take effective steps to close the camp as soon as possible. And not only did the Körmendi do this during the protest, but also the subsidies are constantly gathering on our signature collection sheets, as it can be said that the Körmendi and the people in the area reject the existence of this camp in overwhelming majority. And that's not a coincidence, because they fear for their families, for their loved ones, and we goodies also fear for those who live in Körmend, for those who bring their children to kindergarten, school, or who, as the case may be, work in the city. We saw what happened a few days ago at the asylum center in Békéscsaba. But not only the example of peace in Csaba, but also the case of Kiskunhalas, Debrecen, Nagyfa, Bicske or Vámosszabadi. There have been events in each settlement that have caused problems with public safety. Minister János Lázár said this, because he initiated the closure of the refugee camp in Nagyfa with such a background, while we, on the western ends, must experience that Körmendre - and our town, Szentgotthárd - is setting up a refugee camp. We strongly protest against this and strongly protest against the fact that the government is very combative in words, but when we see practical steps, the security of Hungarians is not taken into account. Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen of the Government, You promised to protect the country, protect the Hungarians. And do that. Immediately eliminate the refugee camp in Körmend, eliminate the reception centres in each of the other settlements, and take meaningful steps to make sure that the truth that has been formulated is that immigrants cannot enter the country. The people of Körmen do not ask for migrants, nor do the people in other settlements of the country ask for them. I look forward to your substantive answer. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-05-09-6	Thank you very much, Congressman. Secretary of State Károly Kontra responds from the Ministry of the Interior. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2016-05-09-7	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, The Government of Hungary is strongly taking action against the illegal influx of migrants in the interests of the Hungarian people. In the autumn of last year, with the creation of the triple protection, when we created legal, physical and lively protection at the southern border, first at the Hungarian-Serbian and then at the Hungarian-Croatian section, we were able to achieve results that effectively reduced illegal migration. But we said it back then, just like we're saying now, the danger hasn't passed. Mr President, the danger has not passed, because the European Union has not been able to eliminate the root causes that have led to this development of illegal migration, this historic scale of migration. For this reason, the government decided that the southern border should be physically strengthened and provided for a transfer of HUF 9.3 billion. This physical reinforcement is still taking place today. But we do not just consider physical confirmation to be important and necessary in order to protect the southern border. Just last week, the government presented a bill, which the Parliament will begin to negotiate on 17 May with a general debate, the essence of which is that an illegal migrant has been detained within a radius of eight kilometres of the border, if he has not committed a crime, the police will escort him back to the border, and if he has such an intention, he will be able to submit his application at the border in the transit zone. If that's not your intention, then you can choose another way to leave the country. Honourable Congressman, As far as the situation in Körmend is concerned, we have always said that we should thank the city of Körmend, the body of representatives, the officials and the people who live there for their cooperation in order to understand this situation. We have been forced to set up a transitional camp for 300 people in the field of the Police Secondary School; I would like to emphasise this. As you know, we were forced to set up a camp in the autumn of last year, but the migrants practically did not use it. And when the situation that I was talking about was that we were able to hold down the southern border and the migrants weren't coming, then this camp was abolished, and we ended it. Even now, we have only been forced to establish this camp for as much time as possible. We know that in order to safeguard the security of the Körmendi, we need to do more, so the Iron County Police Department, the Defence Office, the Emergency Police units, the Immigration and Nationality Office staff will do their best to ensure the security of the Körmendi. The mayor of the city contacted Mr Sándor Pintér, Minister of the Interior, to provide funds for the expansion of the public camera system. On Friday at the press conference, I announced that for this purpose we will provide HUF 24 million for the Körmendi request. This includes the expansion of the camera system, operating costs and other costs incurred. So within the camp, within the city, in the area, we will do everything we can to ensure that the temporary time we are forced to maintain the reception centre, we will serve and guarantee the safety of the Körmendi. Honourable Congressman, If you really care about the security and tranquility of the people of Körmend, the people of the county, the people of Western Hungary or the people of Hungary at all, then I ask you not to use this situation for political gain as you did on Friday, Congressman Körmend. If peace, peace and security are your priority, then I ask you to accept this request, as you can see that the police have a reinforced presence in the city, that the defence is there, and that we will do everything we can to ensure the safety of the people in the area and the people in the area. This will continue to be the case for as long as this situation persists. And of course, if the situation turns out that the placement of migrants is no longer necessary at the Körmend reception centre, we will terminate this reception centre. We're not here yet. But once again, the government intends to use this reception station for as long as possible. As far as the events of the last week are concerned, the investigation of the act that you have tried to exploit for political gain is ongoing. We trust that the police will investigate all aspects and the truth will be revealed. Thank you very much, and I ask the honourable Member to refrain from making political profits in the interests of security, order and tranquility. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-05-09-8	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. From the KDNP Group, Mr Imre Vejkey applied for a speech before the agenda with the title of Christian values and Szent István Book Week. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2016-05-09-9	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, When I first heard about St. Stephen's Book Week, opened for the first time in 1993, and the Stephanus Prize, which was also awarded for the first time, was awarded for the 24th time, I remembered a Latin saying, nomen evening omen, and with it Dante, whose grave closed 700 years ago in the Ravenna cemetery, who lived in his country, but since then the world has turned a great deal in Italy. Ladies and Gentlemen, But the world's turned around here. In the time of total dictatorships, a Christian book could only be obtained by endangering the evacuation or total destruction of the family. Now we just need to go to the Ferenciek Square and get 7 000 copies of various religious publishers, monastic orders, private publishers, and distributors, including 71 books weeks of novelty, such as Michael Hesemann's Stigma, or II. Vatican Council for the Jewish-Catholic Interreligious Matter prepared for the 50th anniversary of Nostra's aetate statement. Ladies and Gentlemen, These Christian books are very important, not only for our culture, but also for the survival of Hungarian statehood, because the survival of our entire state would have been due to the inclusion of Christianity, and without Christianity, only vague cultural historical images like those of the Avars would have survived. [[13.30]] Szent István Book Week helps arts to feed on Christian values again, and this is necessary, because the truth is that while two thirds of the world's heritage are sacral art creations, today's creations, without the barely perceptible level of impulse in this direction, are convergingly drawn to zero from religious themes. Let's give him impulses. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: That's for sure.]] Ladies and Gentlemen, For the past six years, we have given impulses to a Europe that rejects Christian roots so that the nations living here can re-remember the Christian culture created on Jewish-Greece-Roman traditions, the culture that opened up a new era of civilization. The founding fathers of the European Union, Konrad Adenauer, Schuman de Gasperi, have also gone back to this era, who for half a century have told the great truth that Europe will or will not be a Christian. Ladies and Gentlemen, Today there is a spiritual struggle between Hungary and Western Europe, the result of which depends on the future image of Europe. So when we Hungarians say that more Europe, we do not mean more European bureaucrats, but that more spirituality, that is, that Europe should return to the intentions of the founding fathers. Otherwise, the wave of immigration following the financial crisis is forecasting the emergence of extremes and the destabilisation of European societies. And in Brussels, crazier and crazier proposals are coming to light. Ladies and Gentlemen, That is why it is important that as many people participate in the referendum on forced resettlement, that it is valid and effective, and that as many people visit St. Stephen's Book Week, which opens today and waits for almost a week not only with valuable books, but also with meaningful programs for Hungarian citizens. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-05-09-10	Thank you very much, Congressman. Péter Hoppál, State Secretary, responds to the speech before the agenda. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2016-05-09-11	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, All of us have experienced reality and basic axiom, that the most important field of learning is perhaps reading. Thus, the promotion of reading and the encounter with books overrided the expectation that over the past decades, during the period of the infocommunication explosion, the Gutenberg Galaxy would break, and perhaps the printed book would disappear from the field of European culture. I didn't. Our time has defied this vision, and the publishing of books, as you might say, is going through a new Renaissance period. In this respect, I really must emphasise, as Mr President says, the ages are changing, and therefore supply is expanding, increasing and coloring. Thus, the volume of books sent by Christian publishers to the readers'circle has also been upturned since the regime change. We can be part of this welcome and desirable trend, as the reading materials that offer all kinds of cathartic experiences, which the St. Stephen's Society accepts each year by publishing new books, whether it is the publication of literary, educational or scientific volumes, obviously help to get closer to the arts, thus serving society as a whole. After all, the possibility of encountering arts can also lead to an improvement in the quality of life. When, however, a cultural mission is being undertaken by a publisher, I am thinking of the St. Stephen Society that it actually increases readers with a book week's supply, it strengthens this value system and puts it in a higher position. So we thank the Szent István Society for organising this event year after year. This year, from 9 to 14 May, in the following days, there will be writing-reading meetings in the Ferenciek area of Budapest, and there will also be 50 dedications, so the authors and the recent authors will present their works to the public here. It is important to note that reading, the love of the book and, of course, the dissemination of the Christian literature that you highlight in this regard can only be achieved in order to improve society if, even after the campaign events of the book week, the possibility of a book held in hand becomes possible for everyone through the institutional system. Therefore, we have made a lot of progress in the last six years of civilian governance, and we are pleased to say that new cultural spaces have also been established in Hungary with the enrichment of the library system, with the complete renovation of nearly 600 libraries in the last four years. In fact, library buses now serve the counties in Eastern Hungary and the small settlement in South Hungary where these buses take the daily reading from the county libraries to the small villages on a weekly basis. The question you are concerned with has also come to the conclusion that it is not only the importance and necessity of reading that is a burning desire in our society, but the strengthening of Christian literature is an important task for the countries of Eastern Europe after the regime change, as we suffered a hiatus in the period before 1990. Yes, the major challenge of our time is the immigration crisis, in which we have a major cultural issue ahead of us, whether we can preserve the foundation, the foundation on which a thousand-year-old Hungary was built, the Christian foundation on which the united Europe was also built. This challenge must indeed be strengthened by all of our cultural aspirations, which in Hungary have expressed quite strongly that the Hungarian position on immigration is sometimes different from that of the European position, but now more and more often combined with that, it can also be identified as standing up to preserve the roots of our culture. In this sense, therefore, we welcome the present book week's event. Thank you very much, Congressman. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-05-09-12	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Mr József Tóbias, Head of the Group of the MSZP, has applied for a pre-meeting speech on current affairs. Here you go, Mr. Group Leader. You have the floor.
u2016-05-09-13	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Tomorrow, we will vote on the question of the government, and I can tell you, honourable members of the government, that with the cooperation of Hungarian society, the Hungarian Socialist Party and civil society organisations, you have collected with record speed the necessary number of more than 100,000 signatures in order to enable a referendum to take place in Hungary on the same day and on the same page. We have done this because in recent years you have not wanted or wanted to hear the voice of the people. Many protests, many demonstrations, many protests, according to your logic, were just a strategy of repression and division. They never dared to face what Hungary today looks like, which is not in this Chamber, but in reality, where they are fighting for the crisis of existence. Where the question is not only whether the land is being stolen, the question is not only that while millions are being distributed to themselves as salaries, others are in a crisis of existence, but they want to have an opinion on your governance. Why would a decision on one day and on a ballot be rational? Because it's reasonable and simple. It is reasonable, since it is unnecessary to spend an extra 6 billion forints in three months, while we know that it is neither in demand nor in number of areas that need 6 billion forints, nor in terms of Matolcsy publishing, nor in relation to distribution of friends. [[13.40]] You have the right to give an opinion to the people, and it is simple because one day we will address the Hungarian citizens and ask for the strongest authority, because if you sometimes say that you are thinking about the rule of law, the fundamental thing of the rule of law is to strengthen the institution of the referendum, to strengthen participatory democracy. That should be in your best interest, too. Although I now overlook their amendment to the referendum law, that they are once again making it a financial issue by administrative and legal means, sometimes by physical means they wish to make it impossible for the opposition of society, which stands against the government, to give an opinion, i.e. a self-acclaiming statement of why Fidesz is afraid that the three questions, the government's own question, which was ordered panicously by itself, to remind us that in time the National Election Committee had so to say canceled the referendum initiative, and then the Curia decided that it could still be written out. And you're panicking in the middle of a government meeting deciding that you're going to have a question for yourself. It's okay. Why is that question again? Because you don't want to talk about refugees, you want to cover up the reality that you caused. In the foundations of the Hungarian National Bank György Matolcsy manages the public money as his own, Péter Polt assists with this. Today, health care, education, the social field, but now the local government is in crisis, but that's not what you want to talk about. You want to cement your own power and cover up the thefts of your economic elite, the statutory thefts of which the voters should rightly know in Hungary. [[Lajos Kósa: We support you! Tobias for president!]] Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Lajos Kósa, Oh, God, no. Don't even try. Don't even try, because we don't choose for you. We don't choose for you! That's our job. You would rather read the laws you have adopted, what you name, what the government has the right to do, but you look down on the hundred thousand members of society, who, on the other hand, says why the Parliament should not issue a referendum on the same issue if the government is afraid to face reality. Ladies and gentlemen, Any way you can judge the words, you can decide tomorrow that only your questions are on that ballot, and I would like to say to you that the work, the collection of signatures, will not stop. Yes, there will be a real referendum in Hungary, which will not be about the government's initiative, but about the last six years of Fidesz governance. Thank you very much.
u2016-05-09-14	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. Minister Antal Rogán responds to the speech by Mr Group leader before the agenda. Here you go, Minister.
u2016-05-09-15	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Chief of Staff, Or should I call you Mr. President? 'Cause from what I can see, there's a campaign going on within the MSZP for the presidency. [[Zoltán Grimlock: Don't you have one of these?]] and I often feel that Mr President's vehement comments and press conferences are actually about this, and less about what is important to Hungarian people in Hungary or what is not. [[József Tobias: Sure! Billions of the MNB, that's okay.]] Let me start by saying, Mr President-Chief, that you are also familiar with the legislation that is in force in Hungary. It follows, Mr President-Chief, that if you would like the Parliament to decide on a referendum initiative, then I would ask you to submit the signatures allegedly collected to the National Electoral Commission and the National Election Office, because you know, without it, it's a bit of a story, you know that one-time joke when someone in church prays to win a five in the lottery. [[Dr. András Schiffer: Matolcsy doesn't know him!]] And after a while, the voice of the Lord sounds like you're gonna buy a lottery ticket, son, because without it, it's gonna be really hard. [[It's a rare applause from the Fidesz ranks. József Tobias: Give it up! Interviews from the ranks of the MSZP: Sparkling!]] You too know very well the rules, Mr President-Chief, that the Parliament's decision on a referendum is only possible if the signatures have been collected, submitted to the National Election Office, and the National Election Committee has verified the result in this regard. Unfortunately, the Parliament does not have any competence in this area, Mr President-Chief. But I think you know that very well. Let me add that, since you know very well, this is obviously just a trick we're talking about here, Mr President-Character, and now just that question. [[Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] What this trick is all about. Is it intended to give you a better position within the MSZP in the fight for the presidential elections, or is it intended to distract attention from the fact that you do not actually agree with the referendum initiative, which the Parliament will now decide in accordance with the laws and regulations? [[József Tobias: What are we talking about if you don't hear what I'm saying?]] Therefore, I would like to ask you not to encourage the Parliament to commit lawlessness. [[József Tobias: You have done nothing else for six years!]] because the proposal for a parliamentary decision that you have tabled, which is about Parliament not making a decision now, I think that it goes against the law, because under the legislation, the referendum initiated by the Government after the decision of the Curia has to be decided by Parliament within the deadline. We believe that the time has come for this decision. We followed the law. In Hungary, the President of the Republic may initiate a referendum, the government may initiate a referendum, and otherwise the citizens may initiate a referendum by collecting a sufficient number of signatures, but Parliament cannot initiate a referendum. So he himself cannot decide to put forward a referendum, but he must decide on these initiatives if they comply with the conditions of legality. Because here the government's referendum issue has patiently gone through all the stations that it had to go through. [[Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] And then he arrived here, at the National Assembly meeting room. Let's not forget that it's you. [[Zoltán Pride: This is not what we submitted! You should read it.]] who tried to prevent the referendum on forced resettlement at all costs, Mr President, because it was precisely you who attacked it at the Mansion and tried to stall the time to prevent this referendum from taking place anyway. You, because, in addition to Mr Jávor Benedek, as an intervention or initiative, your MEP, Mr Szanyi, has also appeared, and many others have also appeared, so everything [[Interviews from Fidesz: The presidential candidate! Scoot to the front. Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] they tried to prevent this ominous referendum initiative that we have launched and we believe is extremely important. [[József Tobias: According to you!]] I would like to ask you, Mr President, that I understand that you do not want this, and I understand that what is really important to you is what was adopted as an immigration strategy during the Gyurcsány government, after all, in 2007, you decided to allow 1 million immigrants into Hungary. [[József Tobias: Tonicám, how much did you distribute with the settlement obligation?]] Thank God they didn't make it. Mr President-Chief of Action, Now I'd like to ask you not to try and stop this. Make it possible for the people to really decide whether they want forced resettlement in Hungary or not, because, by the way, Mr President-Chief, we do not want to ask for the decision of the people about immigrants, but we would like to ask whether Brussels can make a decision above our heads to install people in Hungary without asking the Hungarian Government or the Hungarian Parliament to decide otherwise. We find forced resettlement unacceptable. That would be a waiver of Hungary's sovereignty, and that would not be possible without the decision of the people. So I'm asking you, Mr President. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] to continue to collect signatures, but to support this referendum initiative here in Parliament, it is not too late. [[Applause in the pro-government benches. Zoltán Grimlock: You didn't even read it!]]
u2016-05-09-16	Thank you very much, Minister. Mr Lajos Kósa, Head of the Group of the Fidesz Group, on the Forced Replanting Quota, has applied for a pre-meeting speech. Here you go, Mr. Group Leader. You have the floor.
u2016-05-09-17	Mr. President. Dear House, [[István Szilárd Németh: Dear Mr. Tobias!]] My dear fellow Faction Leader. [[Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] The last thing I want to do is undermine your chances of fighting for the Socialist Party Presidency, so I'm going to attack you sharply so that anyone doesn't accidentally misunderstand my personal opinion, which I said here by yelling that you are quite an excellent president and group leader. However, no one can be overlooked by the fact that József Tobias encouraged Parliament to do an open law violation. [[Intruder from Fidesz: That's right! Moore from the ranks of the MSZP. Noise. Zoltán Grimlock: Have you read it? Did you read what we submitted? How about you talk about that?]] This is not surprising, of course, because we remember your statement at an active conference, Mr Tobias said that the laws do not matter, and then we will sit down at the end of the election campaign and discuss the penalty. [[Noise. Zoltán Grimlock: That's what the Orbán said, don't be silly. Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] He has now proposed that Parliament, ignoring all existing legislation, should support the socialists' proposal which, by the way, is not yet before the House, that Parliament should issue a referendum on the two issues that you have put forward. [[Interviews from the lines of the MSZP: That's not what it says! Noise.]] Of course, there is no simpler political bluff than this, because if they had - or had - 100,000 signatures, they would, of course, have been brought to the Election Office, where there are 60 days to authenticate all of this. [[13.50]] If this does not happen, Parliament has nothing to decide on. If the National Election Committee turns to Parliament, in a decision to ask for a referendum on this issue, then, please calculate, my dear Mr Tobias Group Leader, there is no legal opportunity to enforce the laws so that the two referendums can be issued at the same time. [[Zoltán Grimlock: What about the bond?]] It cannot be stated even if the head of state takes into account the so-called 38-day rule; it simply doesn't add up. We, Parliament, must decide within 30 days on the issue of forced resettlement; the signing of the 100 thousand you have not yet submitted, allegedly existing, will be dealt with for 60 days by the National Election Office and will decide whether or not you have it. But I'm sure it's only in the context that there's a presidential campaign in the Socialist Party, there's very good presidential candidates who are trying to get in and out of each other with all kinds of bluffs, or win the sympathy of membership, and it's really the case here that the legislation doesn't even matter to my fellow leader, Tobias. But there are so many lawyers sitting around you, ask me what the National Election Office has to do with its futures, what Parliament has to do with its futures, and from then on you will realize very quickly that what you say is impossible. The only thing that Parliament can decide now is whether or not to issue a referendum on forced resettlement. I suggest that Parliament support the announcement. And let's discuss the initiative of the socialists as a non-existent, primitive political bluff here when they come up with the 100,000 signatures, but it's even better if they come up with 200,000. In fact, if you are right, and there is such dissatisfaction in the country, then one million signatures to József Tobias's call are not an illusion or two million. I mean, you see national death every day, direct economic failure, collapse, and the like. [[József Tobias: I never said anything like that.]] If that were true, then the 200,000 signatures, Mr. President, wouldn't go away, a capital organization would have to collect $500,000. [[Zoltán Grimlock: You didn't even read it, Louis, that's the problem.]] But we're waiting for that 100 grand, and nobody's even seen it, but you're the only ones talking about it. I think that if you really want to take a stand on an important, crucial issue for our future, here is your chance: choose not to invite one million Chinese people to the country as you did when you were on the government. [[Zoltán Grimlock: Those were brought in by Szijjártó.]] but decide that no one should be able to take away the right to choose who we want to live with in the long term and who we do not. And you can say no to forced resettlement when it comes to Chinese, when it comes to others. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2016-05-09-18	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. Minister Antal Rogán responds to Mr Fraction Manager's speech before the agenda. Here you go, Minister. [[Noise from the ranks of the MSZP.]]
u2016-05-09-19	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, [[Dr. Tamás Bellozó: Now let's hear about the bonds.]]
u2016-05-09-20	Fellow Members! Mr. Secretary, a moment. My fellow Members, please try to put up with each other for at least two minutes, but instead for five minutes, so that everyone can say what they want to say in response to a speech. Thank you for your understanding and cooperation. Mr. Secretary.
u2016-05-09-21	Thank you very much, Mr. President. So let me begin by saying - because I was reminded of the circumstances of a referendum initiative a few years ago, as said by Mr Lajos Kósa Group leader - when a social referendum was needed during the governing of the socialists, social discontent was indeed such that a real record was created, since the necessary number of signatures were gathered in three days to launch the referendum. I would just like to say to Mr. Tobias, the record of which you are, I think, that you are dreaming of this way, in this form. Then the other thing I would like to say here, and I think it is very important, because I think we should take this opportunity and talk about what is really important: the referendum that we think should take place now, in 2016, if Parliament's decision makes this possible today, then, I think, at the latest at the end of summer or at the beginning of autumn. Ladies and gentlemen, The issue of forced resettlement has become a real and threatening threat over the past period, as you can see that the European Union is now making its proposal not only in the form of a verbal threat, but also in the written form, and, moreover, the discussion on this has started. The European Union has therefore put the proposal on the table, of which two elements, I think, are rather outrageous and have outraged many. On the one hand, it proposes the distribution of illegal immigrants entering the European Union and invited by the leaders of the European Union by forced resettlement, so it wants to distribute these people without asking the governments of those nations or the parliaments of those nations. On the other hand, they threaten Member States that do not want to be part of forced resettlement to pay otherwise. And unfortunately, this also shows how much one person is worth to the European Union and what another person is worth. For the European Union, an immigrant is worth HUF 78 million, while a Hungarian person is worth less than one million, because in seven years, the total amount of EU funding per capita does not exceed HUF 1 million, while an immigrant would already be billed HUF 78 million from Brussels in the European Commission. Ladies and gentlemen, I think that, overall, is unacceptable. There is a need for the Hungarian people to make clear their views on this, as the decision-making procedure in Brussels will speed up, honourable Members. This is the question, and we think it is about Hungary's sovereignty. The question of whether or not we or our children and grandchildren should be able to live with is above our heads. Ladies and gentlemen, We believe that Hungary has never given up on this element of sovereignty and that Hungarian citizens have not resigned. At the time when sovereignty had to be renounced, the most important decisions were made by the Hungarian people in Hungary every time. Hungarian people have also decided on NATO accession and EU accession. We believe that the Hungarian people also need to make a decision on the issue of forced resettlement. That is why the government has asked the Parliament to issue and allow a referendum that we believe will give all Hungarians the right to vote and to express their views. Now this opportunity is here before the Parliament, and we are asking for the Parliament's swift decision because we believe that time is urgent. [[József Tobias: From what?]] The decision-making process in the European Union has accelerated, and it is also possible that the EU decision-making forums will start negotiating this proposal before summer break and will probably try to adopt it in the autumn at the latest. We believe that this is why the Hungarian referendum has become urgent, so we ask the Honourable Parliament not to wait 30 days, but to make its decision as soon as possible. I would also like to ask our fellow opponents for two things. One is to support, as far as possible, the departure from house rules and the issuing of a referendum. After all, let the Hungarian people decide on this issue! The other thing I would like to ask of you is that, if possible, you do not attack the referendum in the way that, for example, the socialists, the liberals or their various allies have already done so at the time of the referendum question. [[Dr. Tamás Bellozó: Why are you lying?]] I ask you to make it possible for the Hungarian people to make a decision, to support it here in Parliament, and not to attack it at the Constitutional Court. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2016-05-09-22	Thank you very much, Minister. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, We have reached the end of the speeches before the agenda. Now I would like to ask Mr Dezső Liberty to present the speakers who are not on the agenda. Here you go, notary.
u2016-05-09-23	Dear Parliament, Today he applied for a speech after the agenda: Balázs Ander, Jobbik; Sebestyén Vágó, Jobbik; Dóra Dúró, Jobbik; Gergely Farkas, Jobbik. Speaking before the agenda on Tuesday, the following representatives applied: Erzsébet Schmuck, LMP; Sándor Burány, MSZP; Péter Harrach, KDNP; Gábor Bányai, Fidesz; György Szilágyi, Jobbik. On Tuesday, Tibor Bana, Jobbik, applied for a speech after the agenda. [[14.00]] On Wednesday, the Bulgarian national minority spokesperson Varga Simeon came forward after the agenda; Zoltán Magyar, Jobbik. On Thursday, Mr Novak, Mr Jobbik applied for the post-meeting speech; István Ikotity, LMP. On Friday, Dóra Dúró applied for a speech after the agenda, Jobbik.
u2016-05-09-24	Thank you very much, Mr. Notary. Dear Parliament, I declare that András Patyi, President of the National Election Committee, informed the Speaker of the National Election Committee that the National Election Committee was the 14/2016. In its resolution No. 8 (1) of the Hungarian Fundamental Law, which was endorsed by the Curia, the Government certified the national referendum initiative on the following issue. [[András Tállai puts a paper bag next to Prime Minister Viktor Orbán on the ground. Depreciation, interruptions.]] The national referendum initiative on the subject referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article. (András Tállai puts a paper bag next to Prime Minister Viktor Orbán on the ground. - Expansion, interruptions.) I'd like to ask you, Mr. Group Leader, what is this about... [[Noise, interruptions from Jobbik's ranks: What's in it? Dr. Zsolt Semjén: Pálinka. Defiance. The president's ringing the bell.]] I am asking my fellow Members to remain calm, to try to be serious, as the question in itself requires seriousness, and I am truly saddened to feel that even the Group leader does not consider the issue entirely serious, which is a very big problem. So, once again, I would like to say that András Patyi, President of the National Election Committee, informed the Speaker of Parliament that the National Election Committee was on 14/2016. In its resolution No. 8 (1) of the Fundamental Law of Hungary, which the Curia has approved, it has validated the national referendum initiative submitted by the Government on the following issue:.Do you want the European Union to require the compulsory resettlement of non-Hungarian citizens into Hungary without the consent of the Parliament? I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Transcription by the President of the National Election Committee C/10572. Number 1 is available in Parliament's information system. In view of this, the Decree-Law 88. Pursuant to Article 2 (2) of the Rules of Procedure, the President of the Parliament appointed the Judicial Committee to prepare and submit a proposal for a decision on ordering a national referendum on the above issue. Proposal for a decision submitted H/10611. Number 2 is available on the IT network. Dear Parliament, The agenda for our meeting starting today is coming up. We shall decide on the agenda, the duration of the meeting, the speaking time limits on the basis of a proposal put forward by the President. I declare that independent Congresswoman Zsuzsanna Szelényi initiated the H/9973 on 3 May 2016. Submitting the necessary signatures to a series of subjects. On this day, Congresswoman informed the President of the Parliament that, in view of her possible absence, the Act on Parliament was adopted on the basis of Article 39 of the Act on Parliament. With reference to paragraph 2 of Section 2 of the Act, Parliament shall not discuss the application for inclusion in the series of articles. Dear Parliament, I will ask my fellow Members to check that their cards have been properly placed in the voting machine. I would like to inform you that the Speaker of Parliament has proposed a derogation from house rules. In so doing, Parliament initiates the H/1061 on the ordering of a national referendum. In the course of the negotiation of the No.3 proposal, move away from the house rules in such a way that the final vote can take place on Tuesday. Proposal for a derogation from house rules H/10611/2. You've been able to get to know him from the website. Dear Parliament, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that in order to derogate from the house rules, the four-fifths of the Members present need to vote in favour. I therefore ask the Honourable Parliament whether it agrees to derogate from the house rules. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament accepted the derogation from the house rule by 145 votes in favour, 30 votes in favour and no abstentions. It is now 14 hours and 5 minutes, according to our agreed decision, to submit the amendment proposals within an hour of the order, i.e. 15 hours and 5 minutes. The consolidated debate on the bill will take place today, and the decision on the draft amendment and the final vote will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, As the Parliament has accepted a derogation from the house rule, we will not vote on the imposition of an exceptional procedure. The Fidesz Group proposed that, in the light of the departure from the adopted house rule, the Parliament's meeting, starting on 9 May, be supplemented by the negotiation and adoption of the H/10611 proposal for a resolution on the ordering of a national referendum, so that the consolidated debate would take place as the last item on today's sitting, the summary amendment proposal and the final vote on tomorrow's meeting. Anyone who agrees with that, please vote by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] It's a visible majority. I declare that the visible majority of Parliament has accepted the proposal. Dear Parliament, The MSZP Group has proposed that individual tax laws and other related laws, as well as the 2010 National Tax and Customs Office CXXII. T/10537. Do not begin the trial of bill No. 1 at the Parliament's meeting starting today. Anyone who agrees with that, please vote by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] I find that the visible majority of Parliament has not accepted the proposal. The MSZP Group also suggested that the T/10539 on excise duty. Do not begin the trial of bill No. 1 at the Parliament's meeting starting today. Anyone who agrees with that, please vote by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] Thank you. I find that the visible majority of Parliament has not accepted the proposal. Dear Parliament, Parliamentary resolution on certain house rules 37. Pursuant to Article 1 (1) of the Rules of Procedure, Parliament may decide to negotiate certain items of the agenda in a time-frame. The House Committee initiates the T/10377 on Hungary's central budget for 2017 The Parliament will discuss the number of proposals within a 30-hour time frame. The agenda recommendation shall include a time frame allocation. I would like to inform you that the resolution house rule is 37. Paragraph 3 and 4 of the General Budget Bill provides that there is no possibility of doubling the timeframes during the hearing. I now call on notary Lajos Szűcs to present the motion for a time frame allocation. Here you go, notary.
u2016-05-09-25	Dear Parliament, The proposed timeframe is divided into 617 minutes for the Fidesz Group, 342 minutes for the MSZP Group, 309 minutes for the Jobbik Group, 283 minutes for the KDNP Group, 183 minutes for the LMP Group and 66 minutes for the independent Members. [[14.10]] The time limits provided for the factions include the 30-30 minutes lead speakers. Opportunity of the representatives of the European Parliament in Hungary to speak in the general debate is set out in Article 37 of the Rules of Procedure. § 2 (2) (h): if you have applied to speak through the leader of the group, the time frame of the group shall be limited to the time limit of the group, if you have applied directly in addition to the 30-hour time frame, within a seven-minute time frame for an independent Member. [[It's constant noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] Paragraph 1 (h) if you have applied for a speech by the head of the group, the time limit for the group, if you have applied directly in addition to the 30-hour time frame, for an independent Member within a seven-minute time frame each. (Continuous noise. - The president's ringing. To the voice of the minority advocate invited by the Committee of Nationalities in Hungary, the Rules of the House are set out in Article 37. Article 2 (2) (g) allows a total of 60 minutes, which is not included in the time frame.
u2016-05-09-26	Thank you very much, Mr. Notary. Dear Parliament, Now it's time for the decision. I therefore ask the Honourable Parliament whether it agrees to discuss the proposal within a 30-hour timeframe. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament accepted the hearing of the proposal in the time frame by 143 votes in favour, 30 votes against and no abstentions. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that it is possible to submit proposals for amendments to the bill by 16:00 on Thursday. Ladies and gentlemen, The President of the Parliament initiates the T/10536 on the basis of Hungary's central budget for 2017. The Parliament will discuss the number 1 proposal in a five-hour time frame. The agenda recommendation shall include a time frame allocation. At the request of the LMP Group, the Decision on certain house rules 37 Paragraph 4 states that the time frame available to the political group will be doubled in the event of the adoption of a time-frame negotiation. I would like to ask Mr Dezső Liberty to present the motion to split the time frame. Here you go, notary.
u2016-05-09-27	Dear Parliament, The distribution of the proposed timeframe is as follows: 103 minutes for the Fidesz Group, 57 minutes for the MSZP Group, 51 minutes for the Jobbik Group, 47 minutes for the KDNP Group, 31 minutes for the LMP Group, with a doubling of which a total of 62 minutes and 11 minutes for the independent Members. The time limits provided for the factions include the 20-20 minutes lead speakers. To the voice of the minority advocate invited by the Committee of Nationalities in Hungary, the Rules of the House are set out in Article 37. Article 2 (2) (g) allows a total of 20 minutes, which does not include the time frame.
u2016-05-09-28	Thank you very much, Mr. Notary. Ladies and gentlemen, Now it's time for the decision. I would therefore like to ask the Honourable Parliament whether it agrees that the proposal will be discussed in the time frame, which has just been presented by notary Dezső Believable and modified on the basis of the request of the LMP. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament accepted the hearing of the proposal in the time frame by 145 votes in favour, 27 votes against and no abstentions. Dear Parliament, The President of the National Assembly initiates that the individual tax laws and other related laws, as well as the 2010 National Tax and Customs Office CXXII. T/10537. The Parliament will discuss the number 1 proposal in a five-hour time frame. The agenda recommendation shall include a time frame allocation. I now call on notary Lajos Szűcs to present the motion for a time frame allocation. Here you go, notary.
u2016-05-09-29	Dear Parliament, The distribution of the proposed times is as follows: the Fidesz Group has 103 minutes, 57 minutes for the MSZP Group, 51 minutes for the Jobbik Group, 47 minutes for the KDNP Group, 31 minutes for the LMP Group and 11 minutes for the independent Members. The time limits provided for the factions include the 20-20 minutes lead speakers.
u2016-05-09-30	Thank you very much, Mr. Notary. Ladies and gentlemen, Now it's time for the decision. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it agrees to discuss the proposal within a five-hour time frame. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament accepted the hearing of the proposal in the time frame by 143 votes in favour, 30 votes against and no abstentions. Dear Parliament, We are now deciding on a proposal on the agenda put forward by the President. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts the recommendation on the agenda with the amendments adopted above. Please vote by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] It's a visible majority. I declare that the visible majority of Parliament has adopted the agenda. Dear Parliament, A decision on a personal proposal will not take place today. Now it's 14:16 and we're moving on to interpellation and immediate questioning. Dear Parliament, Congressman Zoltán Gőgös, a representative of the MSZP, has submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Agriculture:, When are you going to let go of the hands of cheating buddies? It's an address. Congressman Zoltán Haughty has the floor, please.
u2016-05-09-31	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, I would've preferred the Minister hadn't escaped. Now he escapes from what we have written in advance, so he would have answered this relatively easily, since he has the question a week ago. On January 29th, I asked for the first time a written question about when I was going to be checked on Hortobágy. And then it was written, "When the weather is like that." Secretary of State, Kehi's report, which, after a friend of Minister's has done me the favor of inviting me to a civil suit, is in my hand, Mr. Secretary of State, and I think the public will have to know that after we have discussed this issue. There are very, very rough things written here about what happened on Hortobágy, with 50 ducks, 66 hectares of pasture buying from the 1700 applications to 1100 incorrect data reporting. It contains all this data. And I'm gonna ask you to take this paper to Minister, because you probably didn't see it. I even did that by marking it, which meant that everyone should have had a contract long ago, and that they should finally have given the pasture to the real farmers. But here's what I'm gonna say. I was there a week ago, and nothing's changed. When I submitted the first written question, I indicated that there was a grass of two metres in the pasture, that was all but grazing livestock, which was otherwise required in that nature reserve. The answer was to check it out in the spring. I think that if no one had been grazing there for two years, it would have been enough in itself to fail to comply with the conditions that the entire organic farming is about on Hortobágy. And that's not a reason, because at the time, there was a flaw in the notice that required that livestock should not be insured for two years. I've never seen anything like it in grazing livestock. The other is that it is now May, the animals are long out in the pasture, but the situation has not changed in the area of the new village of Berettyó. It's the same condition. I was there two weeks or a week ago, and it's also a two-meter weed. All that happened there in the fall, Mr. Secretary, was that a cattle herd of about a hundred was chased around the pastures. Literally, I'm being chased around, but I'm guessing in a lot of places, I'm sure, while someone was checking to see if there were animals there, otherwise they did damage to animals, and they did damage to nature. I would like to ask how long this intolerable condition can last, that simply kissers and friends have acquired the right to use these pastures, obviously with huge EU subsidies, not to mention that now in the AKG, it seems that old farmers have won almost nothing, and the new ones have somehow been brought out, despite the fact that the keepers have almost no AKG support. These questions will have to be answered sooner or later, Mr. Secretary. And local farmers also don't understand why there are all actors living in Budapest or Debrecen in the vicinity of Váncsod. Why, Secretary of State, have these contracts not been terminated despite the Kehi report? I'm looking forward to your reply. [[14.20]]
u2016-05-09-32	Thank you very much, Congressman. We hear the answer to the interpellation question from Secretary of State István Nagy. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2016-05-09-33	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear fellow Member, I would very much like to make some arrangements with you. The first thing I would like to say in response to the title of the question of interpellation is that the government has never touched the hands of fraudsters. We want to be the strictest against anyone who does not use these areas in accordance with the contract. And what I ask of you, my dear fellow Member, is this. You made the mistake of stating generalities: the neighbourhood of Berettyóújfalu, the vicinity of Váncsod. Let us agree that you will ask a specific question, tell us which area is the number of localities, because this is very difficult to answer, because it is offensive to those who do their job with absolute decency, and a lot of questions could be clarified, it could be clarified if you named the areas where there is a problem according to the local map number. And my promise from the Hortobágyi is that you will be invited personally when there will be an inspection in the area so that you can work together without a doubt. I would like to explain to you how the procedure is carried out in the course of inspections. In accordance with the report of the Board of Directors on the 5th of December 2015, the number of its properties under the lease agreement was 833 pieces. Based on the audit plan for 2015, 157 estates were scheduled for a comprehensive audit and more, 176 estates and a total of 201 tenants were audited by the Board of Directors during the year. Before you ask, Mr President, why have not all the proposed estates been checked, I must draw your attention to the fact that ten estates which have been inspected are in the use of civil rights companies, which explains the number of the contracting parties other than the estate. The total number of follow-up and target checks carried out in 2015 was 456 units. 456 pieces, my dear fellow Members. A total of 111 inspections were carried out in the Bihar region. Following the principle of gradualness, post-, target and exceptional checks were aimed at verifying compliance with the requirements set out in the notice sent to the tenants due to shortcomings in their performance. In the event of the detection of any deficiencies identified during the checks, such as differences in number of animals, lack of recovery, lack of clarity of ownership or irregularities such as infectivity with weeds or invasive species or unauthorized development of infrastructure, inadequate compliance with nature conservation management procedures, the Management Board has requested the landlord to comply fully with the contract requirements and to use them in a contractual manner. In these cases, follow-up and target checks have also been carried out. Some of the target controls were carried out at the end of the grazing period and, following the processing and examination of the protocols, the Management Board designated these holdings for an extraordinary target control at the beginning of the grazing period in 2016. And a piece of lease agreement, I declare, fellow Member, has been terminated by the board of directors. During the 2014 grazing period, the Management Board took administrative action in 72 cases, of which 35 times in the Bihar plain area, in a total of 72 cases, in the form of information and a request. In the case of the other holdings, the management of the area was considered to be in a state of conservation and therefore did not require any further action. My dear fellow Member, Please accept my reply. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2016-05-09-34	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I'll ask Congressman if he'll accept the Secretary of State's answer. Here you go.
u2016-05-09-35	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, not really, Mr. Secretary; just for why not, just an example. There were applicants who confirmed livestock by a horse passport issued in 2011 with paper not older than three months. There were 31 successful candidates who had not previously carried out any agricultural activity - Kehi writes this, I did not say so - likely to have developed for the purpose of obtaining the right to rent. In some cases, the lease agreements were concluded only when the tender was submitted and were valid until the criticism, Mr Secretary of State. Now, if you're saying all this is okay, and I think that nothing was okay with that, not just the current state of affairs, but in the first place, how they could get any level of evaluation at all. They should've been kicked out of the house. But, again, it's likely that the heads of the Ministry, the Minister, will not know this report, so I turned it yellow, I'd be happy to give it to you, read it, it's instructive. Thank you very much. [[He will give the document to Dr. István Nagy. A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2016-05-09-36	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Congressman György Szilágyi, representative of Jobbik, submitted an interpellation... [[Interventions: Vote! Zoltán Grimlock: I did not accept the answer!]] Oh, I'm sorry. I thought the congressman accepted it. [[Defiance. György Balla: It doesn't matter!]] Ladies and gentlemen, I beg your pardon, but I forgot to ask you before. Because Congressman Zoltán Gőgös did not accept the Secretary of State's reply [[Zoltán Grimlock to the governing parties: I will send the report to everyone before they press the button, I would like to say so.]] I respectfully ask whether the Parliament will accept the answer. Please vote. [[Vote.]] Thank you very much. I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 108 votes in favour, 40 against and without abstention. Thank you very much, Mr György Szilágyi, for warning me of the error I have been trying to correct. Ladies and gentlemen, Congressman György Szilágyi, representative of Jobbik, has submitted an interview to the Minister of the Cabinet Office of the Prime Minister:. Are you off-shore organizations? Come to the register, the Hungarian State will be happy to pay you. The age of off-shore knights has actually flourished only with your government! Here you go, Congressman, you have the floor.
u2016-05-09-37	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, On 1 April 2014, the Prime Minister's Office published a list of companies with an opaque ownership structure, but still supported by the EU. As you know, it is illegal under the relevant legislation to grant aid to opaque companies, as is the case with any payments made to such entities. For the sake of clarity, I have introduced Montana Kft. and Szaktudás Kiadó Ház Zrt. in recent weeks. In this case, both companies have won and are still winning public procurement in the amount of billions, with the same opaque ownership structure as before. However, because they could not answer the series of serious lawlessness in substance, they failed to acknowledge the errors made, nor did they promise to investigate the cases, I am forced to continue with the list of abuses. Today, Pentamen Kft. I present his case in case sooner or later they realize that they must do something to investigate lawlessness, serious lawlessness. So, after the governments of Gyurcsány, Bajnai, you also granted EU non-refundable support illegally. But even after the offshore brand by the Prime Minister's Office is on its forehead, the company continues to thrive on government and municipal orders. It was acquired by the Markhot Ferenc Training Hospital and Clinic, which is part of EMMI's ownership exercise, in 2015-2016, and on both occasions in the framework of a negotiated procedure without notice, which means that the offshore company was asked to bid directly. In addition, one of the contracts had a net remuneration of HUF 24 million 950,000, i.e. it was just HUF 50 thousand below the threshold of HUF 25 million so that no open procedure was required. [[Dóra Dúró: Shame!]] I therefore ask the Secretary of State how it can happen that the individual budgetary bodies are filling the pockets of an offshore company with a background in the Seychelles, and that the company has been officially declared opaque once. [[14.30]] After the list of 260 offshore organizations was completed, have these companies really been excluded from state orders? How long do I have to list their gross system failure violations in order to finally launch a comprehensive investigation and stop further violations by the government and their background institutions? I would ask again, of course, that, if you do know who or who are behind this unparalleled success company, which is apparently fed by the governments of Gyurcsány, Bajnai and your governments, you share these names with the entire public. I'm waiting for your answer, and please don't bullshit me, but talk about what I'm going to ask you here. When will the law be lifted? [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-05-09-38	Thank you very much, Congressman. The answer will be heard from Secretary of State Csaba Dömötör. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2016-05-09-39	Honourable Congressman, We have touched on this issue several times in this House, but allow me to clarify a few things again. When this government took office, it was the practice in Hungary that companies with an incomprehensible ownership structure won massive orders in public procurement. One of the first tasks of the Cabinet was therefore to change this practice: today all companies that start public procurement have to reveal their real owners, and everyone has to comply with this rule. Only 44,000 companies were screened for EU public procurement, each had to declare whether the beneficiaries were backed by the actual owners. Much remains to be done, but the Member cannot say that the government has done nothing to establish clear conditions. What we want to achieve in the future is that no company in the field of public procurement is not transparent about its ownership, so if there is a suspicion that there are not sufficiently transparent companies in public procurement, then these cases must be examined, as they have been. I would like to emphasise now that the current public procurement law is one of the strictest in Europe, more stringent than any previous domestic legislation, because it covers a wider range than ever before. Honourable Congressman, There is another serious issue on transparency that I would like to address here. According to the British authorities, during socialist governance, Alstom moved around HUF 600 million in bribes in connection with the investment of Metro 4. Many things are still unclear, but we already know that Péter Medgyessy landed some HUF 180 million in the account of the former Prime Minister's company, supposedly for advice. The substantial part of the sum then wandered to his wife as a birthday present, it must have been a good party, too bad there was public money involved, so the government will investigate this with every possible means. The big question is where the amount of 600 million has migrated and who made the decisions must also be examined. What I don't know, to be honest, is whether we can count on Jobbik in this case, because it seems that they are now not only having an internal settlement dispute, but also increasingly developing the contours of Jobbik-MSZP cooperation. [[Dóra Dúró: It's not true!]] Ferenc Gyurcsány may be right, because the two parties paraded at a joint press conference this weekend. [[Dr. Gábor Staudt: Why did you award Medgyessy?]] It seems that for money and power, you are able not only to look at pictures, not only for a cute campaign, but also for cooperation with the socialists. In any case, I can tell you that it will not be easy for the socialists to protect public money and fight for transparency, but good luck with it. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-05-09-40	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I will ask Congressman György Szilágyi if he will accept the State Secretary's reply.
u2016-05-09-41	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary. We can also talk about the Alstom case, we can also talk about why Péter Szijjártó awarded Péter Medgyessy just now, and we can also talk about what common issues you and the MSZP are dealing with, but that was not the question. The question was, Mr. Secretary, is that there is a breach of law, and this illegal case is that you have named 260 companies, that they are offshore companies, and then continue to enter into contracts with these companies. This is against the law, this is against the law. The public would expect you to stand up and say you're right, we apologize, we investigate these cases, and we eliminate the violation of the law; that's not what you choose. What's he been doing for the third time? He's lying and he's making accusations. Just 'cause the MSZP was stolen doesn't mean you guys have to follow the law. That whatever corruption the MSZ is involved in doesn't mean that you have to get involved in corruption cases. Both of them are up to their necks in the dirt that you have developed together, and that is corruption in Hungary today. [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] You, together with the MSZP, have developed this corruption mafia network. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-05-09-42	Thank you very much. The congressman didn't take it? [[György Szilágyi: I didn't accept it.]] He did not accept the State Secretary's reply, so I ask the Honourable Parliament whether he will accept it. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 104 votes in favour, 25 against and 2 abstentions. Congresswoman Bernadett Szél, representative of the LMP, has submitted an interpellation to the Prime Minister's Office:. Energy vampires in the government: who will benefit from the 100 billion instead of the Hungarian families? It's an address. On behalf of Mr Miklós Seszták, Minister for National Development, who is competent and competent on behalf of the Prime Minister, State Secretary Zsolt Szabó responds to the interpellation. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2016-05-09-43	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Dear Parliament, It is a complete scandal that we have to find out from leaked documents that you are working with the European Commission to steal 100 billion forints from Hungarian families. This is done when one third of domestic households live in energy poverty, and in European comparison, the population spends too much on energy; but not because we spend our time in the heat, but because the walls have bad thermal insulation, the windows are bad, so we are heating the Hungarian streets with Russian gas. Now it was finally possible to help Hungarian families, and this scandal has come to light, and this scandal is that the government intends to amend the previous agreement with Brussels in order to allow the public, instead of Hungarian families, the public sector to use EU subsidies to increase energy efficiency. Let's be honest. What we are talking about here is that you would transfer EU funds from Hungarian families to public institutions, even though the Hungarian people would need this money most, and this is where we could achieve the greatest professional result with the investment. It is a scandal that we are concerned that the competent authorities of the government claim that they simply would not be able to carry out a large-scale public energy efficiency tender, this is the basis for reference. The EU wants to give the money, said that the population should go, because that's where we can catch the most, where we can save as much energy as possible. And you say it's not for the public, it's for the public institutions. And why is that? Because a few years ago, they created a system that couldn't serve the needs. So you're not trying to change the system, you're saying you'd rather get this money for the TEK solar panels. The combination of non-refundable retail subsidies and preferential loans, which I quote, is extremely complicated, but also called an inflexible system, operates without error - in Slovakia, the Czech Republic and Bulgaria. Now, does that mean the Orbán government is so much less powerful than its colleagues there? You know very well that residential buildings consume about one third of the total energy consumption in Hungary, and the energy use of public institutions is only a fraction of that. Thus, by putting the solar panels and the mayor's offices on the TEK headquarters, the country's energy use will hardly change. The real savings would be for Hungarian families, on a residential level. Dear Secretary of State, Don't tell me that you have solved this issue with the program "Home Gay": the amount of the program is HUF 5 billion with domestic money. I am talking about 20 times this money, and they want to steal 20 times that money from the Hungarian families of the public institutions. Dear Secretary of State, Please explain why you are not taking the more efficient and the more profitable route. Why aren't they changing the system? And why doesn't the minister who set this whole thing up leave without being able to run this whole system?
u2016-05-09-44	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. As we have heard, the answer will be formulated by Secretary of State Zsolt Szabó. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2016-05-09-45	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and First of all, I suggest we look at the facts of what is real instead of fairy tales. I'm just telling you that 5 billion is 15 billion according to the plan, just to get a head start on the exact numbers. [[Dr. Wind Bernadett: I'll believe it when I see it!]] It is essential for the government to support the Hungarian families with various programmes, which is the result of the implementation of the household reduction. Between 2010 and 2014, we paid nearly HUF 50 billion in funding, and this affected over 235 thousand families. And on the basis of the program you mentioned, in 2014-15 we provided HUF 17 billion in non-refundable support to the Hungarian population, just as you mentioned. This affected 85 thousand households. I think it's quite a number I've been telling you before. [[14.40]] In the development cycle up to 2020, the government will take development policy measures for economic growth in 2016 that will provide a support system for the modernisation of private property with a budget of more than HUF 100 billion. Here, I'll tell you how we can handle this hundred billion if we don't like the other hundred billion. But not only as a government, but also as an opposition representative, you could have done so in order to reduce the burden on people, because when you and your fellow political group voted 'no' not only on one but also on two occasions, you should have voted 'no' in order to reduce the burden on the Hungarian population. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Why does it bother you if we use the necessary upgrades and heating system enhancements in schools to learn our children in warm rooms, or if, during the renovation of a hospital, there is an increase in the comfort of the workers and patients? Why does it hurt you if, thanks to the installation of a solar heating system, the municipality uses taxpayers' money for better purposes, such as developing for the benefit of taxpayers? Fidesz and the government, unlike the LMP, have always supported people and want to reach as many people as possible in the next development programs. Instead of continuing accusations, I ask you to ask, for example, students, parents, patients, relatives who study in the walls of a similar educational or health institution that has been renewed in the framework of funding projects, whether they really consider themselves victims. Please accept my reply. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-05-09-46	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I'll ask Congresswoman if she'll accept the Secretary of State's answer. Here you go.
u2016-05-09-47	The thing is, you're genreally mistaken. The interpellation is about me asking you, and you're not asking me. [[Grumble in the ranks of Fidesz.]] But since you've already honored me with your questions, let me quote your own election program, where every year, by renovating 10 percent of the housing stock, you've created 80,000 construction jobs - this is what you're going to do - and this investment will pay off to the country within ten years. You've been on the government for six years, you haven't done anything of what you promised. Now I'm asking the big question, where does 100 billion forints go again. Where does the HUF 100 billion promised to Hungarian families through the European Union go? The European Union has confirmed that, yes, this money belongs to the Hungarian families, but you are installing solar panels on the TEK and giving me talks about the reduction of the rent. Dear Secretary of State, He could not answer my question: if there is such a situation, why not fire the competent minister and change the system so that Hungarian families could receive their money. The Hungarian families were shortened by HUF 100 billion.
u2016-05-09-48	Thank you very much. The congresswoman therefore did not accept the Secretary of State's reply. Dear Parliament, The congresswoman did not accept the Secretary of State's reply, so I ask you if you will accept it. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 109 votes in favour, 27 against and without abstentions. Dear Parliament, Representative Imre Vas, representative of Fidesz, has submitted an interpellation to the Minister of the Cabinet Office of the Prime Minister. Who is in the interest of obstructing the referendum initiated by the government? It's an address. Congressman Vas Imre has the floor. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-05-09-49	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, On 24 February 2016, the Prime Minister announced that the government would initiate a referendum on the mandatory resettlement quota which the European Union wanted to force on Hungary, which was validated by the National Election Committee on the fifth day following the submission. The delegates of MSZP and LMP in the board voted against, indicating their party's position on the migrant issue. The certified issue, which, according to the decision of the National Election Committee, does not conflict with prohibited subjects and meets the requirements of electoral and legislative clarity, was challenged by both the PM and the Hungarian Liberal Party, was requested to review the Curia. On 3 May 2016, the Curia rejected appeals against the NCB's verification decision and found that the issue complied with the provisions of the Fundamental Law and the Law on referendums. When examining the appeal, the court examined three questions. On the one hand, whether the question is contrary to an international treaty and therefore concerns a prohibited subject matter, whether the question falls within the competence of the Parliament or whether the question is clear. In the first case, it is clearly negative, while the Curia has given a positive answer on the issues of competence and clarity, so it can now be said with great certainty that the referendum can be held. On the day of the decision of the Curia, the Hungarian Liberal Party announced that the decision of the court would not be accepted and would be challenged at the Constitutional Court. As a member of the left-wing alliance, with the move of the party without real social support, it has once again made clear that it will continue to stand by the original idea of the Gyurcsány government and will continue to see the solution of demographic problems in the introduction of aliens, which has also been the subject of written evidence of a vision recently. On many occasions, the events prove that the left is capable of real cooperation if they have to act together against the interests of the Hungarian nation. On this basis, I respectfully ask the Secretary of State whose interest it is in obstructing the referendum initiated by the government, whose interest it is to force the compulsory resettlement quota into Hungary. I look forward to your reply, Secretary of State. [[Applause in the ranks of Fidesz.]]
u2016-05-09-50	Thank you very much, Congressman. The answer will be given by Secretary of State Csaba Dömötör. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2016-05-09-51	Honourable Congressman, There's nothing new under the sun. The 2016 referendum is being drilled by those who have already pursued a consistent pro-immigration policy in recent years. It is possible to be a lawyer, it is possible to hide behind technical arguments, it is possible to make confusing proposals, but a certain, situation is clear, the same left wants to prevent citizens from deciding on this crucial issue, which proposed already in 2007 and produced a strategy to install immigrants on Hungary. The same parties are now attacking the referendum, who also took it away a year ago that uncontrolled immigration would be any problem. They said it was a fake problem. The same left now drills the referendum initiative, which has not supported any of the government's proposals to strengthen security, so it has not supported the intervention of the border lock or the defence. It should be allowed that these measures were not supported, but there were also actors who directly collected signatures in addition to forced resettlement. Then the same left now tries to cancel the referendum on forced resettlement. Today, here in Parliament, they tried to stop the referendum again. Obviously, they are rushing because their own signature collection has failed, which can be extremely embarrassing for the MSZP Presidency, very, very embarrassing. By the way, with this attitude, the left is playing into the hands of Brussels, doing so while Brussels leaders have begun an unprecedented extortion maneuver. It is not enough that they want to double-cross a mandatory regime on forced resettlement as soon as possible, but to make this proposal even more outrageous, they would impose a fine of nearly HUF 80 million on Hungary for every immigrant if Hungary did not accept this plan. The inhumane calculation in Brussels also means that while a Hungarian person has 1 million HUF in Brussels in seven years, an immigrant has almost 80 million. This is the amount for which a Hungarian citizen works for almost 40 years. The message from Brussels is clear: citizens are better off not talking about the question of their future for decades. However, the Hungarian government's position is clear: the Hungarian government is most definitely refusing any kind of blackmail and insists that the nation states can decide for themselves who they want to live with and who they don't. [[14.50]] And we say firmly that Brussels' proposal is as inhumane as it is outrageous, as it is the cynical attitude of the left. Dear House, The party president of the Socialists said this weekend that only the wrong answer to the wrong question can be given. These words were familiar to me, so I did a little research, and I found that the left was not the first time to use the phrase "the wrong answer" to the wrong question, which was used earlier by Attila Mesterházy, Ildikó Lendvai, Viktor Szigetvári and the real leader of the left, Ferenc Gyurcsány. They said that earlier, and do you know which case? They said this about the dual citizenship of Hungarians abroad. The left also took a face-to-face position on the referendum on 5 December, and it is no coincidence that the voters have since passed many judgments on the left. If the left continues its position in the case of forced resettlement, they will continue to do so in the future, first at the assembly of the MSZP and then elsewhere. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-05-09-52	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I will ask Congressman Vas Imre if he will accept the State Secretary's reply.
u2016-05-09-53	Thank you very much for the floor. I accept Mr Secretary of State's reply. I find it very regrettable that the Balliberal side has once again become Brussels' server. I believe that we as Parliament must do everything we can to ensure that the referendum can be held as soon as possible. This is also indicated by the fact that today, by way of house rules, we have accepted it so that the Parliament can decide on this. We must do everything we can to ensure that the referendum can be held as soon as possible. This serves the interests of the Hungarian people and Hungary. Thank you very much. I accept your answer. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-05-09-54	Thank you very much, Congressman. Congressman Nándor Gúr, representative of the MSZP, notary of the Parliament, has submitted an interpellation to the Minister of National Economy:. The pay gap continues to deepen between the highest and the lowest average net wage counties? It's an address. Mr Nándor Gúr, notary, has the floor. Here you go.
u2016-05-09-55	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, By 2016, there were huge differences in average net wages in Hungary. This country is small, but there are huge differences. The net average wage is 162 thousand forints. I have to add that, of course, if you are looking at Budapest, this is HUF 209 thousand, and if you are looking at Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg county, it is 112,000 forints, but Borsod-Abaúj-Zemplén county is not showing a much more rosy picture in this respect. Nearly 30 percent in Budapest, minus 45 percent in Szabolcs-Szatmár county. But do you know who gets the average? This does not mean that half of the people working in Hungary receive the average salary. No! This means that it is about the median average, which is roughly 20 percent lower, which is what half of the people get, and about every third person gets the average amount, i.e. the sum of 162 thousand forints. And if we think about things a little further, I have to say that if we took Budapest out of this picture, the net average income would be 138 thousand forints. Well, that's not the median either, that's even less than that, it's almost around 100-110 thousand forints. But what's worse is that in the poorest and richest counties, scissors keep opening. While in 2014 the difference slightly exceeded 75%, by 2016, we reached more than 87 percent of the difference. You see, poverty deepens and widens. This is Hungary today, this is the world you have brought. It is simply incomprehensible why there is a situation in a country where you can earn 5 million forints of income, you know, in the financial services sector, say, at MÁV, because this is a financial service sector for you, where people can earn 225 thousand forints a day, while the vast majority of Hungarian workers cannot earn this amount every month. Why is that? It's simply because you're not interested in the development of these people's fates. I could say, it's almost unnecessary to ask, but I'm asking if Mr. Secretary of State has something to say to make sense: at least why don't they respect what they say in the Fundamental Law, do you know that equal pay for equal work is equal? Why don't they build regulatory systems that would minimize these differences and not let them go free? Why not build a world that benefits people? Why is it only for the benefit of the few? Mr. President, thank you very much.
u2016-05-09-56	Thank you very much. The answer will be given by Secretary of State Péter Cseresnyés. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2016-05-09-57	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Who brought what to Hungary or Hungary could talk about it. The weird thing is, you're the one who dares to raise this, knowing their 2008 measures and the 2010 state of affairs, when they left a country in a state of bankruptcy for the next government to solve the problem. But thank God you've solved the problems that you left behind for us. He's talking about averages and averages. It must be said, Mr President, that, unfortunately, this is not the first time you have been wrong when you draw conclusions on the implementation of the principle of equal pay in relation to the development of average wages in the county. It must be said that it is sad, but you must be made aware of what equal treatment is. Allow me to quote from the Labour Code and the Equal Treatment Act, which regulates the requirement of equal treatment as well as provides for the possibility of redress in the event of an infringement. It is said that in determining the equal value of work, the labour code requires in particular the nature, quality, quantity, working conditions, the necessary skills, physical or mental effort, experience, responsibility and labour market conditions to be taken into account. Therefore, the principle of equal pay for equal work does not even mean that equal wages should be paid in any part of the country irrespective of specific circumstances, for example for workers with the same employment status according to statistical classification. The principle and requirement of equal treatment says that in a specific workplace no distinction can be made between those who work the same job and those who perform the same performance in terms of wages. Compared to this, average wage data at county level are generated by the averaging wages of a highly heterogeneous workforce, so you are making a professional mistake trying to compare them as an example. But also to say something concrete: for example, what you claim is that wage differences between counties have increased, is not true. For example, in Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg County, gross and net average earnings on the primary labour market increased by 4.2 percent in 2015, which is similar to the growth achieved at the national economy level. But consider another example. In Borsod-Abaúj-Zemplén county, the average increase in earnings in the market sector was 5.4 percent, i.e. above the national average. The purchasing value of wages has increased to a similar extent, but we have discussed this several times here in Parliament. It should also be borne in mind that wages are always determined by the employer and provided according to the company's economic potential and, where appropriate, the bargaining process with trade unions. Since 2010, the real value of the minimum wage has increased by nearly 10 percent in the six years without family tax incentives and 22-53 percent in the case of child workers depending on the number of children. This year alone, the purchasing power of the minimum wage will increase by more than 6 percent, since we are talking about averages, which you have brought here in your interpellation. This has not been the case since 2002, for example in your eight years between 2002 and 2010. I would also like to remind Mr President that, during your eight-year governance, they have not been able to increase the purchasing power of the minimum wage and have also taken away the tax relief for children. I think you should make any kind of expectations now, taking them into account. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-05-09-58	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I will ask Congressman Nándor Gúr, a notary, if he will accept the State Secretary's reply.
u2016-05-09-59	Thank you very much, Mr. President. You can't accept that answer because it was full of nonsense. They have been ruling for six years, and instead of doing things for the benefit of the people, they are bringing to life situations that are at the expense of a vast majority of people. In the meantime, the Hungarian National Bank will try to withdraw 260 billion forints, 260 thousand forints from the public budget? [[15.00]] In the meantime, as I said, they're throwing 5 million forints of wages between you guys. [[Dr. András Aradski: How much did Simor earn? But insanity in the pro-government benches.]] who earn 225,000 forints a day. Mr. Secretary, look at me. Look me in the eye and then smile, then tell me it's okay. Or if you don't know, if you can't do that, then take action to ensure that the minimum wage per net hand in this country is at least 100,000 forints. You know, you have a helping hand for people. Not when 2.2 million people earn a minimum living; not when 1.5 million people cannot earn the minimum wage; not when the average net can only be held by one in three. You know, that's the problem. That's why you should act, not for yourself and your friends. Mr. President, thank you very much.
u2016-05-09-60	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Congressman didn't accept the Secretary of State's answer. I ask the Honourable Parliament if it will be accepted. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 108 votes in favour, 26 against and without abstentions. Dear Parliament, Congressman Zoltán Magyar, representative of Jobbik, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Agriculture:, do you really think that the situation of the Felcsút football team was the most important topic that the State Secretary for State Land Resources and Lőrinc Mészáros, the great winner of the field privatisation, should have talked about during working hours in a luxury cafe? It's an address. Mr Zoltán Magyar has the floor. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-05-09-61	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Mr. Secretary. Well, his colleague, Márton Bitay Örs, had a great deal of trouble, as he was responsible for the state lands, and met Lőrinc Mészáros, Mayor of Felcsút, who was the great winner of the ground-privatization in Hungary, all in a luxury cafe in Budapest. Then, under suspicious circumstances, they rescheduled the sale of some of the state's land, obviously by accident, which is currently rented by Lőrinc Mészáros' company. Many people gave their views on the story, and we could also hear the Secretary of State explain. All of this has been blamed for the situation of the first class club, I mean the conversation. However, since I am living in this country, and since I have been listening to such and similar pranks, explanations and slides for the sixth year, perhaps you will understand, Mr Secretary of State, that I find this difficult to believe. But I'm gonna put this aside. I pretend to believe what they say, even pretend it's normal; it's quite natural that economic life is the great winners of recent years and billionaires of unknownness, and the friendship of politicians who make their decisions to make fabulous wealth. Let's do this now. However, I am still interested in why, besides the theme of tax payers' billions of football, there was no place for such important matters as the situation of rural Hungary, such as the question of villages deprived of their land. After all, two people have met who are key figures and responsible for the privatisation scandals: Mr Secretary of State, who makes a series of decisions against local family farmers, and Lőrinc Mészáros, who constantly buys these lands from farmers. Based on all this, I think it makes sense to ask Mr. Secretary of State what you would ask Lőrinc Mészáros. Or what would you suggest to your colleague, Secretary of State, that you ask him, next time, other than the situation of the Highway team? Since he is well-known and even admitted to having a good relationship with Fidesz politicians, I don't think it's a problem if I have an answer to my question right now. Does your colleague receive any verbal warnings at all because, as the Secretary of State for the Lands, he admitted to talking about football in luxury cafes? I'd have other questions, even more unused than Pancho Arena, because of the football club and his loss. For example, you could ask Lorrinc Mészáros if he still has a family, among his acquaintances, who hasn't bought 300 acres of state land yet. But they could also ask what will happen to the farmers in the area, who were first deprived of their leases, now privatized and exempted from the land of their ancestors. These are the answers I'd expect. If I can't ask Lurch Mészáros, then I would like to ask his good friends, the pro-government politicians and, above all, the secretary of state present. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-05-09-62	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Mr István Nagy, State Secretary, and I give the chair to my colleague István Jakab. Thank you for your cooperation. [[István Jakab, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]]
u2016-05-09-63	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, My fellow Member! Political legends continue to be made, I see, and legends tend to be legends compared to reality. They're not really with you, which is why we call them legends. It is regrettable, but it is not surprising, that Mr President, along with a false assumption and a well-thought-out conspiracy theory, has made yet another interpellation on state land sales. Let's see what's real. The reality, my dear fellow Member, is that the land auction has reached the third stage, 10 500 farmers have been able to buy land in Hungary so far, and that is a very big success. That's a success you'd like to cover up somehow. They're looking for cases to cover up this success story somehow. Luckily, the government is acting in the interest of farmers in Hungary, which is also demonstrated by the results of the state land auction. For this reason, the third stage is started for the further deployment of the Hungarian farmers. With regard to the third sale phase, a total of 699 land auction dates have been modified in all counties of the country. There was only one reason for this, Mr President, and that is to ensure that all interested parties have at least 30 days to prepare for the auction. You can see that the date of the 699 affected auctions in 19 counties has certainly not been modified by the National Land Fund Management Organization for the sake of Lőrinc Mészáros, although you would obviously prefer this version, as it would be a good political legend. However, it is almost certain that no one can acquire more than 300 hectares of land in Hungary today, since to the greater extent the Land Administration does not register ownership. And the suggestion that any winner would take the land away from others at the State Land Auctions is strongly rejected. After all, public bidding, available to any farmer, is not an option to take advantage of someone at the expense of others. The reduced loan also has the same conditions for everyone to buy, so the. Land is really in the interests of Hungarian farmers, no matter how much you want to convince yourself and the public about it. So, if you are making suggestions in your interpellation as to when and what individual members of the government are talking to whom, allow me to suggest to you that you talk to farmers who have bought state land in recent months. Talk to them and ask how bad this sales program is. And you'll have to listen to their answer carefully. The programme for the farmers strengthens the land by holding the market position of Hungarian farmers, a very successful programme. It is regrettable that the Member still fails to see this, and instead of real facts, he is developing his own position on conspiracy theories in the world of fantasy. Obviously, legends are more colorful, much more interesting than reality itself. But I ask you, Congressman, always keep the reality in mind. Please accept my reply. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-05-09-64	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Welcome, fellow Members. I'm asking Congressman if you'll accept the Secretary of State's answer.
u2016-05-09-65	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. That answer cannot be accepted. Speaking of reality, Mr. Secretary, I'll tell you what's real. The reality is that a land law has been promised that will be able to keep the Hungarian soil in national ownership, compared to this, foreigners will be free to rob, and they will be able to buy state land as well. They also promised that small and medium-sized economies would be supported from now on; in 2015, 86 percent of these funds were allocated to the top 10 percent. Is this the support of local family farmers? They also promised that they would really help small and medium-sized farmers with public land privatisation, 20% of them being in this category, Mr Secretary of State. And the fact that it was an open auction is not an argument, Mr. Secretary. For 400-500-600 million forints they gave greasy public land. Normal people can't seriously think that they can buy this on the spot by a family farmer. That's why I can't accept your answer. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]] [[15.10]]
u2016-05-09-66	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Congressman didn't accept the Secretary of State's answer. I ask the Honourable Parliament if it will be accepted. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament accepted the State Secretary's reply by 105 yes, 28 votes against, with 3 abstentions. Dear Parliament, Attila Móring József, representative of KDNP, submitted an interpellation to the Minister for National Development: What does the government do for the development of digital skills? It's an address. Mr Attila Móring has the floor.
u2016-05-09-67	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, [[Noise. It's ringing.]] In today's rapidly evolving, changing world, it is very important to develop the IT knowledge of the Hungarian population. Digital knowledge, and especially the ability to use this knowledge, is all the more important, i.e. the acquisition of practical skills. The development of computer training and education is essential, as it now requires some degree of IT skills, at least basic skills, to fill almost all posts. On behalf of the Christian Democratic Group, I can also say that the acquisition and enhancement of digital skills will provide the country with more qualified workers, which can contribute to increasing Hungary's competitiveness in the short term, and this will certainly benefit us in the long term, given the IT development of the last decades. Dear Secretary of State, Developments in recent years have shown that it is also worthwhile to develop electronic public services, just think about the success of customer gates or the availability of public services in increasingly diverse areas. In addition to knowledge, citizens must also have the right conditions, which can be accompanied by the development of broadband internet services in as many settlements as possible. I note here that one of the important tax changes in 2017 is that the VAT rate for internet services is reduced to 18%. This could, of course, bring economic and social benefits to the lives of small regions or disadvantaged areas in the Internet world. To do this, of course, we need to be able to properly manage the opportunities that have been presented to us, which can be served by digital education, knowledge of the functioning of the digital world, and effective use of experience. This is where the role of those who know and understand this area is appreciated, who are able to explain to citizens what is important, what is valuable in this virtual space. In addition, we must not forget that Hungarian businesses must also be supported, as they must be able to survive in the domestic and international markets, which can be supported by government-supported IT programs. In this area, the saying is true: those who fall behind are left out. With this, we can create new jobs, Hungarian companies that also appear on the global market, with Hungarian backgrounds and developments, and only think about the growing emergence of startup companies. In the light of the above, I would like to ask the Secretary of State with respect: what steps the government is taking or plans to take to develop digital knowledge, to improve the technical background for both the population and the SME sector. I look forward to your reply, Secretary of State. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-05-09-68	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, State Secretary Ákos Kara responds to the interpellation. Secretary of State, you have the floor.
u2016-05-09-69	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Fellow Members! I agree with Mr President that in the sustainable development of a competitive economy there is a key role for infocommunication technologies and digital competences for their use. This was also referred to by Hungarian citizens, which was confirmed by Hungarian citizens in the national consultation on the Internet, the Internet consultation. The government, listening to the proposals here, decided on the Digital Prosperity programme, which will implement digital economic development in Hungary, the dissemination of e-public services, the development of digital competences and the provision of broadband internet coverage. The programme includes comprehensive measures such as the establishment of a super-fast wired internet network, where we agreed to create conditions of access for all Hungarian households that require this by the end of December 2018. Honourable Congressman, At the same time, the government proposed to reduce the VAT on internet subscriptions to 18%. We trust that you will all support this proposal in Parliament and we will support it. The Digital Prosperity Programme provides for the development of a number of renewed strategies, of which the Digital Education Strategy can be of particular importance, which will guide the digitisation of education. We provide an opportunity for 200,000 adult Hungarians to acquire the skills they absolutely need in the digital world by 2020 through a new educational method for personalised and free adult education. We are obviously talking about those, honourable Member, who themselves cannot do this in any other way. Our plans include the development of social internet access points. By the end of 2018, we intend to develop infrastructure at 1500 e-Hungary points. E-Hungary points and e-advisers will be able to play an active role in acquiring the most basic digital skills. Special attention will be paid to developing the IT capabilities and improving their competitiveness of small and medium-sized enterprises in Hungary. Last week, we launched our joint programme with the Hungarian Chamber of Commerce and Industry, which is the first step within the framework of the current Digital Welfare Programme, and then during the summer we will be able to make use of domestic and EU funds for businesses. Honourable Congressman, Encouraging the use of new IT applications, presenting their benefits and raising the need for modern solutions can help the companies involved in the programme to work off their disadvantages in the field of digitalisation, thus making them more effective. I ask the honourable Member to accept my reply. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-05-09-70	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. I'm asking Congressman if he'll accept the Secretary of State's answer.
u2016-05-09-71	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Thank you for your answer. You confirm that the government has a strong commitment both to improving the digital skills of citizens and to improving and supporting the international competitiveness of businesses. I am sure that the development of broadband internet, the planned amendment of tax laws, and thus the reduction of the VAT on internet services to 18%, will also contribute to these goals and will ultimately provide the country with more and more skilled workers in the world of information technology. I respectfully accept your reply. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-05-09-72	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Congressman has accepted the Secretary of State's reply. Dear Parliament, Róbert Benedek Sallai, representative of the LMP, has provided an interpellation to the Minister of Agriculture: It's an address. It is for Congressman Robert Benedek Sallai.
u2016-05-09-73	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, In my interpellation question, I pointed out four areas of concern. In one or two cases, the presence of puffed Chinese honey on the shelves in Hungary. Another problematic point was the fact that the conversions in the pig sector, the reduction of VAT, have led to very bad, low buying prices coming from more and more places, and we have information about the sale of 240, 250, 260 HUF live weight, which creates very, very negative effects for producers. And here it is, last week they came up from Nyírség, apple producers who pointed out that Polish apples have come into Hungary in such quantities that the Hungarian apples have become virtually unsoldable, and the storage capacities are now almost finite, and they have little to do with it. The problem is not only that many Polish apples come in, but that they are also counterfeited in many cases, so in many cases Polish apples are sold as Hungarian apples. The fourth point - with which they left the streets twice in April in Budapest and outside of Budapest - is the question of milk producers, since they receive milk from them with a loss of HUF 40-50 compared to the cost of production of HUF 100-110, with a loss of HUF 70, which the government cannot actually compensate with a compensation of a few ten forints. These situations would be very, very desirable for an appropriate agricultural representation to represent the interests of these producers, but unfortunately this does not happen in Hungary, since neither Magos stands up for Hungarian farmers nor the Chamber of Agriculture stands up for them, and there is therefore no one who now comes to Kossuth Square and draws attention to these problems. [[15.20]] I would like to know if the government has any plans to stop either the abuse of VAT reclaims or the abuse of illegal imports or the counterfeiting of foodstuffs. For my part, I respect the job of Nebih, but apparently he doesn't have the capacity to withstand and control every field of expertise. In the case of the NAV, we see the same thing, that VAT fraud is virtually continuous, and this all has a negative impact on Hungarian food safety. My question, Mr Secretary, is what you can do to prevent this. What do you want to do for Hungarian honey, pig farmers, Hungarian dairy producers or apple producers? How should they survive these critical periods? I'd be honored to hear your answer. Thank you very much.
u2016-05-09-74	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, State Secretary István Nagy responds to the interpellation. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2016-05-09-75	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, My dear fellow Member, The fact is that the Hungarian government listens to the voice of Hungarian farmers, hears their voices, so they do not have to come up to Kossuth Square to tell us, because we are in contact with farmers every day, understand and understand their difficulties, and seek solutions to try and help their work by all legal means and opportunities. And allow me to strongly reject both the National Chamber of Agricultural Economy and the charges of Magos here, because they are professional organisations that do their job well. [[Mr. Novak intervenes.]] At the same time, let me thank you for the question that you are finally asking not legends, but we need to talk about the real situation of Hungarian agriculture and talk about it in the coming period. The Ministry of Agriculture has been trying to alleviate disturbances in the market for pigmeat, milk and milk products and fruit and vegetables for months with all the means available. The measures seek to address strong import pressure, the black economy and liquidity problems on the one hand, and on the other hand, on the other hand, from the control and regulatory side. I would like to inform the Member that the forms and titles of support in force under the legislation of the European Union are available to all producers in Hungary. A number of discussions have taken place in recent weeks on government measures to reduce price-breaking, VAT fraud or import products produced at significantly lower prices due to the volume of production, involving industry, retail and government. After HUF 49.6 billion in 2015, the Ministry of Agriculture aims to alleviate the difficulties of dairy producers by providing support for HUF 63.5 billion in 2016. The portfolio also negotiates with the National Chamber of Agricultural Economy, producers and several food trading companies on the possibilities of solving the sales problems on the apple market and promoting and promoting the marketing of domestic products. The restriction of retail chains by government means in the distribution and action of imported products is not directly possible, while respecting the relevant EU principles, while respecting the single European internal market, but the measures already taken clearly demonstrate our commitment to domestic products. The reduction of VAT on certain basic foods will help to whiten the sectors concerned, to safeguard jobs in rural areas and in working-intensive sectors, and to reduce the cost of living for the population. The measures may lead to a level playing field on the market for the products concerned. The fight against the black economy remains of particular importance in the work of the government. This is illustrated by the measures taken in recent years, the introduction of the EKAER system, the operation of online cash registers or the close cooperation between the National Tax and Customs Office and the National Food Chain Safety Office, with high intensity checks. In addition to the acute treatment of market disturbances, the government prioritises the source insurance required for the development of the manufacturing industry, while at the same time examining the possibilities to support large domestic companies. In addition to the domestic measures taken, Hungary advocated rapid and effective assistance in the EU negotiations to address crisis situations in sectors. Financial instruments to alleviate the liquidity problems of producers will also be available shortly. Please, my fellow Member, accept my reply. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-05-09-76	I thank the Secretary of State for his reply. I ask the congressman if he will accept the Secretary of State's answer. You have the floor.
u2016-05-09-77	Mr President, unfortunately, I cannot accept it, because in nice words, neither I nor the producers are doing anything. Nice words in the attic. I congratulate the leaders of the wallet, because since József Torgyán it is Sándor Fazekas who is able to speak in three places at once in different places in Hungary and deliver things. But with good promises and the fact that they protect Hungarian farmers, Hungarian farmers are no good. Actions are needed, and these actions are lacking partly because they are not represented. Unlike what you have said, Magos has deceived and lied to Hungarian farmers, and the Chamber of Agriculture is essentially protecting the interests of the government against farmers. At the moment, listening to farmers from time to time with fatherly goodwill, what problems they have, does not help their situation. These require immediate intervention and immediate measures, which we do not see in the budgetary law at the moment, that there would be substantial progress and that we do not see in addition to the measures to help this situation with tax policy or with anything. That's why you can't accept it. There is a need for immediate action, and I ask the Secretary of State to do so. Thank you very much.
u2016-05-09-78	Thank you. Dear Parliament, The congressman didn't accept the Secretary of State's answer. I ask the Honourable Parliament if it will be accepted. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 107 votes in favour, 26 against and without abstention. Dear Parliament, Attila Németh Zsolt and Attila Szabolcs, representatives of Fidesz, have submitted an interpellation to the Minister without a portfolio responsible for national policy:. Hungarian private property in danger in Romania? It's an address. Congressman Attila Szabolcs has the floor.
u2016-05-09-79	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, The Hungarian communities in Transylvania and their leaders are in a much more difficult situation today than in the years after their accession to the European Union. [[Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] The reason for this is partly due to the gradual weakening of pressure and control from the European Union and NATO, and to the fact that Romanian-Hungarian affairs in Romania today are not being dealt with in the political arena, but have become the domain of legitimate powers such as the secret services, the Ministry of Interior and the Ministry of Defence. In the strategy of these bodies, Hungarian affairs, such as the issue of autonomy, appear as a national security risk, and therefore Hungarian representatives of interest who strongly resist and defend Hungarian interests and property are subject to constant abuse. Evidence of this is provided by facts such as the indictment and prosecution of mayors of settlements with majority Hungarians without evidence by the Romanian anti-corruption prosecutor's office. We can continue the line by granting unrealisticly large fines for the use of Szekler symbols, by adopting draft laws restricting the use of Hungarian language, and not least by nationalising Hungarian private property. At the end of 2014, there was a final judgment that the restoration of a school building which had previously been restored to the property of the Reformed Church would be annulled and practically renationalised. Such and similar judgments have also become particularly dangerous because they have created a precedent that puts the entire compensation process at risk. This goes entirely against the commitments made by Romania at the time of its accession to the EU, as it was then committed to full restoration and compliance with the relevant laws. In addition, the specific interpretation of the Romanian courts has also contributed to the abuse of officials who implemented the law in good faith in the case of thousands of return requests. These events raise serious doubts as to whether Romania really complies with the rule of law criterion and with the obligations it has assumed at the time of accession to the EU. [[15.30]] Dear Secretary of State, What opportunities does the government see to improve the situation of Transylvanian Hungarians? I'm looking forward to your reply. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-05-09-80	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, State Secretary János Potápi responds to the interpellation. Secretary of State, you have the floor.
u2016-05-09-81	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Ladies and gentlemen of the Council, Allow me first to report on some general national policy issues. The Hungarian government has launched a number of programmes in the previous years in order to strengthen and strengthen the Hungarian communities abroad. We have been continuing the thematic years since 2012. In 15 we announced the year of vocational training abroad, and this year we announced the year of Hungarian young entrepreneurs from abroad. In the framework of this, we organize training, mentoring and financial support for the Carpathian Basin entrepreneur and young people who want to enter the Carpathian Basin. With the supervision of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade, the economic development programme in Vojvodina has already been launched, for which a HUF 50 billion support framework is available for the period 2016-18. This year, a similar economic development programme will be launched in Transcarpathia, in both areas, I think that we will make a major contribution to ensuring that Hungarians are able to survive and survive in the homeland. Last year we continued and this year we announced the Kőrösi Csoma Sándor programme and the Petőfi Sándor programme. In these two programmes, we will send out 160 scholarships in the 9 and 6 months framework this year in order to organize language lessons, teach folk dances, organize festive events and cultural events, and even community organisation in the sporadic communities of the Carpathian Basin and in the Hungarian communities from Canada to New Zealand. In addition, the government is doing everything in its power to ensure that the rights of Hungarians from abroad, including the Hungarians from Transylvania in particular, are not violated, but it is the method that has become characteristic in the past year and a half, unfortunately, and the change of government has not made any progress in this respect: the dressing up of law-absorbed political decisions in court is indeed so sophisticated that it is extremely difficult to fight against it. During the discussions of the joint minority committee in the Romanian context, we pointed out the problems in order and in detail, asking for their remedy. We're not getting anywhere, we're not getting anywhere, that's why the committee's work has been spanked. We also pay particular attention to the functioning of legal protection organisations. We support the Minority Rights Protection Foundation and the Minority Rights Protection Institute, which only has five permanent legal aid offices in Transylvania. In the Mikó case, we provide special legal assistance to the Reformed Church in Transylvania. On the international stage, Hungary intervened on behalf of the Szekler National Council against the European Commission in the legal arguments of the European Union Court of Justice. There will be an adjournment in this matter tomorrow. We have also intervened on the side of the national minority in the Federative Union of European Communities versus the European Commission. The oral hearing will take place in May, in which we will be present. I trust that our efforts will help the Hungarians from abroad to thrive in their homeland and will help the Hungarians from abroad and, in particular, Transylvania to exercise their rights, which will ensure their long-term survival. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-05-09-82	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. I'm asking Congressman if he'll accept the Secretary of State's answer. You have the floor.
u2016-05-09-83	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Of course, I respectfully accept the answer, even because it is indeed exemplary how the Hungarian government is trying to help Hungarians living outside the border to stay in their homeland. We all know, however, that this is not enough. We have already seen that the great masters of the European Union have somehow not measured the same standards, and have not morally assessed their own citizens in the same way as migrants with a completely uncertain background and intention. But the latest news is that the value of their own citizens and migrants has already been sold forints, which is truly outrageous. That is why I ask Mr State Secretary and the Government to do everything at international level, not only within the European Union, but also outside the EU, to settle the fate of Hungarians living outside the border. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-05-09-84	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Congressman has accepted the Secretary of State's reply. Dear Parliament, István Tukacs, a representative of the MSZP, has submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Human Resources:, do you operate two health care systems? It's an address. Mr István Tukacs has the floor.
u2016-05-09-85	[[Keeping the microphone in front of your mouth:]] Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, Don't take it as rude, I'm forced to hold you. [[Expansion, interjections: Pinch him up!]] I'd love to get it picked up, but I don't have anything to do with it. If anyone could help me with a microphone, then... [[Noise, interruptions. György Balla: Are you ruining everything? But it's insane.]] I can do it. Just a moment, please, Mr. President. After my fellow Member has helped to solve this problem, Mr President, I would like to begin by saying that my question concerns, Mr Secretary of State, [[Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] that, according to every survey, about 35-36 percent of medical spending comes from private property, private money. This includes, of course, those who use care in private health institutions, and, of course, there is the money disappearing in the so-called grey zone, which is called paraslvancia or gratuity money. Families spend different degrees, but they all spend on healing or staying healthy. According to a few days' survey, families in difficulty also have a minimum of HUF 35-40 thousand per year, and those in a better position are up to HUF 140-150,000. This means, Mr State Secretary, that there exists, on paper, but it is a healthcare based on solidarity and a national risk community, where people pay to receive a good quality service, but at the same time more and more people use private health or pay to heal. Dear Secretary of State, The system is already facing a thousand problems: the exodus of doctors and nurses, the lack of money, the situation in which we see that the debts of hospitals are not decreasing but regenerating. And that could lead us nowhere but that those who want to buy the illusion of healing or healing would sacrifice to it if they could. If they can't, they won't buy either healing or illusion. Dear Secretary of State, My statement is, therefore, that, while Minister Balog, at his ministerial hearing, had once given faith in the principle of solidarity and had faith in the principle of the national risk community, health itself does not work that way. This, Mr Secretary, is bad because everyone pays for their care and everyone has the right to use the free healthcare service. But you can't do that. My question would therefore be, Mr Secretary of State, whether you agree with this statement and what you are doing to ensure that there are no two types, not the health of the rich and not the poor in Hungary. Mr President, thank you for this opportunity, thank you for the floor.
u2016-05-09-86	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The interpellation will be answered by Secretary of State Zoltán Ónodi-Szűcs. Secretary of State, you have the floor.
u2016-05-09-87	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, I also find the question very strange, as I have to say, in connection with the operation of the two health care systems, that under the MSZP government they could not operate any health care. I dare say this because I worked in the hospital where more than 600 people had to be dismissed in 2007 due to the withdrawal of funds. If you can't believe this, I'll bring the other 1,800 employees who worked at the hospital. [[Zoltán Pride: Because the leader was not good!]] In fact, the government has spent every year on hospital operations over inflation. It is also a fact that I cannot recall to you any of these problems which you have just said, which would have been created under the Fidesz government, are all problems inherited from the previous period. [[15.40]] I'd like to go through the points that were on this list, by the way, with your permission, if I can. About waiting lists. It was this government that was even brave enough to face this problem and count the total number of people in the country on the waiting list. When that happened, it had over 77,000 people on it. Right now, this number is less than 33 thousand. I also have to say that in the surgical round, which is now on the waiting list in Hungary, more than 200,000 surgeries are taking place. You decide if that's the case, then 33,000 is a lot or a little. I am of the opinion that this is little, less than anywhere in Europe. It's a matter of emigration. If you look at that number, because if you want to apply for a different country, you have to ask the authority several times, if you look at how many people first asked permission from the authority, then I have to say that while six years ago around 900 people were asked for an official certificate, this number has fallen below 500 in the last year, so that the decline in emigration is more than 40 percent. If the question is whether this is still a lot - obviously many - but the trend has turned around: the scale of migration is not increasing, but is decreasing. If we are to talk about the pay issue, I have to say that the sector was the first to have, by the way, a wage increase in 2012 and 2013, with an overall increase of 27 per cent in wage outflow. This is obviously not going to stop, as you know that there will be another wage increase in the debate on the budget in healthcare. So I think that all the problems that this government has inherited are being dealt with. So, with respect, I would like to ask the House to accept my answer. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2016-05-09-88	I thank the Secretary of State for his reply. I ask the congressman if he will accept the Secretary of State's answer. You have the floor.
u2016-05-09-89	Dear Secretary of State, We're looking at two types of health care. You think health care is okay, there are no real problems. [[Noise and interruptions from the benches of Fidesz, including: Are you deaf?]] But the problem, Mr Secretary, is that the person I meet in health care sees underpaidness, decay, long waiting lists. Dear Secretary of State, If everything is okay, why do underpaid doctors and nurses complain? Why is it that the patient can't see the path to recovery? And most of all, Mr. Secretary, why is it that private money has to be put into the pockets for healing, while there should be free and good health care? Now, that's the only question the Secretary of State hasn't answered. Therefore, I am not at liberty to accept the answer, but I will continue to ask about these matters, so that the image of both types of health care will at least somehow collapse. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2016-05-09-90	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The congressman didn't accept the Secretary of State's answer. I ask the Honourable Parliament if it will be accepted. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 107 votes in favour, 30 against and without abstention. Dear Parliament, Előd Novak, representative of Jobbik, submitted an interpellation to the Prime Minister:. What does the Government consider to be the most serious problem in Hungary? It's an address. On behalf of the Prime Minister, Minister Zoltán Balog, who is competent and competent on the subject, will respond to the interpellation on behalf of the Minister for Human Resources, Minister Miklós Soltész. Congressman, you have the floor.
u2016-05-09-91	Dear Secretary of State, According to the latest representative opinion poll of the Institute of Directions, 58 percent of the total majority of society agree that population loss is the root of Hungary's biggest problems; only 36 percent disagree with it and 6 percent of respondents could not answer the question. Only Jobbik has included the majority's position in its programme: the most serious problem of Hungarians is population loss. According to the same research, 71 percent of the government's family policies were sufficient to address the Hungarian population crisis. Those who say it is not enough, i.e. insufficient, i.e. the government's family policy has failed, according to 71 percent of society. However, if the government could finally see what 58 percent of society already knows, that population loss is the root of Hungary's biggest problems, they would certainly not regret to focus more on reversing catastrophic demographic trends. The population decline increased to 40,000 in 2015 compared to 35,000 in 2014. Without radical family policy change, not only the pension system, but the whole public finances are unsustainable. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. The child's blessing, with this title, launched a colourful campaign by Jobbik's youth department. [[He's presenting the document.]] On Mother's Day, we also pointed out the responsibility of the government because motherhood is a public interest. Every child is a public treasure, so it would be a state gift to mothers on Mother's Day, but we didn't ask for it. In fact, the next day our proposal to abolish the cradle care fee introduced by the previous Orbán government was voted down, so the daycare service remains paid, even though it was free before 2010. What was the reason for making it pay? We didn't get an answer to that before. 60 percent of 30-year-old women are childless and 40 percent of 40-year-olds, making it the most beautiful female profession, motherhood, and thus men's fatherhood, almost half of the people can't live. Health risks of pregnancy and fertility are also increasing exponentially over the age of 30, so it is recommended to start a family as young as possible, with a greater potential for large families. That is why we are calling for greater support for the birth of the first child. Are you willing to do this? In order for couples to come into the world, we recommend that even before the Jobbik government [[There's noise and clarity from the benches of the governing parties.]] , including a radical reduction in the VAT on child-rearing products, a state-supported home- and rental-building and purchase programme, and an extension of support for full-time motherhood. A predictable family support system, similar to pensions, would also be needed; and as a result of the infertility that is considered to be a population disease, increased support for the flask baby scheme, no matter how funny it is for you. The development of family-friendly higher education awaits you as well as the demographic land programme. Now they have not laughed so much since József Ángyán left, who worked this out. We also recommend the introduction of parental annuities to automatically support parents from the child's personal income tax. Are you open to any of our suggestions from the previous ten? [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] So what does the government consider to be the biggest problem of Hungarians? [[The president's ringing again.]] I look forward to your specific reply. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2016-05-09-92	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, State Secretary Miklós Soltész responds to the interpellation. Secretary of State, you have the floor.
u2016-05-09-93	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Congressman, This is what I would like to suggest to you: that if you are looking at the research carried out by the so-called "Capital" Institute, you should at least not ask for research from it for yourself, because I do not think that your positions as vice president and other positions will provide you with too much opportunity, or that the Surveys of the Compass will point you in the wrong direction as to what your support within the party is, what you need to do. [[István Szávay: What does that have to do with anything?]] It's interesting what you said because you asked Jobbik's own public opinion poll and didn't look at the data, the processes that have happened in the last six years. You have not looked at the statistics that, as a result of the government's family policy, have led to huge changes in recent years. And I would like to say this to you, on the one hand, in terms of the Centurion's completion of that research. [[Deterioration from the benches of MSZP and Jobbik.]] according to which 63 percent... [[The president's gonna ring the bell.]] 63 percent of people agree with the government's family policy. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: How much did you do?]] And why all this is: I think the numbers are quite powerful. Over the past years, Hungarian families have grown in a childish mood. The fertility rate hasn't been this high in 20 years. More and more children are born, no matter what you say, [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: According to which statistics, Mr Secretary of State?]] Despite the fact that the number of fertile young people is decreasing, it is precisely because the children, grandchildren and great-grandsons of the Ratko era are now at a peak. Another important issue: marriages have increased by nearly one third. If you don't think it's a result, I'd like to add to your list of results that the number of abortions has decreased by 25 percent. [[Bangóné Borbély Ildikó: As Árpád said? According to the end of the century?]] If this is not important for a party who is supposed to be a Christian, then it is also worth seeing that 14 percent less people are getting divorced than in 2010. [[15.50]] I believe that all these decisions are supported by a series of political decisions, family policy decisions that have actually brought results for Hungarian society. And here we can talk about the fact that it is HUF 1743 billion that we use to support families, this is 4.7 percent of gross domestic product, it is unique in the surrounding countries, and 12 percent of the total budget. This means that direct family support systems, such as children, children and children, will support and spend HUF 600 billion on family allowances, HUF 360 billion on family support services such as kindergarten, daycare, protective care, children's meals, 320 billion on tax relief for families with children, which, by the way, was completely abolished by the previous Balliberal-Socialist government. We will use 240 billion forints to create a home that you miss, and not least for those mothers, for those women who worked 40 years, we will spend 234 billion forints to retire after 40 years of service. Honourable Congressman, If you don't think that's appropriate, then I suggest you once again ask the public opinion polling facility that you asked again and try to do a normal research. Thank you very much for asking. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-05-09-94	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. You have a rejoinder, Congressman, and I'm asking you if you'll accept the Secretary of State's answer. You have the floor.
u2016-05-09-95	Secretary of State, it is unacceptable to me that personal mud throwing and the government polishing instead of the answer that you have filled these four minutes instead of a meaningful response. There is no doubt that their results are recognised, but I did not ask you to list those potential efforts, those small advances as government polish, but to face the fact that the rate of population loss increased further in 2015 compared to 2014. Face Jobbik's suggestions. My question was whether you could support any of the ten concrete, constructive family policy proposals listed in the campaign entitled "A child's blessing" for youth. He wouldn't talk about any of them. We want to talk about the future, not about the past, what mistakes have been made or what results have been achieved, we want to talk about the future, but you refuse to do so. We have not received an answer as to why the cradle care award was introduced during the previous Orbán government, and unfortunately we have not received an answer as to what the government considers to be the most serious problem in Hungary. As long as they don't dare say that. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] I am not surprised that none of our proposals for solutions are being supported. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-05-09-96	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Congressman did not accept the State Secretary's reply, and I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts it. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 107 votes to 107, 27 against and four abstentions. Dear Parliament, I welcome the students of the Vörösmarty High School in Budapest, located in the gallery, who are monitoring the Parliament's meeting from the gallery. [[The students stand up in the gallery. Applause.]] Dear Parliament, István Ikotity, a representative of the LMP, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Human Resources: It's an address. Mr István Ikotity has the floor.
u2016-05-09-97	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, János Lázár, Minister of the Prime Minister's Office announced the continuation of nationalization at the end of April. They will also take away the right to run schools from the settlements. By nationalising the reservation, the municipalities have lost all their say in who, what, how to teach students. Now they would also take away the remaining municipal rights. In the future, municipalities will no longer be able to interfere with the use of the doorman or the replacement of light bulbs, nor will they be involved in infrastructure institutional developments. State Secretary László Palkovics also told us in an interview why they would not return the schools to the settlements. In his view, the municipalities do not have sufficient professionals to control the operation of educational institutions, and therefore the State does not give back the task of maintaining them. But what kind of government expertise is KLIK's failure to fail and state maintenance? The Fidesz-KDNP government wants to criticize the settlements, when the municipalized school system has worked better in spite of all its problems than the now bankrupt KLIK? The continuation of nationalization is also incomprehensible because the government itself has already admitted that the model of public school maintenance has failed, they have admitted that the bicycle has been pushed too far. A few weeks ago, they were talking about the KLIK shutting down. Round table here, negotiations there, but now they're going in the wrong direction. János Lázár and László Palkovics put the bicycle back into socialism together, as they bring back the system of total government control. What's the reason for all this? Who in the government is so constipated about nationalization? Why do they want to control everything from Salay Street? Why lie about the termination of the CLIK if the KLIK is literally named in the 2017 budget proposal? In the smaller part of the settlements, typically the smallest villages and villages, there is indeed a problem with the maintenance of schools, also because public funds are constantly being taken away from them. But then why not give it up, why focus on public responsibility, why should it be violently extended to everyone, to those who have done everything they can to improve their schools, to the greatest satisfaction of local residents? The May Other in Politics therefore suggests that the municipality that requests and is able to maintain the project will receive its schools together with the appropriate state support. This would be an effective, intermediate solution, a smart compromise - why not push the bike in this direction? I'm waiting for your answer.
u2016-05-09-98	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, State Secretary Miklós Soltész responds to the interpellation. Secretary of State, you have the floor.
u2016-05-09-99	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, As regards the past, it is noted that the roundtable negotiations have shown for many times that public funding should not be returned to the school system with municipal reservation prior to 2010, because it has almost bankrupted the municipalities. No objections were raised by the members of the round table to the fact that there were justified structural changes in the organisation of the maintenance centre. It is clear, therefore, that after the failed balliberal, poor school system, the current government is looking for a solution that focuses on solving real needs, involving teachers and experts. Let me just briefly remind you: the socialists, under the control of the left, the settlements are indebted and bankrupt. Between 2002-2010, there was a series of withdrawals in this area, so when the government changed in 2010, the public education system had HUF 143 billion less in the budget than in 2002 at the beginning of their governance. Hundreds of small settlements were left without school and thousands of teachers were left without jobs, and those who worked were also in complete insecurity. In addition, with the withdrawal of the 13th month's wages, the teachers received HUF 78 billion less. Honourable Congressman, Consider the most important results so far. The first stage of the round table's work has been completed. The proposals were made by the government, which made decisions more favourable to the public education system in relation to certain points than the proposals made. This is a clear proof that the government is open to cooperation. On 5 May we announced the most important decision-making points at the public education round table, including the transformation of Klebelsberg Institution-Sustaining. For example, the following decisions have been made: as of 1 March, the institutionkeeper has a new head in the person of Minister Gábor Pölöskei, as well as special support for his work by Zoltán Jenei, Chancellor of the University of Pécs. It is the task of the new leaders to ensure the future and functioning of the KLIK in the short term and to set up a new organisational and operational form to be introduced from 1 July. In order to improve the operation and financing of the KLIK, we will implement the transformation of the system of public institution maintenance in accordance with the decision of the Public Education Round Table, so out of the 198 schools to date, 57 districts will maintain separate schools in terms of farming. [[16.00]] The district centers will be independent legal entities. A school district is a medium-sized university, it's gonna be the same size as a college budget, so it's gonna be the same size. In addition, the management powers of state-owned public education institutions in both management and professional terms. The decision-making process is much closer to the schools. The financial background for stable operation is already guaranteed, as this year Klebelsberg Institutional Maintenance Center will receive HUF 91.5 billion more funding compared to the initial allocation, while in the next year's budget we planned an extra HUF 105.6 billion. After that, Mr President, please accept the answer which was based on the fact that, indeed, what was wrong is being corrected and what is necessary in this area has been changed. But you don't need to take into account the support and suggestions of those who go out in awe. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] on the street or those who threaten teachers as school principals. Thank you very much for asking. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-05-09-100	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. I ask the Member if he will accept the Secretary of State's answer.
u2016-05-09-101	I do not accept Mr. Secretary's reply. I would also like to remind Mr Secretary of State that what was said on the public education debate day is that a very small part of the local government's debt is caused by the maintenance and operation of education, and they know it very well. I asked for the data, if you can't deny it, I also asked for these data on a written question and in a request for information. You all know that there are about a hundred settlements that have not been properly managed by their educational institutions, which has caused them to get into trouble. On the other hand, Secretary of State, I would not be in your place when it comes to protecting something that Christian democracy, István Barankovics, rightly esteemed, was most violently attacked at the time, which is centralization. You are now working for these, subsidiarity, personality, which is your basic principle, this is what you are twisting, going backwards on the Damascus road, Mr. Secretary of State. Please turn around.
u2016-05-09-102	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The congressman didn't accept the Secretary of State's answer. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept it. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 107 votes in favour, 35 votes against and no abstentions. Dear Parliament, László Kiss, representative of the MSZP, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Human Resources:. When will the free textbook selection be restored? It's an address. Congressman, you have the floor.
u2016-05-09-103	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, It is clear that we will not agree that the more diverse the textbook market, the more textbooks available to teachers, the more diverse the pedagogical culture. That's what I'm saying; unfortunately, you're not. You did not, because they destroyed the textbook market, eliminated the diversity that characterized the system of Hungarian textbooks, and the Hungarian choice of free textbooks also died. The distribution of textbooks was entrusted to a central water head, Kello, while teachers who are at the end, who do not have a job obligation to distribute textbooks, do this work for virtually minimum wages, in vulnerable situations. The most important demand for educators' demonstrations was therefore the free textbook selection, and while we are at the polls, your public opinion poll said that the majority of society is in favour of free textbook selection on this issue. The legislation on textbook selection and textbooks has been constantly changed over the past period. These are incomplete, often incomprehensible, difficult to follow for everyone, especially those who should have their daily work to comply with, enforce. Every year, they changed the terms of the textbook order. We can hear now that the textbook monopoly is being pushed on and on, while this thing is incomprehensible, because there is no result attached to it. The current system is to maintain the system of textbooks that have been described as experimental, which is very interesting, because they have been experimental since they have been carved into the textbook market for years. We do not know, however, what is the result of these experiments, which, of course, you do on children, in public education. Are these experimental textbooks so good, they have to be finalized? If so, why are they experimental? What are the experiences of this? They also advertise that many children receive textbooks free of charge. I myself consider this government goal to be commendable, and I would support it if I did. However, the reality is that textbook packages that are forced to buy children in the absence of free choice are far from the amount they support. Therefore, the lack of free textbook choice also deprives people of this opportunity to get textbooks free of charge. Dear Secretary of State, I'd like to ask you the following. Why can't teachers really decide what textbooks they choose? [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] Obviously, deciding on one or two textbooks is not really a decision. Why don't you trust them? Why experiment on children? When will they restore the freedom to choose textbooks? Thank you for listening.
u2016-05-09-104	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, State Secretary Miklós Soltész responds to the interpellation. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2016-05-09-105	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, If we look at the so-called diverse textbook market that the Member has missed in its entirety, we can see that in your time many publishers have only developed their textbooks in economically rational textbook segments, where a significant number of copies could be reached. Each publisher offered books for almost the same target group, in these areas there was a great competition, and as a result the schools became the battlefields for publishing. School decisions were only partly influenced by professional and pedagogical aspects Besides the quality content, many other factors had an impact on school textbook selection, so-called purchased content was largely influenced by the publisher's package offer. Textbooks are different. The knowledge materials in them were of different quality, so the change of institutions was not based on a uniform level of knowledge known to all students, and parents and students were forced to change their textbooks frequently. In the years-long fight, strong publishers continued to grow, and capital and marketing-based concentration developed, for example, the highest-income publisher offered only 7 percent of the total textbook supply. Meanwhile, in the small number of segments, such as SNI or ethnic textbooks, the development was only possible with separate development aids. The price of textbooks has risen steadily every year in your period. It is worth noting here, honourable Member, that the current situation... - when the norm did remain at 12 thousand forints, but compared to your findings, textbook prices have decreased by 36 percent by 2015 since 2013 and the number of students receiving free textbooks has increased steadily. This year's order will give 700,000 students free of charge textbooks. From the 2017-18 academic year, the textbook will be completely free for 1-8 graders. If you don't think this is an achievement, then I don't know what else to tell you compared to what you've done for eight years in the field of public education. Since January 2015, a new leader has been managing Kello's field of analysis and consultation with relevant organisations for the past two years, and this person or this leadership or tasks have been able to deliver textbooks with... - 0,25 percent error rate, which I think is a result that you were unable to produce during the period when you were in government. The main principle of the legislation currently in force is to ensure high quality content in all institutions of public education. Honourable Congressman, Let me tell you more about experimental textbook development, it's based on professional consultation. This process is not experimentation on children, but the influence of teachers in development. More than a hundred teachers have participated in the textbook writing and reading of the textbooks, and in the trial, which meant continuous commentation and suggestion, more than two thousand teachers have so far participated. [[16.10]] I would like to ask you, honourable Member, to accept my reply, and if this does not go, then think that you have done nothing but privatise the National Book Publisher, by selling it to one of Ferenc Gyurcsány's best friends for HUF 4.2 billion, despite the fact that there has been an offer of HUF 3.2 billion. Thank you so much for asking. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2016-05-09-106	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, I'm asking Congressman if he'll accept the Secretary of State's answer. You have the floor.
u2016-05-09-107	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Unfortunately, I can't accept it, although as a former history teacher, I'm very fond of the departure from the past, as a schoolmaster and the story, so your answer was very sympathetic to me, but I have to correct it in a few ways. You have introduced a very witty innovation in the textbook evaluation system, because twice in the last three years, the software that operated the feedback was virtually wrong throughout the textbook order and could not communicate with you, so there were no errors. I think zero percent would have been ideal, but maybe there was a day when the software worked. I can't accept that answer because it's not about reality. The reality is that the prices of textbooks in circulation are increasing significantly, there are textbook packages that do not come out of these supported funds, and it is still common to copy textbooks in schools. I can't accept the answer for a number of reasons, but I don't have time for that. Thank you for listening.
u2016-05-09-108	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Congressman didn't accept the Secretary of State's answer. I ask the Honourable Parliament if it will be accepted. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 108 votes in favour, 35 votes against and no abstentions. Dear Parliament, Dániel Z. Kárpát, representative of Jobbik, submitted an interpellation to the Minister for National Development:. When does one open to the everyday needs of citizens? It's an address. It's up to Congressman.
u2016-05-09-109	Mr President, Dear House, When I submitted an interpellation on behalf of Jobbik in order to make use of a 24-hour freeway sticker in Hungary, we obviously wanted to encourage the government to address problems affecting the everyday life of everyday people, which could seriously damage the quality of life of many people, but, where appropriate, huge facilitations and concessions could be made, to give air to people who do not necessarily follow political rumbles, but could get serious concessions on such professional issues. The last such one, which Jobbik submitted, was a plan for a comprehensive VAT reduction package, whereby both the VAT content of the whole range of basic foods and consumer goods and the VAT content of at least such important child rearing articles would have been reduced to 5%. We do not dispute that Fidesz-KDNP has submitted a proposal for products representing 6-7 per cent of the consumer basket on basic foods in comparison with this, overall, does not have the effect of reducing VAT by 1 per cent, but let us not dispute this cosmetic proposal. My request, of course, is not to talk about this right now, but about the question and the proposal that Jobbik submitted to the committee concerned, for some reason, the governing parties did not support the possibility that a Hungarian citizen could use a freeway sticker for 24 hours if he took a family member to medical treatment or had a day-to-day appointment. After all, it is not expected that masses will pay not only for a service not used, but also for a service that is not planned to be used. In addition to the 24-hour option, there is also a need for a family-friendly sticker solution for a three-day or long weekend, as it is a serious and measurable burden for many people to pay ten days for a service that they do not have in mind for ten days. And I would also suggest a practical real-life problem to the attention of our pro-government fellow Members: in many cases, someone, I would say, accidentally drives up a highway, takes unwanted services, but gets into a situation where they do this by accident. With the introduction of a grace period, it would not cost much to operate with such simple solutions that would ease people's everyday lives, and would not cut down serious lines of items from the budget, but what we see is that these demands continue to arise, and we constantly articulate them, and for some reason the governing parties are confusing these demands. So the question arises: why is there no 24-hour freeway sticker, why is there not at least such a small relief for the Hungarian people? Thank you. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2016-05-09-110	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, State Secretary László Tasó responds to the interpellation. Secretary of State, you have the floor.
u2016-05-09-111	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Hungarian voters always send MEPs to the walls of this House with the intention of taking care of them and making laws that make their lives easier and better. With this intention, we also touched the sticker system on 1 January 2015 because we saw that the possibility of using motorways was not proportionate and fair. We have done this with the intention of trying to give each county the opportunity to move in a higher level, in safety conditions, in a higher level of road. Our goal was to strive in every county to create a network like Pest County or within the administrative boundaries of the capital city. With the help of the county sticker, you can use our travels at any time in unlimited quantities and times for 5 thousand HUF. I think that this was a good and correct step in Hungary. It's been a year of testing, and we're looking at the battlefield, and we're watching what else we have to do and helping to make the system work even better. And then we examined whether there was a possibility and whether it was justified to think in a 24-hour sticker. It was also seen in the European outlook that there was no such application anywhere, 7-10 days is the smallest deadline, the lowest eligibility time, so we decided not to touch it and not to apply it. But it wouldn't really be the loss of revenue, which primarily tells us that we do not support the idea, but that we should look at how our highways are used in Hungary in the case of the road network. It turns out 50 percent of the people in Hungary and 50 percent of the foreigners use it. If we do what you suggest, what Jobbik usually suggests, so that something that immediately looks good, but still triggers bad processes can start, then what would happen is that the ratio would change, and in Hungary our highways, 80 percent of our network could be used with a one-day sticker by those who pass through us, foreigners. In Hungarian, your proposal would cause damage and problems to the Hungarian people, so we do not support it. So once again, if we were to apply this, which you have just proposed to us, then in Hungary 80% would be better off for foreigners. At the expense of the Hungarian people, the government does not plan to transform the vignette system. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2016-05-09-112	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. I ask the congressman if he will accept the Secretary of State's answer. You have the floor.
u2016-05-09-113	Mr President, Dear House, When I took my oath in this House, I vowed that I would respond with sufficient restraint to such amazing speeches as the previous one. Well, Mr State Secretary, you explain in the Hungarian Parliament that you discriminate against Hungarian people on an otherwise economic issue, simply because, in the case of foreign interests, this is the same burden for the people living there in the Member States of the European Union. So if it is only 7-10 days old, then let it be only 7-10 days old, let us not lighten the lives of Hungarians, you said it yourself, I did not say it, and adds that the reason why you do not wish to make concessions for Hungarians is because, if necessary, it would have an effect on transit traffic. Well, please, that's why you're sitting in your chair, working out a solution system that doesn't put into effect this scenario that you're otherwise unviable. It is not true that European transit routes would be redrafted by the minimal amendment that a Hungarian person should only have 24 hours or one day's handling or health care programme, so use it for that long - then do not force him to do these solutions. So it's amazing the answer you gave me, and I can't accept it. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2016-05-09-114	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Congressman didn't accept the Secretary of State's answer. I ask the Honourable Parliament if it will be accepted. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 110 votes in favour, 36 against and 2 abstentions. [[16.20]] Dear Parliament, It's 16 hours and 19 minutes, and we've reached the end of the interpellation trial. We will continue our work with immediate questions. Dear Parliament, Tamás Harangozó, representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question:. How long can his personal appointments remain in place: Péter Polt and György Matolcsy? It's an address. Congressman Tamás Bellozó has the floor.
u2016-05-09-115	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Prime Minister, you said here in October 2010 between the walls of this House:. In the system of national cooperation, the world cannot come back when we cannot enforce the public interest against private interests. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. How the world has turned since then, haven't you, Prime Minister? Since then, the system of national cooperation has been transformed into a system of national co-criminalism, where, using the majority of Fidesz in Parliament, it simply robs this country of a better fate. The system works. The people who are taxed to death will be filled with a reduction in their overhead and a variety of freedom fights, while free robbery is taking place in the background. Hundreds of billions are saved on pensioners, health care, education, while, see wonder, hundreds of billions go through stadiums, foundations and managed public procurements to the private interests of buddies and relatives. Yet the most outrageous, the most outrageous, industrial-scale theft and damages throughout the country are linked to your right-hand hand, György Matolcsy, president of the MNB. First, the 260 billion forints, assisted in the removal of 230 billion of the Quaestor scandal, and then taken from the foreign exchange lenders, were found to have lost their common currency, filling their own pockets, mates and relatives' pockets. While the other one's favourite public dignity, the former Fidesz MP candidate Péter Polt has been assisting in covering up villains for years. Please, Prime Minister, answer the questions directly for once. How could the shame of being personally involved in the Quaestor case and the MNB's foundations through the members of the Attorney General's family have happened, and is it still in place? How long are you going to let these two people lie to you about everything you said and did as Prime Minister? Or just admit it's your personal interest and you're proud to be part of a pre-planned country distribution operation. I'm waiting for your answer.
u2016-05-09-116	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Prime Minister Viktor Orbán.
u2016-05-09-117	Mr President, Fellow Members! You know how I feel, you have to give respect to the place and the law. It doesn't always work, and at times like this, you're like a god to God. I was asked by you how long can your personal appointments, Péter Polt and György Matolcsy, remain in place? I have rarely met anyone in my parliamentary career who has already lied in his question, but you Socialists, ten years after Autumn, have still succeeded. Study the legal background. The Constitution states that the President of the National Bank of Hungary will be appointed by the President of the Republic, and the General Prosecutor will be elected by Parliament for nine years on the proposal of the President of the Republic. So much for the question. Since you are accusing people of strong terms such as looting, free robbery, conflict of interest, I would like to remind you that you are in the ranks of a party that, when you were on the government, your minister's wife, later Prime Minister, was responsible for spending development money as a second man's position under our later Prime Minister, Bajnai Gordon. After that, ladies and gentlemen, talking to the socialists about conflicts of interest, coordinated looting action may be more than insolence. As far as you are concerned, I can tell you that in 2009, when you were 20 years old, without any energy training, you were put on the Board of Directors of the Paks Nuclear Power Plant, where you paid HUF 3.3 million in 13 months. [[Noise.]] Like a god, like a tooth. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-05-09-118	Thank you, Prime Minister, for your reply. In return, I give the floor to Congressman Tamás Bellozó. Here you go.
u2016-05-09-119	Thank you for the floor. Prime Minister, I'm sorry to say this, but who do you think you are? Is he a full-fledged governor or a king? You're the Prime Minister of this country. If the people you have nominated and elected by your party who are involved in a hard-core corruption case with hundreds of billions, then it is your duty to give a meaningful answer in this Parliament and within the walls of this House. Everyone knows they're your personal appointments. Prime Minister, sooner or later you will take responsibility. Your predecessor, to be honest with you, would be the best thing for this country if we were to shoot both of you out on the moon, then there would be peace and tranquillity at last in this country, but that does not excuse itself from answering the questions today in substance. As for my personal attack, Prime Minister, you lied very badly about me last time. I'm gonna take my revenge in court for this. Thank you very much.
u2016-05-09-120	Dear Parliament, The Prime Minister is entitled to a rejoinder. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
u2016-05-09-121	We are interested in observing the manifestation of socialist camaraderie that they want their former prime minister to go into space. However, as far as the more serious part of the case is concerned, I would like to say this: I appreciate the work of the prosecution, one of the major pillars of the Hungarian rule of law, one of the prepared, successful organizations and guardians of a stable, predictable and safe Hungarian life. I also appreciate the work of his leader, Peter Polt. The Government shall grant all support to the work of the Prosecutor's Office and its Head. Without the President of the National Bank, it would not have been possible to stabilise and set the economy on a growth path, so I thank you very much for your work. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-05-09-122	Thank you, Prime Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Gábor Vona, a representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question:, do you really think it is with Brussels who would rule out the quota in the Fundamental Law? It's an address. Congressman Gábor Vona has the floor.
u2016-05-09-123	Mr. Prime Minister, Dear Parliament, In September 2015, in the Parliament, I suggested rejecting the compulsory quota by referendum. Then you didn't support this, I think, because the political interest of the party has superseded the interests of the nation. It's been eight months since then, and now you're suggesting a referendum, I think, for the same reason, because the political interest of the party overrides the interests of the nation. It is worth considering a referendum in two cases, on the one hand, if we do not know the opinion of society on an important issue, and, on the other hand, if we know it, but it is not the opinion of the majority of Parliament. Now none of the cases exist, we know the negative opinion of society, and the Parliament's negative opinion is met to a maximum. While there are no real arguments for the referendum, there are very serious concerns and counter-arguments. On the one hand, it is slow, who knows what will happen by October, and on the other hand it is uncertain, because if the referendum fails or is invalid, it can backfire. Thirdly, it costs very much, 5 billion forints for taxpayers. With regard to Sunday's lockdown, Prime Minister, you, the governing parties, have shown us how to deal with such a problem in Parliament. In essence, we need the same thing now: the question mark must be removed from the end of your referendum question, a point must be placed at the end of the sentence, and your sentence must be incorporated into the Fundamental Law. That's what we need. This is a quick proposal, it doesn't have to wait until October, it doesn't have to wait for the European Commission to make any jokes, think about Körmend or just think about the solidarity contribution. A sure solution, no uncertainty about nullity, no inefficiencies, cheap solution, does not cost taxpayers a penny, and finally we can protect Hungary from the highest legal level in relation to the mandatory quota. Prime Minister, don't have to wait five months, eight months, or who knows how long to find out that Jobbik is right about this too. I ask you, Prime Minister, to give up this political campaign that you are so attached to. The future of Hungary is not worth a political campaign. We need to decide right now, and, as I said, free of charge and zero forints to protect the Hungarian people, so please support your own proposal, which we would like to incorporate into the Fundamental Law. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-05-09-124	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Prime Minister Viktor Orbán.
u2016-05-09-125	Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, It's hard to please Jobbik. Z. Kárpát Dániel said in February 2016 that Jobbik believes that the most powerful legitimisation tool is the reference and therefore it is necessary. You also said in this Chamber that we should hold a referendum on this, create constitutional conditions and show Europe, Brussels and everyone that the majority of Hungarian society does not want the quota. [[16.30]] Well, I'm not surprised that you guys change your minds on a regular basis. From what I can see, they're turning from radical to moderate, and they've decided to turn men into cute party puppies. [[Delight and applause in the pro-government benches.]] I wish you every success in this transformation. However, I would like to point out that a 180-degree turn on such an important issue will take a few months to cut the line on irresponsibleness. I'm not surprised that you're giving up your principles, I understand that only tactical power and money are motivated by your decisions. However, I would like to inform the voters of Hungary that we, Christian Democrats and Fideszes, will, in any case and without Jobbik, stand by the interests of Hungary and Hungary. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-05-09-126	Thank you, Prime Minister. I give the floor to Congressman Gábor Vona in return.
u2016-05-09-127	Mr. Prime Minister, You don't have to go next door about how people change. As far as I know, I didn't sit in the Liberal International, you did. [[Defiance in the ranks of the MSZP. It's a rare applause in the ranks of the Jobbik.]] The other: the attitude you have on this issue is very disappointing and shameful. You think people are stupid. You think, Prime Minister, people don't see through the situation, they don't realize what your true purpose is. Your intention is not to protect Hungary from the quota, it is your intention to divert attention from the state of the country, from health care, education and all-infesting corruption. Prime Minister! Don't you realize that your corrupt mentality is driving the whole country under your skin? Árpád Habony, Andy Vajnák are running everywhere, the Great Count of the Hungarian economy, Lőrinc Mészáros gives a career model to the Hungarian entrepreneurial sphere, Péter Polt is paralyzed to assist this whole system, and György Matolcsy becomes world famous through his foundations. For you, the issue of quota is not a threat that must be avoided, and for you, the issue of quota is a threat that must be maintained, because in this case, you can divert attention from your dirty, dirty, filthy affairs. So please, Prime Minister, support our proposal, because it is the only honest and fair solution. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik. Interjection in the same place: That's right!]]
u2016-05-09-128	Dear Parliament, Mr. Prime Minister, you have a rejoinder. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
u2016-05-09-129	As to the substance of the case, before I say a sentence, I would like to reiterate that the Hungarian Government and I personally declare zero tolerance against all corruption. [[There's a lot of noise in the opposition benches.]] In all such cases, please feel free to turn to the Hungarian law enforcement agencies. As far as the question is concerned, I would like to point out that the Jobbiks are selling with Commission President Juncker on a groin. He said: "The Prime Ministers should stop listening too much to their voters. Instead, they should be working as full-time Europeans. I understand, ladies and gentlemen, that now the President of Jobbik and the Jobbik want to be European good guys, but it doesn't have to be that bad, my good-looking friends, it doesn't have to be so bad for Brussels. Mr President, Believe me, I know them. Even if you woo them now, they won't like you. Listen to me, I'd rather you stay Hungarian. It looks better on you. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-05-09-130	Thank you, Prime Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, András Schiffer, representative of the LMP, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: "When will the sky and earth collapse? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2016-05-09-131	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr. Prime Minister, Dear Parliament, Prime Minister! You asked a question a few days ago about whether your trust in György Matolcsy would be shaken, and you replied that when the earth and the fire broke. Now, the thing is, Prime Minister, this may be the case that you've already come up with. I would like to point out that this is not about the correctness of the monetary policy of the central bank. I would like to clarify that we agree with the monetary policy of the central bank. The question is what happens when an otherwise correct monetary policy results in profits. Can it be taken home? Can you put it in your pocket? Can it be used for illegal purposes? Prime Minister! The legal situation is very clear. Here's the central bank law you've passed. Article 4 Paragraph 11 of Article 11 is quite clear that the central bank may carry out only statutory tasks. You can only order a foundation if the law authorizes you to do so. Even you can't show me such a legal place. Compared to this, HUF 267 billion was transferred to foundations, with which György Matolcsy had his own kinship purchased his own books. At the heart of the family network is a certain Tamás Szemerey. You must remember the sentence: the Magyar Nemzeti Bank cannot be an accommodation for offshore knights. After that, it turns out from the Panama papers that Tamás Szemerey had a small company in the British Virgin Islands, an offshore knight. Compared to this, half of this amount is 136 billion forints, which you used to cut the foreign exchange lenders. Don't point fingers at the Mansion, because the word of the Curia was clear, it is only compulsory to apply the central foreign exchange exchange rate until the Forinting Act. My question then, Prime Minister, is whether, after the money loaners have been stolen and the profits of the central bank will be taken home by György Matolcsy, his confidence has finally been shaken, and whether or not offshore knights can be accommodated by the Hungarian National Bank. I'm waiting for your answer. Thank you very much.
u2016-05-09-132	Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Prime Minister Viktor Orbán.
u2016-05-09-133	I would like to draw your attention to a slip of the tongue, my honourable fellow Member. In Hungary, foreign exchange lenders were saved [[An uproar in the ranks of Jobbik and MSZP.]] , as opposed to almost all EU countries. I suggest you use a fair standard and see what has happened elsewhere in the world and what has happened in Hungary, then you can create a calm opinion. I believe that György Matolcsy is the best central bank president we can have. This is especially true in comparison with your predecessor, which, if you will allow me, I would not talk about for a long time. What the Central Bank can do is precisely defined by the Constitutional Court's judgment. The fact that the collective decision of the central bank and the central bank is about the establishment of the foundation property or the transfer of profits to the budget is also settled by law. For the record, profits are perfectly available, and no one has ever dared to question that. Not a penny is missing. The debate is about what and how to use the return on this property. However, returning to the personal question, György Matolcsy saved the foreign exchange loaners. In vain, I would have put forward the Forinting Act, and even if you as Members had made the right decision quickly and responsibly, if the National Bank had immediately taken advantage of the opportunity of the moment, it would not have given the Hungarian banks the currency to cover their extra expenses, we would not have been able to save the foreign exchange lenders. So this is a great success. Without the courage of the central bank, we cannot talk today about the country and the Hungarian families being rescued from the trap of foreign exchange loans. Not to mention that György Matolcsy announced a programme of loans that was a source of growth in the Hungarian economy at a difficult moment, which was particularly valuable to pensioners and those living in difficult queues. [[There's a lot of noise in the opposition benches.]] Therefore, I continue to support the President of the Central Bank of György Matolcsy with good conscience and full support. [[A big round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-05-09-134	Thank you, Prime Minister, for your reply. I would ask my fellow Members to listen to the answer. I give the floor to Congressman Schiffer András in return.
u2016-05-09-135	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Prime Minister, Indeed, György Matolcsy launched a loan program that allowed his son to buy a furniture factory for example. Congratulations. Prime Minister! He's just not telling the truth about foreign exchange credit, that's all. You cheated the foreign exchange loaners when you rejected the opposition demand to put them in a fair position at the rate of admission. That's what I'm talking about. Slip! The Constitutional Court didn't rule that out, did it? The Curia's judgment simply does not apply to this. You, i.e. the central bank, have made 136 billion, and the banks have made an additional, almost 800 billion by cheating the foreign exchange lenders. And the other, Prime Minister, is the Central Bank Act. It's perfectly clear on 4. Paragraph 11: The MNB may be tasked by law. To György Matolcsy buying up his own books, for example, which law did you agree to, Prime Minister? Answer that and how long offshore knights are tolerated in the vicinity of the central bank. Thank you very much. Paragraph 2 of the Act: the MNB may lay down a task for the MNB. To György Matolcsy buying up his own books, for example, which law did you agree to, Prime Minister? Answer that and how long offshore knights are tolerated in the vicinity of the central bank. Thank you very much. (Applause in opposition benches. )
u2016-05-09-136	Dear Parliament, Mr. Prime Minister, you have a rejoinder. Prime Minister, you have the floor. [[16.40]]
u2016-05-09-137	Mr President, My dear fellow Member, First of all, I would like to point out that in Hungary there has been an unprecedented case in European culture that banks have been forced to account for contracts with their customers in accordance with the Fair Banking Act, and this has cost banks hundreds of thousands of billions of dollars. So the banks in Hungary during the period of our government, not only did they not mow in this country, but they had to pay for everything that honor and judicial judgments required. [[Dóra Dúró: Poor people!]] As for the issue of foundations around the central bank, I can tell you that I approve that the central bank is building a university, and I approve that it is building a college faculty, and I approve that the National Bank will help us reclaim our national treasures. [[Dr. András Schiffer: Where is the law?]] I agree that there is the Munkácsy painting in Debrecen, and I approve of the accumulation of wealth, and I approve of giving scholarships to those who are being offered applications. I am convinced that the goals are good and important and that I wish to continue this work in the central bank. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. Dr. Gergely Bárándy: Which law gives you permission to do this?]]
u2016-05-09-138	I thank the Prime Minister for his reply. Dear Parliament, Mengyi Roland, a representative of Fidesz, wants to ask the Minister of National Economy an immediate question: "The Socialists have only been able to increase the burden on people, we have reduced taxes! It's an address. The Minister has appointed Mr András Tállai Secretary of State to respond to his urgent public mission. I ask the Member whether he accepts the person of the response or asks the Minister himself for an answer.
u2016-05-09-139	Of course I'll take it.
u2016-05-09-140	Yeah. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2016-05-09-141	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, The fact that the government has submitted tax laws to the House is a good opportunity to take account of the tax policy of the past more than a decade from an appropriate perspective, because it is instructive to recall tax increases under socialist governments, which may have been forgotten by many, and it is instructive to observe how the socialists tried, if possible, to increase the burden on families almost every year. They started immediately in 2003, they raised corporate tax, and the drugs and textbooks increased by 5 percent. Then, in 2005, they continued in the same way: they abolished or reduced tax incentives for families with multiple children; they also reduced corporate tax relief for businesses in disadvantaged regions - I stress that this step was taken by a left-wing government; the normal VAT rate was reduced from 25 percent to 20 percent before the 2006 elections, but after the elections the reduced rate of 15% was abolished, thus placing many products under the 20% VAT rate; this was soon developed by an additional 5% increase in the normal VAT rate. On the other hand, the civil government has reduced corporate tax from 19 to 10 percent in its first measures from 2010 onwards, and families are once again the winners of the tax system: the more children they take, the more tax relief they get. Thanks to the system, in the last four years around HUF 800 billion remained with Hungarian families, 1.1 million people lost their taxes, including 300,000 people do not have to pay taxes at all. It is also important that the wealth flows between relatives and spouses on the straight lines have also become tax-free during the civil government period. In the context of the tax system, we continue to support the objective of keeping the tax burden on families and workers who are raising children low. I ask the Secretary of State what the government intends to do in the next tax year. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-05-09-142	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to the Secretary of State, András Tállai. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2016-05-09-143	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, He raised his question as a comparison between two governments. It is clear that the socialist governments were the governments of the tax increase, and the Fidesz government was the government of the tax reduction, and the facts prove this. [[Noise in opposition lines.]] Facts prove when comparing changes in VAT rates. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] The Fidesz-KDNP government significantly reduces the VAT on some basic food and house building, as we know that the VAT on pigmeat has been reduced from this year onwards, and the VAT on housing construction and purchase has decreased to 5 per cent, and from 2017 onwards, the VAT on poultrymeat, eggs and fresh milk will be reduced to 5 per cent on the basis of the bill submitted. But the VAT on internet services will decrease to 18% and the VAT on restaurant meals will decrease to 18% from 1 January, from the following year and from 2018 to 5 percent. This will mean a total saving of approximately HUF 55 billion for people, which can be used to meet other needs. Indeed, the socialists raised VAT, eliminated the zero key [[Dr. István Józsa: Who raised the VAT? How did you get 27 percent?]] The 12% discount rate was later abolished, the VAT rate increased from 20 percent to 25 percent, and a number of products were classified here. But the same is the case with regard to personal income tax: while the socialists stopped tax relief for children, Fidesz gradually increases [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] tax relief for families with two or more children. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-05-09-144	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I give the floor to the congressman in return. Here you go.
u2016-05-09-145	Dear Secretary of State, Thank you for your answer. I think it is important to stress that, when we changed our SAI system, we were able to leave around HUF 3600 billion to the taxpayers during the introduction of the 16 per cent and then the 15 per cent key in six years. All this and the redeployment you mentioned will help families, our businesses, the Hungarian economy, so I will continue to encourage you to make positive and supportive changes and steps affecting you. Thank you very much for your answer. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-05-09-146	Thank you, Congressman. Mr András Tállai, State Secretary, has a rejoinder. You have the floor.
u2016-05-09-147	Mr President, I would still like to continue the personal income tax change, as the Fidesz government introduced the single-key personal income tax, which was at first 16 percent, from this year to 15 percent, and the tax relief of families with two children is constantly increasing, so from 2017 it will increase by 5 thousand forints to 30 thousand forints. Overall, we can say that tax changes in 2017 and tax reductions for a family with two children could save 80-85 thousand forints per year. In addition, there are significant tax changes in the tax package, a bulky proposal, essentially aimed at making it easier, better for families, easier and better for businesses. With all due respect, I would ask my fellow Members to know about the tax package and to make an opinion about it, because there is much to know, there is a lot of positive change in it. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-05-09-148	Thank you very much for the Secretary of State's reply. Dear Parliament, Mr Gergely Bárándy, representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the President of the Hungarian National Bank an immediate question:. It's an address. The President appointed Vice-President Márton Nagy to answer the question because of an urgent public task. I ask the Member whether he will accept the person who is responding or ask the President himself for an answer.
u2016-05-09-149	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Since it turns out today that György Matolcsy has personally decided to steal the central bank money and his relatives have been sapphirung...
u2016-05-09-150	I'm waiting for your answer, Congressman.
u2016-05-09-151	I'd like to wait for the President of the Central Bank himself.
u2016-05-09-152	You'll have to explain this in detail. Thank you. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform the Member that the President must answer at the hour of the second immediate question. Dear Parliament, Márta Demeter, a representative of the MSZP, wants to ask the Minister of the Cabinet Office of the Prime Minister an immediate question:. Is that all right? It's an address. Congresswoman Márta Demeter has the floor.
u2016-05-09-153	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, You seek to use xenophobia to leverage political capital, while selling Hungary's right of establishment for money. You claim that EU leaders have called migrants into the European Union, while the government, the Hungarian government, is handing tens of thousands of migrants residence permits in Hungary for the purchase of settlement bonds. What are you doing? A one-time decision of 1,200 people has led them to appeal to the European Court of Justice and to launch a real communication campaign, while giving nearly 16,000 people in exchange for some loans, residence and residence permits. It's very interesting that they don't advertise it that much. You claim that the Hungarian state will benefit. The truth is not that. The truth is that the intermediary offshore companies that have made nearly 100 billion forints in the business have benefited. [[16.50]] So let's see the facts. So far, nearly 16,000 people, mostly Chinese, Russian, Iranian, Ukrainian, Pakistani, Syrian, Iraqi and Turkish citizens, have bought themselves [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: Syrians, too? Wow. Syrians too!]] residence or residence permit. Let us add that after 5 years, when this bond expires, the state will have a payment obligation of hundreds of billions of HUF, and we have no doubt that the Hungarian taxpayers will repay the interest and the total amount. In addition, I stress once again that it is not the Hungarian state that benefits, but those offshore companies that have made nearly HUF 100 billion. I think that your minister, for example, should not introduce these companies, because he knows better than anyone what kind of companies they are. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: Of course, because it's his.]] So, Secretary of State, are you finally going to tell me that you have the problem with the 1200 people who have been able to turn to the European Court of Justice that they are not paying your friends? [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] I'm waiting for your answer.
u2016-05-09-154	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary of State Tuzson Bence. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2016-05-09-155	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. With a question like that, I think it always comes out of the bag. [[Zoltán Grimlock: That's right! That's right.]] because the point of your question was that, and you have now concluded this comment by emphasising, in fact, the pro-immigration policy of the MSZP. [[An uproar in the benches of the MSZP. Zoltán Grimlock: Who brought in all those people? Dr. Gergely Bárándy: Intercoms, noise.]] A pro-immigration policy [[There's a lot of noise in the benches of the MSZP. The president's ringing the bell.]] which is not new for you [[Zoltán Gőgös: You do human trafficking.]] How many times have you said that immigration is not a problem; it is a false problem created by Fidesz. That's what you said. Accordingly, this question is false on your part. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: What is 16,000 people? The president's ringing the bell.]] As far as the specific questions are concerned. [[A voice from the benches of MSZP:]] Don't forget, you ladies and gentlemen, we are talking about budget revenue here. [[Noise in the benches of MSZP. Márta Demeter: Loan! Interjections: Bond! Bond!]] We are talking about an extremely important issue for the management of public debt, and we are not talking about letting people into the country for an infinite period of time, but on the basis of the country's business interests. [[Noise in the benches of MSZP. The president's ringing the bell.]] This measure constitutes only a temporary stay of five years. [[An uproar in the benches of the MSZP.]] The question is quite different when the European Union wants thousands, tens of thousands of people here, based on another decision, independent of Hungarians, above our heads. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: So he's not paying you.]] There's already a lawsuit in progress. We are talking about an issue that is the most important in terms of the history of Hungarians. Perhaps we can say that since 1990 there has not been such a significant issue. That is why it is important that on this fundamental issue whether Brussels can be stopped in this respect, in Hungary a referendum should be held, whether the Hungarian people want Brussels to decide who we want to live with in Hungary over the heads of Hungarians on this issue, decide who we want to live with in Hungary. I don't think so. That is our firm position. [[Noise, interruptions in the benches of MSZP. Zoltán Grimlock: Who decided to become such a bond? Why wasn't there a referendum on that? Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-05-09-156	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Before I give the floor to Mrs Márta Demeter, I will inform the Socialist Group that the possibility of dialogue has not been granted. The congresswoman has the floor, or the Secretary of State. Here you go, Congresswoman. [[Noise. A voice from Jobbik's benches: Ask for his checker.]]
u2016-05-09-157	Thank you. I see this is a very embarrassing question, because we have heard a true propagandaist's answer. It must be very embarrassing that 16,000 people can take up residence and migrate to Hungary as an economic immigrant, by the way, the government is constantly communicating that, by the way, one economic immigrant cannot enter the territory of the European Union. [[An uproar in the benches of the MSZP. Dr. Gergely Bárándy: Who are they, Prime Minister?]] So what? Just Hungary, the Hungarian government brings 16,000 economic immigrants here! And by the way, this is a loan; the Hungarian state will have to repay them hundreds of billions. Mr. Secretary. A lot of people on the Turkish and Libyan coast are trying to get rich by selling goods for the possibility of entering or settling in the European Union. They're called human smugglers. What are you doing? [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: Same thing. Intercoms and applause in the benches of the MSZP: Same!]]
u2016-05-09-158	Dear Parliament, Mr. Secretary Tuzson Bence is entitled to a rejoinder. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2016-05-09-159	Congresswoman! Yes, it is a matter of sovereignty. Indeed, the fundamental question is who can decide on the question of who can enter Hungary, who can stay here. [[Dr. István Józsa: Rogán! Intercoms in the benches of the MSZP.]] Can the Hungarian Parliament decide whether the Hungarian State can decide on this matter? [[Noise in the benches of MSZP and Jobbik. The president's ringing the bell.]] Or does someone want to take that right away from the Hungarians? [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: If Roga can decide, that's fine. Dr. István Józsa: Árpí Habony.]] I think that whatever such decision is being made, it is the Hungarians who have to make a decision on this matter anyway. It is possible to argue about certain issues that are right or wrong, but basically the question must be recorded, and that is the fundamental difference between us Hungarians and us who decide on who we want to live with. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: Not the Hungarians! Antal Rogán!]] on one side, or on the other, whether someone can decide on this matter outside of us. Can Brussels decide on this issue? These are the two things that need to be put on the balance, and that is what we need to take a stand on. [[It's constant noise. Zoltán Grimlock: Can a terrorist come for money or not? Dr. Gergely Bárándy: A paid terrorist may come.]] I think that only we Hungarians can decide on this issue, and we can decide who we want to live with. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-05-09-160	Thank you, Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Márton Gyöngyösi, representative of Jobbik, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: "There are no consequences? It's an address. Congressman Márton Gyöngyösi has the floor.
u2016-05-09-161	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr. Prime Minister, A month ago, word came out that you and a Saudi oil tycoon near your government, Ghaith Pharaon, were identified in 2008 by Forbes magazine as one of the top ten white-collar criminals named on the FBI's wanted list as responsible for the overthrow of arms and money-laundering financial institutions, and in 2012, according to a French parliamentary report, Pharaon was involved in the financing of terrorist organisations. With this background, Pharaon found surprisingly extensive business activities and business partners with surprisingly high political influence in Hungary. We do not know how much Pharaon contributed to the recovery of the settlement government bond business, but we do know that in December 2015 a company was established in Hungary that dealt with food wholesale trade and in which, alongside the owner of Gaith Pharaon, Magyar Nemzeti Kereskedőház Zrt. was also under the auspices of the Hungarian Ministry of Foreign Affairs. also owns a holding - this is the Province Food Zrt. We also know that Gaith Pharaon's company bought the ex-Postabank headquarters in József nádor tér from BDPST Zrt., which is linked to the name of István Tiborcz, and is marked by his name. Gaith Pharaon's identity and activity are surrounded by embarrassing silence, for even John Lázár, who oversees the IH, did not hear his name, as found out in one of the government briefs. [[John Lázár: That is not so.]] How credible is the government's fight against terrorism if even the Minister of IH doesn't know the name of Gaith Pharaon, or does he think that there is some national security risk involved in this? [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] That your family member, your son-in-law, is doing business directly with terrorist financing people? [[The president's ringing again.]] Don't you think, Prime Minister, you're yourself a walking...
u2016-05-09-162	Congressman!
u2016-05-09-163	... national security risk in this country? I'm looking forward to your reply. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2016-05-09-164	Dear Parliament, The Prime Minister will answer your question. Prime Minister, I give you the floor.
u2016-05-09-165	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Fellow Members! From what I can see, it's not about the man in question, it's about me, so the mountain of attacks is directed towards me, not to reveal reality. [[Grumble in the benches of Jobbik and MSZP. Dr. Gergely Bárándy: Sure, weird!]] However, if I may, I would rather talk about reality. After your motion came to light, the Hungarian Government naturally examined the Hungarian activities of the person in question. And we found that it complies with Hungarian law and does not pose a national security risk to Hungary. [[Lajos Korózs: That's what we thought!]] After all the exchange of information with the Americans has taken place, at this moment we are trying to clarify exactly what is behind this person and his affairs. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: They're just convincing this stupid CIA...]] That's where we are now. In any case, I would like to underline and reiterate that Hungary does not pose any national security risk [[John Lazarus: That's right!]] , and has been operating in Hungary in full compliance with Hungarian laws. By the way, we do not know about your extensive business relationship, we can examine your personal activities, and about this information you provide here, please consider it official information. [[John Lazarus: That is the case. Applause in the benches of the governing parties. Zoltán Haughty interrupts.]] [[17.00]]
u2016-05-09-166	Thank you, Prime Minister, for your reply. I'll give the floor to the congressman in return. Here you go.
u2016-05-09-167	Mr. Prime Minister, The fact is that you are the Prime Minister and the Prime Minister of this country, so, in that sense, yes, the question is to you, a man wanted by the FBI in the United States of America, who Forbes magazine called a white-collar criminal [[János Lázár: You can be included!]] and who has been accused of financing terrorist organisations in a French parliamentary report, has set foot here in Hungary, has done a very high level of business as a prominent person, in which your relative is involved, and is also involved in the company under the auspices of the Hungarian Ministry of Foreign Affairs, I believe that you should establish the responsibility of the Minister and also your own responsibility in this matter, and should also deduct political consistency. In such a matter, the leaders of medium-developed banana public companies also deduct political convergence and renounce the position of Prime Minister. [[An uproar in the pro-government benches.]] So please do so and consider this possibility, Prime Minister. [[A round of applause from Jobbik and LMP.]]
u2016-05-09-168	Dear Parliament, Mr. Prime Minister, you have a rejoinder. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
u2016-05-09-169	At first glance, my honourable fellow Member, it started a little high, so I would like to stay for now. [[Deterioration in the pro-government benches.]] And the fact that anyone who has a business relationship with whom, obviously, will be found out by the press. I doubt your facts, but I have never used Parliament to make it the scene of a debate between business circles. I don't know who's behind you. I don't even know who gave you the information. I don't even know who's funding you. [[Márton Gyöngyösi: Weekly Reply subscription shows!]] and what aspects lie behind the issue. Anyway, we're trying to understand how it's possible that if someone's been wanted by the FBI since 1992, they've been walking around the world. Thank you for your understanding attention. [[Dr. Zsolt Semyen: Applause from the pro-government benches.]] [[He replaced the gullible Dezső in the notary seat with Loránt Hegedűs.]]
u2016-05-09-170	Thank you, Prime Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Rózsa Hoffmann, representative of KDNP, wants to ask the Minister of National Economy an immediate question:. What does the government do to build financial awareness? It's an address. Mr. Minister has appointed Mr. András Tállai Secretary of State to respond to an urgent public mission. I ask the congresswoman if she accepts the person of the responder. [[Dr. Hoffmann Rose nods.]] Or ask the Minister himself for an answer. Congresswoman, you have the floor.
u2016-05-09-171	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, Dear Parliament, An hour ago, my fellow Christian Democrat, József Móring, interplied the Secretary of State on the issue of lack of IT knowledge. I would like to continue on a similar path, a somewhat related subject, the situation of financial awareness. [[Sándor Lezsák, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] It may not be necessary to analyse in detail the fact that over the last decade, during socialist governments, partly because of lack of information, deliberately or unwittingly, thousands of families have been destroyed in Hungary as a result of the economic and foreign exchange crisis, not least as a result of irresponsible foreign exchange loans taken on the basis of propaganda, of course. [[Dr. Lajos Szűcs in the notary seat will be replaced by Attila Gelencsér.]] The State Audit Office has recently examined the issue and in its research completed in 2016, it has been looking for an answer as to what might be the reason for the low effectiveness of programmes and training aimed at the development of financial culture. Research based on a questionnaire survey provides a comprehensive picture of the Hungarian financial culture development programmes, revealing the characteristics and shortcomings of existing training systems and programmes. The SAO considers it appropriate to strengthen the quality and effectiveness factors and to enforce them in training and vocational training programmes in order to facilitate responsible and well-founded use of public funds. That is why I respectfully ask Mr Secretary of State what the Government is doing to develop financial awareness, to develop financial culture and to what extent [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] can help schoolchildren with economic knowledge and skills [[The president's ringing again.]] and young people leaving the school bench, adults to develop financial awareness. Thank you for your patience. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2016-05-09-172	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. I salute my fellow Members. I give the floor to the Secretary of State, András Tállai.
u2016-05-09-173	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Financial awareness is a priority in the lives of families, and we believe that not only young people need to be prepared for information between financial products in our lives, but also older people, everyone needs to know what it is that borrowing is, what risks are involved; what does it mean when a family takes on foreign currency loans, but it can't be done in Hungary today, but it has been done in Hungary, so what risks are involved. Indeed, the knowledge of this knowledge would certainly have saved many families from the problem of foreign exchange lending from 2006 in Hungary during socialist governments. The Ministry of National Economy has considered what to do, and since 2015, for example, in cooperation with the Hungarian Banking Association, it participates in the Money7 series, which is a cross-European initiative. Here students learn about the importance of money, a family budget, and playful ways of educating students on how to learn farming. Financial education has already been included in the National Basic Training Plan and is being trained in several educational institutions. From autumn 2016, entrepreneurship studies will be included in the course plan of the vocational education and training programmes. We also plan to create an interactive platform online with business interests, professional organisations and include young people and those interested in it. Several other measures are being taken within the government, with government coordination, which I would like to inform you about in one minute. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2016-05-09-174	Thank you very much. Congresswoman deserves a rejoinder.
u2016-05-09-175	Yes, Mr Secretary of State, I could add that, in addition to irresponsible borrowing, for example, purchases at commodity shows, which are backed up by serious propaganda, and they prefer to deceive mainly elderly, retired people who are indebted in this way. The revision of the National Basic Training Plan is under way, as we know, it is also required by the law, scheduled for the following year. I know that the National Basics are discussing the teaching of financial knowledge. As a responsible member of the Government, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, at the same time, I would like to ask the Secretary of State and the Ministry of National Economy to pay more attention to the effectiveness of the education of these programmes. The SAO's report, which revealed that the financial awareness of Hungarian young people is very low, is not a coincidence. And, yes, training must also be organised for the adult population so that the previous problem is not repeated. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2016-05-09-176	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Mr. András Tállai has the floor.
u2016-05-09-177	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would like to tell you the story that recently Mihály Varga is also a Minister of National Economy II. district primary school and high school held an extraordinary class for students on this issue, which was a great success. Mr. Minister is expected to take several hours and there is demand among the students. The State Audit Office also deals with the issue, as it explained in its study the necessity and importance of this, which is naturally taken into account by the Ministry of National Economy. But training and lessons in the classroom are needed not only within the school system, but also in addition to other communications that can be of great help to financial service providers, financial institutions, to draw people's attention to this need. I can reassure the congresswoman that she is handling the issue in the place of the government and is seeking to raise financial awareness. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2016-05-09-178	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, András Schiffer, head of the LMP faction, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: "Do offshore communes exist? It's an address. Mr. András Schiffer's group leader. [[17.10]]
u2016-05-09-179	Thank you for the speech. Mr President, Mr. Prime Minister, [[János Lázár: This is a liberal genre!]] I thought, since your answers were so interesting last time, let's continue this conversation. On the one hand, you replied to my last immediate question that the income obtained in Hungary must be taxed in Hungary, that we can agree on this. You're absolutely right about that. The fact is that in the last 25 years, two and a half times the Hungarian government debt has been pumped out into offshore tomatoes, probably the various oligarchs that are political elite and interlinked with them. Hungary is now among the offshore-damaged countries in the first 20 countries in the world. This money, this income, is missing from hospitals today, is missing from schools because this income is not taxed here. You also told me that I find it absurd that you are asking me questions from the position that I should take responsibility for the life of any other Hungarian citizen beyond my own life. It's a straight answer from a responsible Prime Minister, but I'm willing to risk taking responsibility for those around the government, otherwise he might not accidentally find himself in the middle of an offshore commune. The fact is that in recent days it has been revealed that one of your State Secretary, István Mikola, who happens to be involved in the US Free Trade Agreement, is the owner of an offshore foundation company. We are talking about a company in Liechtenstein. But let's keep going. There is Andy G. Vajna, who you call the bravest Hungarian, who is also a government commissioner. When his economic interests were examined by Átlátsző, it turned out that he owns practically no Hungarian company, but owns his businesses in Hungary through a large offshore network. And then, of course, we arrived at the settlement bond business, where offshore companies profit greatly. My question is, when you remove the offshore knights from the government area, how long will you tolerate taxpayers' money being stolen by offshore knights from Hungary. Thank you for your answer. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2016-05-09-180	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Prime Minister Viktor Orbán.
u2016-05-09-181	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I didn't understand everything exactly. My guess is that I'm not the only one, and it's not impossible that it's not us. In any case, first of all, I can tell you that the offshore commune is a liberal genre. [[Dr. András Schiffer: Yes?]] So we are not experts in this matter. [[How long has it been? Defiance from the Jobbik benches.]] However, there are some principles that I consider important to represent, and if I understand correctly what you have said, as if we were in agreement with those principles. So, if I understand correctly, we agree that the global economy today is an open world economy, i.e. almost everything is moving in it, with the labour force and the money. In this context, we must create regulations that are in the interest of this community, our national community in Hungary. As I understand it, we also agree that the orientation principle can be formulated in a way that everyone pays taxes where they work and where they enter into business. I think this is a clear and Hungarian tax principle: those who want to earn money in Hungary should also pay taxes here. And if you want to earn money abroad, earn money abroad and pay taxes there. As I understand it, we also agree that the problem usually comes from the fact that someone doesn't want to pay taxes on their home money. I don't know anything about the specific people you've named here. That's why I can't answer that. If you have such information that someone wants to avoid paying taxes on his work and income in Hungary, be kind enough to initiate the necessary procedure in the right places - there are several of them -. What drives us is transparency. I'm glad we can at least agree on some of the principles. I am also glad that I think that Hungary has changed a lot compared to 2010, and today the generally accepted principle is that those who earn income at home pay taxes at home as well. I feel it's right that we put this on the axis of our government work. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2016-05-09-182	Thank you very much. I'll give the word to the leader of the group a rejoinder.
u2016-05-09-183	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Prime Minister, I'll try to light it up. Around your government, there's a government film commissioner who doesn't own it, but he runs his interests here through an offshore network. Three offshore companies were involved in the settlement bond business. Behind him appears the Weekly Reply according to Árpád Habony, whose exact government position I don't know, perhaps XXI. It can be described as a century-old Rasputin. [[Deterioration in the benches of Jobbik.]] In addition, he has a secretary of state with offshore interests. I have some bad news: the procedures have been initiated. We have, of course, tabled laws which, if you had not swept them off the table, such persons in Hungary today would not be able to interfere with the government if our proposal on which we initiated the procedure here in Parliament had been accepted, neither the central bank, the local governments, the government, nor the Economic Commission could have done business with investors in the Cayman Islands and Seychelles. That's the thing. You have swept these proposals off the table, and today the money so pumped out is missing from schools, missing from hospitals. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2016-05-09-184	Thank you. The Prime Minister is entitled to a rejoinder.
u2016-05-09-185	I would like to ask my fellow Member for some fairness. I would like to ask you to acknowledge that we have introduced the rule that final property and the final owner must be discovered in Hungary, otherwise there is no way to start public procurement in Hungary. [[John Lazarus: That's right!]] You're acting like you're not. [[Dr. András Schiffer: This is half of the offshore!]] And you forget that it is only because, based on the experience of previous government periods, which is not related to us, but to the socialists, we introduced this rule. Be kind and put it in our favor. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2016-05-09-186	Thank you, Prime Minister. Dear Parliament, Jenő Manninger, a representative of Fidesz, wants to ask the Minister of National Economy an immediate question: - Does the OECD's latest country report confirm the correctness of Hungarian economic policy? I would like to ask the Member if he will accept Mr András Tállai as a reply. [[Jenő Manninger: Yes, thank you very much.]] You have the floor.
u2016-05-09-187	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Last Friday, the OECD published its latest country report on Hungary, which assessed Hungary's economic performance in several respects. The question arises, reading the evaluation, whether we are on the right track, because from 2010 not only in our economic policy, but also in all our sectoral policies, we have made a complete change of approach, and we have all our efforts to pull the country that was brought out of the trench and put it on a growth path as soon as possible during the socialist-free Democratic governments of the Gyurcsány-Bajna era. [[Noise, move. Several Members leave the room.]] Obviously, this issue can be examined from a variety of perspectives, but one thing is certain: because of the changes that we have made in recent years, we have received cold and warm from the bureaucrats in Brussels to the opposition in Hungary. This was not surprising to us, because the civil government has made it clear to everyone from the very first moment that it is on the side of Hungarian families. [[It's constant noise. The president's gonna ring the bell.]] Contrary to the Gyurcsány-Bajnai governments who took away a full month's wages for people in addition to the series of increases in fees and taxes. Last week, the Secretary-General of the OECD gave a positive assessment of the 2010-2015 period of economic growth. It was very clear to him...
u2016-05-09-188	Congressman, wait a minute, we're jamming the others, I see. Be kind enough to leave the meeting room, because you cannot hear the congressman. We'll wait, Congressman. [[A moment's pause.]] You have the floor, Congressman.
u2016-05-09-189	It was therefore quite clear to everyone that the wallet of the national economy led by György Matolcsy had one important objective in mind: the restoration of the country, among other things, so that we Hungarians would not reach the fate of Greece. Despite the numerous threats from Brussels and many criticisms of the Hungarian opposition, we can now confidently say that the Matolcsy economic policy has been successful. I ask the Secretary of State: how do you evaluate the OECD report, what do you think of it, and what do you think of the lessons for the future? Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2016-05-09-190	Thank you, Congressman. Congressman, I apologize to you for your fellow Members. I give the floor to the Secretary of State, András Tállai. [[17.20]]
u2016-05-09-191	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Indeed, as you say, the OECD's published report on 6 May confirms, according to the government's position and with the agreement of the Ministry of National Economy, that the results of Hungarian economic policy are excellent, excellent; Hungarian economic policy, thus the Hungarian economy, is on the right track. After all, the Secretary-General of the OECD himself said at a press release that what is happening in Hungary in the economy is a success story, recognising the government's performance, recognising the results of economic policy and the results of the economy. This country study highlights a number of important, positive things that have led to a significant expansion of the economy, highlighting the recovery of domestic demand and stronger export performance. In order to find out what the background of this is, that internal demand has increased, he notes that in 2002 the monetary relaxation started and the growth credit programme of the Hungarian National Bank to help small and medium-sized enterprises access finance helped us to talk about such results. But he highlighted the decline in Hungary's external vulnerability, which was significantly contributed by the downsizing and outsourcing of foreign currency loans. It is also an important achievement that, in proportion to GDP, public debt is finally on a downward path and is not increasing, it is not stagnating, but it is indeed reducing the level of public debt compared to GDP. It is important to highlight the significant surplus of the balance of payments, which has been the case for many years. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] The Hungarian government was able to reach me with its result. Thank you. [[Applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2016-05-09-192	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. You have a one-minute rejoinder for the congressman.
u2016-05-09-193	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State, Indeed, there is a great deal in the OECD reports. It is certainly not pleasant for the Hungarian opposition to read in all respects, as it also recognises in recent years, such as the results of the 2013 Action Plan on the Protection of Jobs, reducing employers' contributions to generalized groups; supporting disadvantaged, primary and secondary school students in the field of education, and, of course, the economic results of the past period, which you are talking about. Of course, the OECD study also identifies tasks. In many areas, he sees it the same way as the Hungarian government. I ask you: what other tasks do you think you want to carry out, in particular, in line with the OECD study? Thank you.
u2016-05-09-194	Thank you very much. It's for the Secretary of State.
u2016-05-09-195	Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Indeed, it is true that the OECD report makes proposals, which we are pleased to see are proposals that are almost identical to the government's intentions and government's actions and decisions. For example, we are positive about the OECD's proposal for measures to whiten the economy for the government. On the one hand, the government has taken significant steps on this issue: the introduction of EKAER, an online cash register. And it is the same expectation that the government would like to continue in this area. We also agree with the proposal that public employment should be a good direction, but that its effectiveness should be increased, in particular by training and by strengthening the labour market for public workers. However, it makes important findings for women with small children to return to the primary labour market, and this is also the same as for women with small children. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Government opinion and set out in the OECD report. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2016-05-09-196	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The immediate questioning hour is closed. It is now time for a series of proposals to be discussed. The LMP Group has proposed that the Parliament decide on the requirements for trade and investment agreements concluded by the European Union with third countries H/9798. a proposal for a decision with a serial number to be included in the series of items. The series of articles was rejected by the Committee on European Affairs. First I give the floor to the author, within a five-minute time frame. Mr. András Schiffer Group Leader, LMP!
u2016-05-09-197	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, The proposal presented to the House by the LMP is about nothing more than the protection of Hungary's sovereignty. For in the coming decades, the greatest challenge that could be faced with the freedom of self-determination of individual countries and nations is the seizure that has been launched by various global corporations against the self-determination of people. Our proposal for a resolution calls for two things and obliges the government. One of them is that during the negotiation of various free trade agreements, and not only the so-called TTIP free trade agreement with the United States, but also the Canadian and TiSA - which is even more dangerous - should strongly represent the Service Trade Agreement, which requires the consent of the nation states to enter into force and ratify such agreements. The Hungarian government should stand on its heels in Brussels and demand that no bureaucrat remembers that, even temporarily, without the approval of national parliaments, these conventions are put into effect. In the other part of our proposal for a decision, we call on the Government not to support the creation of any free trade agreement which threatens the level of environmental protection, food safety, labour rights guarantees or health protection already achieved in Europe. Dear Parliament, Today, the XXI. In the century, we are living in an era where the greatest conflict is actually no longer between the different coalitions of nations or nations, but between global corporations and the various democratic institutions. The series of conventions, which is currently in Brussels, shows in its creation what interests are really moving. The U.S.-European Free Trade Convention is being negotiated by encrypting the documents of the negotiations for 30 years. Greenpeace has just released some terrifying data on the negotiations and the forming agreement, and while the United States is demanding in a loud voice as a teacher in various countries on the planet how much they consult civil society, they are so in agreement that they arrive at negotiations with six hundred lobbyists in Brussels. We are faced with an agreement where, if the health of people, the natural environment, the protection of natural resources, a national parliament, a freely elected government, takes a legal decision under its internal law, this country can then be brought to offshore courts, and there the judges appointed by large companies, paid by large companies, will be judged, and they will be richly paid for their own profits to nationals of that country of responsibility. They want to shove agreements down our throats, the message of which is clear that profit is better than man. Hungary can never yield to such claims. Dear Parliament, On the basis of the documents published by Greenpeace, it is quite clear that, on the basis of the US-European Free Trade Agreement, if and if it is already loaded and waiting for adoption, we cannot protect Hungary's GMO-free status, regardless of the Fundamental Law. What's this about? The Convention, as well as the already established Canadian-European Convention, which could otherwise be prevented only by a Hungarian veto, interrupts the precautionary principle. It breaks off the precautionary principle, which says that chemicals cannot be placed on shelves, food products that do not have an impact on human health and natural resources. Instead, they introduce a risk-based approach, which is good for big companies, good for profits. I think it is no coincidence that 40 percent of the US food products could not be placed on the market in Europe today, and that is right. We must clearly oblige the Government of Hungary to say no for the sake of Hungary's independence, the freedom of self-determination of the Hungarian people, and not least for future generations, natural resources and Hungarian workers. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] to a convention, which, not least, will lead to the loss of 600 000 jobs in Europe. Thank you very much. [[17 .30]]
u2016-05-09-198	Thank you, Mr. Group Leader. Dear Parliament, Now, one representative per group of representatives can present his position in a two-minute time frame and the first independent representative to speak in a two-minute time frame. First, I give the floor to the right-hand Member, Márton Gyöngyösi, who has applied in writing.
u2016-05-09-199	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, The Jobbik Movement for Hungary consistently represents the position that every issue that concerns Hungarian people must be decided in Parliament, as this is the basis of our national sovereignty, in this sense the Jobbik Movement for Hungary supports the LMP's proposal for a decision. However, it is more than disappointing that this is a matter of national sovereignty, which is indeed a matter of national sovereignty, on the part of that government and on the part of the ruling parties, we are constantly seeing a two-faced communication and communication, a tough freedom fighter action at home and a bedtime in Brussels before the great pressure. In this sense, we suspect that the government and the Hungarian government parties have agreed with the industrial lobby. It supports a free trade agreement which essentially threatens our national sovereignty, which violates the sovereignty of national justice and which also threatens the principles of equality of law, as a result of the adoption of the dispute settlement mechanism and the involvement of profit-oriented private courts. The precautionary principle is threatened by the fact that the risk-based principle established in North America is applied on the basis of these contracts and that large business interests prevail instead of the interests of consumers and citizens. The transparency that my fellow Member has been talking about, and the encryption system also increases our suspicions and speaks against the treaty in this sense. This is more than a trade and economic matter, nation states cannot be replaced by large companies, companies cannot be placed on the basis of democracy. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] that the Parliament and the supreme representative of national sovereignty, the Parliament, shall decide [[The president's ringing again.]] on matters of particular importance. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-05-09-200	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Congressman Bertalan Tóth of the Hungarian Socialist Party.
u2016-05-09-201	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, The Group of the Hungarian Socialist Party also supports the inclusion of this LMP initiative in a series of subjects, and let us talk about it in Parliament, not only because we need to talk about these issues in Parliament, but also because it draws attention to these serious issues, since in the long term, Hungary's fate and economic life are affected by any decision made by the European Union in its agreement with third countries. Thus, not only Parliament, but also NGOs and professional organisations outside Parliament, should have the opportunity to express their views in such agreements and to be heard by Members of Parliament before taking decisions. There's one thing I'm having an argument with Andras Schiffer. I am convinced and the faction that it is not the international capital that Hungary and Hungary's economy are trapped in the trap, but the Fidesz criminal organization whose examples and phenomenon we see every day - National Bank, in the Quaestor case, in the gambling case, during the traffikmuty, during the circumvention of the land - and the big question is, in fact, that if in such a global world this Hungarian economy were to enter into this blood circulation in such a state, it would cause serious damage to the Hungarian economy and Hungarian society. We support all such issues that Parliament can discuss, as we support this proposal. Thank you very much.
u2016-05-09-202	Thank you, Congressman. The position of the Fidesz Group is presented by Member Richard Hörcsik.
u2016-05-09-203	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, The Fidesz-KDNP Fraction Association supports the inclusion in the series, but our committee, the Committee on European Affairs, has discussed this proposal and we have abstained in a larger part. What was the reason for our stay at the committee meeting? Firstly, that this motion consists of several elements, so the subject is not only TTIP, but also CETA, the EU's free trade agreement with Canada, which is, at the same time, a closed and negotiated international treaty, which means that national parliaments cannot shape the process in substance here. The motion also concerns the negotiation of a service trade agreement, where a completely new system of aspects has emerged in accordance with the relevant WTO rules regulation of the World Trade Organisation. However, we thought that there was a part of the proposal that was particularly relevant for the plenary session of Parliament, and that was the greater involvement of national parliaments. I am thinking quite precisely that, as my fellow Member has mentioned, as the EU-US Free Trade Convention, it cannot enter into force without ratification by the national Parliament of the Member States of the European Union. We agree that it is not enough for the European Parliament to decide, but for the Member States to use the instrument of ratification. I believe that there is a place for this, especially now, in the resolution of migration matters, so that national parliaments have a say in this, and therefore, overall, we are in favour of putting it on the agenda, and I repeat that in the proposal for a decision, you want to treat three issues on different subjects and at a negotiating stage in a similar manner, which needs to be amended in its present form, so I hope that the rapporteur will have the opportunity in the debate to adjust this. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-05-09-204	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr Benedek Sallai complements the position of the LMP.
u2016-05-09-205	Yes, I think it will not be a big surprise, Mr President, if I tell you that the May Other Group of Politics supports the inclusion of the subject series, because this goes much further than just talking about how food from genetically manipulated organisms endangers Hungarian health and how it endangers Hungarian environmental safety and environmental health. It goes far beyond the fact that it destroys, who knows how many farmers are flooded with products produced under completely different regulatory conditions. In my opinion, this is more than just abandoning the sovereignty of the country by adopting the Transatlantic Free Trade Convention, which can be measured roughly for EU accession. It is practically a free market, as if the EU were to be expanded by Hungary or the European Union with America, and it is obviously not good to create a single trade with completely different regulatory factors in a different country. Trying to create a single set of rules in a number of areas through the European Union's directives will allow us not to be a step-by-step disadvantage and our economy not to be a step-by-step disadvantage, but this does not apply to America. A multitude of EU directives will not be applied there, resulting in life-threatening, health-threatening products obtained through authorisation procedures, a multitude of food products being produced there, giving producers there a market advantage over all European producers by industrial means. This is about the sovereignty of the country, it is about whether Hungary's environmental security, the society of Hungary, the economy of Hungary can survive. No one, with normal, sane sense, who achieves thinking in the nation in Hungary, can support such an effort, because obviously thinking in the nation is one by protecting and ensuring sustainable use of our resources within closed limits, within geographical limits, using a common language. This is what is important for the Hungarian Parliament and the legislator to make sure that this effort is done, so I ask for the implementation of the series of articles. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Martin Gyöngyösi applauds.]]
u2016-05-09-206	Thank you very much. I will ask the author if he wishes to respond to what has been said. [[For signal:]] Congressman András Schiffer!
u2016-05-09-207	Thank you very much, Mr President, and thank you very much for your support. I just want to respond to a few things. On the one hand, it is indeed international conventions at different stages, but on the other hand, it is necessary to lay down principles of negotiation for all three of them and to lay down, for all three conventions, that national parliaments cannot be bypassed. [[17.40]] Why? CETA, the Canadian Convention, is a loophole to allow American food-terrorist global companies to walk in and destroy Hungary's GMO-free status. That is why this proposal for a resolution is now on the table, because, as far as the Canadian Convention is concerned, they are already preparing to circumvent the national parliaments. The Service Trade Agreement, TISA, is all about the fact that individual countries are offering their education, health and public services markets to different global companies at all. There is a strong need to say no to this, and it must be said that we do not allow different global large companies to regulate Hungarian education, Hungarian health care and Hungarian public services. The documents published by Greenpeace also show that, in the context of the negotiation of the US Convention, these large companies demand such rights that the next time the Hungarian Parliament negotiates health and education issues or, say, the reduction of the rent, we will involve these large companies in the preparation of the decision. This must be clearly and definitely said no. Hands off the democratic institutions in Europe! It must be made clear that Hungary is going to cross all attempts to reconstruct. This is what this proposal for a decision is about, and not least the fact that these conventions have a disadvantage for the countries of periphery, semi-periphery and Eastern Europe. Only German automotive companies in Europe will benefit from this, and we cannot turn Hungary into a assembly plant. Thank you very much.
u2016-05-09-208	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, The decision will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, The Jobbik Group proposed that the Parliament decide on the XXXVI of 2012 on Parliament for the sake of the establishment of committees of inquiry. T/10085. Bill No. 1 on inclusion in the series of articles. The series of articles was rejected by the Judicial Committee. Dear Parliament, First, I will give the floor to the author within a five-minute time frame. You have the floor, Congressman Gábor Staudt, Jobbik.
u2016-05-09-209	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, I am very pleased that this proposal may come before the Parliament, even in the sense that Parliament must decide what the Judicial Committee has rejected. I trust that the Parliament will override the decision of the committee, as it did in the LMP motion for instance, and that Parliament will decide that, indeed, in the future, it will have to be given the opportunity to stand up for committees of inquiry, as it used to be. Our motion contains nothing more than the previous rules, which were regulated in the new Parliamentary Act, and in fact make it impossible for any committee of inquiry to be set up that does not correspond to the majority of Fidesz-KDNP, which would investigate matters of the Fidesz-KDNP majority and cases not supported by the Fidesz-KDNP majority, what crimes have been committed, whether by circumventing the various authorities, or what crimes have been committed by authorities that have committed inadequate, even investigative work. So we would like to restore this legislation, which we also need to know is unfortunately due to a Fidesz-MSZP pact that we have come to the point that we cannot set up a committee of inquiry today. This may be painful, but it was said that a MSZP amendment was adopted with great pleasure by the Fidesz-KDNP majority at the time. At that time, it was possible to see that the MSZP was probably afraid of being accounted for, afraid that too many committees of inquiry could be set up to investigate the activities of governments before 2010. But they didn't have to be afraid of fidesz accountability, it seems, because such committees didn't stand up before, or could have been created later with the support of the Fidesz, the Fidesz-KDNP majority, but, as we have seen, accountability was not in the interest of the majority of Fidesz-KDNP, nor was it possible, in any case, to set up a committee of inquiry in minority Members in Parliament. It is not enough, therefore, to support one fifth of the Members, to adopt a rubber rule on the basis of which anything can be said to preclude the setting up of a committee of inquiry, such as an interpellation and a written question, to clarify a matter. If it can be clarified, no committee of inquiry can be set up. But whether we can be clarified with questions, interpellation, immediate questions, will be decided by the majority, or by the committee that has to agree to let us say that its conditions exist for the establishment of such a committee of inquiry. So you will determine it, the majority. Then, even if some other public body, prosecutor's office, State Court of Auditors investigates, there is no way to set up a committee of inquiry. This is also strange because the Parliament works, especially with the power of the public, on the basis of a completely different methodology, such as the Public Prosecutor's Office or even the State Audit Office. So it's hard to compare apples to pears. Not to mention, if, let's say, in the case of settlement government bonds, someone abused the data, e.g. by submitting documents to different companies or trying to obtain a settlement government bond in the Hungarian State, does that rule out that the construction itself is being examined by the committee and that the construction committee should be set up? That's absurd. So there is no definition of which element of the design is based on which, if there is an investigation in it, the whole design cannot be tested in the first place. I must say that the establishment of committees of inquiry to the public is a force that shows what is taking place in the country. They're usually even committees. So, even if there is no decision, because the government side does not contribute to this or can not convince government representatives, then obviously there are no final decisions or decisions to be taken, but the various cited witnesses and the state leaders, politicians or even economic actors who should go and could be interrogated at the meeting of such a committee, a lot of useful information from these meetings would be available to the public, and this could influence the outcome of the next elections. That's what you're afraid of, not the real legal findings. I would very much like the Parliament to change its opinion and the opinion of the Justice Committee, and we will adopt this regulation. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches. Dr. András Schiffer applauds.]]
u2016-05-09-210	Thank you, Congressman. The position of Fidesz is presented by Mr Répássy Róbert.
u2016-05-09-211	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Honourable Member of the Council, It is not uninteresting, so I would like to describe the provisions of the Parliamentary Act on the functioning of the House, which Jobbik intends to remove from the House Rules of Parliament with its bill. This is the 24th Parliamentary Act. Paragraph 1 second, third and fourth sentences. This is the case that the Constitutional Court, the State Audit Office and the local authorities are responsible for establishing individual legal liability. The investigation shall not extend to cases which are at the stage of the preparation of the decision. Furthermore, the investigation should not extend to the examination of a case which is the subject of ongoing criminal, criminal, criminal, civil or official proceedings. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. In itself, it would have been enough if I had just read this and again stressed that Jobbik wanted a committee of inquiry to be set up, once again, to establish an individual legal responsibility in a case that falls within the competence of the Constitutional Court. [[Dr. Gábor Staudt: Yes.]] in a case which falls within the competence of the State Audit Office or falls within the competence of the local authorities, and in a case which is the subject of criminal, criminal, criminal, civil or administrative proceedings. Well, this House, I do not have to prove very much that this is fundamentally contrary to the principle of division of power enshrined in the Fundamental Law. Jobbik very wittyly left that reference at 24. § (1) which refers to Article C (1) of the Fundamental Law, where the principle of division of power is stated in the Fundamental Law. But obviously, if we accepted Jobbik's proposal, all this would vanish into nothing with regard to Parliament, there would be no significance for the principle of power-sharing from now on, since the Parliament would assume the responsibilities of the aforementioned constitutional bodies. Therefore, the proposal cannot be supported. Thank you very much. [[17.50]] Article 1 of the Fundamental Law, which refers to Article C (1) of the Fundamental Law, where the principle of division of power is stated in the Fundamental Law. But obviously, if we accepted Jobbik's proposal, all this would vanish into nothing with regard to Parliament, there would be no significance for the principle of power-sharing from now on, since the Parliament would assume the responsibilities of the aforementioned constitutional bodies. Therefore, the proposal cannot be supported. Thank you very much.(17.50)
u2016-05-09-212	Thank you very much, Congressman. The position of the LMP is presented by Mr András Schiffer.
u2016-05-09-213	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Of course, we support the inclusion of the series of subjects. I would like to say to my fellow Member, Mr Répássy, that there is no debate between us - I allow it, we may have an argument with Jobbik - that Parliament, a parliamentary body, cannot participate in the exercise of the powers of the Constitutional Court. You're absolutely right about that. However, I would like to give a single example of why we are in favour of this better proposal. After the outbreak of the NAV scandal, where you and the prosecution are sabotaging the investigation to this day, LMP has repeatedly initiated a committee of inquiry with the support of our opposition colleagues on the basis of the rules in force. We have made it clear that we do not want a committee of inquiry to override or withdraw ongoing criminal proceedings or tax administration procedures. We wanted to explore and interestingly examine a period in which not only you, but also the caviar left, have been in power since 2007 on what kind of government power interventions have enabled chained tax evasion. Not least, our committee of inquiry also wanted to find an answer as to what opportunities the legislator, the Parliament, would have in order to prevent chained-up VAT fraud. I cannot imagine what is more of a parliamentary board task than to see if there is a social anomaly in order to eliminate it, the legislation has done everything it can. We wanted to set up a committee of inquiry for this, but you were hiding, with all kinds of barricades in Vas Imre, interfering with each letter in order not to be able to set up a committee of inquiry. During the Gyurcsány period, you have constantly initiated, precisely you, my fellow Member Répássy, Committees of Inquiry. So you're the ones who've been treading on the principle of power-sharing? Is that what this was about? Or is it just that they're trying to hide the stolen billions, and that's why they don't want committees of inquiry? Thank you.
u2016-05-09-214	Thank you, Mr. Group Leader. The position of the Jobbik Group is presented by the predecessor Novák.
u2016-05-09-215	Dear Parliament, We were forced to submit a bill in order to be able to set up the committees of inquiry because representatives of the MSZP, Attila Mesterházy, Gábor Simon and his accomplices, submitted an amendment on 26 March 2012 in order to tighten the regulation on the setting up of committees of inquiry, which Fidesz, of course, was happy to adopt, and since its adoption, no parliamentary committee has been formed, even though there have been investigations into issues of a species of concern such as the financial background of the Simicska Empire. Thus, the MSZP, fearing otherwise legitimate and timely accountability of their party, gave the majority of Parliament a means of fully preventing the formation of any opposition inquiry committee, thus completely evacuating this legal institution. I have no doubt that this proposal will then be voted off by both MSZP, if it is consistent and Fidesz, as it was swept down by my fellow Member Tamás Gaudi-Nagy's equally justified proposal that any Hungarian citizen should appear before a committee of inquiry or every committee, and if not, as Ferenc Gyurcsány did in the case of his non-accounting in the autumn of 2006, but not even as a witness in the case of Parliament, then it should be sanctioned: lose his mandate, at least lead him forward or talk about anything. However, you refused to talk about it, and perhaps it was Mr Répássy, State Secretary, who rejected the proposal for such an amazing reason as to understand the problem, but not to solve it, but rather to change the political culture, that a former prime minister must comply with his obligation to appear in the Constitution, which was still required in the Constitution, and has since been abolished. They said that political culture needs to be changed. I beg you to vote down our bill because we expect you to bring political culture here, Ferenc Gyurcsány? From where, I beg of you, Balatoness? ! Is that what you're waiting for? Well, don't wait. Here's the Jobbik's proposal, they'd rather accept it, then there'll be a radical change. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-05-09-216	Thank you very much, Congressman. On behalf of the MSZP, Congressman Gergely Bárándy has applied. You have the floor.
u2016-05-09-217	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Now, just calm down a little bit. Congressman Novak, I believe you don't like us, but you don't have to talk nonsense. First of all, the Jobbik's proposal, which was in this direction, we've always supported it, maybe he forgot that, or his memory is selective. Secondly, before 2012, before this was incorporated into the law, the activities of MSZP governments were examined by several parliamentary committees, so we could hardly believe that this proposal would prevent Parliament from investigating these activities. Three: if I am not mistaken, Congressman Novak, before 2012, before this was incorporated into the law, there was no committee of inquiry investigating the Fidesz government's activities, even though it had been governed for two years. In other words, Fidesz uses an abusive legal reference which was not, by the way, about this, not about that. I can't help it when a governing party that has a majority in Parliament, that is to say, to vote for what it wants, is abusively exercising its rights and licenses. That's what this is about and nothing else. Ladies and gentlemen, The one talking about MSZ-Fidesz pact is crazy; I'm sorry to say that. On the other hand, Jobbik is absolutely right - that is why we are in favour of this proposal - it is absurd that in six years no committee of inquiry has stood up in Parliament to investigate the activities of the current Fidesz government. The purpose of the committees of inquiry is not to carry out historical tasks, but to control the current government, which is the result of parliamentary powers. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, the proposals that will help the government to be more effective in monitoring will always be supported, even if the rapporteur has presented what he would have liked in such a penetrant style. Thank you very much.
u2016-05-09-218	Thank you very much, Congressman. You have two minutes to respond to the author. You have the floor.
u2016-05-09-219	Thank you very much, Mr. President. We do not know what happened in the background, but the MSZP tabled the amendment and Fidesz-KDNP supported it. What if it's not cooperation? ! But the rubber law that's written here practically doesn't allow any inquiry to take place. By the way, I would say to Mr Répássy, State Secretary, that we lived in a dictatorship until 2012, because he says that if the old rules were to come into force, then the division of powers would not take place, and that the countries in which the division of powers does not take place, are called dictatorships or the European Union - with a parentheses closed. I must also say that Parliament is the main body of popular representation. The Parliament does not remove powers and rights from the bodies that should have examined these matters, but controls them. 'Cause if you do, you'll have to check the D.A.'s office to see if you've done a good job. And a committee of inquiry will not control the decisions, decisions taken by the State Court of Auditors or the Public Prosecutor's Office, but will reveal to the public the evidence, obtained documents, testimonies and the whole process transparently and transparently, on the basis of which voters will be able to completely decide whether, say, the prosecutor's office and the Supreme Prosecutor's Office are doing their job in a transparent manner, and in the next elections, if the Prime Minister or the Governor's majority does not think that certain leaders should be replaced by up to two thirds, then the voters will say that the government and the parliamentary majority that has not taken the necessary steps and appointed party people in the main decision-making positions must go because the process that you are doing cannot be accepted is the process that you are doing. This is what they are afraid of, and I do not want to make it clear to the people, but the proposal will still be submitted, and we are asking the Parliament to support it. Thank you. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-05-09-220	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The decision will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, As announced at the time of the adoption of the agenda, I would like to inform you that Mrs Zsuzsanna Szelényi, an independent Member, has today informed the President of the Parliament that the H/9973 on making parliamentary elections more democratic. The rapporteur is unable to participate in the course of the hearing of his application for inclusion in the series of articles. In view of this, Article 39 of the Parliament Act. Pursuant to paragraph 2 of Section 2 of the Act, the Parliament does not discuss the application for inclusion in the series of articles. [[18.00]] Dear Parliament, We cannot begin the proposal for the next amendment because the government's representative is missing. [[Dr. András Schiffer: The government is not in position. The First of Novak: Shame!]] So I'm going to take a little break until the government representative arrives. [[It's a short break.]] Dear Parliament, The government is in place and therefore the 2012 XLI on passenger transport services follows. Discussion of the Commission's report on the proposed amendment to the Act. T/10297 submitted by MEPs János Halász and Róbert Répássy Fideszes The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. Dear Parliament, I'll ask if any of the authors would like to speak. [[John the Fisherman reporting.]] Yeah. Then I will give the floor to Mr János Halász on behalf of the authors. Obviously, the author knows that they have a ten-minute time frame at their disposal. You have the floor.
u2016-05-09-221	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, I would just like to say this in a prerogative: the last time we had a general debate on this bill, two factions were present and gave an opinion. The Jobbik faction, after its opinion, supported the proposal, from the MSZP fraction, although not those who are present but were completely different here and expressed many criticisms, we were therefore looking forward to the amendments. I told you this in my closet at the time, but there was no proposal for an amendment. There was a faction, the LMP, which was not here, who submitted an amendment, but there was no opportunity to discuss it, because they were neither here nor at the committee meeting, and there was no one here from the group. But we're used to this. I therefore appeal to this House that, of course, even after the end of today's debate, and then tomorrow, as we originally tabled, we will adopt it. I hope that we can close the agenda very briefly. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-05-09-222	Thank you very much, Congressman. I would like to ask you, on behalf of the Government, if you would like to comment and speak. He doesn't want to. The microphone, if you would, Mr. Secretary.
u2016-05-09-223	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, The Government agrees with the proposal and asks that the Parliament support the proposal. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-05-09-224	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. No rapporteur was drawn up by the designated Economic Committee. Dear Parliament, It is now up to the Members to speak within the time-frame on the agenda. There is no possibility of a two-minute comment during the debate. First, I will give the floor to the speaker who has been announced, Mr István Józsa, who is not in the room. I'll see if anyone wants to comment. [[Dr. István Józsa enters the Chamber.]] But Congressman Józsa has arrived. We'll wait for Congressman. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2016-05-09-225	Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2016-05-09-226	I'm sure you know which agenda we're on. Here.
u2016-05-09-227	Yeah. I turned to T/10091. The Law No 10297 amends the Act on Passenger Transport Services of 2012. In the slang, which is the subject of the amendment, it concerns the carriage of passengers by a small town-viewing train, and I am sorry to mention this less serious limbo swing approach, which is what many people call this otherwise very popular tourist opportunity. It is entirely appropriate that the government wishes to regulate this activity and according to the authors, they can currently operate without legislation on slow-track vehicles. In view of this, the municipal authorities will be able to determine in their decree the size, appearance and technical design of such small trains and sightseeing vehicles, on which route, according to which timetable, this should, let us say, be primarily the subject of municipal judgement and under what conditions they can be used. This part is already a bit of a concern, because some of these conditions could indeed be a municipal authority, while others could also be based on competition on the market. Therefore, the condition, the requirements which such passenger transport activities are proposed for intermediaries, may be imposed on the local government by the municipalities on a public debt exemption and a certain amount of capital power, as well as on the infocommunications tools to be used. Given the elements of the regulation mandate, it becomes clear that road safety was not the case here, it is not just a matter of road safety, but also that local authorities may be given decision-making powers that, to some extent, are foreign to the market as to who can carry out the local small train transport, who can own this business, this activity. If it were indeed in the interest of the local population and if it were in the interest of tourism, the most important aspect would be in this amendment of the law as to the area in which these tourism vehicles may operate, from meth to how far. This look, and particularly capital power, has little to do with the fact that such criteria are being put forward. In this sense, of course, it is not right to have, in particular, no legal guidance by means of certain means of transport from a restraint aspect. But it seems that this proposal falls on the other side of the horse and offers the possibility of regulation to the extent that a sightseeing small train would not really require. What is particularly scandalous is that the municipalities can help certain entrepreneurs who are sympathetic to the body of representatives through this regulation, they can create a new market for these companies, while others, for example, if their vehicle proves to be non-likable or if they consider its capital strength to be inadequate, are no longer in line with the new municipal regulation, so that they may also be able to impose competitive companies on the market. [[18.10]] In view of all this, the MSZP cannot support the proposal because we feel it is over-extending and we consider it over-extending. We do not doubt that these vehicles were not previously subject to any regulation. Therefore, the idea of the proposal is eligible, but the fact that it is expansive is not. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2016-05-09-228	Thank you very much, Congressman. I'm gonna ask you if anyone else wants to use the word in the remaining time frame. [[For signal:]] This is Congressman Gergely Bárándy, MSZP.
u2016-05-09-229	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, Dear rapporteur, I do not want to repeat, of course, the concerns and problems expressed by my fellow Member Józsa, but I would draw attention to the fact that, if they already regulate this issue, they could, for example, focus on issues that should be considered so that these means of transport, for example, can travel not only within a settlement but also between municipalities. I am thinking, for example, of cases where these are justified by tourism considerations. Let me mention one example and say, let me say, in Tihany and Balatonfüred, there is a small train like this, but in order to get from Balatonfüred to Tihany with such a small train, let me say, to see an outdoor performance or, say, to go from Tihany to Balatonfüred for the wine weeks and, of course, to drink wine and to return home with this small train, that would be a good thing. If the regulation is being drawn up, and that is why I wanted to bring it up now, then it would be worth thinking about, we are talking about a total of 2-3-4 kilometers. If these two settlements, or perhaps this and Csopak, were to be connected, then I think that there would be a substantial change, if I say once again, this regulation would be taken out. I assume that these problems come not only with regard to the three settlements mentioned, but in many cases they would also solve problems such as, say, holiday resorts and resorts, where people would like to drink alcohol or just not want to drive, or just because they do not want to get into a car in the absence of a parking space, but they do not want to use public transport and normal public transport, this could be a good solution. So I would also like to draw the attention of the national and government to this aspect, not repeating, of course, all the reservations that Congressman Józsa has said. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2016-05-09-230	Thank you, Congressman. I'll ask if anyone else would like to speak in the specified timeframes. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see a sign. Dear Parliament, The debate is closed. I'll give the floor to the author, if you'd like to speak to him, you have eight minutes and 31 seconds. John the Fisherman!
u2016-05-09-231	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Very briefly, for the record. István Józsa typically didn't know what he was talking about because he called the government his author. Congressman, you can put the phone down. I'll wait for you because I wanted to speak to you as rapporteur. [[Dr. István Józsa: I'm listening!]] Thank you very much; I apologize if you don't. The fact is that the rapporteur here is two Members, and the government supports this proposal, I would only draw your attention to this little thing, because when you came in, you clearly didn't know where you were and what you were talking about, and it was strange from your mouth, it wasn't usually so unprepared, but your statistics certainly improved. And I, in order to stop improving mine, will finish now and ask once again this House to support this proposal. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks. Dr. István Józsa: It was therefore a waste of time to ask.]]
u2016-05-09-232	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, It follows from the initiative of the referendum, the European Citizens' Initiative and the 2013 CCXXXVIII on the referendum procedure. The Commission's reports on the amendment of the Act and the debate on the draft amendment. The government referral is T/9894. a serial number and the Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the parliamentary IT network. Dear Parliament, First, the position of the Legislative Committee and the formulated minority opinion will be presented in a 15-minute time frame. First, I give the floor to Congressman Vas Imre - who is not present, so I cannot give the floor. Then the minority opinion will be presented within a 7-minute time frame. Congressman Gergely Bárándy!
u2016-05-09-233	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Of course, it's weird to say minority opinion in a way that we don't know what it's compared to, but I'm trying to put it in a way that makes the majority stand out. At the meeting of the Legislative Committee, since it was essentially technical amendments, there was only a debate. This was also a technical amendment, according to the opinion of the majority, and according to Mr Secretary of State. In my view, however, it is very meaningful, and this opinion was also shared by my fellow Members who took the minority position. This was, in particular, about the fact that, in my view, one really meaningful amendment would have been the amendment in which the duration of the Curia's proceedings would have been reduced from 90 days to 30 days. I think that this is a very substantive issue on such a subject, where we see that sometimes there have been successful or ineffective initiatives over hours, minutes and even seconds, there is no difference at all, and it cannot be considered technical. There was, therefore, a proposal, according to the amendment, which would have delivered the deadline for the settlement of Mansion from 90 days to 30 days. This was not accepted by the Legislative Committee with a pro-government amendment proposal or, in particular, a point of order, which asked for a separate vote on this provision in the line of amendments. I still don't know and I don't understand why. This is exactly what the debate was or would have been about at the meeting of the Legislative Committee, because I and my fellow Members wanted to ask either the Member who made the proposal or the Secretary of State what the conceptual reason for the change was. Obviously, there was some reason why you would have maintained 90 days earlier, and then proposed an amendment to make this 30, and then stopped at the TAB meeting, but why there was no mention of it. There were witty, funny comments, and I mean those, and I appreciate that, and if you treat it in the man's place, then they're fine. But it would be good if today's debate had a meaningful answer to the reason for this. Is it because the government has changed its mind; is it because of the hasty submission of an amendment; is it possible that the Curia has given an opinion at some point during the legislative process, and has it made some claim that the government or the Fidesz fraction has accepted? So there may be many reasons, and there may also be an acceptable reason, but it is unacceptable, I say now and I said then that we should not receive a substantive response to such an amendment, which I think is a clear change of substance for everyone. Once again - I will not speak again in the debate, if I get an answer to this, obviously if the answer is correct, especially not - I would ask you to say something meaningful about why this deadline could not be shortened. [[18.20]] By the way, I would like to add that those who drafted the minority opinion, personally, too, were very happy that 90 days would be shorter for 30 days, because here we would have come at least a little further on procedural issues that were already problematic. Thank you very much.
u2016-05-09-234	Thank you, Congressman. I'll ask the author, Mr. Secretary of State Völner, if you'd like to comment now or at the end. It says now. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2016-05-09-235	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Just don't get me on that charge, but I have no other answer, of course, than what was said in the committee, that it was visible that this was a technical amendment package that came before the TAB, and that, after you have asked whether this referral had happened in agreement with the Curia, it was not, and that is the simple explanation, so that there should be no exclusivity to the matter that we had deviated from the previous regulation. It is also known that a more detailed sweep of the law may take place at a later stage. Then, of course, these questions will be returned. I believe that we have managed to achieve a version here in the debate that is supported by everyone, and on two-thirds issues, it is obvious that a sudden abbreviation of the deadline would be very sensitive without the Curia, let us say, knowing that there is such a change. Thank you very much.
u2016-05-09-236	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. I ask the Honourable Parliament if anyone wishes to speak in the next period. The time frame on the table, the designated Judicial Committee, did not present a rapporteur. Yes, I see a candidate, Dóra Dúró, who presents the opinion of the Jobbik Group.
u2016-05-09-237	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, There are other issues that have not been answered in the debate, in the committee or in the plenary, and we have also tabled amendments to this. We have literally tabled an amendment which is in line with the proposal of the President of the National Election Office regarding the collection of signatures. The professional proposal of the National Election Office states that the specimen of the signature collection sheet is the only one to be taken from the National Election Office, otherwise this is also the case in the current regulations. The Ministry of Justice, although it was Prime Minister Viktor Orbán personally who asked the National Election Office for professional proposals, submitted this proposal by changing the presentation of the President of the National Election Office, and now not only the specimen, but all the pieces of the signature collection sheet can only be requested from the National Election Office. This makes the collection of signatures extremely difficult logistically, as 200 thousand valid signatures have to be collected to issue the election, so, as a signature collection sheet has eight signatures, it is almost 220 thousand signatures, which have to be taken from the National Election Office, and they also follow the logic of the electoral procedure law in respect of the fine. In such a case, it is very important to examine what has been the practice of the Orbán governments and the National Election Office regarding the printing of signatures sheets, ballot papers and national consultation questionnaires, and if Mr.Secretary Soltész remembered Ákos Erdős in his response to an interpellation today, then allow me to bring his name here as well. He was right to be outraged by the fact that, during the Gyurcsány government, Ákos Erdős actually bought the National Book Publisher in such a way that there was an offer more favourable to the state than one billion forints, but he was chosen at the time. I could ask why Mr. Secretary of State is outraged by this, why Ákos Erdős was not then accounted for and why Ference Gyurcsány was not accounted for. Well, because in 2014 Ákos Erdős received a HUF 2.3 billion commission for the production of the three election ballots, without an open public procurement procedure, because it was his company that was able to produce these ballots in accordance with national security interests. This procedure was established in 2011 by the Orbán Government in a government decree in order to trust someone without public procurement in such a amount of money. Therefore, they referred to national security interests when they entrusted Ákos Erdős with such funds, but the story was flawed, because two US companies had an interest in the company they trusted. So in 2014, the Hungarian ballot papers were produced by a company in which American companies also have an interest, and you believe that this does not pose a national security risk, and it is even extremely safe, and that is why the procurement procedure can be ignored. And what does God give you when you launched a national consultation on immigration, who was the company that also produced the national consultation questionnaires and won this opportunity? The interest of Ákos Erdős is the same company that produced the ballots. The explanatory statement of the proposal is that it is necessary to take over all the signature collection sheets only from the National Election Office, so that there will be less abuse, since during the collection of signatures, a very large number of NGOs join the collection of signatures during a referendum initiative, and it is much simpler logistically, and this was the proposal of the President of the National Election Office, as he has been dealing with this issue for years, and has made a professional proposal and a realistic proposal. This has been changed by the Ministry of Justice, after all the precedents that I have listed, and none of our proposals in this regard have been supported by the Justice Committee, which is why we have the right to assume that this is the case again. And after Ákos Erdős actually bought the National Book Publisher by losing a billion forints to the state, you would not only have been cleared, but you would have filled his pocket with new orders, another three billion forints that he paid to the state at the time, which you have now returned to him with the production of the 2014 ballots and the questionnaire for the national consultation on immigration. So, when either István Hollik or Miklós Soltész are outraged by what Ákos Erdős did during the previous governments, it would be good to sweep around their own house on this matter. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2016-05-09-238	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, I will ask if anyone else wishes to speak in accordance with the speaking time limits. [[No signal.]] I don't see any contact. Secretary of State, you have the opportunity to sum up your thoughts.
u2016-05-09-239	Thank you very much, Mr President, for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and He asked me about a specific subject, actually, the signatory arches. I would like to reassure the Member that, on the basis of a proposal from the National Election Office, legislation has been included in this form. Indeed, the reasons why the credibility and processing of prefabricated sheets can be much more successful. Ákos Erdős is not in a position to know, but it is obvious that if any company that can perform this activity is competitive on the market, it can start with these purchases. I think that neither the National Election Office nor the pre-law office was driven by the intention of this company to have any assignment, because we didn't have any direct knowledge of it, but thank you for the information.
u2016-05-09-240	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, After the debate is closed, the decisions will take place on tomorrow's sitting. Dear Parliament, The Commission's reports on the amendment of certain national defence laws and the final amendment proposal follow up. Government referral T/10311. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. Dear Parliament, The debate will be the first to present the position of the Legislative Committee within a 15-minute time frame. I give the floor to Congressman Vas Imre, rapporteur of the committee.
u2016-05-09-241	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, I hereby inform the National Assembly that on 5 May 2016 the Legislative Committee discussed the T/10311 amendment of certain laws on defence matters. The Committee submitted a proposal for amendment and a summary report by 28 votes in favour against 6 negatives. [[18.30]] The summarised amendment contains only 9 points of the motion of the Defence and Police Committee. Point 1 of this amendment accepts the MSZP initiative that the contractual soldiers are not to be charged after 5 years with the obligation to repay the severance payment or decommissioning aid. According to the adopted amendment, no longer than 5 years can be required at regulation level, i.e. repayment. In the rest of the amendment, in addition to language and technical clarifications, the text proposal brings consistency to T/10267. It is also accompanied by a bill on state officials. I trust that by adopting the bill, the personnel of the military will be even more powerful, the soldiers will be even more combative, and the special public service character of the military service will be further strengthened. I request your support. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-05-09-242	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I ask the rapporteur, Mr Tamás Vargha, that he wishes to speak now or at the end. [[Tamás Vargha: In the end.]] Thank you very much, you'll signal that at the end. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Miklós Simon, rapporteur of the designated Defence and Police Committee, within a six-minute time frame.
u2016-05-09-243	Dear House, Dear Parliament, The National Assembly's Defence and Police Committee is the 32nd House Rule. On 2 May 2016, T/10311 on the amendment of certain laws relating to defence matters took place as a designated committee pursuant to § (1) of the Treaty. Detailed discussion of bill No. 1. The committee, examining the bill, concluded that it was in compliance with the Rules of the House 44. The requirements of paragraph 1 of paragraph 1 of this Article shall apply. The committee during the detailed discussion of the Rules of the House 45. § 1 () discussed the amendments contained in the annex to the report, examining whether they comply with Article 42 of the Rules of Procedure. the requirements laid down in Section 2 of this Annex. The Committee did not support any of the amendments submitted, but adopted the Commission's proposal to close the in-depth debate, which included the content of Amendment 4 of the MSZP's amendment. The Commission's amendment was adopted by 6 votes in favour with 2 abstentions. The National Defence and Police Committee closed the detailed discussion of the bill on 2 May 2016. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-05-09-244	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, It is now up to Members to take part in the time-frames on the agenda. There is no possibility of a two-minute comment during the debate. The time frame has been displayed on the screen. First, I give the floor to the speaker, Mr Simon Miklós, on behalf of Fidesz.
u2016-05-09-245	Thank you very much. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The current proposal amends several laws at the same time, guaranteeing that the military field and its rules follow changes in the constantly changing regulatory environment. As explained in the detailed discussion, the bill is the result of a review and would amend several laws at the same time. As regards civil servants employed in the defence, it became necessary that the possibility of the allowance be applied to them, which would give them additional financial recognition. Accordingly, it would introduce the following changes. By amending the special tax law, the special tax will not apply to severance payments and Jubilee bonuses paid to the defence. The Hjt. The purpose of the further amendment is to clarify the individual legal institutions and to amend the rules on the voluntary reserve system. Such an amendment would be to allow the declarations of rights to be sent in electronic form, as well as to ensure a positive amendment to the regulation of the appearance of members of the staff in the social media and to ensure the fundamental right to rest. The Hjt. further changes would ensure that candidates for military officers and junior officers can receive performance benefits if they are, of course, performing their work with outstanding performance or performing additional tasks. Ladies and gentlemen, With the present proposal of the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of Defence proposes positive amendments, which are the result of everyday experience and are positive changes for the defence. The Fidesz fraction supports the current proposal. Please support me. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-05-09-246	Thank you very much, Congressman. I now give the floor to Congresswoman Márta Demeter, the Hungarian Socialist Party.
u2016-05-09-247	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, In front of me, my fellow Member mentioned that the presentation included the fact that the experience of everyday life also encouraged this package of amendments. I think there really is one or two elements in this, which is acceptable. Unfortunately, the story is exhausting here, but if I really want to deal with everyday experience and the situation, then we are beginning to think that a completely new law on the status of soldiers could be put in place, and I think that there are also serious problems with the defence law, but we have explained this a lot in recent years. It was amazing to me that I can hardly tell you how many times in the last two years we've met to amend the law on the status of soldiers. So this is no longer the customary amendment or review of the year; it is often questionable, because sometimes, even by creating the appearance of hard work, I believe that there is a need to make another and another amendment, but here we are talking about the fact that there is some amendment almost quarterly, every six months. It has been mentioned several times at the meeting of the Defence Committee - we have tried to discuss this in substance, what is the cause of this and what could be done otherwise, and we are experiencing and getting an argument in order, which is also obvious from this proposal, that, in view of the changes in the security environment, greater flexibility in the work of the staff is needed in view of the increased tasks of the defence and the preservation of operational capacity, and that, moreover, is the reason that the rights and opportunities of the staff are being increasingly limited. I don't think that's the solution. If we are talking about flexibility or incentives, it does not mean tightening up, because the Hungarian Defence Forces have been doing their activities in a very strict legislative environment for decades, but if we want more flexibility and even more effective work - because I think that the stock will then bring out what can be done in the present circumstances, so I really thank them for this, I must say this, but the flexibility begins with the fact that the Hungarian Defence Office needs to be filled. [[18.40]] And we are aware that this is not happening overnight. The huge problem is that this deterioration has been going on for years, but we have had a solution to this, and we still maintain that, indeed, substantial changes could be made in a year, the number of crews could be greatly increased, and the number of officers' staff could also be increased, so officers' education could be increased, as the Ministry of Defence reports almost every year about the over-subsidisation of military higher education institutions. It's a very positive thing, you just have to take advantage of this opportunity somehow. I very much hope that the government will really think about this now. Unfortunately, this current amendment to the Legal Status and Labour Code does not yet show this at all. He highlighted to both of my fellow Members that there was an amendment which the committee, by the way, had tabled as a Commission amendment to our proposal. I think that this is precisely a point of the amendments to which I believe the legislator's intention was appropriate. We are talking about the fact that if someone leaves the army when the contract is over, if they are taken back within five years... - so far the legislation has said that they can only be taken back into the register after five years, the Minister could now also state an explicit punishment that the decommissioning aid should be repaid in full. I think that this in no way encourages the goal, which I very much hope is that on the part of the government we also have to fill up the Hungarian Defence Forces as much as possible. That is why we have tabled this amendment, and we were very pleased that the committee has supported it as its own, but the point is that it has supported it. Unfortunately, there are a lot of problems left in this bill. For example, according to current legislation, in the event of a crisis caused by mass immigration, the daily rate of the additional benefit may be set at between 5% and 10% of the absentee fee. The proposal now places this in between 1 and 10 percent. So I think that this reduction in the minimum value is certainly not a confidence-enhancing measure for the stock, and unfortunately, the experience of recent years shows that if something can be reduced and even the legislation gives us the opportunity to do so, it will be done. So we tabled an amendment to this, unfortunately this was not supported by the committee. The second important thing is that, as far as civil servants are concerned, the allowances have been regulated in the Labour Code, and now the proposal removes from the scope of the Labour Code the amount of the allowance and the minister can fix a flat-rate supplement, at all rates. I think it's also disenfranchised, taking guarantees from the civil servants of the military. I would like to point out here that, at the moment, in the situation caused by a huge shortage of staff, many civil servants in the Hungarian Defence Corps perform tasks such as those of professional workers, professional soldiers, and they also work in an explicit overload, not just professional personnel. When the concept of a crisis situation caused by mass immigration was introduced and the measures related to it were introduced, any restrictions on extraordinary work were otherwise abolished. This is how the maximum over-service for professional workers could have been abolished, but now it is possible to do 832 extra hours on an annual basis, specifically for civil servants. So we can say that they can be worked every weekend. I can only hope that this will not be exploited, and it will not be the basis for organizing the service, but unfortunately, the law will give us the opportunity, and the situation will point in the direction that it will be exploited. Public employees have received a gross wage supplement of HUF 8,000 twice in the last year. I think that, indeed, after many years, it is necessary, not only to raise salaries for professional staff, but also for civil servants, and to increase civil servants' wages, because there has not been any increase there. It is a matter of fact that the professional staff has received this last year, and I hope that this year, as promised by the government, will continue to do so, but it can cause enormous tensions in the stock if, by the way, the salary for civil servants does not increase. I would like to point out from the stock of provisions that one more positive point is that after 25 years of service, under the current rules, there was a possibility of holding a 16-month reserve, now this will be extended by an additional year, although only half of the salary will be paid. It seems that there is something the government is trying to do to counterbalance the situation that has arisen with the abolition of the service pension. My time is up now, but in my last sentence, I just want to remind you that there is a need for a preferential pension system, and that must be part of the appreciation. Thank you.
u2016-05-09-248	Thank you very much. Next speaker, Congressman Gergely Kulcsár, Jobbik.
u2016-05-09-249	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, We have already explained in the general debate on the bill amending certain laws on defence matters, and I have explained Jobbik's position, Jobbik's opinion on the proposal, and I do not want to repeat it, so I would like to highlight one thing very briefly from the proposal, and I would like to draw the attention of this House to a better amendment. This is, however, the increased utilisation bonus, which will be set at the benefit of people in the crisis caused by mass immigration, which, according to the proposal, is 1-10 percent per day, as the previous speaker said. Once again, I would like to stress that we consider this scale to be small, which is set to the border, or, as is the case in the proposal, for soldiers who are in a disaster situation, there is little such supplement, which, according to the proposal, can be up to 1-2 percent. This will not be achieved by the slogan of the appreciation of the government's soldiers, which you put forward on the road and road. In our view, the soldiers deserve more, and in light of this, we have tabled our amendment which would increase this absence fee to 5-20 percent. We have also asked for a separate vote on this, and tomorrow Parliament will be able to accept this. I would ask my fellow Members to support this proposal. If this does not happen, Jobbik will abstain from the final vote. Thank you so much for listening. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2016-05-09-250	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Congressman Novak, Jobbik.
u2016-05-09-251	Dear Parliament, I'll ring the alarm bell: the military's voluntary reserve system is in crisis, thousands of people are missing. Moreover, the number of voluntary operational reserve staff under 45 is 515, which was revealed in the reply to the written question to the Minister by Gergely Kulcsár, my colleague, who is a politician. After such a confession, we have proposed the introduction of a basic voluntary military training, the expansion of the voluntary reserve system in such a crisis. This was rejected on the grounds, at least Mr Secretary of State, when I wanted to know the Minister's position here on an immediate question, he said that they would have their own proposals. Now, is this your own proposal to narrow down the voluntary reserve system even further? After all, it is proposed to terminate the voluntary reserve service even if the voluntary reserve soldier does not comply with national security control. [[18.50]] We consider this necessary not to include it in the bill because, unfortunately, experience shows that failure to comply with national security control can, on practically political grounds and without justification, exclude ready patriots from the voluntary reserve military service who are members of an organisation that does not like the government, or who have previously developed political activity that is not pleasing to power. Yes, I was approached by a professional military officer at my last host hour, to be more precise, an ex-professional military officer who could not practice his career, because they followed his activities, when he appeared at Gergely Pongrátz's funeral during Corvin, and we could still list the cases that he thought were to be observed earlier, and it seems that the current government did, too. Many of these complaints come to us that ready, dedicated patriots are actually excluded from their ranks by the military. We also took a written question to the Minister. In this we asked whether members of the former Hungarian Guard or other patriotic organizations could count on KBH to declare them unreliable on a political basis, thus contrasting the stock, excluding young people ready to act, as we unfortunately see in many cases. The Minister did not even formally answer this question with a noble simplicity. Of course, we're not the ones who just accept that. So we have put the question once again, now specifically with the most unpleasant question for the Minister, I know, that the fact that someone was a member of the Hungarian Guard in itself precludes him from becoming a professional soldier. Perhaps you've made it clear to Minister that we won't accept it if you don't answer. So at least we got a formal response. Now, what is the answer to such an honest, open question - and I quote, one sentence - to the fact that the 2012 CCV on the status of soldiers is, I quote, a single sentence. Does Chapter V of the Act specify the conditions for the establishment of a service relationship? Well, thank you very much, we know that. That is not what we asked, but how they interpret it. [[To Tamás Vargha:]] Don't smile, Mr. Secretary. They abuse the law, and they don't even give an answer, even though they should give the Hungarian people, the voters of the military career, to the fact that the fact that someone, say, was a member of the Hungarian Guard, precludes him from becoming a professional soldier. Have the courage at least in the Ministry of Defense to answer that question. Whether you give me an answer here, now, Mr. Secretary. Is that out of the question or not? Because, of course, whatever the answer may be, this case may continue, because many people claim that they cannot imagine anything else after, of course, being released from the stock without justification, that this is a national security risk. We have seen this, say, in the case of my fellow Member, Gábor Staudt, that after his involvement in the establishment of the Hungarian Guard Association, he was a national security risk, according to your government. However, I think that this should end, and rather show openness to our proposal for a decision to widen the voluntary reserve system, which we have sent to you. I've been promised a five-party arrangement, and there's no progress, is there? In vain, however, the Fundamental Law requires that all Hungarian citizens are obliged to protect their country if the state does not provide the basic training necessary for this, even for those who would otherwise learn it voluntarily. That is why we considered it necessary to broaden and introduce the basic training for voluntary defence, because at present six months of mandatory service is required for those who apply for a reserve every three years. The question is whether we can consider two months of actual service per year in peacetime, regardless of any extraordinary situation, as a reserve system. Compared to this, we would create a truly dormant stock, a reserve stock, the call of which could, for example, be linked to a qualified situation. I think that the military service, which had been terminated earlier, was a serious blow to our country's self-defense force, since the suppliers of its task system were not fully replaced. Lajos Kósa, László Kövér, said that they were considering the introduction of compulsory military service. They agree, they support. Fortunately, they were still in a minority, because there would be a much more rational, better solution: the basic training of voluntary defence. It's the only thing you won't do. Instead, there is this system, which, in fact, eliminates those who would otherwise join with patriotic motivation on a political basis. I think it should not be surprising, then, that young people join the Wolves or the Yellers or other similar organizations, if you actually make it impossible for them to receive a decent basic training within the framework of this. My own experience is that even though I applied to a voluntary reserve system in September, people are often left unanswered for months. To this day, it is not yet possible to know after nearly a year or three quarters of years when a training course will be awarded. If you apply for a stamp collection round in September, you will be honored with an answer, a newsletter, to somehow keep in touch. Compared to that, you can't even tell, and now it's been almost a year since the basic military training. Maybe once a year, they'll give you the honor of organizing something like this. I therefore believe that they should show openness in adopting our proposals. We consider that the vote on the amendment proposed by my fellow Member Gergely Kulcsár to date is unacceptable, so our group has asked for a plenary vote so that it is not possible, on a political basis, to declare ourselves a national security risk. That is why we would like this to be voted on by the plenary tomorrow, and we hope that, after we have ringed the alarm bell, and perhaps you will also face the fact that thousands of people are missing from the voluntary reserve system, we should not be making new exclusion amendments, but instead include incentives in the proposal, which Jobbik has put on the table. We ask that these be considered. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2016-05-09-252	Thank you, Congressman. I will ask if anyone else wishes to make use of the opportunity to speak in the remaining timeframes. [[No one's reporting.]] I don't see any contact. Dear Parliament, The debate is closed. I see you're getting ready, Secretary of State. I'll give the floor to the author in a ten-minute time frame.
u2016-05-09-253	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Our aim is indeed to improve the situation and opportunities of Hungarian soldiers and Hungarian soldiers, and that is why this bill amending several laws lies before the Parliament; therefore, the law on the status of civil servants, the amendment of certain laws on economic and financial matters, the Hjt. The law on the status of soldiers. I think every time we face the need to change, we have to change bravely. That's last year, I think it's been this year. The salary of the soldiers has been modified. I think it was the right and the right decision. Over the past year, we have faced security challenges and the world, the security situation around us, has changed to such a degree that we have had to legislate and amend it, as we have now in the review, where we need to change, which law to achieve our common goal, so that every soldier's living conditions and job opportunities are improved. I am pleased that we agree that we owe thanks to the soldiers who are still serving today and protecting Hungary, the Hungarian border, Europe and the border of the European Union. All amendments are for the benefit of the soldiers. I think that this is a rigorous and tight organization, it needs strict laws and strict regulators to regulate the life and work of this organization, the military. This requires, of course, that we examine those who serve in the interests of national security. This is not a political issue, it is a matter of national security, and I think we should all agree on that. I am also pleased that there is a proposal tabled by the opposition and proposed for adoption by the Defence and Police Committee and the wallet. I ask everyone to vote in favour of this bill tomorrow. Thank you, Mr. President. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2016-05-09-254	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Now, Honourable Parliament, the Commission's reports on the amendment of Act C of 2003 on electronic communications and the discussion of the summarised amendment proposal follow. Government referral T/10097. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. I declare that the presentation will be discussed as an EU item on the agenda by the Parliament. Dear Parliament, The debate will be the first to present the position of the Legislative Committee within a 15-minute time frame. I give the floor to Mr Dénes Galambos, rapporteur of the committee, within a 15-minute time frame. [[19.00]]
u2016-05-09-255	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear fellow Members, Dear Secretary of State, I hereby inform the Parliament that the Legislative Committee discussed T/10097 on 5 May 2016. The Commission submitted a bill amending Act C of 2003 on electronic communications, submitted by 30 votes in favour, i.e. a unanimous decision, a summary amendment and a summary report. The draft amending proposal contains the opinion of the Economic Committee in point 23, which contains clarification of the location and codification of the language. [[Dr. István Hiller, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]] This bill seeks to amend Act C of 2003 on electronic communications, given that earlier the main provisions of the relevant EU Directive on the promotion of the development of electronic communications services and infrastructure, CXXXVIII of 2015 providing for legislative amendments on the exemption of legal barriers. Law has already transposed it into domestic law. Accordingly, the aim of the bill is to ensure full consistency of domestic law with the European Parliament and the Council by implementing the provisions of directives that have not been transposed before. with regard to the provisions of the rules on subscriber contracts, the supervision of communications works and the provision of data necessary for the performance of the tasks of the National Media and Infocommunications Authority. In the future, digitalisation can mean development and prosperity. The Government of Hungary and the Fidesz fraction are committed to digital development and will do their best to complete it. These are also the aims of the proposal. Please support the T/10097. the adoption of bill No 1. Thank you very much.
u2016-05-09-256	Thank you very much. Welcome. We'll get back to work. As there has been no pre-notification of the speaker, it is now up to Mr Jobbik's representative, President Novak, to take the floor. Here you go.
u2016-05-09-257	Thank you for the floor. Dear Parliament, A Fidesz and a better amendment has been tabled to this proposal. Obviously, I would like to talk about the betterman, just because this was not supported by the committee, but our faction is asking for a vote tomorrow. Therefore, the Parliament can still consider whether there is a place for encryption that we do not think there is. The basic proposal itself was welcome, but that does not mean that it does not yet contain small improvements or unacceptable parts that we should remedy. I'm glad they're finally not proposing an Internet tax, they're finally proposing a non-Internet censorship - we've all seen examples of that. Basically, we have a good proposal with a view to improving consumer protection, but it is not enough for all citizens to have access to high-speed internet connections by 2020. We support this basis, but on the one hand, in the general debate, I have also formulated many specific criticisms relating to the subject, and, on the other hand, let us just stick to Article 4. § (1) in which they want to hide again, this time on the grounds of competitive tendering. The argument is a little similar to what we saw at the Post Office. Let's just say it was so much worse there that it was state-owned companies. We're just talking about state assets, frequency assets, the use of frequency bands. However, this method of competitive tendering is a competitive advantage for the legislator through artificial interventions. That is why we are proposing that this should be abandoned. So we can't support encryption here. The purpose of the tendering procedure for the acquisition of rights to use frequencies is to ensure the most efficient use of frequency bands that form part of public assets and to achieve efficient management of public spectrum assets. That is why we cannot support the fact that the tender procedure does not allow access to the tender documentation. We would therefore like to be clear, and since we have not yet received an answer in the debate, I believe that this is sustainable, so we are asking for the continuation of this proposal, and that is why tomorrow the plenary will vote on it. Nevertheless, Jobbik is in any case in favour of the basic proposal, because Hungary is very much behind. The proportion of households with broadband internet access is only 75 per cent according to the 2015 KSH aggregation, so there is a lot of work to be done in this area and even in relation to it, but let us now just stick to this one amendment proposal at this stage of the debate. Thank you. If you consider this very short proposal worthy of reading at all, and if you vote for it, I think you would avoid future cases of corruption that would rightly call for corruption, if you want to conceal with such encryption who really is in your interest, let's say, a competition notice. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2016-05-09-258	Thank you very much. I'll ask if anyone else wants to speak out of time. [[There's no such signal.]] I'm gonna make sure it's nobody. Dear Parliament, The debate is closed. I will ask Secretary Ákos Kara if he wishes to reflect. [[Ákos Kara says yes.]] Here you go.
u2016-05-09-259	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Firstly, with regard to the amendment proposal, if I may, I would like to point out that the amendment of the Legislative Committee was supported by all present, so there was no debate on the amendment tabled to the proposal. And indeed, professional proposals from the direction of the Economic Commission have been replaced by codification, legal proposals, which essentially left the proposed bill together in its structure and in its mind. After so many professional outlooks, let me give you a little summary of what this is all about, because digitalization, indeed, as many of us have said in the general debate, has been said by all the parliamentary parties and by all the parliamentary players, and I myself have said on the part of the government that digitalization is the future. With regard to digitalisation, we want to put people, families, public administration and businesses in a position where they can compete in Europe and globally. Of course, to get along in life, you obviously need something more than just digital knowledge. Digital prosperity in itself is an important thing, but it takes a lot more than that. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to confirm that, quite precisely, I would like to remind you - because, thank God, in recent weeks, you have received a positive welcome and a positive response - that the government has put forward a proposal to reduce the VAT on internet subscriptions. We think it's important. I have said it myself, and I would now confirm that by the end of 2018, this is an ambitious goal, truly creating the opportunity for all households to join the super-fast internet, the broadband internet, if they want to and want to have households. What the Member has just said is that the data of the Central Statistical Office and the relevant data are indeed correct and factual, so this part of Hungarian households has access to broadband internet and indeed, that is why we have set this ambitious objective. It is ambitious in terms of time, because if we succeed in achieving this commitment by the end of 2018, this means that we will be able to reach very, very many European countries. Together with the market players, I think that this is a very important decision and opportunity for the Hungarian Government, the Hungarian Parliament. If you'll allow me, with regard to the super-fast internet, so the broadband band, I'd like you to see it a little bit - I think those who are interested in the topic and who are the creators of this debate are sitting here. The first stage was actually the need assessment, preparation, source insurance. This part has been completed with additional source insurance for the Central Hungary region in the country. We could call that the first stage. We are now in a position to make a decision, so the first decisions must be taken so that the construction of broadband internet can begin in the 139 districts of Hungary. And the third stage will be the implementation itself. I think we have talked little about a very important issue of implementation so far, but it will be very important in the coming years, in a year or two, how the municipalities, in cooperation with the authorities, can help all Hungarian settlements to achieve the government's intention as a goal. [[19.10]] Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, Thank you very much for the comments and contributions made during the debate on behalf of the Government. I hope that the Parliament will support the bill tabled with its vote in favour tomorrow. Thank you for the floor, Mr President.
u2016-05-09-260	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that the decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, The 1997 CLV on consumer protection follows. Law 1 and CCIX of 2011 on water utility services. The Commission's reports on the amendment of the Act and the debate on the draft amendment. The government referral is T/10098. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. Dear Parliament, The debate will be the first to present the position of the Legislative Committee within a 15-minute framework; this is not required at all. I give the floor to Congressman Sándor Hadházy, rapporteur of the committee. Here you go.
u2016-05-09-261	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, I hereby inform the House that the 1997 CLV on consumer protection was discussed by the Legislative Committee on 5 May 2016. Law 1 and CCIX of 2011 on water utility services. T/10098. Bill No. 1. The Committee adopted the summarised amendment and the summary report by 25 votes to five, with two abstentions. The summarised amendment also includes the 25-point amendments of the Committee on Economic Affairs and the corrections of the Legislative Committee, all points of which are purely technical. The purpose of the bill is to correct certain points of the Water Utilities Act, taking into account practical experience. Dear Parliament, As is well known to everyone, there was rather chaotic regulation before the 2011 amendment. As a result, the system of water utility services has been extremely diverse across the country. The standard deviation occurs, on the one hand, in the field of water utility safety and, on the other hand, in relation to the non-additional price, which is extremely sensitive from the retail consumer side. The aim of the government and the parliament was, in a completely understandable way, to create a single system and to create a regulation that changes the safety and price level of the water utility service in the right direction. The CCIX 2011 on water utility services. A comprehensive amendment to the Act was made three times after its publication in 2011: 2012, 2013 and 2015. In addition to these amendments, the law has been amended several times by other laws for a specific legal policy purpose. In part, the experience gained during the previous amendments, and in particular the 2015 CXIX on the amendment of certain laws relating to water utility services to the Water utility Act. Parliament's debate in the context of the amendment of Law No 1 by Law No 1 highlighted that a number of problems were not adequately addressed by the Water Utility Service Act, with minor shortcomings and problems of coherence. In addition, on the basis of the legal practice accumulated over more than four years since the entry into force of the Water Utility Service Act and the experience gained from the progress of water utility integration in 2016, it has become timely to correct the Water Utility Service Act and some laws directly affecting its application. The law handles these questions. The Legislative Committee supports the proposal. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Dr. Imre Vas applauds.]]
u2016-05-09-262	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I'll ask the author, Mr. Secretary of State, if you'd like to speak now. [[On the sign of Zsolt Szabó:]] It says no. In this case, as no rapporteur has been drawn up by the designated Economic Committee, its representatives shall take part in the time-frames on the agenda. I would like to inform you that there is no possibility of two-minute comments during this debate. First, I give the floor to Congresswoman Anita Heringes, MSZP. Here you go.
u2016-05-09-263	Thank you very much. Dear House, As my fellow Member has said, this is the third time we are amending the Water Services Act. Only the first two times were not actually a technical amendment, but its primary objective was that the political intention, which is well rooted in Fidesz-KDNP, was to achieve the intention of reducing the costs. Unfortunately, they didn't even try to create a tiny appearance of professionalism in these amendments, it really was a purely populist political goal. We have said many times that, at the moment, water utility services are a system that is not sustainable, and a system that is not sustainable, which affects people's everyday life, where the right to access clean drinking water is a fundamental right, we think. At the moment, water utility companies are in a position to reduce both utility tax and overhead costs and additional charges, which slowly renders these companies unsustainable, although most of these companies are local government-owned companies, which do not want to be profitable, just want to keep their money for maintenance and, by the way, for the maintenance of the system, because it is the good service that works. The service that keeps going wrong, where the pipes break, where professionals can't afford to pay for them, is a bad service and a bad system, an unsustainable system. I have already told you in the debate, and I have tried to argue that it is possible to convince our fellow Members of this amendment and of the law in the first place that this is not a good law, whether you want a company with a fixed cost ratio of 80-85 per cent, whatever. I think it's very, very difficult to run a company with a fixed cost ratio of 80-85 percent. [[To Sándor Hadházy:]] My fellow Member can swing his head, but you only have to ask these municipal companies, and they can say precisely and perfectly that at the moment they have no money for wage development, payment of a sufficient amount of professionals, purchase of new assets in case the old one goes wrong, or at all for the operation and maintenance of the system. There's no money for what really affects the population. It is also clear from an important professional study that at the moment there are more than 8-12 percent of their annual turnover, which means that if we do not think about this system, we will not fix it, it will be very, very difficult to make it sustainable. I really ask you that there have been a few principles that have been formulated, including the importance of security of supply, responsibility for supply, responsibility for service providers, solidarity, cost recovery, if you are serious about these terms, think that we are starting this law again, we are putting in place a law that creates a sustainable water utility service, because in the current system, just as I have said, there is no possibility at the moment to make up for the necessary renovation costs, and because of the lack of resources, the system of rolling development plans exists only formally. Ladies and gentlemen, We're asking you very nicely to think about what's worth. Access to clean drinking water is, I think, one of the most important rights for people, especially in this sector. I think that this law should be redefined in agreement with the profession, because then it would be possible to create a system that is sustainable and good for people. Thank you. [[19.20]]
u2016-05-09-264	Congressman Nándor Gúr, MSZP!
u2016-05-09-265	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. In the case of water utility companies, there has been a long and recurring discussion of reorganisation programmes, including wage, employment security and many other issues. I think that we should put these questions to a rest once in a while. I know that many others have been negotiating these matters from Mr Fónagy, Secretary of State, but these negotiations are endless, so I can say with a calm spirit, since I have been paying attention, these events have been going on for about a year and a half without success or at least without tangible results. Look, the biggest problem I see - my fellow Member said one part of it, and I will say the other part - is that the utility tax is imposed practically by river meter, regardless of the areas in which the service is provided, in areas where the number of consumers is low, i.e. scattered small villages, or in urban areas. They basically destroy companies that work in areas where dispersal is typical. About HUF 20 billion was withdrawn along with the integration of the utility tax. This has created a situation in companies that has obviously reduced their revenues and has resulted in increased costs, but I can also say that as a result, it was accompanied by a lack of renovations. The fixed costs are very high, while the outstanding amounts are huge, some of which are 8-12 percent matched to the annual turnover. It's a measure that's already reached the level of inability to handle. Technically, security of supply has been questioned and its uncertainty has emerged as a result of the lack of renovations. I would not want to enter into a multitude of examples here, the four-yearly nature of the clock exchanges, which has a cost of approximately HUF 2 billion, while these hours cover a period of 10-20 years and many other savings. The last thing I need to do is finish with a simple example: if you use water-watch readers, you would not be in a position to harass the multitude of people in an unreasonable manner because of the lack of coordination between the meter and the submeter, and at the same time make a lot more cost than you would have to pay through a water-watch reader's salary. Well, it's a simple thing to think about. Mr. President, thank you very much.
u2016-05-09-266	Thank you very much. No more pre-notified speakers. As a representative asking for a normal word, István Józsa asked for an opportunity. Here you go.
u2016-05-09-267	Thank you very much, Mr. President. For a minute and a half at my disposal, I would just like to make a statement in principle in the final debate. Hungary in water, thank God, is very rich, and it is our eminent duty to do well in stewardship. What comes in before this House as a variety of tiny amendments shows that the government has not actually committed itself to taking an important step in the process that could hold the water world conference in Hungary, even in terms of rational water management. In connection with the previous digitisation agenda, it would be very useful to make quality changes, digitise and programmed, for example, in the reading of water meters; on the other hand, water utilities, the benefits of which are unfortunately not felt by the contributors, should be given greater Community, state and European Union spending. So the wealth that is shown in the waters, on the one hand, would be good if it were to create a coherent programme for their exploitation, their practical use, their defence, their internal water response, and it would appear to be evident from the government. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2016-05-09-268	Thank you very much. Honourable Members, I'll ask if anyone else wants to speak in the remaining time frame. [[There's no candidate.]] I'm gonna say no. The debate is closed. Secretary of State, do you wish to reflect? [[Zsolt Szabó: Yes.]] Here you go. I give the floor to Secretary Zsolt Szabó.
u2016-05-09-269	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear House, It seems that the questions are often repeated, and even if we answer them, the repetition is quite common. It is not a political amendment, but an economic and legal amendment, for a purely reason, the transformation of the water utility sector is approaching the stage in which we can transpose the lessons and experience into the legislation, and accordingly the water utilities themselves have asked us to make certain amendments. I would like to draw the attention of my fellow Members to EU standards, including ex ante standards, to cover the different types of costs in these regulations. There are rules regarding the fee for the water utility service, which we must follow. And perhaps it is enough that we agree on the disproportionateness of the utility tax - we talked about it the other day - but let me indicate that this is not HUF 20 billion, but this is something completely different, namely 60 percent of the amount given here. The fixed cost, fixed edition formula is also a very interesting issue. I would like to draw the attention of my fellow Members to the fact that the permanent worker needed to keep water constant is also a fixed cost. But we need it, and we don't want to touch it. Furthermore, there are fixed costs in keeping the pump under constant pressure and in keeping the current at constant availability. These must be maintained continuously because of a balanced service. It doesn't matter if something consumes a thousand or a hundred thousand cubic meters, they're still there. Overall, it can be said that legislation is trying to address purely legal and economic needs, and given that the legislative committee's summary amendment is in line with the government's position, I would ask you to support both the summarised amendment proposal and the legislative amendment. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of Fidesz.]]
u2016-05-09-270	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that the decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, The 2012 CLXXXV on waste follows. The Commission's reports on the amendment of the Act and the debate on the draft amendment. The government referral is T/10093. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. Dear Parliament, First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. Once again, I give the floor to Congressman Sándor Hadházy, rapporteur of the committee. Here.
u2016-05-09-271	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, I hereby inform the Honourable Parliament that the Legislative Committee discussed the Rules of the House on 5 May 2016 46. According to §2 CLXXXV of 2012 on waste T/10093. The Committee presented a proposal for amendment and a summary report with 25 yes and 8 non-voting votes. The summarised amendment contains a two-point proposal from the Committee on Sustainable Development. The aim of the amendment proposal is to ensure that the penalties and decisions imposed by the Hungarian Energy and Public Utility Regulatory Office and the results of the legal proceedings relating to them can reach the coordinating body more quickly and directly, as well as direct access to public support. The purpose of the amending proposal is to ensure that, in case-by-case orders, as in the case of waste management services beyond the public service framework, invoices can always be issued directly after delivery, so that public services are not billed on a quarterly basis, so they do not have to expect temporary financing and offer cheaper offers to service users. [[19.30]] In line with the periodicity of the public service charge billing, it is appropriate to provide for a maximum quarterly invoicing period against the payment of a waste management fee beyond the public service fee for waste management. I hope that the adoption of the bill will result in the state developing a system of optimal use of infrastructure resources to meet the national objectives and development directions of waste management. Thank you for your attention. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-05-09-272	Thank you very much. I will ask the author, Mr Secretary of State, if he wishes to speak now. [[For signal:]] It says no. Dear Parliament, Mr Jenő Manninger, rapporteur for the Committee on Sustainable Development, would say a majority position if he were here. Since she is not here, you can therefore listen to the minority opinion with great attention what Congresswoman Anita Heringes has to say. Here you go.
u2016-05-09-273	Thank you very much. As a minority opinion, we stated at the committee meeting that we do know that there is a national waste management coordination and management company, in which we still see nothing but an account factory. Mr. Secretary of State tried to convince us that this is nothing else, but at the moment we do not see the added value, for which, by the way, a gross wage of HUF 23 million 280 thousand per month is already paid to his employees by this company, which is doing nothing at the moment. You haven't started any public procurement procedures, and he's the one who's gonna have to make the bills. We don't know where he gets his printer, which means we know we have our suspicions. At the committee meeting, Mr Secretary of State confirmed that the fee collecting company would enter and assist in this work. But you said, Secretary of State, that you're not doing any factoring, but the interesting thing for us is that you've been a prize-picking factor house ever since, so that you won't be doing any factoring. But I'm sure we'll get the answers to that one day. I was reassured by the Secretary of State, and, as a minority opinion, I then expressed the problem that many people are making a living by collecting the waste transfer fee at the moment in small towns and small towns, and that is a very effective method. After all, one knows the other person, who is coming to collect prizes, who will pay the prize at a small settlement, because we do not like to owe the person we know well, and who comes to us quarterly, visits us, and we can meet him on the street at any time. At the time, Secretary of State told us to calm down, because these prize collectors will continue to do their job. Since then, talking to many of these companies, you can see that, unfortunately, this will only be a political promise. These companies are so out of control, they probably won't be able to finance the prize collectors any longer. I think there's a lot of jobs that can go away with this. I very much hope that you will reconsider this proposal and not create a mammoth company, which really does nothing but produce the invoices that it will issue to companies that already exist. Thank you. [[A rare applause in the ranks of the MSZP.]]
u2016-05-09-274	There will now be speeches by Members within the time-frame on the agenda. If you would have gotten used to the voice of Congresswoman Anita Heringes, do not be sad now, because she is next as a spokesperson, a representative of the MSZP. Here you go.
u2016-05-09-275	Thank you very much. I am very sorry that there are no pre-spoken contributions from the Fidesz-KDNP majority. It seems to them that this issue is not that important, even though it is a service that affects people's everyday lives. A service that, by the way, would be a very, very successful area if we did it right and extracted the useful material from the selective collection of waste. This is exactly what real sustainability and the prospect of the future would be. But right now, we're seeing that we're not getting the right amount of useful material from these selectiveally collected waste. In fact, we fear, as we talk to the profession, that at the moment, waste companies will have to hand these useful materials over to the large holding company, which will and will sell these materials or pass them on to someone. As the rumors are now, there will be four or five friendly companies in the country that will be able to pass on this raw material, which will sell it for good money, and the waste management company itself, which wants to make a sustainable system, wants to work in a system that is truly sustainable, will not be able to sell these materials as efficiently as possible. I really think it's outrageous, it's another sector where you can give your friends more space to get as much money home as possible. By the way, if these raw materials could be sold to these companies by making them feel like they're going to have revenue, making their company sustainable, developing, let's say, they can cut their fees as long as possible, then I think they'd have motivation. Right now, they can't be motivated, because they're gonna take the exact area away from them, and they're gonna hand it over to someone else completely we haven't seen yet. Because here we are now in the 25th amendment of the Waste Management Act, it is a very nice jubilee, and we adopted this law in 2013. I think that there will be a lot, a lot of amendments, in which we will be making progress on how to completely eviscerate this sector, how to push municipal-owned companies completely to the brink, which are not sustainable at the moment. After all, these are the ones that have suffered the populist policy of Fidesz-KDNP in the same way as almost all public utilities, and an area in which there would really be enormous potential, especially in extracting raw materials, and we do not take advantage of these opportunities, but we give them to the friends who will get rich. Thank you very much. [[A rare applause in the ranks of the MSZP.]]
u2016-05-09-276	No more pre-notified speakers. As a representative asking for a normal word, Mr Nándor Gúr, representative of the MSZP is next.
u2016-05-09-277	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The story doesn't work well, so you can tell with a calm spirit. So, even when I want to confirm or support the relevance of what Anita Heringes has told me, I have to say that I can't handle the sentence any other way, just by showing a close connection to the relationship between mates and waste. Apparently, there's a source, there's money in the waste. I don't remember the exact number, they only mentioned 40-60 billion forints to me in scale in terms of expert experts, which remains in relation to waste, i.e. as raw material or extractable product in garbage. If it's only 40 billion forints, it's still huge money. Do you know how much you spend a year on the budget of the National Rescue Service, for example? 32 billion. Then there's 8 billion more in the trash if it's just 40 more than you spend on National Rescue Service. The other experience, right, from the events of the past period, is that, on the basis of the designation of disaster control, service providers had to be named in more than a hundred municipalities, because there were virtually no service providers who would have performed this task. This clearly shows that, in a sense, companies are being squeezed from another side, practically strangled in order to prevent them from operating in a profitable way. Now bring the buddies who collect the funds, and they're actually doing nothing about collecting the funds. On the other hand, they make the task and the service providers vulnerable. I don't think it's okay. These things should be practically placed together in a way that is in the interests of the people who use the service, in Hungarian, if and if there is a way and opportunity to do so, they should not be faced with increasing waste transfer charges. You know, after the election in 2010, you made a radical service fee increase, and then you put lollipops like this in people's mouths over the coming years, let them suck on it, have a good time, believe me, that you're cutting rents. [[19.40]] We are still saying that these service charges are either virtually above or at roughly the same level as they were in 2010. This should not be the way to reduce the costs, say, in terms of the waste transport service, because this is not a reduction in costs, this is a scam for people, then you have to name the child, you have to name the story. This type of reduction is similar to the service fees for the former water utility service on the agenda, where it is accompanied by the unsatisfaction of service providers, according to Mr. Secretary of State, not by HUF 20, only by HUF 12 billion, but it strangles them. One word, as a hundred, I would like to ask you with great respect, who vote without any sobs of any kind, to think about what is being voted on in this regard, and to end what is in the interests of the people, does not destroy the service providers, but rather you manage them a little smarter. Thank you very much.
u2016-05-09-278	Thank you very much. We don't have any more pre-notified speakers, but we do have Members who ask for a normal word. Congressman Jenő Manninger, Fidesz.
u2016-05-09-279	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, I'm sorry, I should have told you earlier, but let me just say thank you for the opportunity to discuss the bill at the committee's meeting, and the committee supported the bill, the Committee for Sustainable Development. I have also tabled an amendment to 10093/3. under the heading "National Waste Management Co-ordinator and Asset Management Co-ordinator'. I wanted to make it possible to provide information to him. My proposal also provides for the possibility of immediate invoicing of individual waste management services. So we support the bill. I would like to say so much, because we have had this debate many times, only in response, because there has been a lot of talk here. [[Anita Beringes: Fellow Member, you were never here!]] I would like to say that what they say in general is not true, because the fees for waste management have increased only in recent years, even in the period of 2010, when projects were implemented where there was a substantial increase in services, and generally there was a clear reduction compared to April 2012, which the MSZP does not want to admit, but that is true. Thus, the primary cost to people is the cost of garbage transport, and at the same time these proposals and the draft law ensure that this service continues safely after due transformations. Thank you for your attention.
u2016-05-09-280	Thank you very much. Congressman István Józsa is next, MSZP.
u2016-05-09-281	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Waste management as an industry is a typical damage to the policy of the Orbán government's all-rounding behaviour. So the fact that the Waste Management Act is here with the 25th amendment, and we are really experiencing what my fellow Member Mr Nándor Gúr said that this technology is not improving, does not evolve according to the professional criteria of environmental management, shows that this approach, which you are doing for such a market domination, is absolutely wrong. There are concrete examples of professional investors not coming to Hungary because they are deterred by the legal environment and the deterrent legislation that you have implemented. I heard about a specific project, which is German, essentially a small enterprise, a medium-sized enterprise, would have come to Hungary for electronic waste recovery, so it would have been for selective waste recovery, and in the German Chamber of Economics they were advised not to come to Hungary now, because what is here is everything but legal certainty. Thus, external organisations dissuade investors from Hungary, and unfortunately this is seen in technological standards, in unused opportunities. So you have also been able to achieve the goal of reducing prices, the quality of service has fallen, and sometimes even the simple existence of the service itself causes problems. I say that you should reconsider and try to introduce new technologies, new thinking and new solutions as far as the market economy is concerned. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2016-05-09-282	Thank you very much. Honourable Members, I'll ask if anyone else would like to speak out of the remaining time frame. [[There's no candidate.]] I'm gonna say no. The debate is closed. Secretary Zsolt Szabó has the floor, please.
u2016-05-09-283	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Listening to certain elements of the debate, I felt as if we were not talking about the law that is now in the final debate before this House. Let me tell you a few things. This law does not apply to the issue of electrical waste - to speak to my fellow Member, Józsa - nor does it affect it [[Dr. István Józsa intervenes.]] No, this is specifically about municipal solid waste - tssh - and the NTSG, which is the national waste management public service plan and the NHKV, which is the coordinating body, does not affect these waste but only municipal solid waste, we are talking about that. [[Dr. István Józsa: We know!]] Okay. It's just, I didn't understand the investor, so it seems like I don't know what it means. The other question, the process itself, is how it works. I would like to ask my fellow Members that the public service plan should be looked at, because the public service plan shows those processes and professional processes throughout the country, because there must be equal service everywhere for public service providers who deal with waste. 'Cause what's wrong today? 174 service providers carry 174 service standards. Small villages, let's say, are not allowed to have fewer services, such as in big cities. The other thing is factoring as a financial asset. For my part, I strongly condemn such financial instruments, and we are not going in that direction. You are very welcome to be contacted, Madam honourable Member, and I would be very happy to give you information on this. [[Anita Herring: I'll take it.]] Since we're where we are, what we're doing, why we're doing it. This amendment to the Waste Act is also a way to set up a regular national, non-profit, sound financial management that preserves the effects of the reduction in the cost of electricity, with which the system works and is sustainable. And obviously the government is ready to help with this system. What am I referring to? Once again, economic companies that are owned abroad should not provide public service. This is our task, the mandatory task of the Hungarian authorities, and I think that it is possible to cooperate very well with them in this area and it can be resolved. The baby is fake, I must say, in thinking. I have heard in this House several times that waste management needs to be fixed. There's a solution here, so we're not saying that it needs to be fixed, we're saying that it's not a good solution, or we're going to have to undo it, and everything's fine. Well, it's not all right, because there are national organizations at the water utility provider and at the waste manager - I'm just telling Mr Nándor Gúr - who manage financially well. [[Nándor Gúr intervenes.]] I know the numbers of all of them. They are financially well-farmed, some pay 13 months a month, some finance others from the fees they collect, and some public service providers who are financially either because of their own faults or because they have not been able to manage well, can not function well. We want to help these companies by introducing a single management system. I definitely find it contradictory to say where I'm going, where I'm going. Returning to this amendment on the Waste Act itself, there will still be an amendment aimed at providing a well-functioning waste management system with improvements and systems by the end of 2017. For example, it should not be possible for a local government to make a selective selection work from EU sources, but it cannot operate because it has no financial resources; we want to help it. The aim is to set up a non-profit system in compliance with the EU standards throughout this system. It's not about selective waste, it's not about how it is. [[19.50]] We want to finance 100% total operation; I stress, 100%. Given that the summarised amendment tabled by the Legislative Committee is in line with the Government's position, I would ask you to support both the summarised amendment and the legislative amendment. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-05-09-284	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, There is a debate on the Commission's reports on the amendment of certain migration-related and, in this context, other laws and the summary amendment proposal. The government referral is T/9634. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. I declare that the presentation will be discussed as an EU item on the agenda by the Parliament. First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate, and the rapporteur will be Mr Vas Imre. Here you go.
u2016-05-09-285	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I hereby inform the Parliament that the Legislative Committee is the Rules 46. T/9634 on the amendment of certain other laws on migration and related matters The Committee presented a proposal for amendment and a summary report with 19 votes in favour, 6 votes against and 2 abstentions. The summarised amendment contains, on the one hand, a motion by the Defence and Police Committee with technical, simplification and reference clarifications and, on the other hand, a technical clarification of the Committee's proposal. The primary aim of the proposal is to ensure that immigrants arriving in Hungary cannot receive more support than Hungarian citizens. To this end, the proposed legislation reduces the scope of their social benefits. According to the motion, migrants can stay at the reception centre for only one month instead of two months, and it is noted that asylum detention can be applied in the future in all cases of return. Following last week's unrealised EU Commission proposal, it is particularly important to make it clear that we do not want to make unrealistic spending and put our own citizens at a more disadvantage because of economic immigrants. For example, the proposed legislation can serve the other Member States. Please support the adoption of the bill. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-05-09-286	Thank you very much. I'll ask the author if he wants to speak now. [[Károly Kontra: Thank you very much, no.]] Secretary of State says no. The rapporteur of the designated Defence and Police Committee is Miklós Simon. I'll give him the floor. Congressman, please.
u2016-05-09-287	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, Dear Parliament, The National Assembly's Defence and Police Committee is the 32nd House Rule. At its meeting on 19 April 2016 as a designated committee pursuant to paragraph 1 of Section T/9634, T/9634. Detailed discussion of bill No. 1. The committee, examining the bill, concluded that it was in compliance with the Rules of the House 44. The requirements of paragraph 1 of paragraph 1 of this Article shall apply. The committee during the detailed discussion of the Rules of the House 45. § 1 () discussed the amendments contained in the annex to the report, examining whether they comply with Article 42 of the Rules of Procedure. the requirements laid down in Section 2 of this Annex. The Committee did not support any of the amendments tabled, but adopted a proposal to close a detailed debate at the meeting with its own intention to amend, in which two proposals by President Tünde Handó, the OBH, submitted by President Tünde, were incorporated. The Commission's amendment was adopted by 6 votes in favour and 1 abstention. The National Defence and Police Committee closed the detailed discussion of the bill on 19 April 2016. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-05-09-288	Thank you very much. It is now up to Members to take part in the time-frame on which they are to be put on the agenda. I would like to inform you that a two-minute comment is not possible. [[For signal:]] Whoa, Mr Simon Miklós, as a pre-notified Member, you can speak again. Here you are, representative of the Fidesz.
u2016-05-09-289	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The migration crisis is not only a huge humanitarian task, but also a political, social and economic challenge for Europe as well as for Hungary. It is important that the last year has brought much experience in the system of asylum procedures in Hungary, which has also clearly highlighted the potential for financial abuse. The primary objective of the current bill is to ensure that immigrants arriving in Hungary do not receive more support, more benefits than a Hungarian citizen. The primary direction of tightening up is to reduce social benefits for asylum seekers and beneficiaries of international protection, in order to prevent economic immigrants from applying for asylum in Hungary only in the interest of a better life. Another point in the proposal is that in future, refugees with refugee status may stay at the reception centre for only 1 month instead of 2 months after asylum recognition. As can be seen from the European news, Western European countries also reduce the scope and amount of benefits that migrants can receive, because there is a strong tendency for immigrants to apply for asylum in countries where they can obtain greater financial means. In view of this, it is clear that we need to talk about economic migration. The migration crisis has already put a heavy burden on our country, with more than 85 billion forints of these expenses, most of which were provided by the Hungarian state, and thus by Hungarian citizens. Further provisions of the proposal provide that asylum detention may be applied in the future in the event of any return and that the asylum authority will review the existence of conditions for recognition as a refugee every three years, so that the status of persons no longer in need of international protection can be withdrawn. The bill would also strengthen the system of domestic application for a residence permit, because at present a large number of third-country nationals abuse the domestic application for a residence permit and the related fairness procedure to prevent and, of course, postpone the imposition of a expulsion decision or the execution of a previously ordered expulsion. The bill also deals with legislative amendments resulting from our obligations to harmonise EU legislation. Ladies and gentlemen, In conclusion, practical experience justifies the amendment of alien law. The Fidesz fraction supports the current bill. Please support me. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]] [[20.00]]
u2016-05-09-290	Thank you very much, Congressman. Congresswoman Márta Demeter, MSZP!
u2016-05-09-291	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Let me start by saying that in no way is this salad law acceptable to us, which is being debated now, and, of course, we will not support this bill. If it were to be summarized very briefly, I'd say it's two-faced, lied, hate-hating and unscrupulous. So with these four things it is very good to characterize the proposal, and, as it says, some migration laws, the fact that there is such a part in it, by the way, the transposition of EU directives, would be a very good thing, fundamentally, and to amend other laws, and it is always here, as we have seen in recent years, that is, for example, what makes the business of the settlement obligation even more accessible and even more smoother, so that the offshore companies that are involved in this can generate even more benefit. You can clearly see that. Basically, I would not detail the transposition of the EU directives, obviously this is a timely and necessary thing, but the fact that, hiding behind this, they put incredibly amazing things in a salad law, I think that this is not acceptable. After all, while transposing the EU directives could even send the European Union a message that they would actually respect certain values, what we see, for example, in relation to asylum amendments, specifically with regard to the amendment of the migration law, is that people who have already received protection in Hungary will lose all care. They will have no opportunity, no care whatsoever, to help them integrate. And just to give you some figures on this, given the situation that occurred in 2015, it is clear that, despite 177 135 applications, only 146 were granted refugee status and 356 were granted protection. So I have to say, we're talking about just a little over 500 people in total. In all other cases, with a few exceptions, the procedure was terminated. And otherwise, they would now be taking care of people who, and will not receive any integration support, who, by the way, have been given this protection at the decision of the Hungarian authorities, and it is clear that they are fleeing from a situation which makes it necessary for them to be protected here in Hungary. So I think that this is also an incredible brazenness, and what my fellow Member Vas has mentioned, I am glad that he has come forward, because we have also heard this argument at the committee meeting, so that they can't benefit - this is the 500 people we are talking about - in higher care or support than some Hungarian citizens. I would like to say two things about this. On the one hand, the care they receive is known to be decreasing, so the initial care is constantly decreasing as integration progresses. If the government had not created a situation with the last year's decisions, such as the situation in which a large number of disabled pensioners were in, did they not in the course of the reviews, and completely eliminated care for certain persons, one in one, so zero is the monthly income from which they would have had to live if they did not, if the Hungarian society were not in such a situation, then otherwise my fellow Member would not be able to say such a sentence. The other thing is that there is a clear need to put Hungarian society in a position where decisions need to be made, but there is a need to increase salaries, salaries, wages, which actually gives us a predictability, and then such an argument cannot stop for a moment. But I think we're talking about 500 people, and I'm telling you, falling benefits, so getting rid of everything, throwing them out on the street, it's not gonna be any good in any way. I would add that even from the point of view of public safety, if one does not have any means of living, then we know where it can lead and can cause problems there. But then I'd like to move on to the most interesting part of the bill, and this is the matter of settlement bonds. We have talked about this several times in this House today. The current proposal allows bond holders to obtain a direct residence permit without obtaining a residence permit. So far, they've been granted residence permits, and then they got the residence permit. Otherwise, there will be no delay. In their case, the procedural deadline is reduced from 70 to 30 days. So you can see that you're trying to get this deal going with these modifications. The discount is valid retroactively. Residents and members of their families under the policy may initiate the residence permit immediately from this point on. So, to sum up, the fact that offshore companies, which have excellent relations with Antal Rogán, can continue to benefit enormously from the issue of settlement bonds, how settlement bonds can bring as many economic immigrants as possible to Hungary, is one of the most impressive points in the proposal, which shows that it is particularly interesting for government parties, and that is what they are trying to hide behind various other amendments. There is clearly no support for this proposal on our part. Thank you.
u2016-05-09-292	Thank you very much. No more pre-notified speakers. As a representative asking for a normal word, Congressman Nándor Gúr asked for an opportunity, MSZP. Here you go.
u2016-05-09-293	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would like to confirm one idea, which is the issue of the settlement policy, in line with the words of Congresswoman Márta Demeter. Secretary of State will be able to respond. When a ten-thousand registration permit is issued in the order of ten-thousands in the last few years, when the offshore companies that you consider not to be offshore are earning approximately HUF 30 million for a bond, you can calculate what is the dividend that is practically coming down there. Or is that where it hits? - I can finish the sentence anyway. So, it is shameful what you are doing about these issues, that while Minister Balog, such as the resettlement of Christians, is 1500 people, a settlement bond of 15,000 people, making money on this issue in many other respects, and discussing how and how to deal with the unfortunate fate of people, on the other hand, on the other hand. It should be considered whether the path they have taken in the case of settlement bonds is appropriate, morally acceptable, and, where appropriate, to bear the test of legality. Thank you very much.
u2016-05-09-294	Dear Parliament, I will ask if anyone else wishes to take the opportunity to speak. [[There's no such signal.]] I'm gonna say no. The debate is closed. Mr. Secretary of State, as rapporteur, you may order, Mr. Secretary of State Károly Kontra.
u2016-05-09-295	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, The bill before the Honourable Parliament provides for amendments to the legislation necessary for the effective management of mass immigration and for legislative harmonisation purposes. Three amendments were submitted to the bill, which were not supported by the government, as they were not compatible with the regulatory objective or with the obligation to harmonise legislation. [[20.10]] The adoption of the bill will simplify the single authorisation procedure, thus creating a more transparent procedure, creating employment and earning income as two new goals of residence will result in a more efficient and faster administration. The procedure for obtaining a residence and residence permit issued in the interests of the national economy is simplified by law in such a way that a direct residence permit may be applied for. The system of domestic application for residence permits is strict with the adoption of the law, which prevents third-country nationals from using the domestic application for a residence permit and the fairness procedure to prevent the execution of a possible expulsion decision. In view of the fact that the deadline for compliance with the obligation to harmonise legislation for two Directives is 30 September 2016 and 29 November 2016, it is necessary to amend domestic legislation. Dear Parliament, In addition to complying with EU law, the legislative amendments proposed in this draft act improve the coherence of the Hungarian migration law and contribute to increasing citizens' sense of security by more effective action against abuse. For these reasons, I ask the Honourable Parliament to support the bill. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-05-09-296	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, The 1995 LVII on water management follows. The Commission's reports on the amendment of the Act and the debate on the draft amendment. Government referral T/9802. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. Dear Parliament, First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. I give the floor to Congressman László Vécsey, rapporteur of the committee. Here you go.
u2016-05-09-297	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that, at its meeting on 5 May 2016, the Legislative Committee discussed the 1995 LVII on water management. T/9802 amending Act T/9802 Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report shall be drawn up by the Committee in accordance with Article 10/2014 of the Rules of Procedure. Parliamentary resolution 46. It adopted it by 31 votes in favour, with 2 abstentions and without voting against. During the Committee meeting, the members discussed the amendments made to the Committee on Agriculture and the Committee on Sustainable Development in the background. They also discussed the legislative committee's own amendment. Overall, the need to amend the legislation is due to the obligation imposed by the Commission. Farmers should be paid both water supply contributions and water supply charges for the use of water for agricultural purposes. It is worth mentioning that Mr András Schiffer's proposal has also been adopted, which, in the opinion of the Ministry of Interior and the representatives of the Committee, rightly points out the need to supplement the legal environment in harmony. To all this, I ask for the support of this House. Thank you for your attention, Mr President.
u2016-05-09-298	Thank you very much, Congressman. I will ask the rapporteur if he wishes to speak now, Mr Secretary of State. [[For signal:]] It says no. The designated Agriculture Committee has not presented a rapporteur, I will inform you. We now have speeches from the Members, and we do not have a two-minute comment. I'll see if anyone wants to tell me. I waited too long, so Congressman Nándor Gúr took the opportunity. He's got the floor. Here you go.
u2016-05-09-299	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I promise you, I won't have two minutes of my normal comment.
u2016-05-09-300	I'll measure it.
u2016-05-09-301	Mr Secretary, I really want to see one thing clearly and clearly. Just because, where I live my life, in that area, there are quite a lot of garden wells owned by people, and it was said that until 31 December 2018, if I remember correctly, the issue of authority permits could be without penalty or accompanied by it. The real question is - and that is what people have said - what is it now? Is the government planning to impose various burdens on people who are practically watering from drilled wells to reduce water consumption or doing any other kind of activity after obtaining official permits? I could not give a correct answer to this question, as I did not receive a correct answer to this question in Parliament in connection with the last conversation. That is why, for the second time, I am trying to ask if Mr Secretary of State can give a correct answer, which, of course, can serve as a reference for everyone later on. Mr. President, thank you very much.
u2016-05-09-302	Thank you very much. You kept your promise, Congressman. Please, I'll ask you again if there's anyone else you'd like to tell me. [[No one's reporting.]] No. If not, I would like to ask Mr State Secretary, as rapporteur, whether he wishes to respond to Mr Gur. [[For signal:]] Yeah. You have the floor, please.
u2016-05-09-303	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I think we all know that in Hungary there are a lot of domestic water collection works, these small wells. These small wells had not yet had to be licensed, but was a notification obligation, a process in which the municipal notary officially acknowledged that this well would otherwise be completed in accordance with the drilling rules of the well. The intention is - and this is also an obligation - to be aware of the number of drillings in Hungary, where appropriate in settlements, that affect the water base in some way in order to protect the drinking water base. It is very often heard when these not necessarily well isolated mines release surface soil water during an indoor period of water. The recognition and knowledge of these are absolutely necessary. They can be reported by 18:00 without any retortion to the owners. This does not mean that there will be any additional costs at home wells in relation to this later on due to the removal of water. Obviously, the large wells have the full regulation, but that is the reason why wells drilled at a depth of 20-30 metres are not affected. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-05-09-304	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. As I have just concluded the debate, I would like to inform you that the decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, The year 1952 on the Civil Procedure III follows. Act CCXXII of 2015 on the general rules for electronic administration and trust services. The Commission's reports on the amendment of the Act and the debate on the draft amendment. The government referral is T/10308. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. In the debate, Honourable Parliament, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented first, and this will be told to us by Mr Vas Imre, rapporteur of the committee. Here you go.
u2016-05-09-305	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, I hereby inform the Parliament that on 5 May 2016 the Legislative Committee discussed the Article III of the 1952 Civil Procedure Act. Act CCXXII of 2015 on the general rules for electronic administration and trust services. T/10308 on the amendment of the Act The Commission submitted a legislative proposal with 25 votes in favour, with five abstentions, and an amendment and a summary report without voting against. [[20.20]] The summarised amendment contains a six-point motion from the Legislative Committee, which will also override the Judicial Committee's amendment proposal. The latter correction is necessary because the aim of the dissemination of electronic administration is to reduce the burden on both public and economic bodies. In view of this, it is only appropriate to provide for a condition which does not increase these burdens. As the electronic changeover creates a new situation for businesses and the public sector, it is important that, contrary to the original amendment to the law, the required level of electronic signatures is not increased when farmers have to switch to e-courts. In view of this, the amendment ensures that the current situation is maintained and that an enhanced electronic signature based on a qualified certificate remains the full evidence-based private document and the electronic equipment of authentic instruments. In view of this, the Legislative Committee proposes to use the wording set out in the amendment compared to the Commission's proposal to close the detailed debate. For the sake of effective and modern justice, I would like to ask you to support the proposal before us, which creates the possibility and from the first day of July 2016 requires legal representatives to keep in contact with the courts only by electronic means. Thank you for listening. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2016-05-09-306	Thank you very much, Congressman. I'm going to ask Mr. Secretary of State if he wants to respond to anything right now. Of course, he doesn't know yet, because only the Commission's opinion has been delivered. All this has given you many opportunities to consider whether you wish to speak. [[There's no signal.]] No. Since the Judicial Committee did not produce a rapporteur, there were no speakers, and there was no opportunity for a two-minute comment, the debate, honourable Parliament, is closed. According to a script, I'll ask the Secretary of State if he wants to speak. [[There's no signal.]] But you're right not to respond. So we can wrap this up quickly. I would like to inform you that the decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Thank you. Dear Parliament, Next up is the 2007 LXXV on the Hungarian Chamber of Auditors, audit activities and audit public oversight. The Commission's reports on the amendment of law and certain financial legislation and the discussion of the summary amendment proposal. The government referral is T/10091. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. I declare that the presentation will be discussed as an EU item on the agenda by the Parliament. Dear Parliament, The debate will be the first to present the position of the Legislative Committee, which will be presented by Mr Dénes Galambos, rapporteur of the committee. Here you go.
u2016-05-09-307	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, I would like to inform you that, at its meeting on 5 May 2016, the Legislative Committee discussed the 2007 LXXV on the Hungarian Chamber of Auditors, the audit activity and the audit public oversight. Act T/10091 on the amendment of certain laws on financial matters Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report shall be drawn up by the Committee in accordance with Article 10/2014 of the Rules of Procedure. Parliamentary resolution 46. It adopted it by 25 votes in favour, 5 against and 5 abstentions. During the committee meeting, the members discussed the 15-point amendment proposal of the Economic Committee in the background and the amendment proposal of the Legislative Committee, which contains essentially legal provisions. Under the proposed amendment, supported by the committee, the maximum duration of the statutory audit rotation for managers of public-interest credit institutions, insurance undertakings, reinsurance undertakings, investment firms or listed funds subject to the supervision of the Hungarian National Bank and managing investor funds is eight years, with the exception of listed issuers, investment firms and fund managers on the stock exchange. The maximum period of rotation in this case will be ten years under the Regulation. At the meeting, the opposition objected to the fact that the chamber quality control procedure had previously been conducted by the Chamber Presidency, and the legislative proposal assigns this task to the audit authority at the Ministry of National Economy. In our view, this provision is necessary because, on the basis of previous experience, the decision taken by the Presidency was not sufficiently strict, and given the fact that we are transposing a European Union directive, the public oversight authority leading the public oversight system assumes final responsibility for all aspects of public oversight, including quality control. This final responsibility can therefore be expressed and articulated in this way. In addition, my fellow Member György Balla presented a proposal for an amendment at the meeting of the Legislative Committee, which was supported by the Committee, given that when granting financial institutions, investment firms, cash registers, insurance companies and issuer ratings, the public supervisory authority should request the agreement of the National Bank of Hungary. However, when granting the budget rating, the State Audit Office will no longer have to seek the agreement of the public supervisory authority. Given that the aim of the proposal is to strengthen professional ethical discipline, to strengthen convergence with regard to auditing standards, to protect investors and to strengthen public oversight, I would therefore ask you to support the bill before us. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2016-05-09-308	Thank you very much, Congressman. I will ask the author, Mr Secretary of State, if he wishes to speak now. [[András Tállai says no.]] It says no. Dear Parliament, No rapporteur was drawn up by the designated Economic Committee. Representatives will now take part in the time-frames on the agenda. I would like to inform you that a two-minute comment is not possible. Mr István Józsa, Member of the MSZP, asked for an opportunity as a pre-notified speaker. Here you go.
u2016-05-09-309	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Given that this is essentially an EU legislative harmonisation agenda, there is no such possibility of too much error. On 16 April 2014, the European Parliament and Council adopted Directive 2014/56/EU amending Directive 2006/43/EC on the statutory audit of annual accounts and consolidated accounts, which should be referred to as a Directive and Regulation (EU) No 537/2014 of the European Parliament and of the Council on specific requirements for statutory audits of public-interest entities and repealing Commission Decision 2005/909/EC. The amended Directive should be transposed into national law by Member States within two years of its entry into force, i.e. until 17 June 2016, immediately. The Regulation should therefore apply from 17 June 2016 and therefore the primary objective of the proposed legislation is to transpose the amended Directive and to apply the Regulation in domestic law. So this part is appropriate, you have to do it, actually, it's a shame they didn't do it so far. It should also be said, even with regard to the amendments, that the relationship between the Hungarian Chamber of Auditors and the Government cannot be considered as impeccable; the Chamber has protested several times against the changes in the legislation of the last year, not to mention that the legislation on accounting has been amended at such a pace that it is human or auditor who has been able to follow it. [[20.30]] It can also be argued that in 2015, Fidesz doubled the public oversight fee to be paid by the Chamber, i.e. the money that was granted to the Ministry of National Economy. This double increase has been increased because the Chamber continues to carry out the vast majority of these public oversight tasks, and according to a relevant EU rule, the principle of cost-sharing, the Ministry receives a budget contribution of HUF 10 million. Thus, the burden was increased for the Chamber, but the services were not. They turned to the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights on behalf of the Chamber when the Parliament amended the Law on Criminal Procedure so that, in the event of a crime involving a financial organisation which has a financial disadvantage of more than HUF 50 million, the auditor's assets could be closed without limitation. Given that the National Bank, after taking over the powers of the State Supervisory Authority of Financial Institutions, did not perform this control activity so well, see the embezzlement of Quaestor over 200 billion or the missing funds at Buda-Cash, so the damage caused by the supervisory powers of the Hungarian National Bank has not been intended to bear, it does not want to take note of it, but at the same time the auditors were properly burdened by this legislation. So it's still under review. There is a positive element of this proposal, which is also supported by us, although it is difficult to fit into the proposal. This is an amendment to the Annex to the Personal Income Tax Act, namely that the relevant government decree provides the public with a so-called job contribution of HUF 22 800 per month if the former public employee establishes an indefinite but at least 12 months fixed-term employment in the competitive sector. This allowance goes to a time that has already been hired for community service, but sooner has found a job in the labour market. The proposal makes this amount fully tax-free, which is correct. So there's a part of it that we support. Although the majority of the proposal contains the transposition of EU rules, it does not remedy problems which have been challenged by the Chamber of Auditors for more than a year. On this basis, although the tax exemption of public workers' employment contributions is clearly an eligible solution, overall, this proposal does not bear the values on which it could clearly support the MSZP fraction. Therefore, we will abstain in the final vote in view of the positives. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2016-05-09-310	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I'll see if anyone else wants to tell me. [[For signal:]] Congressman Nándor Gúr, MSZP. Here you go.
u2016-05-09-311	Thank you very much, Mr. President. There are two thoughts left that my fellow Member Józsa has not said, but it must be mentioned. One is that the submission approves or approves contracts with auditors with a maximum duration of five years, in practice with contracts being concluded. I would like to remind the Secretary of State once again that European practice in 30 countries looks at a ten-year term in 22 countries, and in 7 of the remaining 8 it is practically 9, 8 and 7 years old. There is only one country in which 5 years are required, Hungary. What's wrong with that? In fact, the problem is that, in a sense, ten-year rotation is much more desirable than five years old, but I would rather say that, for example, the transparency of the operation of multinational companies - let us look at them - is also reduced by this five-year rotation precisely because it cannot be ensured that the audit firm, or rather, the auditors of the company's network, carry out audits of the group during the entire mandate period. Technically, the blackouts and overlaps create a chaotic relationship system. This five-year rotation also significantly restricts the freedom of choice of the entities concerned, and I no longer want to address the four-year re-election ban and other issues. It is also accompanied by basic accounting risks, as changes will take place from 2017 onwards and this poses a risk to the audit. All I can say is that, in my opinion, and I am not alone in this, this is also what the audit chamber's creed is all about, the calm functioning of the capital market could be sufficiently ensured by the ten-year rotation, on the basis of all these considerations. The other thing I must mention is that quality control is a matter of concern. As regards quality control, there are many options, from mandatory training through warnings, qualification, reprimanding or banning. But the problem here is that the measures, I see, are quite subjective. So-so, the chamber member's auditor, from HUF 100,000 to HUF 100 million, and from HUF 100 thousand to HUF 500 million for audit firms. I understand the ceilings in this second case. But in the case of a simple auditor, shouldn't these processes be made in line with turnover? Mr Secretary, I would like to point this out to you, I think that these thresholds are excessive in this case, and it is not really acceptable. Thank you very much.
u2016-05-09-312	Thank you very much. I'll ask if anyone else wants to speak in the remaining time frame. [[No one's reporting.]] I'm gonna say no. The debate is closed. I will ask the author, Mr Secretary of State, if he wishes to reflect. [[On the mark of András Tállai:]] András Tállai shows that he did. Here you go.
u2016-05-09-313	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, Thank you very much for the speech of the two MSZP Members. I have the following problem with these two speeches. On the one hand, what Congressman Józsa was pushing is not subject to the audit law, and in particular not to the present bill. [[Dr. István Józsa: It is scandalous!]] the original version submitted. Nor the legislative committee's proposal to amend it. Therefore, neither the compliance of auditors with their entire assets nor the public oversight contribution fee is included. This last year's topic, you discussed the Parliament, you have the right arguments as to why this happened otherwise. [[Dr. István Józsa: It's just unfair!]] I think we can end his speech with this. [[Dr. István Józsa: Of course you don't want to talk about the National Bank!]] Mr Nándor Gúr's speech is very interesting. I don't know if you've read the legislative committee's amendment. [[Nándor Gúr: I read it!]] And what's in it, Congressman? [[Nándor Gúr: I couldn't trace it!]] the duration of the audit mandate? I'll tell you what you're complaining about, which means that we're raising the five years for ten years, is in this amendment proposal. Eight years and ten years. So I suggest to the congressman, next time, before he pushes a button, look at what the proposal is and don't embarrass yourself here in Parliament. [[Nándor Gúr: I suggested it to you!]] The fact that what you're asking for is part of the proposal. [[Nándor Gúr: I'm not asking, I suggested it to you!]] It was your speech that revived the hope to change it. So you have to read the legislative committee's proposal [[Nándor Gúr: So, so, I suggested it to you!]] you must listen to what your rapporteur has to say, and then you will not talk such nonsense, Congressman Gúr. [[Nándor Gúr: What is nonsense, Andrew?]] He's thanking you for the government's attention. [[Anita Beringes: Do I need to be thanked?]] - You're an opposition representative. [[20.40]] Overall, the discussions with the Chamber were concluded in a complete compromise, and the last consultation covered exactly the duration of the audit mandate. The Chamber of Auditors fully accepts and supports the bill. [[Dr. István Józsa: Is there anything else you can do? You can't.]] And I would ask you to be unanimously adopted by Parliament in the vote, because this law is necessary to increase and strengthen the purity of financial life. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2016-05-09-314	Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, The Commission's reports on the amendment of the laws relating to certain school cooperatives and the final amendment proposal follow up. Presentation by Members Lajos Kósa, Kristóf Szatmáry and Sándor Czomba, Fidesz, T/10316. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. Dear Parliament, The debate will be the first to present the position of the Legislative Committee, which will be presented by Mr Dénes Galambos, rapporteur of the committee. Here you go.
u2016-05-09-315	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear fellow Members, Dear Secretary of State, At the meeting of the Legislative Committee on 5 May 2016, the members held a debate on T/10316 amending the laws relating to certain school cooperatives. About bill No. 1. The Committee shall be governed by the Rules of Procedure 46. It submitted a proposal for amendment and a summary report with 25 votes in favour, 5 votes against and 5 abstentions. The summarised amendment also includes proposals for a 12-point amendment by the Economic Committee. Basically, the amendment aims to revise the cooperative law on student cooperatives. Of course, the guarantee in the Labour Code, which is provided to workers covered by the Labour Code, will continue to be guaranteed, in the framework of student associations, not in the employment relationship, but in the framework of employment under the contract of assignment, the underlying legislation of which is contained in the Civil Code. In the draft amending proposal, the amendments to the dates in the transitional provisions were adopted to clarify them, because if the membership agreements of the school cooperative or the amendment of the statutes to the new provisions become mandatory by a given date, the legal consequences of non-compliance with this obligation will apply from the following day. The proposal further clarifies the liability rules. In addition to the school associations without capital reserves, in order to protect the special category of subjects, the legitimate claim of the injured student can be enforced even towards the recipient of the service, and can be enforced under the law. Ladies and gentlemen, On average, between 180 and 200 thousand students work in Hungary every year, 130 thousand of them are employed by a school association. School cooperative employment is a special, atypical form of employment. In practice, in the case of the provisions of the Labour Code, a number of interpretation problems have arisen. We believe that this proposal also addresses previous problems effectively while keeping the interests of students in mind. I would like your votes to support the adoption of the bill. Thank you. [[It's a rare round of applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2016-05-09-316	Thank you very much, Congressman. On behalf of the authors, I see Congressman Czomba. I'll ask him if he wants to speak now. [[Dr. Sándor Czomba indicates no.]] It says no. I'll ask if anyone on the government's side wants to speak. [[For signal:]] Secretary of State Cherry, please.
u2016-05-09-317	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to explain very briefly why the Government supports the summarised amendment. In fact, because this bill is another step in the government's efforts to ensure that the size and economic role of the Hungarian school cooperatives can be sufficiently expressed, the functioning of the school cooperative is not only beneficial for students, but also for the state, education and the whole market, and the provision of the school cooperative service is a business-based solution that, building on the needs of the market and the self-care of young people, ensures the acquisition of work experience in the world of work in the student years. For this reason, the Government supports the summarised amendment, as I have already indicated. Thank you very much.
u2016-05-09-318	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I would like to inform you that the Economic Committee has not presented a rapporteur. Dear Parliament, There will now be speeches by Members within the time-frame on the agenda. No two-minute comments are possible. First up, Congresswoman Anita Heringes, MSZP. Here you go.
u2016-05-09-319	Thank you very much. This is the second time we've been here to talk about amending the school cooperative law. With regard to the first amendment, I have repeatedly said that, fortunately, Lajos Kósa withdrew it in the first round. In the previous debate, Kristóf Szatmáry was the one who tried to defend the honour of the mundé, not with much success, but, as I see, he has now fled, and another Member has named this amendment in Sándor Czomba as simply a crime against students. Even though it is said that all guarantees and guarantees are included for students in this amendment and even in the fact that they are removed from the labour code, there are unfortunately no such guarantees, so I am very sorry for the fellow Members to whom this speech is written, and you will face the fact that otherwise this is not true, that is a lie.After 15 years of legal and social debate, you have taken the most appropriate place in the work code. In 2011, Fidesz did not break the social and professional consensus, but also featured this part in the new Mt. as an independent chapter. At the time, they thought it was appropriate. Now, the Fidesz government intends to get Parliament to accept a legal monster with two now three individual amendments, taking out the employment of the school cooperative in its own chapter. He wants to regulate the employment of 130,000 students and students, in part with the Ptk. and partly with the cooperative law, with a mule solution. He does it despite the fact that one of the most vulnerable categories of workers is underage. The Labour Code gives the highest protection and guarantees to all employees of these laws. Of course, it was better when we were steering and the previous Mt. was in force. From 1 January 2017, 130,000 young people no longer have these guarantees and rights. It's a lie that students don't work in employment. The members of the school cooperative, this 130,000 people, at least 80 percent of them are integrated into a work organisation, according to working time schedule, work in a fixed working order, work in a job, and work in the hours worked. This will cease from 1 January, at least on paper. This is something that has never been done before: by law, 130,000 students and students will cease their employment contracts from 1 January. This is because Hungary has been subject to infringement proceedings for the paid leave due to the student and student employees of the school cooperative. You have chosen the simpler solution: you simply remove students from the labour code. The amendment is good for the temporary deception of the EU, but it does not serve the common good. The current amendment will in principle provide for 1 day's paid leave after 13 working days, but the detailed rules have not been developed, so it is unlikely that it will provide. The current amendment, despite giving all paid leave from the following year, will still take an average of 2 days from students and students working 80 hours per month on average, and does not take into account the extra 5 days paid leave for under 18 years. According to our calculations, the Fidesz government will take no less than HUF 1.6 billion out of the pockets of the students and students of the school cooperative and thus from the pockets of their families. 1.6 billion forints! Another serious infringement is that people under the age of 18 are not guaranteed by the Mt required under the EU Directive and the current Mt. the inter-work break provided by the Member State concerned. A minimum working interval of 45 minutes should now be granted in the case of day-to-day working hours, which, according to the amendment, will be reduced to 20 minutes. [[20.50]] After 1 January 2017, most of the students and students of the school cooperative will work in practice in employment, but not on paper, and this pretence will be ensured by the law. It's amazing that the school cooperative advocacy organizations are assisting in this disenfranchisement right now and not raising their voices. It is shocking because school associations would have not only employers but also advocacy. But it seems that today, instead of protecting our interests, these organizations are unfortunately serving the government, not for the rights of students, but for their own well-being. It's outrageous! Cancel this proposal.
u2016-05-09-320	Thank you very much. Mr Nándor Gúr is the next speaker, MSZP.
u2016-05-09-321	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Hopefully, you will be able to get there, as well as the Secretary of State and the wallet that Mr Tállai's purse has reached, that is to say, considering those reasonable proposals, he was able to make his own final decision about all the things that were mentioned above. Apparently, what is happening today at the level of the school cooperatives is not in the best interest of the students. There have been a number of amendments to the law between the walls of the House in the last year and a half, which affected students working within the framework of the school cooperative and the school cooperative. There was one in this, which, I can say, with a calm spirit, was useful and received support. You will remember, for example, when we gave support to the story on issues relating to the matter of the year-delayed student, because we also thought that the kind of negative discrimination that existed in the last five years was inappropriate, so it is worth changing. I will not repeat the content of the current amendment to the law on school cooperatives, which my fellow Member Anita Heringes said, but I would like to point out that they are not in any way in the interest of students engaged in work within the framework of the school cooperative, either from a source or from the side of protection. If you think about the harsh - of course, the system is pulsating, different during the given period, but according to the latest measurement data - 150-170 thousand students affected by this story will have a loss of around 1600 million forints due to these measures, I think that this cannot be described as a result or can only be considered as a negative result. That's part of the story. The other part of the matter - of course, this law does not affect it, but it is worth saying a sentence about it: Commissioner Secretary of State remembers well that six years ago, the work within the framework of school cooperatives and student associations affected employment within the format managed by the HCSO, and knows how it now affects employment, in any way. Well, as it is now, of course, an integral part of the story. So your philosophy and logic basically tends to always, always use everything to try, in some sense, to show a more positive picture even of what is more negative. And the third aspect of this is when, among the framework of the Labour Code, the Ptk. they put the story within the framework of it, and I will not repeat it here, because I do not have the time to do so - either in terms of labour checks, or in terms of the extent of the possibility of deprivation of liberty, or in terms of the extent of those - which Mrs Anita Heringes has specifically lined up. Well, I think that this proposal, in that sense, once again, is not in the interest of those involved, so we cannot support it. Mr. President, thank you very much.
u2016-05-09-322	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I'll ask if anyone else wants to speak. [[There's no candidate.]] I'm gonna say no. The debate is closed. I will ask the rapporteur, Mr Sándor Czomba, if he wishes to reflect. [[Dr. Sándor Czomba: Yes.]] You have the floor, please.
u2016-05-09-323	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Indeed, only for a few sentences, because I do not want to repeat the general debate. The same arguments were made in the previous period. The activity of the school cooperatives is that they employ hundreds of thousands of people in Hungary - there were figures that were 130 to 150 thousand, but certainly over 100 thousand - and in other atypical forms of employment we are around 200,000. Why employment is important for young people in Hungary, I do not think that there is any need to debate it between Parliament's walls. You have indicated that there is a problem with getting out of the labor code. Well, in recent years, I have heard that the Labour Code, which entered into force in 2012, is a disaster. Then you should be happy, especially on the side of the MSZP, that this chapter finally comes out of that catastrophic law and goes to the Ptk., by the way, about the cooperative law, where I think it belongs. When we put this into the labour code at the time, we felt that it had segments and strands that were not entirely, clearly, Mt. are subject to it because it can lead to problems of interpretation in everyday life. So I think it's the kind of fear that now manifests itself because it's Mt. It comes out of its scope, it's unsubstantiated. The question of labour control is an exciting and interesting question, namely whether rights are weakening or strengthening or what is happening. I would like to draw the attention of my fellow Members to the fact that at the beginning of each year, a plan is being drawn up to identify the sectors that should be monitored more closely. We are well aware of the areas in which the black and grey economy has been primarily present for many decades. Well, he was also present with regard to school cooperatives and temporary agency workers, and I have to say, unfortunately, he will be. So this is obviously an area worth paying attention to. But there is the possibility that I do not regulate labour control by law, not by making it mandatory to monitor it every year, every six months or at what intervals, but if we feel that it is necessary to make it more effective or to increase it, then there is the possibility of doing so either in the framework of an annual programme plan or in another fixed way. And that, my dear Congresswoman Heringes, I can't place where to put it, to accuse us of the fact that the school associations are in favour of this law. Thank God, because politics is not the primary thing to support. The task of policy is to ensure that what professional organisations propose can be effectively run by law in everyday life. I think that the bill before us will be suitable for strengthening the Hungaricum that school cooperatives report on the Hungarian labour market in the coming years. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of Fidesz.]]
u2016-05-09-324	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that the decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, Next, the 2011 XCIII on the National Economic and Social Council. The Commission's reports on the amendment of the Act and the debate on the draft amendment. The government referral is T/10094. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. Dear Parliament, The debate will be the first to present the position of the Legislative Committee, which will be presented by Mr László Vécsey, rapporteur of the committee. Here you go.
u2016-05-09-325	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, I hereby inform the Parliament that the Legislative Committee discussed T/10094 on 5 May 2016. XCIII of 2011 on the National Economic and Social Council. A bill amending the Act was tabled by the Committee with 25 votes in favour, 5 votes against and 1 abstention. The summarised amendment includes a five-point technical proposal from the Economic Committee. [[21.00]] As you already know, the aim of the bill is to establish a broad consultation that also includes social units that have not previously participated in the consultations. Consequently, by joining Hungarian representatives of art both at home and across borders in the work of the Council, it offers the possibility of a wider consultation. The amendment is also necessary in order to enable the Council to demonstrate and channel the interests of all the economic operators and social groups concerned in accordance with the principles. Ladies and gentlemen, In order to ensure that the National Economic and Social Council continues to function properly, I ask for the adoption and support of the bill to continue to operate smoothly. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-05-09-326	Thank you very much, Congressman. Now I'm going to ask the author if he wants to speak now. Mr. Secretary.
u2016-05-09-327	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Honourable Congressman, The government supports the technical modification of the Legislative Committee and everything else. Thank you. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-05-09-328	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that the designated Economic Committee has not presented a rapporteur. Mr Nándor Gúr, Mr MSZP, will be the first speaker to be heard. Here.
u2016-05-09-329	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Recalling the period during which the National Economic and Social Council was set up, it is clear that you have ended something when the National Economic and Social Council was formed, which was working well. You have eliminated the system of national reconciliation, 2011. CHAPTER VII 30 months, which not only functioned as a consultative forum, but also had permissions to agree. I understand you don't need this. I understand that you are better at living if any body is merely a consultative proposer or an advisor of any kind, rather than obviously having, in addition to commenting, permissions to agree. I understand, but I think it's inappropriate. At a time when the system of national reconciliation was terminated, not only nationally, centrally, but also at field level, but also at county level, for example, labour councils in addition to the network of labour centres, they made a fundamental mistake that should be reflected through the system of real day-to-day reconciliation; i.e. the enforceability of the right to agree between employers and employees' representatives and representatives. There were a lot of opinions back then. I am talking about autonomous trade unions, he called all that they are doing stupid, and in a sense, they also revealed the threat of social peace, that this kind of step in some sense could lead to this kind of upset social peace. In fact, there was an example of this in recent years when this story seemed to tilt, and then, with a multitude of measures, they were able to fix it temporarily. But the LIGA, which was then led by Gasko, considered what they were doing to be outrageous, because you, when you were in government, had voted twice in favour of the system of national reconciliation of interests, i.e. you, Fidesz, have confirmed it; then, when you were no longer in government, you did not need it. In Hungarian, the institutional system of social dialogue, which has worked for 20 years, has been abolished. So what I want to say is that I think that they have chosen the wrong path in this regard, and that what this draft law contains in its content is that the established National Economic and Social Council, which is so many people call incarceration, carries with it a further expansion, does not help to improve processes, but rather becomes a barrier. You know, you know, from the actors in the art world to the churches, many others, the presence of the actors of the scientific sphere, in a sense, is necessary, but it should not appear within the framework of this conflicting forum. Although this is no longer the case, it appears under the heading of a National Economic and Social Council. Overall, I would just like to say that they have not been able to clarify the problems that have persisted over a long period of years, not even the issues relating to the appointment of members. Technically, the restoration of delegation relations or the intervention in the operational order of the National Economic and Social Council, which is about having to meet at least four times a year, must now meet twice and take a position in any sense, on the basis of the regulations contained in this draft law, make their role almost ridiculous. And you answer that by giving them their freedom of movement. They will then decide for themselves that they will sit not twice, but seventeen times, covering all the issues they consider important. Well, I'd like to ask you, or recall to you, how and how you've been wearing, how many times in the last few years, when you've had the requirements of a four-time convening. Well, I'm not gonna go into the details. One word for one hundred, this bill is unacceptable. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[A rare applause in the ranks of the MSZP.]]
u2016-05-09-330	Thank you very much. No one else came forward. [[Dr. István Józsa: Yes, you can.]] Dániel Z. Kárpát, representative of Jobbik, will now follow as a representative requesting a normal word. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-05-09-331	Mr President, Dear House, It should be pointed out that the amendment of the Legislative Committee did not resolve the doubts that an organization of greater importance would suffer further operational difficulties through the intervention of the government. I have no objection to the fact that the President of the Hungarian Academy of Arts may take a position on the issue of the guaranteed minimum wage. We believe in the broadest possible social dialogue. However, the way already mentioned is that, contrary to the four plenary sessions that have been held so far, you think it will be enough to convene the NGTT plenary session twice a year, it seems to be in exactly the opposite direction. So you're suggesting that you want to expand this organization, and, given its operational principles, you want to take it all to the point of pointing fingers at the positions of an organisation that meets as few times a year as possible and which, where appropriate, is as diverse as possible. Compared to this, it would be possible to move towards efficiency, since there was a period during the wage negotiations when the organisation should have been convened weekly and every two weeks, if appropriate. These plenary sessions are very much needed. Once again, I have a problem not with the fact that the President of the Academy of Arts can take a stand on the minimum wage and do so widely, but we have a problem with the fact that the exit of the organization itself, its effectiveness, may be seriously impaired due to government, partly uncaring, and partly very spectacular intentions that stand out from the amendments. And unfortunately, the Legislative Committee couldn't ease this problem either. We would therefore believe in a strong NGTT and that, in substance, with the comments and resolutions expressed at the plenary session, we should not seriously, not on half as many occasions as before, but much more deeply deal with and take into account them; otherwise, not only at the time of the wage negotiations, but also give weight to each organisation that is able to involve a wide range of social groups and articulate their opinions. [[21.10]] At the same time, the goal cannot be to have everyone sit at a table with everyone in the spirit of diversity, and to have endless debates and then to come up with something or not. So here, too, through specialisation and precision, it is possible to achieve results. So we call on you to take a little more care of this in the near future. Thank you. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2016-05-09-332	Thank you very much. Congressman István Józsa, MSZP!
u2016-05-09-333	Thank you, Mr. President. I regret to announce that the Fidesz government is apparently continuing to undermine the representation of employee representation and employee rights. It abolished the National Stakeholder Council, which still had powers and wants to break the most elementary manifestations of social solidarity. This National Economic and Social Council, which has worked so far, is full of Fidesz-like cadres. It's impossible to get a meaningful social opinion from here. This process is now being expanded with harmonisation. It also includes the representation of the Hungarian Academy of Arts, which is incredibly committed to you. What can be accepted is the representation of Hungarians across the border. But at all, the composition of this council, such an incredible expansion of its size, the deterioration of its rights, shows that the possibility of enforcing the interests of employees has been radically sought out, and unfortunately, it has succeeded. You have bought the most effective layer of society with a single-key tax, helped us, supported by us, for families with many children, but in fact only bought votes. And here this amendment shows that from this path, which means or could mean the promotion of the less affluent, you are far from being able to do so. They do not want to enforce the fact that the opinion of an increasingly poor Hungarian society can be formulated within an organised, institutionalised framework, with some kind of binding impact on you at least having a duty to agree. This body only has advisory permissions, which achieves the goal by far that those who have been repressed by you, despite the fact that very wide populations have been repressed and are living in significantly worse conditions as a result of your governance, should not be able to express their views, their opinions should not reach you. Here I declare that the Hungarian Socialist Party wishes to represent these peoples that you have oppressed, and in this spirit we are also protesting against this proposal. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2016-05-09-334	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I will ask if anyone else wishes to take the opportunity to speak in the remaining time frame. [[There's no such signal.]] I'm gonna say no. The debate is closed. I'll ask the author. [[For signal:]] The Secretary of State has indicated his wish to reflect. Here you go.
u2016-05-09-335	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, I am only speaking to him because it was a technical amendment to the Legislative Committee, but several people have commented on this whole amendment of the law, and then I recall to you what is changing here in the order of the National Economic and Social Council for the rest of your life. Connecting Hungarian representatives of art, both domestic and cross-border, into the work of the Council, which allows wider social consultation. By the way, it's very touching on the part of the MSZP that they're so happy to have people across the border. [[Dr. István Józsa: So am I!]] They have been going through quite a turn of events since December 5, 2004, when they denied our own brothers and sisters. [[Dr. István Józsa: That was Gyurcsány!]] Another important change is the increase in the duration of the current Presidency from 3 months to 6 months. We didn't make that up. The members of the council have requested that they be able to operate in a much more efficient way. The following change: setting up a presidency for the proper implementation of the Council's decisions. The members of the Presidency shall be the current President-in-Office and the future President-in-Office of the Presidency immediately preceding and following him. This change is also made for better and efficient operation. And the fourth change: the definition of the number of plenary sessions - I say this to my better fellow Member - and the issue of the credentials of the members are subject to the authority of the Presidency of the Council. So it's not the government calling. We provide the secretariat, the NGTT can meet at any time. And to conclude, a little bit of Nándor Gúr's thoughts, who, once again, confused the general and detailed debate, but that's okay. But when they say social peace, I really think about what you guys keep saying, "Peace fight" and how you live in this world. Today, May 9th, is the day of the great victory, which is still celebrated in Russia. [[Dr. István Józsa: Europe Day!]] It's part of their history. So that's your historic part of the social peace and the peace fight. You did this during your administration with a employment rate of 54,6 percent - it's pathetic! Are you trying to protect people by not giving them a job or a job? In these six years of government, we have achieved that this figure has risen to 64.7 percent. [[Nándor Gúr's intervention. Dr. István Józsa: People have been poorer since...]] You have defended social peace over the past period with around 3.5 million people employed. We're now approaching 4 million and 200,000. [[Nándor Gúr: Sure! Public employment...]] They defended social peace by bringing unemployment closer to 9 percent and youth closer to 20 percent. [[Nándor Gúr: Abroad...]] That's how much they loved people and young people. In order not to have to go down to work, you were defending social peace. The unemployment rate is now 6 percent. [[Nándor Gúr: Manipulation...]] So you guys are amazing at words. By the way, what you've told me is that it shows that with the trade unions that you, by the way, had been placed here within the walls of Parliament during the debate or during the debate of the Public Education Act a few months ago, it shows that this is your world. However, let me show them a little bit more, or let me tell you that on May 1st, when you were out at your own ceremony, you weren't dealt with either by the trade unions or by the people; no one cared about the policy you were pursuing. [[Intercoms from the benches of the MSZP.]] That's exactly why, because you say everything about social peace, but when it comes to action, you just destroy the country. So thank you very much for your suggestions. Mr. President. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2016-05-09-336	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that the decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. In my capacity as chairman, I must draw the Secretary of State's attention to the celebration of the day of the victory war against Nazi Germany on 9 May, which is held accountable and commemorated in all the Member States of the international alliance against not one country, but Nazi Germany. Perhaps it is no coincidence that the European Union has made it Europe's day. [[This is Miklós Soltesz.]] Consequently, since we are members of the European Union, this celebration has an important and distinctive character for our country as well. I don't think we're opening a debate on this. I will, of course, give the floor to the Secretary of State in order of business. Here you go.
u2016-05-09-337	Thank you very much. Mr President, thank you for the warning. If my words were misunderstood, I apologize. In this case, I did not mean to say that the memory of either the deceased or those on the battlefield or those who were being held should not be celebrated. [[Nándor Gúr: Look what you said! Read what you said.]] and remember them. Thank you very much.
u2016-05-09-338	We took note of that, and I consider the question closed. Dear Parliament, A joint debate on the proposal for a decision to order a national referendum will follow. H/10611 by the Judicial Committee The submission submitted by the European Parliament is available on the Parliament's IT network. I would like to inform you that according to the regulations adopted, 15 minutes for the opening speech, 15 minutes for the declaration of representatives of the government, 15 minutes for the statement of the Legislative Committee, 7 minutes for the presentation of the minority opinion, a total of 30-30 minutes for the speakers of the political groups, 8 minutes for the speech of the independent Members, 10 minutes for the speech of the national rejoinder. I now give the floor to Mr Vas Imre, rapporteur for the Justice Committee, the rapporteur on the agenda. Here you go. [[21.20]]
u2016-05-09-339	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, On 24 February 2016, on behalf of the Government of Hungary, Prime Minister's Chief of Staff, CCXXXVIII of 2013 on the initiative of the referendum, the European Citizens' Initiative and the referendum procedure under Article 8 (1) of the Fundamental Law. Act 5. In accordance with Article 5 of the Act, he submitted to the National Election Committee a question proposed for the following national referendum: . Do you want the European Union to require the compulsory resettlement of non-Hungarian citizens into Hungary without the consent of the National Assembly? The National Election Committee 14/2016. The national referendum initiative was validated by Resolution No. In the review proceeding against the decision of the NVB, the Curia upheld the decision on 3 May 2016. Based on this, the President of the National Election Committee is the President of the referendum Act 14. In accordance with paragraph 2 of Section 2 of the Act, he informed the President of the Parliament. During today, the Judicial Committee presented a proposal for a decision on ordering a referendum before us. In this context, I would also like to make it clear that the government's referendum initiative is indisputable and unquestionably legitimate. As much as left-wing cooperation tries to hinder the process and try to continue the referendum in the future, Parliament must order it. When examining appeals, the Curia examined three questions: whether the question is contrary to an international treaty and therefore concerns a prohibition issue; whether the question falls within the competence of the Parliament; and whether the question is clear. In the decision of the Curia, he wrote that the question does not concern the amendment of the Treaty of Accession from the point of view of the Hungarian referendum rules. In addition, the Curia noted that the issue certified by the National Election Committee concerns the introduction of a measure by a Council decision falling within the scope of secondary EU law. A parallel cannot be drawn between the obligations arising from EU law, such as the Council decision adopted as a secondary source of law, and those resulting from the international treaty, so according to the court, the issue does not conflict with an international treaty and is therefore not prohibited. As regards the powers of the Parliament, the Curia found that Parliament could bring all areas requiring regulation within the scope of legislation. According to the Curia, the decision on the legal status, status and length of residence of non-Hungarian citizens in the territory of the country concerns fundamental rights, the regulatory issue arising from sovereignty and, as such, belongs to the legislation. The Curia has also stated that the question is in line with the requirements of clarity, which is suitable for voters to understand the substance of the question. On the issue of legislative clarity, the Curia stated that the referendum initiative concerns a specific existing bill, the asylum law, which is complemented by EU provisions. I think that the legality of this issue can then be debated, but it is pointless. The question posed by the government is constitutional and legal. Expenditure related to the implementation of the referendum may also be the subject of the debate. However, after the Commission's insane proposal, it is not possible to argue that the referendum is expensive. The EU's punishment cannot be compared in proportion and numerically with the amount spent on the referendum, and the amount of money spent on immigrants is also at an astronomical distance from the costs set out in the proposal for a decision. At the same time, the referendum is far from about material things. When Hungary decided to join the European Union, we knew that a certain part of our sovereignty would be renounced, and we still believe that this is a prerequisite for our joint rise. At the same time, immigration, migration policy, we are convinced that it is a Member State's competence. Every nation state has the right to decide who it wants to live with. The Gyurcsány government, we know that it would have solved demographic problems through resettlement, we continue to rely on the support of Hungarian families. Finally, I would like to say to the doubters that there is no more force than an effective referendum, no more decisive argument in front of the various institutions of the European Union. The power of direct democracy, the will of the people, cannot be ignored, which is why all political forces should encourage a united vote among our compatriots, who believe that we do not want forced resettlement in Hungary. I would like to express my thanks to my fellow Members who voted in favour of deciding on the proposal for a resolution tomorrow, with a derogation from house rules. Please vote in favour of the adoption of the proposal for a decision. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-05-09-340	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I am now asking Mr Secretary of State if he wishes to speak on behalf of the government. [[For signal:]] Secretary of State Tuzson Bence, please.
u2016-05-09-341	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, There is rarely a moment for Parliament to vote on a question, to decide on a matter that can determine the country's fate for fifty or even a hundred years, not for a year or two, not for an actual political issue. We must now decide on a matter and we must hold a referendum in Hungary on a matter that really determines the country's fate in the long term. There is a fundamental sovereignty issue, the fundamental question is who in Hungary can decide who to live with here in Hungary. Can anyone decide on this, somewhere in Brussels, whether in Hungary, in Hungary, Hungarian people or in Hungary, on the basis of forced resettlement, against the will of the Hungarian Parliament, or whether this right, in principle, applies to us Hungarian people, can this Hungarian Parliament fit? So these questions must be decided fundamentally in Hungary. The fundamental question is that when we conspired to create and join the European Union, what are the issues that we have given up, what are the elements of sovereignty that we have handed over to the European Union for practice, and what are the questions that we Hungarians would like to keep. We Hungarians did not sign an agreement whose substance or any content would suggest or conclude that Hungary would have given the European Union this fundamental question, the composition of Hungary, who they should be in Hungary. Therefore, any decision of the European Union which seeks to withdraw this right from the nation states is fundamentally illegal. We believe that this right still belongs to us, so the past and the future have been divided in this respect. As regards the past, the previous decisions are now being sued in Luxembourg, with the content that Hungary and the other Member States of the European Union have not given up on this fundamental right. The question of the future is the question of the referendum. Hungarian people have the right to decide on this fundamental issue of self-determination, who can decide who lives in Hungary, who can decide whether we Hungarians can decide in it or the European Union; in this it is worth holding a referendum. The issue of referendums is also a very important issue because, as we have seen before in the practice of the European Union, Europe, the European Union is only a matter of the will of nations, the will of peoples, the referendum can stop it on certain issues, because it is a fundamental issue. It is about how we look at the European Union. The European Union is a Europe of nations, a European Union created by several nations and embodying the will of nations, or vice versa, as some bureaucrats in Brussels think, their decision, their will is the European, which the nations must accept. We believe that a united will and a united decision of European nations can determine European policy, not the other way around. [[21.30]] It is not possible to accept the position that precludes a referendum on fundamental issues in Europe, in the field of European nations, because it is our own mandate from the people, the Hungarian people, and Hungarian voters, so we also have an obligation to convey the opinion of Hungarian citizens and Hungarian voters. So it is quite cynical and I think that, to the farthest extent, anti-democracy and democracies must reject the view that the referendum is not a good, correct institution. In all such cases, when it comes to life-changing issues, it is worth and right for the nations, the countries, the Parliament to make a decision that opens the way for the referendum. Yes, because we are talking about an issue in which a referendum can be held. This has now been made clear by the Curia's decision. I would like to ask my fellow Members not to turn to the Constitutional Court in this respect, because it is only good for delaying it, it is good for stalling time, but from a substantive point of view, this question is a question in which a referendum can be held in Hungary, and not only can it be, but it is also right, and it is almost our duty to ask the opinion of the people on this issue, the Hungarian Parliament, the Hungarian Government. In the long term, a country, a Parliament, a government can only effectively represent and effectively carry out its policy if it coincides with the will of the people, and when it comes to such a matter of weight, people's opinions need to be asked. That is why I ask you to support our initiative, to support the decision of the Hungarian people on this fundamental issue in Hungary. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-05-09-342	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, The position of the Legislative Committee will now be presented. I give the floor to Congressman Vas Imre, rapporteur of the committee. Here you go.
u2016-05-09-343	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, At today's meeting of the Legislative Committee, H/10611 on ordering a national referendum was discussed in accordance with the derogations from the house rules. A proposal for a decision. One amendment was tabled to the proposal for a decision and the Committee presented a proposal for amendment and a summary report, with 27 votes in favour and one vote against. The proposal for an amendment concerns the inclusion of a word in point 2 of the proposal for a decision, rather than a change of substance of a technical nature in the proposal for a decision. The legality of the proposal for a decision was not questioned by those present at the committee meeting who voted in favour. The 1 non-vote was cast by our fellow Member, Gábor Fodor, to my knowledge, and he questioned it. The majority opinion of the Legislative Committee was that the referendum was legal and that the Parliament should order the referendum. Thank you for listening. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-05-09-344	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, It is now time for the speeches by its representatives. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the factions have 30-30 minutes, and the independent Members have 8 minutes in total. First, a speech by the Members who have applied in writing, first of all by Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát, Jobbik. Here you go.
u2016-05-09-345	Mr President, Dear House, I am pleased that today is subject to a national referendum on quota. At 6:15 a.m., I was able to answer about it in one of his television studios, and I feel like it's gonna be about that for days. That's very good. I also like Mr Secretary of State's standing on this issue very much, and I agree with what he has said. I would like to ask you a few questions, which would enrich the debate - I hope you will respond to it in substance - because in September 2015, Gábor Vona, President of Jobbik, stood up here in this holy place, and indeed came up with the idea that if you really believe the government's objections to any quota or any mutation of the quota at any time, you should honour a national referendum on this issue. Exactly, we have literally said that one of the highest levels of legitimacy in the political climate at that time can be achieved by putting the action space of the government in place in accordance with the will of the electorate. We would do the right thing otherwise, because more than 90 percent of society, in my view, is voting in favour of not having uninvited aliens in Hungary. The fact is that at that time, we had this idea in committee. If I remember correctly, even Mr Vas Imre had a few thoughts on this matter, when you Fidesz Members were able to say that this is a slow, expensive, cumbersome method, and it is not necessarily necessary. It was precisely the arguments that they were now hearing from their political side and against which they were arguing. I'm really glad this turn of events took place in Fidesz-KDNP, my question is what you've been doing since September. What happened between September and, let's say, the Kósa Lajos stand, when Lajos Kósa has already called a five-party consultation on the details of a national referendum on quota issues. According to my MSZP memory, he wasn't even involved in that anymore. We were not surprised at that, as they have also been more or less in the same direction, and have shown rather a left-wing, but rather pro-immigration attitude over the last few months. The details of this will be explained by them, and I am not authorized to do so. But what we see is that the Fidesz-KDNP is going through some pretty amazing changes, and I'm trying to figure out the reason for that, because we're in an emergency right now. Two weeks ago, in Brussels, a plan to revive the various mandatory quota-like mechanisms and to develop a new mechanism was proposed. Even at the time when pro-government representatives declared themselves, it was mentioned that a successful national referendum could not take place before September in a given scenario. So the question arises, what will Bence Tuzson do if the national referendum is passed by Fidesz. By the way, I'm gonna support it. In our own basic idea, we will never say that this is not a good method, we say that there may be even better. What will you do if, say, the national referendum goes down in September or October, but in the summer, in the witch kitchen in Brussels, they cook something against Hungary without you being able to take any meaningful action against it? That is why we have suggested to you that there should be a national referendum, okay, although we also know that it is expensive. It is a relatively uncertain tool, since a simple left-wing counter-movement can make this reference invalid, and we can also safely say that time can be spent on it now. So if you have such political goals that you might be distracted from the country's further problems, say the 27 percent European Union record, but perhaps world record VAT, employee poverty, etc., then this problem will be beautifully sustainable for months with a national referendum passed over to autumn. The question arises, however, what do you do if you cook something against us in the Brussels witches' kitchen in the summer, this is carried through, the case before the European Court of Justice in Luxembourg, which, by definition, do not have suspensive effect, which is why it is not enough to refer to them. There is another question: there is a much more muscular instrument, a very simple one, which Jobbik recommends to your attention, which I think is still incomplete, because it does not cover deportations and quota mutations, and we should carry out a simple operation on this issue. We should remove the question mark from the end, put a point there, and put the Fidesz referendum question into the Fidesz Fundamental Law. [[21.40]] I think a fidesz Member or a KDNP may have a very difficult time saying no, because we are talking about your own political products, but we would like to help you take this very strong step. If Hungary had the protection enshrined in the Fundamental Law in this regard, so that uninvited aliens could not just be introduced, we believe that this could go in parallel with your latest idea of a national referendum. But it is certain that we would take extremely serious steps towards guaranteeing the security of Hungary. So I would like to get a meaningful response here on whether you, Members of the Fideszes-KDNP, can support us in putting their Fidesze referendum question into the Fidesze Fundamental Law, thus helping Hungary's situation. It should and should also be clarified how Mr Navracsics took his position at the time when a so-called consensus decision was reached in the European Commission on bounty payments for migrants who have not been accepted. Before we made any accusations, we discussed very in detail with European Union lawyers what scenarios might arise in such a consensus decision. For we cannot reach the relevant protocol of the European Commission, we cannot recall the debate that took place there. At the same time, we suspect, and this is a very strong suspicion, that such a consensus decision could not have been reached if Mr Navracsics had been an incredibly powerful one, I would not have said that he had raised a veto, but he would have made an objection or made an objection to the minutes. If appropriate, it would not be a consensual decision. We understand that, in the case of EU Commissioners, the representation of the nation state is almost criminal, but I would still be interested in your degree of information about it, so what Mr Navracsics has done within the European Commission, whether there is a scenario that the Commissioner there will not object to such a ten billion-dollar bounty, which is extremely burdensome for Hungary. At home, the same institution is being insulted by the representatives of Fidesz, as the bush - with all due respect, I add - so this is yet another matter to be clarified. Finally, I have to tell you, what is most meat-cutting is what the people of Körmend can expect. After all, when we were there last week, and we organised a migration demonstration to ensure the safety of the residents of the settlement, we certainly saw that there may not have been any classified crimes, but we can talk about minor acts for the time being, if it can be called less, that the subjective sense of security of the population has evaporated in days, but this mode of communication that you are doing with your migrant dens in Hungary is quite amazing. So first, one or two hundred people, get used to it, actually get used to it the same way as when they allowed the hundreds of migrants to multiply at the Keleti Railway Station, and then the population of Budapest actually started to get used to the situation that should not be accepted and which is unacceptable. That is why we are now seeing that, in fact, this situation in the world has been treated by you as a binding evil, and I believe that there is only one method and solution in this case. If you really are such warriors against the compulsory quota, even against the introduction of migrants, then, even in your own institutions and camps, these people should not be allowed to roam freely. They could not even be obliged to remain in the camp for the sake of their own safety during a demonstration, since very affordable liberal legislation does not even allow the Hungarian police to take normal measures in such a case. So these people were free to glean even when they expressed a legitimate disapproval of the civilian population. And even when a simple citizen goes shopping in a nearby shopping mall, they are free to glean even when our children go to practice in the area. So we're talking about a very poorly placed, wrong-placed, fundamentally inappropriate institution, which simply doesn't belong within a populated area, and shouldn't be there. On behalf of the Körmendi people, I am therefore also asking how long they plan to maintain such institutions, how they imagine that migrant farms will be deployed to any Hungarian settlement without consulting the inhabitants of Hungary, and how do they even think this warrior stand through the space of reality, while in the Hungarian living space something else will be achieved and citizens' sense of subjective security will be taken away first, but unfortunately, we can guarantee that if this situation stays that way, they will also lose their objective security, which we will not assist, and we will do everything we can to stop it. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2016-05-09-346	Thank you very much. Our next announced speaker is Mr Imre Vejkey, Mr KDNP. Here you go.
u2016-05-09-347	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Today, Europe's security, culture and faith are threatened by a threat that is more dangerous than almost all the forces we've ever had. Today, the most intensive migration of the world's history and the organised occupation of Europe are taking place. Millions march towards Europe from the east and the south. Today we also know that in addition to the real persecuted, there are also living immigrants, criminals, soldiers, terrorists. Many of them are driven by European life and money, others by conquest, hatred and desire to destroy. It is feared that, as a result of the migrant invasion, not only the interoperability of the Schengen borders has become questionable, but at the same time the most serious threat since World War II is humane, tolerance, the coexistence of European nations, believers and atheists, different religions and world-viewers. Ladies and Gentlemen, In history, aliens have never entered Europe so easily. Today's leaders in Europe demand unconditional solidarity, inclusion, and tolerance for peace. Today's leaders in Europe are violating the sovereignty of nations when, without authority, they invite millions of foreigners and distribute them among countries. Today's leaders in Europe have forgotten to ask Europeans whether they want Europe's composition, culture, order and faith to change forever, even though there is no less at stake than the survival of European civilisation and culture. Ladies and Gentlemen, The situation is, on the one hand, that hundreds of thousands of migrants are returning to Germany, Denmark and Sweden, for whom Austria is no longer one of the richest ten countries in the world. Millions are preparing, including an undetermined number of military youths, many of whom are extremist Islamic warriors. On the other hand, while medieval, bloody religious wars are raging in the Middle East and North Africa, certain actors in history not only encourage the wave of migration, but also set it to serve their own goals, i.e. to extend the theatre of war to Europe, even to export Shiita Sunni, Turkish-Kurd, and other national and tribal conflicts. It is feared that, as a result of the migrant invasion, not only the interoperability of the Schengen borders becomes questionable, but the most serious threat, ladies and gentlemen, is humane. Ladies and Gentlemen, Imagine, there are those who believe that this is good, even very supportive, because they believe that by inflowing millions of migrants and turning them into voters, they can dissolve the structures of the European nation state and create a united European state. Because of the above, Europe's identity is threatened by a flood of refugees because migrants want better living conditions in Europe, but do not want to change their attitude and culture. The fact is that despite the efforts of Western governments for nearly half a century, parallel societies have developed because they have failed to integrate immigrant communities. The demographic difference between immigrants and the indigenous population in Europe is so great that if we allow them into the continent without limit, there will soon be more than the native population and their supply will be unlimited. [[21.50]] We are not anti-Islamic, and we even believe that members of the Muslim community in our country are valuable people. We want Hungary to continue to be a Christian nation on its own thousand-year journey, and multiculturalism should be only its own. Ladies and Gentlemen, The European Commission is blackmailing Hungary when it asks for a quarter of a million euro for an unaccepted migrant. The Hungarian government cannot be blackmailed. The European Commission and Timmermans have admitted that Brussels wants forced resettlement. Constraints and fines are not only unacceptable but also contrary to the Treaties and European law. The referendum is necessary to give Hungarian people the opportunity to say no to the Brussels emergency resettlement proposal, because only Hungarians can decide who is accepted into their country. Ladies and Gentlemen, Some thoughts about the Turkish visa requirement. In the EU, visa waivers can only be granted to a country that meets all existing conditions, since the safety of the people of Europe, including the Hungarian people, cannot be negotiated. The reason why the Commission's proposal to abolish the visa requirement for Turkey cannot be accepted is because Turkey has met only 67 of the 72 essential conditions for the introduction of an EU visa waiver so far. Furthermore, the credibility of the EU would be compromised if Turkey were given a visa sooner than Georgia or Ukraine, which have been trying to fulfil the conditions for visa waiver for years, not because of preparedness, but because of a political deal. Ladies and Gentlemen, The MSZP wants the referendum on forced resettlement together with its own questions. That's what today was about. Socialists do not acknowledge that the country is facing a crucial issue due to the forced resettlement planned by Brussels and do not support the government's referendum to prevent forced resettlement. However, the prevention of forced resettlement should be a political, all-party matter in defence of the Hungarian people. Ladies and Gentlemen, The Curia decided on 3 May 2016 to hold a referendum on the compulsory resettlement quota at the government's initiative. The question of referendum initiated by the government and finally validated is whether it wants the European Union to require the compulsory resettlement of non-Hungarian citizens into Hungary without the consent of the Parliament. The Christian Democrats consider the decision of the Curia to authorise the referendum initiated by the government in the case of the EU forced resettlement to be constitutional, because, in short, in four points, the question put forward is a parliamentary competence, since there is nothing that precludes the legislative competence of the legislature; the question is clear both from the eyes of voters and the legislator; thirdly, the Parliament can also take a decision by which the government's mandate is concluded in a European decision-making process; and fourth, the issue is not prohibited, since EU law is a special and specific legal order, so it does not constitute international law. Ladies and Gentlemen, The issue of forced resettlement is a matter of national sovereignty. If Brussels wants forced resettlement, then it is up to the nations to decide on this. In Brussels, ladies and gentlemen, unfortunately, proposals are becoming increasingly insane. They have not given up on the issue of forced resettlement at all, they are only waiting for the referendum in England, and then this plan will quickly be put on the table of the European Union institutions. Therefore, the Hungarian referendum must be kept as soon as possible in order to protect people. The government will ask people to make it clear that only Hungarians can decide who we accept in our country and who we do not. Hungarian people have the right to decide who they want to live with. With the referendum, Hungarian people can stop Brussels and say no to the forced resettlement planned by Brussels. It already seems that the Socialist and Liberal Group of the opposition wants to prevent the referendum from being successful and effective by all means. They announced Boycott and announced that they would turn to the Constitutional Court against the decision of the Curia. Please support the referendum; the Christian Democrats will support it. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-05-09-348	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, The number of speakers notified has run out. We now have the speeches of Members who have asked for a normal word. First of all, Congressman Nándor Gúr, MSZP, please.
u2016-05-09-349	Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[To intervene:]] Let's hear it. I am curious, my better fellow Member, so we will meet your needs. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: Sure.]] But everyone else's. At a time when the Parliament will decide that it will decide to order a referendum initiated by the government, it may be worth considering a little bit what is behind us. It is worth it, because I think that the processes that have evolved until now are not random. Recall the concrete steps taken by Viktor Orbán, his statement announcing the initiative of a referendum, when this happened. Just to remind you that this happened on February 24th. Wednesday, February 24th. This is the day after black Tuesday. They must know what black Tuesday is. One day after February 23, which is what many people call it, because it was a shameful day, you know that. It was a shameful day, because it was the day after the administrative slumber, which is about a year, here there was no further place for tricks, and they touched the instrument of violence. You remember him, don't you? The bloated, bald thugs practically physically prevented the launch of the referendum initiative on Sunday's closure, at the time, on 23 February. I understood the move of Viktor Orbán at that time, on 24 February. I think a lot of people in this country understood it, because on 23 February, the country was shocked to see what was happening, that the rule of law, the rule of law, or the principles of the rule of law, was now openly dominated by the rules of fist law. [[President Tamás Sneider, Vice-President of the National Assembly.]] This was condemned not by a left-wing man, but by a left-wing man and not by a left-wing man. I think I felt and experienced that, in the vast majority of it, the condemnation of society was reflected in comparison to what happened that day. [[22.00]] Several people began to understand what was going on in Hungary; how democracy with the thugs and guided by it works in this country. Now, I actually told you this history because this is the 23rd of February, and, as I said, Viktor Orbán's press conference announcing the referendum initiative will take place on 24 February. I think the power miscalculated this time. Because, according to my conviction and experience, Hungarian people do not tolerate arrogance. And on 23 February, it became clear to everyone that the Hungarian Socialist Party was pro-vote. Once again, he is pro-vote. It has also become clear that Fidesz is afraid of manifesting the will of the people, of its expression, using all existing or unthinkable means to prevent this from happening. But I have to say that Fidesz underestimated the Hungarian people in this regard, because this February Tuesday caused great storms, this 23rd. And as I said, that's when you came up with the motion for a quota referendum. It's okay, it's okay. There is no problem if they really want to make a decision on matters of racial importance. There's nothing wrong with the government wanting to know the will of the voters, so to speak. There is nothing wrong with trusting the community in certain matters through a referendum. The Curia has said, as has been said above, that there can be a referendum on this issue. But there is another aspect of the matter that the government can decide on these matters. Look, as I said, the Hungarian Socialist Party is pro-vote, but we consider it important what you have constantly stressed about, for example, the closing and opening of the shop on Sunday, that you should not play this game, you should treat it in a jinx, 5 billion HUF, 5000 million HUF, all the funds that are behind it. Then, if that is the case, and it is, indeed, a big money to carry out a referendum, then it is not random for us to say that there are three cases in a visible way, in which it may be worth thinking about how, then the Parliament should decide at the same time, both on matters concerning the quota, both on the land and at the same time on the wage ceiling. At the same time, because this can save 5,000 million forints. And if they're just using it as a slogan, they should face themselves. If you don't want to give me a chance to make a decision on these matters, say, one day and on a page, then I think that everything you've said about it, even with regard to the protection of financial resources, is shameful and associated with the deception of people. What I ask of you is that you do not make any confusion in this story, if it is important to spare resources in relation to the referendum, then, yes, help the story to evolve so that decisions can be taken at the same time within a closed deadline. You don't have to wait 60 days for authentications, you can speed up processes. Maybe, of course, it's a matter of resources. I ask you to ensure that decisions made on one day and one page can be enforced. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2016-05-09-350	Welcome, fellow Members. I give the floor to Congressman Dániel Z. Kárpat.
u2016-05-09-351	Mr President, Dear House, I'll try to keep it very short. I'm not saying I'm upset because I'm not, I'm rather amazed at you. That speech that my fellow Member Vejkey gave me, I think it would have given me a big round of applause at a better residential forum, and I would have applauded it, too, I might add. [[Dr. István Józsa applauds.]] Since when you discuss that Europe's foundation is at risk, an invasion is taking place - I would add that it is a conscious population exchange - I would say that we are diagnosing this problem in the same way. There's a huge difference between us in therapy. So I simply do not understand, when you say that the most serious issue since 1990 is perhaps the present one, you will come before us, both of you will really give a good speech with a combatant, strong stand, and then you will simply not be worthy to debate, you will not respond to the six points that we have made, quite specifically. Since 1990, in the context of the most important issue, they may explain to us how it can happen that you are fighting against the quota at home, you want a referendum, it is true that with eight months of phase loss, but at least now they want it, and they will not explain how, as Commissioner in Brussels, Mr Navracsics has contributed to a consensus decision on which we have no information that he has raised an objection. If that's the case, then protect your own man, it's your duty as dogs. What kind of camaraderie is yours? Here in the Hungarian Parliament, on the most important stage, it is attacking one of their most important political players, and none of them has enough to stand up and say that, yes, our Commissioner acted in one way or another? And if you've made the incredibly political mistake that while you're at home fighting quota, immigrants, migration, while he's out there contributing to the tens of billions of head money that we're paying you, there's a huge problem with you, then there's a big problem for this country. And we have to tell you that we didn't get any answers about Körmend, what the people of Körmend can expect, how long they're gonna have to look at a legalized no-go zone. In the same way, they did not respond to the intention of setting up an independent border guard, putting it into effect, since 12,000 people have so far crossed your hermetically sealed border. The numbers speak for themselves, it's very difficult to argue about them. And it is very important to have a word about what the hell is wrong with the fundamental law amendment where we want to include the Fidesz referendum issue in the Fidesz Fundamental Law in order to contribute to guaranteeing the security of the country. These are completely current, acute, burning questions, please respond to them. Thank you for the opportunity. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2016-05-09-352	Nándor Józsa... - I give the floor to Congressman István Józsa.
u2016-05-09-353	There's a Józsa and a Nándor, but they're sitting on two separate chairs. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. There is an interesting debate here, because they attribute to us things that we did not represent and we never said. So he concluded by saying, towards the end of his speech, that my fellow Member, Imre Vejkey, should be an all-party matter to represent national sovereignty. Mr President, I report that if you have observed the position taken by the MSZP in the National Security Committee, the Defence Committee, in these negotiations, it has become quite clear what I am saying now: the MSZP does not support the Juncker quota. Just like it's a triviality that we don't support the inflow of robbers, terrorists. It was also clear from our previous position that we are fighting for the referendum, for the institution of the referendum, which you did quite well, and as my fellow Member, Mr Nándor Gúr, recalled that tragic day on 23 February, the people who were clearly linked to you, who prevented us from submitting our referendum initiative. [[22.10]] If you deny that these thugs are not connected to you, what you've achieved, that it wasn't our submission that got there, but the submission of the wife of a Fidesz mayor who sympathizes with you, then in answer to the cui prodest question, it's quite clear that they represented your interests and brutally prevented the referendum initiative. So you want to avoid the MSZP referendum at all costs, and a question on which the answer is absolutely clear, so if you ask this question, I cannot repeat it literally now, but Mr State Secretary said that he wanted the EU to require compulsory resettlement for Hungary, of course not. Sensitive people know the answer to that, everyone knows, Congressman, there is no need to hold a referendum on this. We don't understand why the government can't decide on its own. We think we feel that it's really about raising the fuss, raising the mood for a question that the answer to is quite clear. So if you are, like us, pro-votes and pro-democracy, then, as my fellow Member, Mr Nándor Gúr said, you will contribute to the fact that one day there will be a question on the same page. So let's just say it's a trivial question whether you want it or not -- of course you don't want it -- and there are a few issues that you want to decide about your activities, whether you want to continue to squandering the land, whether you want to raise the wages of state employees or employees in state firms to the heavens, or if you want to return to what you represented five or six years ago to have a ceiling. So show them you're Democrats. We represent this national case. Of course, if this is the question of whether we insist on a European identity, of course we insist that Hungary is our country, Europe is our home, who wouldn't? So they're dramatizing issues that we don't have a debate about. So we are asking you to consider the issue of democracy as a whole and to exercise a parliamentary attitude that will bring the institution of the referendum back to its original rank when there is a question to be decided. Let there be a question to be decided, not just a trivial question. I suggest that you consider this debate tonight. I know it's not your jurisdiction, but you're trying to think about it, and if you accept our proposal for a referendum to happen on one page and one day, then we can also support this rather trivial referendum, otherwise we see that there is no question to be decided. Thank you, Mr. President. [[Nándor Gúr applauds.]]
u2016-05-09-354	Secretary Tuzson Bence has the floor. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: The ice is broken!]]
u2016-05-09-355	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear Parliament, I would like to respond to some of the points that have been raised here earlier, since we have heard from our fellow Member, Dániel Z. Carpathian, that Jobbik is actually pro-vote. But if that is the view, then, on the one hand, it is difficult to interpret today's comments by your party president in this regard. On the other hand, there is a contradiction in your comment, because, while you previously said they were strong in words, they seem to have become weak in action, given that they have now come up with a whole other proposal, i.e. they have backed down on the issue that would have been a fundamental issue of the referendum. [[Martin Gyöngyösi: It's been a week. Dániel Z. Carpathian intervenes.]] But why? What is the reason why they no longer dare to turn to people on this fundamental issue? We need to separate the questions from each other. Such an amendment to the Constitution cannot achieve the same legal effect as the referendum in this respect. On the one hand, because we are talking about a fundamental issue that makes it worth listening to people's opinions, let people decide on this, and on the other hand we know precisely that legislation, whether it is the legislation of the Fundamental Law, cannot stop Brussels in this respect. The will of the people, the referendum, can do that. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: Then what did they do for six months?]] This was the case in Europe in other cases, when there was a referendum on this issue, it was able to stop Brussels. That is why I ask you to continue to support the question that is a fundamental issue of the referendum so that people can decide on this issue, which can really determine the fate of the country for a hundred years. Indeed, it is an important question that the people who are here have submitted their asylum application here, how they behave here in Hungary. It is important that we fully enforce the legislation in Hungary, but it is also important that, beyond those who cross our borders illegally, we do not give way to people coming from the other direction and from the west organised, because the left often makes itself appear as if it were a humane point of view, as if people were to arrive there in Western Europe and do so, they would even be refugees, which is, by the way, quite difficult to imagine legally, if they were coming from the Balkans, but even if they were refugees, on what basis could they be deported from one country and relocated from another country. This is also contrary to the Geneva Convention, which expressis verbis states that such a thing cannot be done. You can't do someone who is legally a refugee, and then you're going to be transferred to another country to conduct an asylum procedure against him in the other country, and you can move freely in the country where it was conducted. However, under international conventions, they are no longer allowed to cross the territory of another country, i.e. in this respect, the fundamental rules on asylum procedures and the basic rules on expulsion are contrary to what Brussels wants in this respect. It is clear, therefore, that this position is wrong in this regard, and this position is also rather strange, which, let us say, appeared on the part of the MSZP today during the day, and the statement by the representatives of the MSZP on this issue is quite controversial, because today, for example, Márta Demeter said a particularly pro-immigration comment in the Parliament, and then you say that the question of referendum is clear, of course, that this question must be answered with no. Yeah, that's what we think, so thank you for that sentence. We hope that you will also confront this position with other socialist Members, and that the MSZP will therefore support this referendum initiative tomorrow with its previous decision, which means, for example, putting this issue on the agenda. Let's hope it happens tomorrow. However, I would like to draw your attention to the rules of Hungarian law. At present, there is no legal situation under which Parliament can make a different decision. There's no initiative on the table for 100,000 certified signatures. There's no such thing on the Parliament's table. In addition to the fact that I think that a question that is a national issue should not be confused with daily political questions, the national question of fate should always be dealt with separately, but there is no such issue on the table, and as you know, there is a situation where two of these issues could not be much more legally compatible, since Parliament has 30 days to make that decision. In the event that you, on the basis of your statements, would like to submit these sheets in June, there will be no possibility that these two things, even legally, would be impossible for these two things to come together. So, accordingly, this is a political pamphlet, which you say in this regard, no such thing, which, in fact, cannot be legally decided by the Parliament in this form. We are therefore talking about a fundamental issue, and, accordingly, ladies and gentlemen, I am asking you to support this referendum initiative in principle in the course of tomorrow, because we are talking about the fact that this issue can actually determine the fate of the country for hundreds of years. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2016-05-09-356	I now give the floor to notary Nándor Gúr.
u2016-05-09-357	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I could also say that the Tatar, Secretary of State, Bence Tuzson, does not drive, because I said before, the National Election Committee has 60 days to authenticate in principle, but by transferring resources and ensuring its availability, all that I suggested could happen in 15 days, so that we could vote on one page one day and save Hungarian citizens HUF 5000 million. [[22.20]] There would be room for this money, not for stadiums, but for helping people with fallen fate and their children. So you don't want the Tartar, there's a solution, but you don't want the solution. Here's the basic problem. You're playing a political pamphlet, and you're just trying to take the path that eliminates the possibility of another issue, and you're just trying to fulfill your own so-called political appetites. I would like to say and ask you to put this story together - and you can put it together because you have the means and the opportunity - so that the three questions can be voted on one day. If you do not do so, you will, in a visible way, once again, try to make a referendum on a matter of political gain, which, by the way, the government has the right and the opportunity to decide. And they want to exclude the discussion in the referendum on issues that are likely and measurablely interested in people, because they simply consider it unspeakable that, in the case of a given month, 5 million forints of welfare can be obtained by the board of directors in the financial services sector, such as the MÁV as a financial sector, but I could give you another example, or even a vote on land affairs. But not just to ask this question - this is one part of what I have to say - once again, they have the opportunity, and if they do not, they are obviously on a path that is only about political gain. And if we are talking about the composition: we have not heard it for the first time today, for the third and fourth time I hear how and how the composition has evolved, then I would like to draw your attention to two things and to the minutes. One thing: you may remember it, and you may know the two above-mentioned gentlemen, one called Orbán, and the other called Balog, who formulated it through various organs, which was about the introduction of a thousand Coptic Christian families, interestingly so that the Hungarian population did not know anything about it, but the political actors did not know anything about it either. If our memories do not deceive us, then we are talking about the resettlement of families from Egypt and Iraq. A thousand families, counting three or four, that's three or four thousand people. I would like to mention another thing, but before I mention it, I would also like to add that this is okay. Without the Members of Parliament being able to know an orphan sentence about this within the walls of Parliament? And then the other story is, can everything be done for money? It is Rogan, which you generated, who, in terms of settlement bonds, so to speak, issued permits to not too many people through the Economic Commission, to the seven offshores or not offshores originally started - it is not offshore to you, which is an offshore-type company, which makes approximately HUF 30 million on a settlement bond. So where are we now? Now we're talking about 16,000 people being affected through settlement bonds. What are you talking about? What kind of composition are you talking about? Is there anything you can do for money? If they pay, if the circles of interests in the circle of friends are fixed, and - I say to my fellow Christian Member - only the good Lord knows, or perhaps not even the good Lord, where these resources go, then is that all right? So when they talk about composition, at least remember these two things: the resettlement of Coptic Christian families without knowing everyone, not based on a joint parliamentary agreement, that is, the dissonance and maladministration of settlement bonds that characterize today's Hungarian economy and political life. That's about it for composition. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2016-05-09-358	I now give the floor to Congressman Dániel Z. Carpát.
u2016-05-09-359	Dear Secretary of State, All I want to ask you is what you think of fairness as an outsider. You know very well, because we have also said in today's debate that the amendment of the basic law raised by Jobbik and the question of a national referendum can run in parallel. If you recall, I quote you once again, in 2015, Gábor Vona himself proposed the need for a national referendum here in Parliament on 21 September, when he literally said that a referendum should be held in Hungary or even at European Union level, but the implementation of the quota system must be prevented. Your prime minister hasn't responded to this, not a word. In a speech before the agenda on 9 November, we asked whether they could support a similar national referendum. State Secretary Károly Kontra replied that in the national consultation nearly 9 million people expressed their views on the need to protect borders, and therefore, according to your State Secretary, there is no need for a separate referendum, this referendum has taken place. That's literally what it said. On 16 November this issue came up again, when Gábor Vona also asked for such a national referendum. The fact is that Szilárd Németh, the national commissioner, responded later, who said: I do not think that a referendum is necessary, which is even legally of concern, but here the emphasis is not on the legal concern, but on whether a referendum should be held on such a clear and so unanimously, clearly supported case; in our opinion this time has not yet come. That is literally what was said here in Parliament. Then Dr. Imre Vas responded to the issue, and he found that it is worth holding a referendum on a matter where the government's position and the position of those entitled to the election differ. On November 23, this issue came up again, so I was the lucky one to ask the same question about Jobbik's fundamental law-modifying proposal. John Lazarus was the only one who showed at least partial openness on this issue. But I think it's amazing that after such a round of justifications, the Jobbik force, you come up here and I don't even want to know what kind of language you're talking about. We must say that these two instruments can work in parallel. You know we said that, we know that. However, we feel stronger about the fundamental law amendment where you should not be ashamed. Why are they blushing? Mr. Secretary, why are you ashamed? Do we want to put your referendum question in your Fundamental Law with an amendment? Which one are you ashamed of? Are you ashamed of the question of referendum, or are you ashamed of your own Fundamental Law? Any changes to that? I find it quite amazing that these tools could be used in parallel. The faster, the cheaper, and the zero-forint tool we could carry through tomorrow would be the basic law amendment. However, we were the ones who forced a referendum, and according to the examples listed, you were the ones who did not want it. I understand there's a lot on a politician's face, but at least don't think about it. Tell them you've changed your mind, and I'll accept that, and I'll support this national referendum, but don't round up ideology. My fellow Member, Mr Gyöngyösi, noted that he said this speech as if he had founded a referendum firm with a very effective, strong stand. The problem is, you said something completely different months ago. So it's very difficult to explain. And the question arises, what did they do for six months? What were you doing between Gábor Vona's stand, initiative and your stand-off, when this game was on Hungary's skin? It's been months to do nothing. I agree with you on something: when we talk about the violent relocation of ethnic groups in the 21st century, In Europe of the century - because this quota, this is the mandatory quota mechanism - I would expect the liberals to be the loudest, that this is unacceptable, that such things are unimaginable. The thing is, that's not what's happening. But what hurts me a lot more than that, because I expect nothing else from them, I would have expected from you that if this fighter, robust stand-up to quota-like solutions were to be made at home, you would have made clear what your Commissioner did when Hungary was forced to pay a bounty for the migrants that had not been accepted. This is what a consensus decision is made there with the possible participation of the Hungarian Commissioner, and we do not know how the Hungarian Commissioner acted, what he said there, whether he raised any objections at all. So once again, please clarify your own situation, your own role in this matter. This may seriously undermine your political credibility if the worse scenario is confirmed. And if you don't, I feel it's your duty to protect your own partymate. In conclusion, it is therefore clear that these instruments could operate in parallel. They could be discussed in a meaningful way, which is stronger, which is more important, in what order these could happen. [[22.30]] But we also see that, in addition to supporting the national referendum, you could not rule out the risks of this here either. For example, if such a reference takes place in September or October, what will you do if, in the summer in Brussels, a mechanism similar to a bounty is cooked against Hungary or even worse. They just won't have the means. That's why every day counts. So we ask you to take this responsibility seriously, feel the weight on your shoulders. Thank you. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-05-09-360	I give the floor to Secretary of State Tuzson Bence.
u2016-05-09-361	Thank you very much. Just to be fair, you can't carry the two in parallel. That's not legally possible. If such a provision is included in the Constitution in this respect, then a referendum on it can no longer be held. You know that, or if you're not a lawyer, look around your faction and ask your lawyers. So in this respect, the two will exclude each other. Your proposal in this regard therefore aims to ensure that there is no referendum on this issue in Hungary. I understand that you may have had your suggestions earlier, but when it comes to concrete action, when it comes to deciding on this issue, you decide to use another instrument and not to have a referendum on this issue in Hungary. In parallel, the two are legally completely excluded. I think you know that. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-05-09-362	I now give the floor to Congressman István Józsa.
u2016-05-09-363	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, In this evening's class, it may not be excessive to quote a line from a children's tale that said dragon grass against a dragon. And then they ask me back, does that help? Well, if anything helps, it helps. So you invented the referendum against the dragon's dragon grass story, and you're raising all kinds of terrifying stories. I'm not saying that the Middle East war didn't produce terrible, tragic events, made people impossible. I am not saying that acts of terrorism in Europe are neither terrifying nor tragic, because they are very tragic. What I'm saying is that on our part, you're distorting the representation of humanity, and you're claiming it's pro-immigration. Secretary of State mentioned the Geneva Convention on asylum. I don't know if you've observed your own terminology, you never say the word "refugee," you always talk about migrants, while in Europe I want to solve the refugee issue. So they are washing together the things that I still legally understand are difficult to sort out, but as my fellow Member Imre Vejkey said from an entirely different approach, the most serious threat today is humane. Well, that's what we're afraid of. Let us look to ourselves if our humane judgement, our approach has not been damaged in recent times, when you represent that you are defending the country, and I am thinking about how many thousands of Poles were accepted by the Hungarian families when the Germans flooded them. The glory was that Hungarian families accepted Polish refugees. Do not try to distort the basically humane approach represented by the MSZP, try not to transform it into pro-immigration. We say that the European Union is surely wrong about many things, but we cannot be wrong about the fact that the person who really is a refugee, who is really trying to save his life with his little child, has to testify to a humane procedure. Unfortunately, we have seen few examples of this, and even the opposite, when civil society organisations are trying to help, they are actually confronted with the fact that government behaviour, which I am thinking about last summer, has been left behind by this philanthropic aid. Mr. Secretary of State Tuzson Bence says that this decision can determine the fate of the country for a hundred years. If so, does a few months matter so much that the MSZP referendum initiative will be able to catch up to your referendum on this issue, otherwise rather trivial, in a hurry? By the way, what I said, of course, that the answer is not so much that it is a good question, but that you are deliberately asking a trivial question, which the government could decide in its own power, but that it believes that the PR value of the matter is greater if it is done in the context of a run-through referendum. I say that you should think about believing that you are democrats, that you should believe that you really want to create a national unity to protect humanity, and that you should also act humanely in your own practice. Let us consider such examples. Thank you, Mr. President. [[Nándor Gúr applauds.]]
u2016-05-09-364	I give the floor to Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát in a two-minute time frame.
u2016-05-09-365	Mr President, Dear House, In response to Mr State Secretary, we have to say that the double game they are playing is not very pleasant, because we declare that you will put Hungary at risk for several months with the sole management of the national referendum, so that by kicking through a mechanism that is bad for us in Brussels, you will actually be able to do anything with our country, and you will not be able to do anything about it. You know very well that parallelism could have worked between the various instruments, so that, let's say, the compulsory introduction mechanism would have been excluded by the amendment of the basic law and extended to include the issue of repatriations, a number of other mutations, and, in general, an appeal for a referendum that would have enabled them to ask for a general public declaration of will on the issue, and this could have been a success. You did not want to go down this path, you are preparing for a political PR action of several months, the point of which is that, while maintaining interest in the meantime, Hungary is exposed to these threats. At the same time, Jobbik was always able to count on concrete action, not to say no. I would like to ask you who provided the two-thirds for the construction of the fence, and who provided the two-thirds for sending soldiers to the Hungarian border. It was the Jobbik. The fence was also raised by the better mayor, László Toroczkai, in Digotthalm, but of course this is not a hitchhiking contest. At the same time, we must say that we were there in the hour of action, your government rumble and, in many cases, impotence, which cannot be explained by why they have been stalling on completely trivial matters for months. This is what constitutes a real risk factor for the country, and, Mr. Secretary of State, once again, you cannot rule out that if something very vile is cooked up against Hungary in the witches' kitchen in Brussels, then will we have the opportunity to act, or will there be anything left in your armory. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-05-09-366	I am asking my fellow Members if anyone else would like to comment on the debate. [[There's no candidate.]] I do not see a candidate, so the consolidated debate is closed and I will ask the rapporteur if he wishes to comment. [[For signal:]] You have the floor, Congressman Vas Imre.
u2016-05-09-367	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear House, Mr Secretary of State has already answered the decisive part of the questions, and I would not wish to repeat him. [[22.40]] Jobbik MEPs have been trying to persuade the authors that the amendment to the basic law is much better. We disagree. We continue to think, by the way, that the most decisive argument is the referendum. This is what no body in the European Union can object to, and this issue of a valid and effective referendum must also be accepted by the bodies of the European Union. I would like to tell my fellow Member, Mr Z. Karpa, that the Commissioner of the European Union cannot ask for or take instructions from the government that sent him. [[Z. Kárpát, Dániel: This is not what we expected, just to clarify what you are doing!]] So in this respect, I do not think you have addressed this point to the right place, my fellow Member. Two of my fellow Members in MSZP wanted to persuade the authors to wait at all costs. In my view, this is not possible within the framework of this Fundamental Law and the referendum law. The MSZP Members have suggested that they already have 100,000 signatures. I understand they've been collecting signatures for weeks, by the way. According to my memory, Fidesz and KDNP collected 440,000 signatures in October 2007 in about three days on one weekend. [[Dr. István Józsa: You just said that, you didn't give it up!]] The one we dropped off. We dropped you off! According to my memory, out of these 440,000 signatures, about 400,000 in the order of magnitude. [[Nándor Gúr: Talk about the present!]] was valid, what the Election Committee... But you didn't even give the 100,000 signatures to the NTI. So at least the other Members of Parliament have no idea whether there is a hundred thousand signatures, or whether this hundred thousand signatures do not exist. I would add that Parliament has no discretion, it must order the referendum within 30 days, and then it will be removed. [[Dr. István Józsa: If you promise!]] on the subject of Parliament [[Nándor Gúr: Just a promise that it will be!]] If there is an appeal, the Constitutional Court will, if not, have the right to decide directly by the President of the Republic. [[Nándor Gúr: It's up to you!]] So the Parliament has only one option: to order the referendum. Please support the motion for a resolution with your vote. Thank you for listening. [[Dr. Imre Vejkey applauds.]]
u2016-05-09-368	Dear Parliament, The decision shall take place on Tuesday's meeting. We have reached the end of the discussion of our agendas today. It is now time for the speeches after the agenda. After the agenda, Mr Ander Balázs applied for a speech with the title of the former castle of Prince Koppany and the Abbey of King Saint László, calling for the reconstruction of the sacred place of our national mythology. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2016-05-09-369	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, The ruins of Kupavár Hill in Somogyvár mean much more to the Hungarian people than a simple tourist attraction, said Kornél Bakay, professor of archaeology, working for decades to explore the national memorial site. The former castle of Prince Koppany and the Abbey of King Saint László is a national symbol, and because of the found tomb of the Knight King, it is a real Hungarian sacred place. One of the remaining sacred sites of our national mythology, where we can roam among real historical monuments in the memories of our national greatness. According to the historical tradition, the Koppany leader, who had inherited the Somogy princeship beyond the Dravan, all the way to Zagreb, was in or near the territory of Somogyvár today, and his rebel troops began their siege of Veszprém in 997. During the excavations on nearby Mount Cupavár, it was clearly demonstrated that the abbey built between 1091 and 1095 for Benedictine monks called from France by King St. László in 1091 was one of the largest and most elegant facilities of the time, which was built in a pure Romanian style in Lombardy on about two and a half hectares. The monks of the Abbey were sent to Hungary by the Abbey of Saint Gilles. In the abbey there was a significant cultural and cultural centre of the Middle Ages, and since the 1220s it was already a archives of authentic places. Somogyvár was such an important cultural center that some experts believed that the monks living there had written the earliest Hungarian text, the Death Speech and supplication, in the walls of the Abbey. The monastery and the church are approximately the 16th century. The order used it until the first half of the century. As the Turkish threat increased, after the defeat in Mohács, the church and the monastery building began to be rebuilt into an end castle. The main gates and windows were walled up, and the church towers were made of rooks. A small watch tower was built in front of the west facade. However, the Turkish troops arriving here in 1543 have trodden and plundered the abbey. The monks didn't return later. The Turks used the buildings as a fortification, and the once magnificent monastery building and the huge temple slowly became the ruin. The archaeological exploration of the abbey was started in 1972 by Kornél Bakay, a professor of archaeology, who left the capital for excavation, and left the Archaeology Institute of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences. He replaced his career in Budapest for the directorship of the Somogy County Museum, although soon later, in 1977, Somogy's almighty communist leaders banned him from the county and stopped archaeological exploration. He was the one who managed to find the tomb of St. Laszlo in the middle of the main ship of the church in Somogyvár and revealed, among other things, the unique protections of the former princely castle later in Ispanese. King László of St. Laszlo's killed grandfather wished to rest in the land of Koppany's castle, from the funeral of 1095 to his inauguration of 1192 when his body was taken to Castle. Here two thousand stone carvings and 130,000 different artifacts were discovered, including some thousand skeletons that are important for anthropological research, which - despite the fact that many valuable remains have not been saved by the Hungarian monument conservation and archaeology - still hold the history of the entire Carpathian Basin of 1100 years. Although the Forster Gyula National Heritage Centre won HUF 1.5 billion in tender money a few years ago to sort out the national memorial site, the visitor center delivered at the end of last year was set up several kilometres away from the ruin area, and the original remains found at the national memorial site could not be saved. The national fortress programme would also require the reconstruction of Somogyvár, as, in the light of a number of supporting examples - just think of the Castle of Diósgyőr or Füzér - Somogy cannot remain the land of ruins to the knees. This sacral place of our national past deserves reconstruction here too, because time is running out, and without intervention, destruction is unstoppable. Of course, those who consider the national memorial to be a false mythical ruin field of nationalistic legends will not be hurt. But we say that the place where the spirit of Koppány leader and St. Stephen hug together deserves as much as they spend on the stadiums of some NB II football teams. That is why I call on my fellow members of the Government, especially the Somogyi, to support our idea of amending the budget in this respect. The good 200 billion for stadiums by 2020 could also benefit from such targets. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2016-05-09-370	Mr Sebestyén Vágó spoke after the next agenda with the title "Funny but very difficult work." You have the floor.
u2016-05-09-371	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Fortunately, this phenomenon has emerged in Hungary, which a lot of people simply call clown doctors. They took on a profession where sick children, very often terminally ill children, go to hospitals, try to make them happy - a very often sad, tragic fact - their last days. Many times, they use laughter therapy to help elderly people, children, to get through that period or even to help them to heal. Patch Adams is a famous, internationally recognized scientist and scientist of this profession, who started his activities in 1971. He took a clown nose, a red nose, went to hospitals, visited almost every hospital in the United States of America and the world, and also visited Hungary. [[22.50]] He sought out the students of the University of Medicine in Pécs and tried to give them an enlightening lecture on what this profession is, what they provide. Medical research shows that laughter has therapeutic, curative effect. Laughter is what helps to overcome either the increase of harmful cholesterol in the body, or the increase of healing and beneficial cholesterol in the body; it initiates internal hormonal processes that can help the sick child or the sick person to heal. We know very well that medical evidence confirms that laughter has a healing effect. It was Michael Christensen who created a clown doctor-therapy department in the United States of America, New York, 1986. They discovered that this activity could have a healing effect. This activity was also launched in Hungary. There is also a foundation that brings together the activities of clown doctors, the Red Nose Clown Doctors Foundation. Their website can also be found on the Internet. I would like to send a message from here, although I know that the speech after the agenda is a parliamentary genre, not a place for advertising, but I would like to offer the opportunity to help every Hungarian citizen who has not yet made use of the 1 percent offer to make use of it. If you haven't decided who you're offering 1 percent of your taxes to, please support the clown doctors. It is a sad fact that we know this from radio interviews, press interviews, speeches and media appearances that unfortunately today there are no applications in Hungary that can help the activities of this foundation. We also know from unique stories and radio interviews that in many cases, they try to help troubled children and sick people with their own money. But there were times when we could hear this from a radio interview that a clown doctor had no other option, the budget was low, the budget was low, and he tried to get down to Székesfehérvár on a bicycle to help a sick child, as promised; with him, he could make a personal encounter that he had promised. But he showed up, he was there. That's why I'm asking everyone who knows that their taxes support the foundation by 1 percent, to support this activity. And from here, I ask the government to make proposals, to have budget subsidies that can support this noble goal, this noble profession. It's not an easy profession. Think of all of us, whether we have children or no children, but we have an empathetic ability to go in to a child who is terminally ill, to make his last days happy, to cheer him up, to help him in the way he stands before, what we are all about to do, but none of us thinks that this can happen after a few years in the life of a child. Let's help them. It's not an easy job. It is not easy, whether in makeup or without makeup or red nose or red nose, to go to a child in a difficult situation who we know may be the last person to hold his hand; who last smiles and laughs on his face. Thus, going in with this consciousness, helping them spiritually, and bringing ourselves into a state of mind so that we can fulfill this difficult profession. It's not an easy task for them to take on. They bring laughter, smile, and joy to children's faces at that moment, which is unimaginable to any of us. We ask all of you to help this activity, whether by 1 percent of your tax or by the government, to try to give these organisations greater support in the budget. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2016-05-09-372	Congresswoman Dóra Dúró applied for the next speech after the next agenda:, Let the opinion of the students also be expressed in the Parliament. - Report to Jobbik's Youth Department. - Hear your voice. The results of his campaign, part nine. You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2016-05-09-373	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Indeed, as a member of the Jobbik Youth Group, I feel particularly responsible for my own generation and for involving young people as much as possible in politics, public life, and, on the other hand, to encourage and encourage as many young people as possible to plan their lives at home, to fill the Carpathian Basin with their planned families. As the youngest Member, I would also like to help you in our youth department. I am also involved in the voice of the young people who have undertaken to convey their opinions to us in the National Assembly. As an educational politician, I also feel it is my job to visit a number of institutions that operate in this area. I have visited schools and higher education institutions over the past period, and my experience there also coincides with Laura's criticism of everyday physical education. I quote Laura: "The negative effect of everyday physical education hours is that there is not enough time to clean up afterwards. It's very uncomfortable to sit all day after a morning gym class. It should be introduced to make the break longer. Indeed, it was necessary to introduce everyday physical education, but the necessary infrastructure conditions were not provided by the government, even though they knew that this was missing at the time of the introduction and that about HUF 50 billion should be spent on it. This has not been achieved overall since then. Enikő complains that students are often taught from unprofessional experimental textbooks, while well-established quality textbook publishers, which have long been well-known, are impossible by the government. Enikő also draws attention to another thing in his letter that there is too much theoretical curriculum, all of which is a background to practical knowledge. This is also emphasised by Nora, who set out the goal of primary and secondary education to be self-conscious, purposeful, knowledge-proof, independent people. Compared to this, the current education system takes away the creativity of young people. The 11th grade Ramóna also concerns an issue that I was just talking about, draws attention to the errors of experimental textbooks, and that there is too much teaching material, too much expectation of young people. And Detti's strong and legitimate suggestion is this:. The money should not be spent on the renovation and construction of stadiums, but on education and health, for example. The Jobbik also agrees with Detti, because besides corruption, health and education are the two topics in which the real national consultation was launched. In doing so, we will also contact and consult professional organisations, and then we will also send a letter to voters to get their answers to the substantive questions that we have asked which will determine the future of these areas in the long term in Hungary's life. Adam wrote that oral university admission should be restored to the calculation of points; he also suggested that three years of BA and two years of MA training should be terminated and that undivided training should be restored. The question is valid, since the introduction of the Bologna system in Hungary has been prematurely implemented, and since then it has been necessary to withdraw from this for several majors. In fact, there were periods in which the introduction did not take place at all. Gabriella points out in her letter that KLIK has been unduly and unreasonablely centralised. It says:. The necessary equipment should be provided to teachers, because we often even buy chalk.."In addition to education, health and corruption are also the issues that we deal with in the context of the real national consultation. Young people have not only written on educational topics, but, for example, Diana wants first aid to be introduced in schools, while Árpád also wants to spread KRESZ knowledge in this way. On the subject of corruption, we received a very clever question. So I would like to conclude with an absolutely legitimate question, which came from Norbi, who is a high school student: Why is Ferenc Gyurcsány not yet in prison? Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2016-05-09-374	Member Gergely Farkas applied for a final statement after the last agenda:. The opinion of the students in the Parliament should also be expressed. - Report to Jobbik's Youth Department. - Hear your voice. The results of his campaign, titled Part 10. You have the floor, Congressman. [[23.00]]
u2016-05-09-375	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, For the tenth time now, we will summarize the opinion of the students in a bouquet. In the last few weeks, I have been lining up the cities and personally participating in the campaign, partly through a press conference, and partly personally participating in the flyer and thus in meeting the young, and each time I find that young people are very happy to finally have a party who asks their opinion, finally there is someone who wants their opinion. Unfortunately, this was unusual with regard to the governments or any other party so far, they never asked for the opinion of this generation, which is why our campaign is very positive and we are very much welcomed by young people. I would also like to share some of these feedback and these feedback gathered with you. Anna wrote in her letter to us: I have many complaints. I go to school in mice when I'm in ninth grade. There's a lot of unnecessary material, and they want us to teach it in a short time. I don't have seven or eight hours, I have ten hours, full of zero hours. I live on Tenken, which is 40 kilometers from Eger, and travel time takes at least an hour. What makes it harder for me to study and my performance to get worse is that because of my love for patriotism, I have a lot of teachers pissing at me. If I can't take on my patriotism, why have many of my fellow students been allowed a liberal appearance or behavior they produce? - Anna asks the question. Unfortunately, we are experiencing it, and it is not the only complaint that is about the fact that young people who take on it with the help of a T-shirt, a bracelet, anything else. Let's hope this is all over as soon as possible. One of the following comments, Imre briefly stated: the biggest mistake of the Hungarian education system is that it is not in the interests of teachers and not of students. It is no coincidence that there are also very serious outrages among teachers, protests in recent times. We can feel that they are not satisfied with the current system. We've talked a lot about textbooks, and there's been another criticism about that. Tünde wrote us the following letter: I miss teaching that most textbooks are too specific and complicated to describe, for example, in the case of high school students, a subject or even the whole of it becomes incomprehensible. We agree with Kati's following thoughts, who wrote the following lines, and I quote: I see that unnational thinking in history and literature lessons and based on the experience of the material given, which cannot be accepted in a supposedly national Hungary. I don't think hiding or distorting writers, poets, historical personalities labeled right-wing is going in the right direction, Kati said. This complaint is very good for me, because I was the one who, a few years ago, dedicated a series after the agenda to forgotten, undeserved writers and poets, because to this day, we resent that the NAT did not include writers who, based on their work and their way of life, deserve it, and we would consider it important for students to have their books, their poems, their work. We trust that this will change. Milán expressed his opinion as follows: the main problem with the current education system is that the lack of practical knowledge from the compulsory curriculum, which would be very useful in everyday life and work. Roland's idea is a little longer, and I'm hoping it'll fit in. I'm going to school at night. It's a two-year-old afternoon school, 'cause that's all I could do with a job. There's a lot of high school material that can't be learned in two years. Our teachers are very nice, they're just trying to teach us the most important things. We should do something about the amount of the curriculum, because there are a lot of things we're never gonna use in life, which is important, and there's no time for that. All I can say about getting into work is that I recently took a social care and nursing course, which would be a good thing if you could hire me. Let's just say there's a great need for a male caregiver, but they don't have a budget to employ. Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg County has been absent in this area anyway. Now I had to do community service for a hard 50,000 forints. Since I have my profession, as well as regular caregivers, baths, diapers, injections. It's a very busy profession. We do home care, we go out to a lot of people, and there are very few of us. Now they're trying to recruit me from public workers who won't take on this task because there's a lot of responsibility. You have to deal with older people, which is a very difficult task. A colleague working 24 years ago told me that he barely makes 100,000 forints. Where's the government's respect? I'd love to take the Fidesz congressmen to work for just one day to find out why the little man works in one day. That's all you could fit into today's speech. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-05-09-376	Ladies and gentlemen of the Council, We've reached the end of the post-scheduled items. I thank you for your work, and we will resume the meeting tomorrow at 9:00 a.m. Meeting day's closed. [[Meeting ended at 11:05 p.m.]]
