u2016-05-30-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] Welcome. Good afternoon. The 32nd day of the Spring Session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that István Tiba and Ádám Mirkóczki will be in charge of the meeting to help me. Welcome to all those who are monitoring our work. Dear Parliament, We will begin our work today by speaking before the agenda, from 11:50 a.m. to 13:20 a.m. for questions, then from approximately 13:20 a.m. to 14:20 a.m. for instant questions and answers, and then a political debate will take place, and we will conclude the Parliament's session with speeches after the agenda. Dear Parliament, Erzsébet Schmuck, representative of the LMP, applied for a pre-meeting speech. What is the real message of the MNB scandal? It's an address. Here you go.
u2016-05-30-1	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, For weeks, months, the country has been obsessed with the scandal of the Hungarian National Bank, that is, the outrageous waste of money, which is in fact György Matolcsy's hundreds of billionaire amok run. As the account left behind by the President of the Central Bank is getting thicker, it is becoming more and more obvious how small Matolcsy was with the Hungarian people's money. We could slowly fill an independent parliamentary debate day by simply listing outrageous payments and how many strings the beneficiaries are connected. An Italian mob family could envy that. Utilization, money laundering, luxury investments, corruption. Ladies and gentlemen, Hungary is drowning in new and new cases that explode daily. He's drowning because these cases don't solve, they don't have consequences. It also takes months for every detail to come to light. Fidesz, the government and György Matolcsy are obviously playing to get tired of this scandal, get bored and go home. Many already do, and the cynical experts of politics do it by saying that scandals do not harm the popularity of the government side, while the opposition does not grow stronger because of the government's lack of credit. But the problem is not the support of Fidesz or the opposition, but the destruction of public life, the belief of the people. Who cares how many people vote for Fidesz or opposition parties, if they no longer mean anything by a vote, there is no weight on the expectations of citizens, there is no consequence if they commit the main crime of politics in a row by putting private interests before the public interest? What is happening now is a sure way for politics and the country's lives to be separated. The business of those in power is not the problems of the Hungarian people, and the problems of the people only have a multifaceted role in the decision-making of power. It is a sure way for politics to shut the door and discourage everyone from doing something good for this country or for its settlement, for its school, for its hospital, for its streets. The Hungarian people do not recognize themselves in the leaders of the country. They do not see in Hungary's decision-makers what is expected of them, but in a foreign, corrupt world. Dear Parliament, The scandal of the National Bank led by György Matolcsy is dangerous for Hungary. György Matolcsy is a risk to the Hungarian society as a whole today. György Matolcsy, with the seal of the Prime Minister's approval on it, says that everything can be done, all we need is a proper political backseat and support. György Matolcsy steps out in public, and his face says that if the right people are behind you, you can get away with anything. But in the meantime, the mud is up to the neck of the country, and we're slowly drowning, all of us, together. By giving the government, the prosecutor's office, a passport to the head of the central bank that they are not willing to take political, legal, or moral responsibility, they are pulling the ground out of Hungary for good, cutting off the last handholds. This policy threatens Hungary's security, stability and future. It eliminates common values, undermines common goals, makes joint action impossible. Without them, a country is nothing more than a crowd of people living in one place, where everyone enforces their own interests in the way they are in power. Responsibility, solidarity with each other will disintegrate, no future will come from the past and the present, because we cannot build on the fact that those who come after you will spend money even more effectively, and lie even more effectively about the otherwise obvious corruption, urination, offshore. There's nothing to see here - that's all they have to say for everything, that's what they say; and sometimes they point at others. You imagine that Hungary is the country of ten million ostriches. They're trained to put their heads in the sand, while the people on the steering wheel can do whatever they want. To be simple, they think everyone's stupid. But people aren't stupid, they're just disillusioned. Dear House, It's time to end the Matolcsy story, because not only the majority of the government, but we all pay the price. Thank you for your attention.
u2016-05-30-2	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Government, Mr András Tállai, State Secretary, responds. Here you go.
u2016-05-30-3	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and The MNB Act, in accordance with Article 130 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, states that the members of the MNB and its organs are independent in carrying out their duties and in fulfilling their obligations under the Law. They cannot ask or take instructions from governments or governments. It also provides that the Government or any other organisation respects this principle and does not attempt to influence the members of the MNB and its organs in the performance of their duties. The MNB shall enjoy the right of independence in carrying out all of its tasks under the MNB Act. The MNB is therefore legally independent. This independence is reflected, for example, in the activities of central bank foundations. This is confirmed by Article 38 (5) of the Fundamental Law, which states that the state-owned entities are legally, independently and responsibly managed according to the requirements of legality, expediency and effectiveness. The central bank therefore manages independently, independently of the governments at hand. A national institution which, on the basis of its independence in its management as well, has a legitimate opportunity to serve the public good and to provide support for its results as far as possible. The management of the MNB is not part of the current Finance Act, the general government subsystem, and is therefore not part of the traditionally interpreted public distribution. The MNB's revenue and expenditure are therefore not regulated by the current Finance Act, but, as an independent institution, has its own annual management plan, which is decided by the Board itself. It is also for the Management Board to decide whether to pay dividends. The Board of Directors of the Magyar Nemzeti Bank decided to pay a dividend of HUF 50 billion out of the HUF 95 billion profit of the central bank in 2015. However, it should be pointed out that this item does not improve the balance of the budget if it comes from exchange rate gains and reduces debt. [[11.10]] The main task of the government as a shareholder of the MNB is to help the MNB implement its monetary policy by establishing central bank independence. I would like to note that the last dividend payment was made to the budget in 2002, so the practice of paying dividends from the Hungarian National Bank was not typical. The role of the MNB in social responsibility is not unprecedented among the European central banks, as the UK, German, Italian or Austrian central banks operate in the same way and carry out similar activities. The MNB strives to serve the public good through the foundations it has created and operated, thus by spreading the financial culture, by supporting researchers and scholarships, it aims to develop Hungarian economic science. There are also many international examples of the central bank buying real estate. The MNB's real estate purchases are essential for the functioning of the foundations. It is important to point out that these purchases can be regarded as investments which, with their constant value, ensure that the resources spent on them enrich national assets. This is also the case with the purchase of real estate by the Hungarian National Bank. According to the decision of the Constitutional Court, the Magyar Nemzeti Bank publishes its data on the foundation. So, as well as the data of the Hungarian National Bank, the management of the foundation is completely public, and anyone can know it, so the requirement that the transparency of the management of the Hungarian National Bank be achieved is, of course, fulfilled. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-05-30-4	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Speaking before the agenda, MEP László Teleki, representative of the MSZP asked for a speech:. Where is the integration of Roma education? It's an address. Here you go.
u2016-05-30-5	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, I asked for the floor because last Thursday, the European Commission launched an obligation procedure against Hungary [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Failure to fulfil obligations!]] the segregation of Roma children in schools. We have repeatedly called to the attention of the government within Parliament, outside Parliament, to do something about this issue, because it can be seen that the number of children affected by segregation is increasing. As a result, it can be seen that nothing tangible has happened that would not have brought its attention to the European Commission, as I mentioned, whether it was the Hungarian internal policy or the civil society organisations in Hungary. So it also shows that the government is not taking this issue seriously. The reason we do not understand this is because, if ever, we should pay particular attention to the fact that the cumulative disadvantaged children and, in particular, the Roma children, who, in many cases, are in a position to enter a trap, an equal opportunities trap, directly or indirectly, because of their origin, cannot be dealt with by the government. The question is why he cannot handle when he sees that indirect segregations could be dealt with in an absolute way, and not in the way he did, with administration, but with real measures. In many cases, it has been experienced and experienced today that the movement that the government, the administrative task and nothing else wants to do in this space. Instead of administrative tasks, things should be based on facts. I myself wrote or officially handed over a petition to the President of the Hungarian Republic on 2 May, in which I formulated 12 points. Three out of the 12 points dealt with, which Brussels also objects, and Brussels also sent as a signal value to the government. Providing equal opportunities for education in public education, secondary education and higher education, I wrote to the President of the Republic in the first point; eliminating the segregation of education, this was the second point; and the shortcomings in adult vocational training that are present must also be eliminated. These three have been handed over to the President of the Republic, although I have not yet received an answer, but I am looking forward to the answer now, because the 30 days will be over. That is why the government has a responsibility to signal the school obligation that has been reduced from 18 to 16 years, as you can see now that those who get out of education at 16 years of age are mostly on the line for social assistance, and the question is whether this is appropriate for the government, because the taxpayers' money is more likely to spend it on aid than on education. I think that we should turn this view around and invest more money in education. If they don't invest more money in it, then it's very important that they get it targeted where they can see the help. Today, at this moment, it cannot be said that they can move in this direction. And if they continue to represent this policy, it is possible to predict that the intellectual level of Roma in Hungary will be limited to several years, several decades, i.e. debauchery will come, and not only in Roma social circles, but also in non-Roma ones, the debauchery will be the main factor. That is why I think that the government has a job and not only because Brussels has given you a warning to the government, but because we live in Hungary and want to build a Hungary. So, if you like it, this is a national issue, it must be considered a national case when it comes to the fact that there is a national minority, the Roma minority, who is here in Hungary with some 800-900 thousand people, whether they are willing to give them a chance to integrate into Hungarian society, or they continue to choose not to integrate it, but rather to segregation it into education. Of course, I am sure that it will be possible to talk about results and point them back to the previous 8 years, one sure, reading through various surveys yesterday, I also found that the number of children in segregation has increased nearly one and a half times, and that means that something is wrong. Therefore, I would ask the Secretary of State, if he would answer, not for the last 8 years, because if we were talking about a national issue, we certainly had hiates, and we now see those hyates, but you, too, please take into account that there is a problem, if there is a problem, and it must be dealt with, and not only because Brussels wishes this, but also because the Hungarian society, the Hungarian nation, wishes that there should not be people who are dependent on their eternal lives, but on the contrary, let us try to bring them to a level with education and development that they can be useful members of the country. So it is up to you what the future of the Roma youth of Hungary will be. Thank you very much.
u2016-05-30-6	Thank you very much, Congressman. On behalf of the government, Secretary of State Bence Rétvári responds. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2016-05-30-7	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, What is meant to initiate the infringement procedure itself, you may have heard about it, perhaps not, but since the autumn of last year, Hungary has been under quite a strain to ensure that the resources that can be used for catching up purposes are not only serving the current goals of catching up in Hungary, including Roma integration goals, the goals of the integration of children, but also a part of these resources that Hungary should regroup, take from this target audience, from those in need of catching up, and regroup them for the integration of immigrants and migrants. Hungary has clearly rejected this, and we believe that the European Commission has now launched infringement proceedings against Hungary because of the Hungarian catch-up policy, in connection with the fact that we refused to transfer the catch-up funds to immigrant integration programmes. We have said that because there is a world phenomenon that obviously affects Europe's current public affairs and policies to a very large extent, however, the level of catching up in Hungary has not decreased. You have also supported, I believe, with your speech that there is much work to be done in this area, in this area we will have to use a great deal of community resources and Hungarian resources in the coming years and decades. This position was also shared by the Hungarian government, and he said that he would not transfer this to anyone else. We believe that there is a clear link between the Hungarian decision at the time and the opening of the current infringement procedure. But there are programmes, the results of which are obviously seen by a Member, let me list some of them. The establishment of the "Professional" children's homes, which helped 12 thousand children and their parents in 112 places. Obviously, parents can go in here with children under 3 years of age or 3 years of age, and they can be there all day in a supportive environment, where kitchen equipment can be found, and obviously they can find the conditions needed to improve the child's ability in 112 places. I could also mention the Children's Chance Program, with a total of 80 267 people participating in it, who have received one of the services in recent years. This 80,000 number, I think, is also a nice number. [[11.20]] If you are looking at the schools, since you have been talking about school issues, and obviously many people also need help outside the school to keep up with the others in the class: we have helped 3,500 disadvantaged students in 178 schools in this program. And you are also well aware of the Travel Scholarship, which has helped 13 thousand students to get to high school, to graduate, to get a job or to get into higher education. These are all programmes that want to break the negative spiral that Mr. Congressman has referred to, and what we have seen in Hungary for decades or even generations. Education and equal access to education have a very important role to play in this, so that everyone, anywhere in the country, can have the same educational career. We believe that this was the main driver of the state's reservation of education institutions, so that it does not depend on the financial situation of the local government, whether it can provide certain basic competences to young people through the school or not. And when the National Basics Plan is reviewed in the next year and a half, these are exactly the questions that will be examined best, since we have seen from the results of recent years that these are the basic competences that are generally received in the lower school and which will bring back the material to be learned or to be learned in the upper school, and so always at a higher stage of education, they give young people a previously lacking knowledge, knowledge or ability. We hope that this can break all kinds of negative social spirals. The improvement of access at system level, institutional level, we believe that it has worked in the new state maintenance system, and we have identified social educational factors that hinder children's success in school so that we can act against them in a well-targeted manner throughout the public education system. Obviously, this is something that both the strategy against unqualified school leaving and the national catch-up strategy, which can prevent precisely school drop-out. And since I have little time, let me just mention the establishment of one more body, the anti-segregation round table, which was created precisely to try to resolve the issues that you have raised with the involvement of experts. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-05-30-8	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Dániel Z. Kárpát, representative of Jobbik, asked for a pre-meeting speech. Instead of trying to ban the North Korean type, will the government finally hear the words of time and move all the players in the community economy towards public burdens with a new approach? It's an address. Here you go.
u2016-05-30-9	Mr President, Dear House, The bitter experiences of the last few days and weeks have led us to deal with a very important topic before the agenda, as Jobbik is the 21st. As a party of the century, as a movement, he believes that the so-called sharing economy community-based farming branches can become the driving force of the Hungarian economy in the near future. In the coming decades, Hungary's potential medium power status in Europe can be strengthened by these, but only in a fairly regulated environment, if the current government keeps away from extreme liberal alignment, by throwing the reins into the horses - this is very far from Jobbik - but we are not willing and able to support net tax fraud, tax avoidance, tax optimization methods. Unfortunately, however, we see that the government is making mistakes in this area, since it has already tried to ban online gambling sites, so to speak, but since then detailed IT descriptions have shown that these sites are equally accessible through a proxy server with only two additional clicks. Or to give another example here: the Kuruc.info News Portal was also tried to be banned from this House, but it is equally easy to access, with a maximum of two more clicks to do so. So we can see that banning North Korean-type solutions, banning tools or even a newspaper from this House is in no way workable. We would have expected the government to learn from these bitter experiences and try a little more modern tools, whether entrepreneurial, business-friendly, or even more friendly towards taxpayers. And we would have expected him to try to sit at a negotiating table with the parties in connection with the Uber versus taxi drivers conflict, even in one of the Baltic states. That is what I would like to encourage the pro-government representatives to do, because our painful experience is that a calm professional voice is represented by Jobbik alone at the moment. Because we don't want to ban the Internet in North Korean ways, like you, so we don't want to restrict applications or applications, because we're XXI. As a party of the century, we know that this is the case in the 21st century. However, we do not want to support tax avoidance mechanisms focused on Bermuda, an organised international, highly oiled network of companies. So we cannot support profit fraud and non-payment of taxes from Hungary. There is therefore a need to find a middle road between the two, which leads the system towards public burden-sharing, not to hit workers, so it is not to be contracted under service providers operating in an unregulated environment, otherwise it is not official workers, or to say that it makes the fate of contracted partners more difficult, but to put service providers and intermediaries in a position to move towards public burden-sharing. Jobbik has already put down at least two proposals in this area, and can do more, but we can see that both for Uber and RBNB, with the imposition and introduction of flat-rate taxation for various apartments, rooms and rooms, we can achieve a result that is already on the road to public burdens, even as an entry step. If a Hungarian man today decides to rent a room, he can register it even under the current laws, by paying an annual one-off fee, he can fulfil his obligation to bear public burdens, so in the case of Uber, RBNB and its associates it should be possible to introduce and extend a flat-rate tax form widely, or a type of traffic that could be effectively levied because these online payment units and transactions can be very well tracked, so, where appropriate, they could not be hidden from the eyes of a well-functioning tax authority. We have to say that we are leaning towards a flat-rate tax at the moment, but we cannot accept that the government does not move, does not touch the problem, let it escalate, because we have seen it, we have seen thousands of real estate taken out of the Budapest sublet market by the online sharing systems, and we have also seen that as a result, rent prices have run out. At the time, we also saw that the result of the government's rumblings was that Hungarian young people, middle-aged people, or older people, still pay the price of the government's inertia, the price of an unregulated environment. Jobbik therefore wants to eliminate the unregulated environment in the protection of taxpayers. We claim that we have put a solution on the table in the interests of all social groups. The question arises: will the government hold itself to the attempts to ban North Korea, if necessary, throw the reins among the horses? Instead of the two extremes, we suggest that you consider a normal professional position and take this system to bear public burdens, because you do not know the 21st century. There's no stopping the future. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-05-30-10	Thank you very much, Congressman. Secretary of State János Fónagy responds on behalf of the government. Here you go.
u2016-05-30-11	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Allow me to outline the situation before the professional response to this Article XXI. 100th century, but hard on XX. a representative of a party rooted in the century. Dear Parliament, There are 10 500 taxi drivers in Hungary today, of which 6500 in Budapest. By comparison: London City has 3,500 dross permits in circulation, which can be inherited and operates on virtually extinction grounds. This shows that a strong supply market has been developed in the domestic taxi car passenger market. As far as negotiations are concerned: for a long time, we have been negotiating with the taxi transport organizations for practically years, from which there are 16-18, but there are always one or two of the small organisations that have been re-established or evolved in the past, which are re-emerged or offended by the fact that we have not called them in the absence of knowledge. As far as the legal environment is concerned, the normal environment is 3-4 years old. This was developed by the government and the capital together with the taxi drivers, since most of the cab ride in the capital is regulated by capital decrees, which the taxi drivers participated in, and some other decisive provisions were specifically included in the legislation at the request of taxi drivers, such as the fixed fee at their request. [[11.30]] This is the situation where Uber, which is undoubtedly working with modern methods and modern methods of passenger organisation, has been infiltrated; and what I say is actually true of other companies operating with similar application systems. Uber, like other countries of Europe and the world, appeared in Hungary with complete disregard for domestic legislation. Modernity and XXI. By referring to the 20th century, he completely ignored the Hungarian rules, thus creating a competitive situation for properly operating and taxing taxi drivers that clearly violated fundamental competition neutrality in addition to having otherwise acted in a specific way contrary to the law. This has not changed in the past, either, because the solutions that he indicates as a solution, for example, passenger transport activities are not taxiing, but are entirely different options, namely for rented cars for major events and hotels. Ladies and gentlemen, From the beginning, the government emphasizes that it is on the side of regular tax taxis. From the beginning, the government stresses that modern, XXI. He's on the side of centuries-old solutions. It is no coincidence that we encouraged it, and today, for example, most of the large taxi companies have an app similar to Uber's, either the Main Taxi or the Budapest Taxi, they can be downloaded and used in the same way. Honourable Congressman, Today, the majority of taxi drivers also pay flat rates, because they catatose practically, and if those working with Uber's application system were to comply with Hungarian legislation, other personal and material conditions for taxiing, then this flat-rate tax option, the cata, is at their disposal, of course. The fact that the government considers the Internet to be of any importance is no more evidence than the fact that it reduced the 27 percent VAT to 18% in order to spread broadband services. In view of these, it is therefore clear that negotiations on the rules governing taxiing and such Internet services should be continued, but I am convinced that this problem is not caused by the modernity of the rules or by the behaviour of the government, but by a foreign company that deliberately ignores Hungarian rules and conditions of competition. Thank you for the opportunity, Mr. President. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-05-30-12	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Péter Harrach, Head of the KDNP Group, called "Children's Day and Day of Heroes," applied for a pre-meeting speech. Mr. Team Leader!
u2016-05-30-13	Mr President, Dear House, Yesterday, the country held two holiday days, on the one hand it was child's day, and on the other hand it was hero's day. It was about the future and the past. A few sentences about child's day. Man is the greatest miracle in this world, and even greater wonder is the little man who is born, evolving, developing and developing his personality. Family relationships, including a child-parent relationship, are very important, it is a matter of personal life. However, there is a legal aspect of this which has been highlighted by the two-thirds law that we have created and which says that the relationship between a parent and a child is already a family. But legal issues and political issues are, in a sense, away from family life, because family policy, government and parliamentary measures can only partially improve our biggest problem, the demographic situation. There is a need for a change of perspective here, but there is much that can be done by those responsible politicians who deal with it. After all, the fact that many do not want to have children is a matter of free choice. But what's free may not be good. It may not be good for society as a whole, because this society is no longer able to reproduce itself, and this suggests a problem. So changing thinking and public thinking is a fundamental social and political issue. But it wasn't just child's day yesterday, it was hero's day. It's the day of heroes, which three laws provide for. Let's start with the 17th, which says that in the war of today's history, each settlement should commemorate a monument. This has happened, and World War I monuments are present in the country. In 24th century, another law was passed, which ordered a memorial day, the last Sunday of May. And in 2001, the law that we were forced to pass was born, because in communist times the idea of love for patriotism disappeared, instead internationalism appeared, so heroes could not be remembered. However, it is now remembered in most settlements, because it is something that is necessary for the identity and unity of the nation, and the law says that since St. Stephen we must remember heroes who have sacrificed or even risked their lives. This not only preserves their memory, but is part of our own self - respect. Here, however, I must also draw attention to a bill just before Parliament. It was submitted by two fellow Members, György Rubovszky and Imre Vejkey. What's this about? In World War I, 15 million people died, including 600,000 Hungarians. The Austro-Hungarian Monarchy was the sixth largest and state-of-the-art fleet in the world, with 20 percent of the crew being Hungarian, with the centre of today's Pula in Croatia. Every year, Austria and Italy commemorate the people who died there, and they erect large monuments. Hungary does not do this. This is what the bill, which aims to bring about the Memorial Day of the Hungarian Marines who died heroically, would like to fill this gap. I think that when we serve our children on such a day and look to the future, we should also think about the past with due respect. The way to do this is to remember our heroes, to honor them. Thank you for your attention.
u2016-05-30-14	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. Secretary Retvári responds. Here you go.
u2016-05-30-15	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Chief of Staff, Dear House, Perhaps many have noticed one of the slogans of this year's 1956 commemorative year, a quote from the fact that the nation who remembers its former heroes is given more heroes. It is also important to put the cult of heroes at the forefront of public interest as much as possible, because if a growing generation always sees the appreciation of the heroes who have even given their lives for the nation - some who have only given it, so they have never been able to complete their careers - or if they have been imprisoned, deported, interned, forced, but have undertaken this heroic act, they will obviously live in it as a memory, so that if they need it later, they will not be given by God, but if they need it, they will be another heroes of the Hungarian nation. He also spoke of the heroes and victims of World War I. The heroes of World War I have a memorial in almost every Hungarian settlement, an obelisk, a column on which the names are engraved. About a third of these were already in unworthy condition, and in recent years we have talked about about 600 monuments that needed renovation. In the framework of the First World War commemorations, more than 300 such monuments have already been renovated in various Hungarian settlements. [[11.40]] The first World War Memorial Committee has also announced the central memorial competition of World War I heroes, which has received countless works of art, more precisely half a hundred works of art. These were also put to the vote by the Memorial Committee, so more than 20,000 votes were received from those expressing opinions on the Internet, and the prized proposals will soon be announced, the copyrights of which will be bought by the Memorial Committee. Then the decision will be made on how exactly a hundred years after World War I we can commemorate our heroes in the First World War, because their memory is not cherished by a central monument in Hungary, but at the same time 662 thousand Hungarian soldiers died in the First World War. That's twice as many military casualties as the heroes of World War II. If you compare 662,000 people to a Hungarian average settlement, you can see that this was a huge loss to the nation. Therefore, it is an obligation to commemorate these heroes, even because, despite the many laws to which Mr. Group leader referred, official commemorations in the communist period could not in most cases take place, since the heroic dead of the First World War were considered to be warriors of a kind of dynastic interest, not the proud heroes of the nation, and those who fought in the Second World War, as they also fought against Soviet troops, were not considered to be the ones to be remembered. It would be right if all families could remember the great-grandfathers and great-grandfathers who died a heroic death. In the other part of his speech, the Head of the Group spoke about children's day, family support and family policy. There were a lot of extra resources, which we call family support, but they're for the children, because they always go after the children who raise them. If we look at the proportion of GDP expected in next year's budget, we can say that 4.7 percent is the rate that will continue to rise. This year it was 4.3 percent, next year 4.7 percent. This is much higher than the 3-3.5 per cent generally used for family policy in OECD countries, thus turning it on children. The positive effects of this can mainly be felt by young children. Thus, the 2017 budget is already spending HUF 1743 billion on supporting families, which overall is 42.7 percent higher than what it was in 2010 if I look at how the financial support for families was developed. It is also worth looking at the internal composition of these, the proportion of work-based and subjective benefits, as the government has made it clear that it wants to give the greatest support to those who take on both children and work. For this reason, the increases, the surpluses, appeared to a greater extent than the work-based subsidies, thus increasing their share from one quarter to the other. Work-based support is now much more than before, and this is also presented in the proportions. The resources for children's meals and nursery development have also increased to a very large extent, one by two and a half times, the other by 25 percent, and the free textbook supply has also been included in family support. Thank you so much for listening. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2016-05-30-16	Thank you very much. Róbert Répássy, representative of the Fidesz, applied for a pre-meeting address:, Ten years with the title "The Autumn Speech." Here you go.
u2016-05-30-17	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Almost ten years ago, on 26 May 2006, democratic Hungary came to a turning point after the change of regime. It can also be said that on 26 May 2006 one of the darkest moments of democratic Hungary occurred, when Ferenc Gyurcsány gave a serious speech in secret at the meeting of the winning governing party shortly after his election victory. A number of sentences can be quoted from the speech, which can even be heard between Parliament's walls, and many sentences are quoted from this speech, which are typical of Ferenc Gyurcsány admitting that they have won the general parliamentary elections in 2006. Ferenc Gyurcsány's sentences were severely knocking on the ears of the participants of the then closed group meeting. Ferenc Gyurcsány said that what could be done in secret in the previous months so that in the last weeks of the election campaign we wouldn't find papers that we were going to do. We kept the secret so long as we knew, and you knew that if the election win was gonna come, then we'd have to start really hard, that we never had a problem like this. Ferenc Gyurcsány also said about his own government, that in Europe no country has ever done such a thing as what we have done. It can be explained, obviously we lied for the last year and a half, and it was quite clear that what we said wasn't true. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. [[Dr. Gábor Staudt: That's true of you too!]] And in the meantime, we haven't done anything for four years. Nothing! '"'," says Ferenc Gyurcsány. [[And you're six!]] "I almost died, " he says, "that for a year and a half we had to pretend to govern. Instead, we lied in the morning, at night and at night. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Dear House, These quotes can go on well, you remember those sentences. So what happened at the end of May 2006? What happened was that at a closed party meeting, secretly the then party president-president admitted that the voters had been deceived, that the voters had been lied to support the ruling party, and then, before the ruling party's faction, he encouraged the faction to come forward with the truth. Ferenc Gyurcsány still regards this last element as the truth to this day, so he calls the speech of the truth in which he acknowledged the election that was cheated by lies. Dear House, The speech wasn't published for months. It was only published in September, after which riots, the statement and call of the President of the Republic, and then a few weeks later, Ferenc Gyurcsány's forced vote of confidence followed here in the National Assembly. With all this attitude, he insisted on the power that he himself had acquired by lying. Dear House, Ferenc Gyurcsány, of course, said sentences in this speech that were not true because the next ten years proved how much the speaker is lying. Among other things, Ferenc Gyurcsány said that he would leave in a very quiet manner. We know he hasn't left, he's still the dominant politician on the left, and on the left he's trying to force his political squabble on the other left parties, trying to get votes with this political squabbling. While Hungarians across the border were not allowed to obtain citizenship, while Hungarians across the border were not allowed to be accepted into the Hungarian nation, while they were instigated by Hungarian voters against Hungarians across the border, we saw that in support of immigration they had taken migrants into their house. This would be a nice thing if we didn't know the history, we didn't know how he felt about the members of the Hungarian nation. When he could have helped them as Prime Minister, he didn't help. Dear House, In the 2010 elections, Ferenc Gyurcsány and the Hungarian Socialist Party paid a heavy price for this. Since then, he has tried to rise again as a phoenix in opposition. However, the voters were wise, and in 2014 they did not approve of this resurrection attempt, and as I look at the results of the polls, the phoenix bird has not yet been able to rise and has not gone quietly, as he promised. Thank you very much for the floor, Honourable House. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2016-05-30-18	Thank you very much. On behalf of the government, Mr. Csaba Dömötör, State Secretary, responds. Here you go.
u2016-05-30-19	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, As you pointed out, it was indeed ten years ago that one of the most shameful speeches since the change of regime was made. Ten years ago it was finally proven: the left is capable of everything for power, hundreds of tricks, endless lies, eye-shooting, and as we have known from Ferenc Gyurcsány since then, even internal betrayals. It is primarily the task of the MSZP to discover the treachery, but more importantly, Hungary has paid a high price for institutionalising the lies on the left. [[11.50]] Consider some examples, such as the performance of the economy. During the period when they lied in the morning and at noon and at night, the Hungarian economy was in ruins. There was a year when the economy grew by 7 percent, which was on the brink of collapse by 2010. One of the great costs of lying was that IMF loans were released to the country in such a large amount that it was only recently repaid. Today, public debt is on a declining path, which means that there will be less burden on the shoulders of future generations. Then take, for example, job creation. They lied that the Hungarian economy resembled a powerful pannonian puma, but the facts showed otherwise. During the left-wing rampage, the number of unemployed has doubled, and all people can be proud of the fact that since then the trend has been reversed. More than 500 thousand new jobs have been created since 2010. This also means that more and more people are living on the job instead of on welfare. In the field of energy prices, serious lies were also common. They denied it, then decided on a series of gas price increases. As a result, the price of electricity and gas increased many times during the Gyurcsány period. This was needed to be corrected by reducing the cost of electricity, resulting in a quarterly decline in energy prices and is expected to continue to decline in the future. The lie was also the victim of the previously well - functioning home-building system, which had previously been promised not to be erased, and then it was said that there was no money for it, and then it was removed by a stroke of a pen. The price of this lie was also high, called foreign currency lending. While Gyurcsány and his companions almost died to pretend that they were steering, hundreds of thousands were trapped in a debt trap. Fortunately, we have been able to make progress in this area since then, and this year in January the new home creation programme was launched, which can boost the Hungarian construction industry and help all Hungarians finally have their own real estate. Dear House, It is worth recalling these facts because we consider that the left has learned nothing; not even because it is still as if Gyurcsány was driving it. Ferenc Gyurcsány, by the way, the only thing he regrets from the whole autumn speech is that he spoke in a bit of a blanket style. So you don't care that you've pushed the country to the edge of the abyss and that you've pushed the left into a moral abyss with your stomach-stricken speech. Anyway, the left has been there ever since, and if you don't break up with the Gyurcsány heritage, if you don't break up with the owner of the lie speech, you'll still find yourself there. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2016-05-30-20	Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches before the agenda. I would like to ask Mr István Tiba to present the list of speakers after the agenda. Here you go.
u2016-05-30-21	Dear Parliament, László Varju, independent; Ander Balázs, Jobbik; István Ikotity, LMP.
u2016-05-30-22	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Now, at 11:52 p.m., we will begin to discuss questions and immediate questions. Dear Parliament, Congresswoman Ágnes Kunhalmi, representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Minister of Human Resources: "Do they receive a reward in June this year in public education and higher education? It's an address. Here you go.
u2016-05-30-23	Mr President, Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, Traditionally, teachers' day is held on the first Sunday of June. This is when people in public education and higher education are greeted. In recent years, until the nationalisation in 2012, the municipalities awarded the best-performing teachers with a financial contribution. This prize was replaced by a flower and a diploma by the Klebelsberg Institutional Center. This is a rather clear indication of how much the Orbán government appreciates the work of the best performing teachers and school workers. People who work with enormous administrative burdens and excessive regulation for children every day must have felt humiliated for a reason. Teachers and non-educator educators often do superhuman work, and this should also be appreciated by the government, as they would benefit from a fraction of the money that the government spends on meaningless investments such as moving the head of government to Castle or pseudo-scientific research centres in the following year. As Teacher Day approaches, I ask you what kind of reward you intend to give to teachers in 2016. Exactly how many excellent teachers and school workers does the government plan to reward? Thank you in advance for your reply.
u2016-05-30-24	Thank you very much. Secretary Bence Rétvári responds.
u2016-05-30-25	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, Both educator day and beyond, the government is trying to acknowledge the work of teachers. You tried to forint this here. There were, in fact, local governments, schools where certain teachers were given the recognition in money on teacher's day, and some were not. But if you can fortify the recognition of teachers, then on the one hand, I do not know how you account for the measure taken by your own party, with which a month's wage was taken from teachers when the 13th month's salary was stopped. On the other hand, if you measure appreciation in these material things, I would like to remind you that, while in 2010, an elementary school teacher or teacher had an average annual income of around HUF 2 million 456 thousand, this is now HUF 3 million 627 thousand, or HUF 1 million 171 thousand, higher for all teachers, all teachers. And if you look at high school teachers, there is also a high rise, the current annual amount is 892,000 forints higher than the previous one. This means a noticeable increase at monthly level, an average of 74 thousand forints. So, if we look at how to better appreciate the work of teachers, then, I think the measure of the government is that it first introduced the career of teachers from all public sector sectors, and one of the important parts of this was for teachers, perhaps one of the most important is that their wages are constantly increasing, each year by name, with hundreds of billions of HUF extra resources being transferred by the government, I think it indicates that teachers can count on the state, the government, not only on teachers' day, but on every other day. Thank you very much.
u2016-05-30-26	Congressman Zoltán Magyar, representative of Jobbik, wishes to ask the Minister of Agriculture a question: "Cows and their owners surrounded Parliament, was that not enough warning? Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-05-30-27	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Mr. Secretary. In addition to a number of corruption cases that have recently come to light, a number of sectoral problems are getting worse, to which they simply do not provide meaningful answers. These are the ongoing problems of the dairy sector with regard to agriculture. Instead of working to save Hungarian milk, they make the situation worse and came up with another reduction in the school milk scheme, giving the children a slap in the face. Dealing with the problems of the dairy sector can no longer keep you waiting, burying your head in the sand no longer, pretending that there is no need for immediate intervention. So there was no coincidence that last week's milk demonstration was not here, either, in front of Parliament. The top of dilettantism is what they do, because they take away the possibility of getting fresh milk from about 150,000 children, because they simply didn't think that the program would be so popular. On this basis, there are some questions, Mr State Secretary, and I hope to get some substantive answers. What occurred to them when they were trying to save money on the school milk scheme in the middle of the milk crisis? In addition to the small railway, stadiums, billions of offshore companies, why didn't you think of expanding this program? Why does not VAT reduction apply to all milk and dairy products mainly produced in Hungary? Why was Jobbik's resolution proposal wiped out, which I submitted a month ago, and tried to deal with the problems of the dairy sector? Mr. Secretary, why don't you recognize the gravity of the situation, or if you recognize it, why don't you take any action? Why are they letting us drink Hungarian milk in two years' time? The Hungarian dairy industry is rushing towards the ravine with full steam, and instead of helping with meaningful steps, they also put a few shovels of coal into the boiler, Mr. Secretary of State. These are the answers that we are looking for, and not for ourselves, not for my better fellow Members, but for those farmers who have come to Parliament in their desperation. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] And they're not gonna stop here, they're gonna want substantive answers and solutions. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2016-05-30-28	Thank you. Secretary of State István Nagy responds. Mr. Secretary.
u2016-05-30-29	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, My fellow Member, what you are saying and asking is simply not true. The FM deals intensively with problems caused by severe milk market failure, seeking an effective solution at both EU and national level. The necessary measures are on the agenda at all times and there are ongoing consultations with stakeholders in the sector. [[12.00]] Milk-producing farms will receive outstandingly high support in 2016 compared with HUF 63 billion in 2015 compared to HUF 49 billion. The government also provides significant support for dairy processing companies, funds can be obtained from the 200 billion of the rural development programme and from the 100 billion of the operational programme for economic development innovation, and the large enterprise investment programme for large companies is still available in 2016. In order to encourage domestic consumption of domestic milk and dairy products, the Ministry of Agriculture provided an additional HUF 420 million for the promotion of the second half of 2015 and the first half of 2016. The aim is to promote the product scope in Hungary in order to raise consumer awareness, and we could wish for this in the future. The newly formed government in 2010 has given priority to increasing the popularity of the school milk scheme. Each year, it significantly increased the level of national support. As a result of the measures taken in the last year, the school milk scheme has developed significantly: the number of children in the programme has increased from 130 thousand to more than 436 thousand. Accordingly, the Government continued to secure the increased financing need. In 2016, there is a HUF 2.6 billion framework, while by 2017, I would very much like to emphasise, my dear fellow Member, we provide a HUF 4.2 billion framework for the programme. Our goal and work is to explore the possibility of more children participating in the school milk scheme. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. [[Applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2016-05-30-30	Thank you very much. Congresswoman Bernadett Wind, representative of the LMP, would like to ask the Minister of Human Resources: "Why doesn't the best interests of the child prevail in the visitation? It's an address. Here you go.
u2016-05-30-31	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, The problem with the mass of single - parent families is the question of visitation, which is subject to absurd procedures. In my experience, the problems begin when a court-ordered relationship between a separate parent and a child is not established. Since we have paid particular attention to the problems of single - parent families in recent years, we have been able to learn about a number of cases where, in fact, the guardianship office has, without careful examination of the case and taking into account the child's opinion, automatically prosecuted the mother. In effect, the current system requires the mother to physically force her child to communicate if necessary, even if the child is afraid of his father and does not feel safe with him. If the visitation does not occur, the mother will be held accountable, she will be fined tens of thousands of forints, she will be prosecuted, while the other party's responsibility will not be charged. I think we all see examples that are quite creepy. What I see is that even though it is necessary to examine why the child is disqualified from seeing, this usually does not happen. Earlier, the Ombudsman also confirmed what I am talking about here. I quote the ombudsman:. Experience has shown that the social services office cannot take into account the fact that the child can be proved not to meet him because of the fault of the parent living separately or to whom he is liable. The caregiver's parents are accused of not actually promoting the take-off. I sincerely hope that we all agree here in Parliament that it is unacceptable that tens of thousands of children in Hungary today are forced to communicate against their will, while this is the child's right, but not his duty. A few years ago, the Ministry also promised to develop methodological aids for social services, to train administrators, judges working in child protection, but, unfortunately, this has not happened to this day. I ask the Honourable Secretary of State how long [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] there may still be questions in the Hungarian courts: if your mother could see you so many times, do you think she wouldn't be angry? Or do you also know that if you don't leave with Dad, Mom will get hurt?
u2016-05-30-32	Secretary Bence Rétvári responds. Here you go.
u2016-05-30-33	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, You know very well that the situation is always very difficult when the courts decide. Obviously, the hardest thing for the child is to look at it in the long term, when it is for the court to decide how long and how to see his mother, his father. This is clear from the provisions of family law and legislation in the Civil Code. The court itself decides exactly what the mother, the father, has in mind; where the child is placed in the long term; where the place of residence and who has access to the child. This is very difficult for everyone; most likely the child suffers, but it is not easy for the father and mother. Therefore, there is neither a law nor a methodological material that provides accurate guidance for all life situations. Therefore, the courts always make a specific decision in these cases on exactly how to impose the conditions. In addition, it is the duty of the guardianship authority to ensure that if the court takes a decision that becomes final, it becomes legally binding, then it will then be enforced by the parties. You can do nothing but enforce a final judgment as an authority. If one party believes that it is in the interest of the child to change these rules, then there is also the order and the way in which it can increase its own visibility, reduce what the other party can agree on. Basically, the civil code also provides that the two parties, the two parents, must seek agreement, help the child and take into account the child's interests, but we know that these are emotionally life situations where this principle is less effective. Therefore, what the legislator can do in this completely private, private sphere is to try to help all three parties, the mother, the father and the child in as many ways as possible. On the other hand, in legislation [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] The possibility of continuous review and process review is also maintained. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2016-05-30-34	Dear Parliament, Representative Tibor Pogácsás, representative of Fidesz, would like to ask the Minister for National Development:. When are you planning to build the section of the motorway M4 between Üllő and Albertirsa, namely concerning Péterit, Monor, Monorierdő, Gomba, Pilis, Albertirsa? It's an address. Here you go.
u2016-05-30-35	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Dear Parliament, Highway 4 is the busiest main road in the Great Plain, connecting Hungary to Ukraine, Romania, and there is an enormous traffic on it both back and forth. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: State Secretary asks State Secretary...]] The road passes through several settlements of my constituency, including Monoron, Monorierdő and Pilis, so the road affects the viability of the neighbouring settlements, on the one hand, the accessibility of the capital and the workplace, on the other hand, the development of the industrial and residential areas of the settlements. This road is no longer able to carry out the increased traffic, as it has to endure traffic on the motorway every day, and this causes not only traffic problems, but also, obviously, environmental and health problems in the settlements concerned. It is an old desire for the inhabitants to build the road on a new trail, on a path that avoids settlements, on a path that avoids settlements, so that the affected settlements are free from the harmful effects of transport and the road, while otherwise enjoying the relationship of a modern main road with the capital and with the eastern part of the country. The launch of this investment can make life easier for tens of thousands of people. So I ask the Secretary of State what schedule, when this section of the road is expected to be built, the start of construction, and when it is expected to be completed. Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary.
u2016-05-30-36	Thank you very much. Secretary of State László Tasó responds.
u2016-05-30-37	Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, The Hungarian government's transport policy goals include the connection of county-righted cities to the fast-track network, and accordingly, taking into account the permanent and strong lobby that the representatives of Pest County, Hajdú-Bihar County and Jász-Nagykun-Szolnok County explain in this connection, the renovation, reconstruction and capacity expansion of the M4 motorway will be implemented in several steps. We are carrying out this investment at two or three stages. At the first stage, M0 to Cegléd will be operated on about 45 kilometres. Here, at the same time, the export plan and the construction contract will be signed in the second half of this year, so the work will begin. The second is the 18-mile stretch from Cegléd to Abony. There will be a set of steps for the export plan and a set of steps for the export plan in a separate procedure. The works in this section will start in spring 2017. Specifically, we start from the M0 and start the renovation and reconstruction work with the Vecsés-Szlő bypass section, because in places where there is two lanes at the moment and remains a trail, we extend them twice to two lanes, to the expressway, where there are already two lanes of two lanes already existing, these sections will be completely renovated. [[12.10]] What is important is that the Hungarian government will decide on the deficit phase, the phase from Abony to the Weapons in the second half of the year, and we will complete the investment, as previously mentioned. But not only do we go this far, as we go further with the design of the road towards Kacag and Bishop's Lady, and, as you know, it is built from the new village of Berettyó M4, it starts this year, and we reach the border with the M4 by the end of 18 years. I am very confident that we will help the people who live there and solve the problems of transit traffic. Thank you for asking. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-05-30-38	Congressman Imre Horváth, representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Minister of Human Resources a question:, How Mr. Minister appreciates after the merger with the Honvéd Hospital on 1 November last year Újpest Health the status of your care? It's an address. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-05-30-39	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, As is known, active care at Károlyi Hospital in Újpest ceased on 1 November 2015. The promise was that after the merger, 100 out of 160 beds will be taken over by Honvéd Hospital. I ask you: which classes have been increased by how many beds? The 100 hospital beds were divided, if so, how and when? It was also promised that a chronic rehabilitation department would be established at the former Károly Hospital. Currently, there is a paid rehabilitation department, on which several of the citizens of Újpest contacted me that the department was not part of the XXI. accommodation and care are carried out according to the century. I'm also asking how many doctors and assistants from the former Károlyi Hospital have been taken over by the Honvéd Hospital. In addition: did the take-over and restructuring contribute to the elimination of the lack of a doctor? Secretary of State, do you think the state of Újpest's medical and hospital care has improved? First and foremost, the population of Újpest awaits a satisfactory response, Mr Secretary of State. Thank you very much.
u2016-05-30-40	Thank you very much. Secretary of State Bence Retvári.
u2016-05-30-41	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, On 1 November 2015, the transfer of the active care of Károlyi Hospital to the Hungarian Defence Health Centre was successfully completed. From that point on, the supply profile of Károlyi Hospital will focus on the provision of rehabilitation care and care services. The establishment of the conditions for restructuring into these forms of supply - technical transformation, the safe establishment of care and special conditions, the provision of personal conditions - started with the assistance and assistance of the maintainer at the time of the restructuring and continues to date. The institution also made a strong investment in line with the minimum conditions and the new technical profile, which was provided by the maintainer for about HUF 100 million. In terms of the technical background of the transformation, 40 beds were delivered in the medical profession, 25 beds in the cardiology profession, together with the territorial supply obligation defined by the OTH. Intensive care in the surgical profession was handed over without the transfer of beds, given that intensive care does not require territorial care because it is the same as that of all the professional units of the hospital. After the conversion, the Károlyi Sándor Hospital performs its chronic tasks on a total of 337 beds. The aim of the restructuring was to ensure the conditions for safe and high-quality patient care. The task was to transfer the inpatient care of three professions: internal medicine, cardiology and wound disorder, first and second levels of progression, and typically IV. district, i.e. Újpest and small part of the XV. district, affected the population of Rákospalota. For these professions, the highest, third-progressive patients requiring more specific care were previously provided by the Hungarian Defence Health Centre in accordance with the referral order. This higher level of progressivity and complex care can be used by the population of the two districts concerned. As a result of the change of structure, 13 of the doctors working at Károlyi Sándor Hospital continue to work in the Hungarian Defence Health Center, 3 people continue to work in other hospitals. A high level of safe care for patients can also be achieved in a sustainable way in the long term. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-05-30-42	Congressman Sebestyén Cutter, representative of Jobbik, wishes to ask the Minister of Human Resources, who is the possibility of this car? It's an address. Here you go.
u2016-05-30-43	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, As of 2011, the Government's decree transformed the support of heavily disabled people for the purchase and conversion of motor vehicles. This amount is one million HUF for the purchase of a new vehicle from 1 April this year. There is no problem with the money, because we know that for people in such difficult situations, this can be a huge help. What is a problem is, unfortunately, what we have seen many times since 2010 is that the government that calls itself a national-Christian approach wants to win at the least and the most vulnerable in this situation. The regulation bleeds out of several wounds, but the most outrageous thing is that the dog and corruption have been openly put into the legislation without prejudicing, because the new subsidised vehicle can only be purchased, even if it has the necessary collateral to cover the amount of aid from previous savings, possibly inheritance, sale of property or even property, or through the help of the family, even if it has a loan agreement with a credit institution specified by the government. Currently, the named credit institution is Duna Lízing Zrt., whose owner is István Garancsi, a businessman of the interests of Viktor Orbán, known near Fidesz. Of course, the decree was cleverly created, prepared for unfaithful and neglected mates. In the event of a replacement, the Ministry of Human Resources will issue a new application. There is a legitimate question as to who would be more likely to have a supported vehicle. Dear Secretary of State, Let us not make life even more difficult for people who are already dealing with disadvantages with the obligation of a credit agreement every day. Do you not think that this openly outrageous pass should be removed from the regulation so that eligible people who meet the serious conditions of the competent authority are free to decide on how to purchase the vehicle? I look forward to your substantive answer. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-05-30-44	Secretary Bence Rétvári responds. Here.
u2016-05-30-45	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Indeed, in 2011 the aid scheme changed significantly in order to provide the right holders with substantial support for the purchase of cars in good technical condition. Allow me to explain how the aid has increased. In the case of a new vehicle, more than three times the previous aid, i.e. one million HUF. There's three times the growth here. The purchase of a used vehicle is twice as high as 600 thousand forints, so the product has doubled here. For the conversion of a passenger car, 90 thousand forints can be provided, which also tripled the amount of the previous aid. As a result of the measure, severely disabled persons and persons with other disabilities have access to and access to new, excellent technical condition, low-service and low-cost, environmentally modern vehicles. In the constantly expanding system, all stakeholders will find the best solution for them, helping people with disabilities to live independently, work and train, and thus to successfully integrate them into society. In addition to the significantly increased amount of aid, the State and society have a legitimate expectation that it will be used in a controlled manner under strict conditions. The funding organisation shall conclude an individual financing contract with eligible persons, specifying the monthly instalment, the amount of which shall also depend on the amount of own resources undertaken by the beneficiary and the level of self-force. In the event that there is more self-strengthening for the purchase, a minimum loan of 25 thousand forints is already sufficient to buy a new car. Experience in the operation of the aid scheme shows that the beneficiaries typically need credit when buying a car. In the case of persons with high self-esteem, a minimum amount of credit is not a reasonable burden. In addition to providing funding to eligible entities, their main task is to continuously monitor the state of the vehicle during the duration of the loan and whether the holder is actually using the vehicle. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Thank you very much for your attention. [[Interview in Jobbik's ranks: You didn't answer the question! Zoltán Grumpy: What about Garanchi?]]
u2016-05-30-46	Thank you very much for your discipline. Congresswoman Bernadett Wind, representative of the LMP, would like to ask the Minister of Human Resources, how do they help single parents to work? It's an address. Here you go. [[12.20]]
u2016-05-30-47	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Dear Parliament, Today, for the sake of single-parent families, I will arrange a series of five questions for the Hungarian government. As you may have heard, the previous question was visits, and now I would like to ask the government about the compatibility of work and child care. What I see in this country is that there are very few crèches, there is practical room for 16 percent of the age group in crèches, there is expensive nursery care, there is inflexible opening hours, very little for daycare workers, and very few employers are open to atypical work, that is to say, to fit the special needs of parents in the work. In the case of single parents, I often experience that in order to compensate for the loss in some way - which is due to the fact that there is no other parent next to the child - these women take up extra work, a second job, a third job, in most cases, which makes it really difficult for them to accommodate the child. Therefore, it is a cardinal question for single parents about daycare opening hours and nursery access. Fidesz and KDNP have been ruling for six years, but if we ask whether there has been substantial progress during this time in the spread of low-cost and parental-adjusted day-to-day care and flexible forms of employment, I think that our response must be clearly negative. As I said, only 16 percent of the age group still have a nursery space; the nursery care fee was introduced, which means a loss of up to 10-15 thousand forints per month to the parent; the kindergarten is not open for more than four to five hours; and the flexible forms of employment did not really spread. Yet, one parent often lacks these in order to meet and work alongside their parental responsibility. Dear Secretary of State, Does the government plan to take better account of the special situation of single - parent families when accessing crèches? We suggested that single-parent families get a head start at the daycare entrance, and you refused to do so, saying that this would lead to pretense. I'm asking you, what's your solution then?
u2016-05-30-48	Secretary Bence Rétvári responds.
u2016-05-30-49	Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, You said that 16 percent of the affected age group who goes to daycare center has such a large capacity. Obviously, if you had stood up in Parliament five years ago, you would have said that 12 percent, because then there was only 12 percent of the capacity, this would have increased to 17 percent for children under the age of 3 by 2015 and to 45 thousand places by 2020. So far, in recent years, we have created 6899 new seats, which basically means that we have increased cradle capacity by one fifth, and we would like to carry this forward, with a large amount of money, many, many billion forints, which we use to expand cradle capacity, and so we hope that this 45 thousand-place increase will increase the total number of children that can be placed in the nursery during the day to 60 thousand. With regard to flexibility, you know very well that the law already adopted by Parliament seeks to make nursery care more flexible and easier to use in addition to its former form of care, with a mini-cradle, a family nursery and a nursery at work. In this way, it will be possible for cradles not previously present in small settlements to appear in small settlements, and for parents living there to provide for the child during the day. So we're hoping that it'll be easier for them to reconcile work and family. The reimbursement fee, which you said, is a third of what you said, as there is a fee of 43 percent of the nursery, but there is also a third of the amount you mentioned, about HUF 5800 on average. The success of these measures is also reflected in the record high employment rate of women in Hungary, never more women than they are now. That's 59.1 percent. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2016-05-30-50	Dear Parliament, Congressman László B. Nagy, representative of Fidesz, would like to ask the Foreign Minister of Foreign Affairs and Trade: "Are you directing Szeged from Brussels?" It's an address. Here you go.
u2016-05-30-51	Thank you for the floor. Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, The national consultation questionnaires were completed and returned by one million people, according to which more than 90 percent of voters agreed that the country should be protected and more than 1 million 700 000 supported the government's struggle against the compulsory resettlement quota for irregular migrants. Despite the fact that the population of Szeged rejects migrants in the same proportion, Mayor László Botka is not willing to face reality, but is acting against the declared will of the population, driven by some mysterious motivation. The fact that the General Assembly in Szeged did not allow the pro-government proposals rejecting the compulsory quota and the resettlement of migrants and Martin Schulz's earlier statement made it clear that László Botka could accept the quota system of the European Union and the resettlement of immigrants. We don't know for certain what reason and whose authority he did this, even though we have our suspicions. Of course, it is common for Mayor Botka to ignore the will of the people, since anyone who ignores a petition signed by 7100 citizens of Szeged should not be a particular problem to do so. Unfortunately, there have been many instances of the Szeged government becoming the scene of petty revenge and power struggles. At present, the events surrounding the city's financial and asset management committee bear witness to this. After all this, the Szeged residents must not be afraid that the socialist city administration is installing migrant masses from an uncontrolled background, which do not respect Hungarian laws, because Mayor Botka, as mayor of the city, refuses to answer the question of his position on the compulsory resettlement quota. Dear Secretary of State, Is it possible to run the Szeged General Assembly from Brussels? I'm looking forward to your reply. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2016-05-30-52	State Secretary István Arrowmaker responds. Here you go.
u2016-05-30-53	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear Parliament, The current migrant crisis has confronted the European Union with an unprecedented crisis. This may be the biggest challenge in the history of the European Union, a massive migration that will not end in the foreseeable future, because its supply is inexhaustible. It is hardly the fake problem created by the Hungarian government. The Heads of State or Government of the European Union have already stated that asylum seekers cannot freely choose which Member State they wish to seek asylum in. It has also been stated that it is necessary to ensure that all members of the Schengen area apply the Schengen Borders Code in full again and that migrants should be stopped from being transferred to other EU countries. The inflow of migrants without controls is clearly also a security issue. This has been confirmed by several tragic events in recent years. So it is wrong to say that our job is to help immigrants get to the country they choose. In addition, immigration does not solve demographic problems. The compulsory resettlement quota would rewrite the ethnic, cultural and religious image of Hungary and Europe. The Hungarian Government considers that neither the European Union nor the European leaders nor the European institutions are authorized to do so. So far, European citizens have not been asked whether they want, accept or actually reject the introduction of a compulsory quota, even though it is a matter of serious change in their lives, which also determines the lives of future generations. The referendum is a means of direct democracy. Democracy is one of Europe's greatest values. The European Union is also a pillar of democracy. Thank you. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2016-05-30-54	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Congresswoman Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Minister for National Development:. Why did you have to wait three years to find out that restrictions on reduced travel during the period of class trips cannot be maintained? It's an address. Here you go.
u2016-05-30-55	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, For certain museum visits planned by schools, it is possible to travel by rail free of charge, but rather at reduced prices. Unfortunately, however, there is a spring and autumn period when schools cannot apply for discounts anywhere but for opera house visits only. According to the government's justification, all this is necessary to avoid capacity problems. One of these periods was now on May 1st, which I asked you a question about. The reply of the wallet showed that the government will no longer support the application of the network-level limitation and that the maximum number of seats is limited. It seems there was a point in asking about the problem, but it is also likely that national public uproar played a role. [[12.30]] At the same time, it turned out that the government actually supports not the class trips, but the children, but the MÁV. Therefore, I ask you, Mr Secretary: why did you have to wait three years to find out that the restriction on reduced travel could not be maintained, with which children could not get access to the museum during the most intensive period? What is the reason why the aid for free is not really free? The head of the MÁV received a salary increase of HUF 3 million from 1 January 2016. If we multiply this by 12 months, the head of the MÁV will receive an additional grant of HUF 36 million. Of these, about 9,000 children could be supported annually with an additional discount. Minister of State, when - I will ask you once again - there will be a real free visit to the museum and Parliament for children, when the additional fee for these children is not due to be paid to Budapest or to the other designated settlements. I look forward to your reply, Mr. Secretary.
u2016-05-30-56	Thank you very much. Secretary of State László Tasó responds, please.
u2016-05-30-57	Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and It's shocking how he's trying to hurt 38,000 of the MÁV's employees on some level, somehow messing with them. [[Noise and interruptions in the benches of the MSZP: It's none of your business!]] And you always find a way to do that. At the moment, he found that he confirmed that the Hungarian state was supporting class trips. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély intervenes.]] Wrong, wrong, wrong, wrong, wrong, wrong, wrong, wrong, wrong, wrong, Do not mislead the public, the people, because it does not support it, but in Hungary museum and crown visits are supported by the Hungarian state. So he supports Hungarian students, the children, and does not support a class trip. You should know that, because you have already received these answers in the letter. What is more important, however, is that, in any case, the travel discounts in Hungary are only for a second class car, and they do not apply to a ticket or a spare ticket. You have to know that, so it's written down. There was no other kind of rail discount on any occasion or before. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély and Zoltán Gőgös intervene.]] What is very important is that it is important to pay attention to the fact that there are still many people living with this possibility in Hungary. A hundred thousand people lived with it last year. The Hungarian State gave HUF 400 million in support for free travel. What is important is that from 4 to 13 May, in those few days, this kind of discount was indeed limited, but much more and other discounts were not limited. So any class or group in Hungary had the opportunity to benefit from a different kind of discount. So that's not true, either, what you're actually saying. What is important, however, is that we wanted to expand and extend cultural education by starting the Opera Adventure. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély intervenes.]] Do you know how many people from the country have seen this series of performances, which consists of six performances? For example, 10,000 in 14 and 21 thousand in 15 were already 23 thousand in this month of May. And by the way, that's true, that's 300 cars, by the way, 300 cars, 10 percent of the vehicle stock. Nevertheless, we have considered, we have examined it, and we will not allow MÁV-Start to introduce this restriction in October. Once again, there have been other options ever since. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] discounts. It's got to be taken care of, it's got to be looked around. [[Bangóné Borbély Ildikó: It wasn't limited by MÁV.]] You haven't been contacted by anyone, believe me, just like you did before. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-05-30-58	Thank you very much. Representative of President Novak, Jobbik's representative, would like to ask the Minister of the Interior: "Why can't voluntary firefighters receive benefits such as volunteers? It's an address. Here you go.
u2016-05-30-59	Dear Secretary of State, The early retirement of firefighters and soldiers was also withdrawn in 2012, with retroactive legislation. And their service obligations were taxed at 16 percent. However, he will be exempted from the latter, who will serve as a volunteer reserve military service. Moreover, such soldiers shall be entitled, for the duration of their actual service, to accommodation as defined in the basic salary and ministerial decree, to food and clothing free of charge, as well as to reimbursement of certain social assistance and inter-local travel expenses. Volunteers serving as firefighters are not granted benefits, but they are not exempt from their 16 per cent duty, no matter how much they serve as voluntary firefighters. In fact, they often have to buy their own personal protective equipment from the family register. I am convinced that if the voluntary fire service were to be treated in the same way as the voluntary reserve military service, much more ex-professional firefighters who are currently on duty would undertake the voluntary fire service. Their professional firefighter's past of 20-25 years, their professional experience, would significantly increase the quality of fire fighting and technical rescue activities in voluntary fire brigades. They could also teach courses for various Hungarian and cross-border volunteers from Transylvania, Southern Transylvania and Transcarpathia, as well as by the Hungarian Fire Department. In recent years, I have met several commanders in the capital and rural, voluntary and professional firefighters to find out about their problems. The National Directorate-General for Disaster Protection is also carrying out a register of standby times for voluntary fire brigades, often with a stand-alone right of intervention, which should only be broken down into local organisations, so that the public service of individual voluntary firefighters can be easily detected [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] All that's missing is recognition. Secretary of State, what is the reason for this distinction? I look forward to your substantive response and, above all, the abolition of the double standard. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2016-05-30-60	Secretary Tibor Pogácsás responds, please.
u2016-05-30-61	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear Parliament, The Ministry of Interior and the management of the OKF acknowledge and thank you for the work that voluntary firefighters and firefighters have done. Voluntary fire-fighting associations and rescue organisations shall receive increasing support for their activities related to fire-fighting, technical rescue, youth education and traditional preservation activities and for the financing of accumulation costs, technical, technical and IT developments, and for the educational purposes of the members of voluntary fire-fighters and rescue bodies, increasing support from year to year. In 2013 we were only able to spend 147 million forints for this purpose, until then 600 million forints are available for this purpose in 2016. Part of this resource can be used as a tender for voluntary fire brigades and rescue organisations. However, from the available allocation, the National Directorate-General for Disaster Protection provides specific support to associations which also undertake an autonomous intervention activity. This is also due to the fact that the number of voluntary fire brigades which intervene independently increases year after year. In addition, the Ministry of Interior also protects voluntary firefighters during intervention and training on the basis of a centrally contracted life and accident insurance. However, the fact that voluntary firefighters act as a member of an association in the form of an association, as a member of a civil society organisation, as opposed to the reserve-holders, is not negligible, while reserve-holders are associated with the public body. Those associations which enter into an agreement in cooperation with professional disaster management bodies [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] , they also receive support. This, by the way, allows them to do their volunteer firefighter work. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-05-30-62	Thank you very much. Congresswoman Bernadett Wind, representative of the LMP, would like to ask the Minister of Human Resources: When can parents count on the government for alimony? It's an address. The question will be answered on behalf of the Prime Minister by Mr László Trócsányi, Minister of Justice, who is competent on the subject, Mr Pál Völner, State Secretary. Here you go.
u2016-05-30-63	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, So now I am talking to another ministry for the benefit of single-parent families, and now the issue of maintenance is really going to the Hungarian Parliament. Because I get a lot of letters from single mothers who complain that they simply don't have access to maintenance fees, or that they don't get the amount that their child, their child together, would be entitled to on the basis of the ex-husband's real income. There are, therefore, serious problems both with the setting of alimony on the basis of real income and with the collection of alimony. I would like to advance the fact that the amount of alimony is usually set at 15-25 percent of the average earnings of the debtor in the court. This is a practical scale ranging from 18 to 20 thousand forints to 150,000 forints, but it is common that the father is announced at minimum wage, and then he has to pay the smallest amount, and there really is no correction mechanism in the system to replace the amount due to the mother, but mostly to the child, by paying the consumption of the father. LMP put a bill on the table for that purpose. Fidesz-KDNP was not cooperating. I'm curious to see what you can do about the alimony. I'd like to make two points. On the one hand, state-funded alimony is not a solution, it can already be used after six months. The highest amount can be 14 thousand forints, and it can only be if the per capita income in the family is below 57 thousand forints. It is also necessary to see that a significant part of the family tax relief is lost by the breakup of the family by the parent because there is no one to share it with. [[12.40]] Usually, a parent does not earn enough to validate that, for example, a third child's discount may still be included. In my opinion, it would also be a solution if the alimony allowance could be granted to the caregiver. By the way, I received this suggestion during my question, while speaking in the previous round here in the Hungarian Parliament for the benefit of single-parent families, so families are watching and watching this debate. Therefore, I would like to ask, in particular, Minister or Minister of State, that you answer me directly, whether the Fidesz has any intention of moving forward on the issue of alimony, or if they spread their hands and say that children have to settle for that.
u2016-05-30-64	Mr Pál Völner, State Secretary, responds. Here.
u2016-05-30-65	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, Article XIV of the Fundamental Law Article 2 of the Act states that parents are obliged to take care of their underage children. Under the new civil code, the parent caring for the child provides maintenance in nature, and the parent living separately primarily in money. This is primarily governed by the parents' agreement. In the absence of an agreement, of course, the court decides, so we are talking primarily about judicial powers. In such cases, the performance of the obligor, including not only income relations, but also financial relations, should be considered. Compared to the previous legislation, the law requires that alimony be fixed in a fixed amount and the percentage adapted to income facilitates the determination of that fixed amount. Another novelty of regulation is that it also includes the possibility of automatic adjustment to inflation. In the decision of the Marshal, the court directly calls on the employer to deduct the amount laid down and to pay it to the rightholder, and if the case is brought to the executioner, the child support fee shall precede all other claims in the order, thereby ensuring that the child's needs are met as soon as possible. It is also necessary to take into account, under the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child and the Hungarian legislation in force, that relations with a separate parent are the right of the child, not just that of a separate parent. In order to prevent contact by administrative means, it is therefore necessary to protect the child's right to contact, the failure to pay the child support fee and the failure to implement it, as you have mentioned, to compensate the State by prepayment of an advance on child support. In cases of serious urgency, where neither civil law enforcement nor judicial enforcement results, and the state's advance is not a solution, the ultimate instrument may be criminal prosecution. So the legal framework gives the court a broad framework to resolve this issue. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of Fidesz.]]
u2016-05-30-66	Thank you very much. Congresswoman Márta Demeter, representative of the MSZP, would like to ask the Minister of Defence: 'It is time to help the members of the Honvéd Health Insurance Fund! It's an address. Here you go.
u2016-05-30-67	Thank you. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, For more than a year now, the Hungarian Health Insurance Bank has been stuck with 1.8 billion forints at the DRB Bank owned by the owners of the Buda-Cash Broker House. The disappearance of this amount affected the health insurance savings of over 27,000 soldiers, military, law enforcement and national security workers. In the case, I asked countless interpellations and questions, and at first the Ministry of Defence expressed their willingness to help, but later they were completely shut off. Our initiatives to help injured health insurance members were also rejected in order, without the pro-government majority having come up with any solution. Last year, the Defence Committee led by Lajos Kósa was convinced to present a joint committee amendment to ensure compensation in the debate on the budget, but this year, the Fidesz majority of the committee has already refused to stand up for the members of the health fund in distress. Mr. Secretary. In recent weeks, the Ministry has also experienced that the vast majority of the Hungarian Defence Forces have been involved in this matter. There is now an official document that there is no HUF left of the assets of the DRB Bank in liquidation to repay the health fund payments. In fact, the loss was even credited to individual accounts, so all the cashiers were faced with how many hundred thousand forints of health savings were lost. Mr. Secretary. There's nothing to wait for now. There is no way to expect a return on the damage suffered by the members of the cash register. It is time for the state to finally come to the aid of the people who have sworn to protect the lives and property of Hungarian citizens. This is the minimum that the stock can rightly expect from the Hungarian State to appreciate this service. So I have one question, Mr. Secretary: are you willing to help the injured members of the Honvéd Health Fund or not? If you are willing to help me, I am sure that we will find a way to implement this, but if you do not wish to help me, it would be a very sad message for the stock. I want you to stand up for the army.
u2016-05-30-68	Thank you very much. Tamás Vargha, Secretary of State, responds.
u2016-05-30-69	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and The Honvéd Health Fund was an association operating under the law on voluntary mutual insurance institutions, and thus, although in the name of the company, it was, in reality, a market player similar to the other cashier established for the same purpose. As a result, the Ministry of Defence, as a budgetary body, was not bound to the cashier by any legal relationship of membership. Therefore, only fund members with the same rights in decision-making are entitled to take basic decisions. The largest employer in terms of membership's composition, the Ministry of Defence, had no influence or influence on the material management of the cashier and decision-making. However, I would like to point out that the Ministry of Defence, as the largest employer of its members, has tried to save members' assets within the legislative framework as much as possible for members. Following the economic events affecting the account manager of the Honvéd Health Bank, HM withheld the employer's support and waited until it could transfer the benefit back to the new bank account of the cashier opened at another bank, to the same extent, so the payment was continuous for the members of the defence sector in 2015. However, for 2016 the Ministry of Defence did not enter into any contract with any voluntary health institution, including the Honvéd Health Bank. The amount of the previous allowance will be provided by the Ministry of Defence in another form from 2016 onwards. With due regard to the above, the government is looking for a legitimate solution in which effective assistance can be provided to cashiers who have suffered losses in connection with the Buda-Cash scandal, taking into account the aspects of responsible public finances management. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-05-30-70	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Congresswoman Dóra Dúró, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Minister of Human Resources:. Kamudgrams, Order of the State and the University, which is kft. - What's going on, Sümegen? It's an address. Here you go.
u2016-05-30-71	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, It is expected that the Sümeg Community College will start its operation in autumn, which has been declared a future university, but it is suspected that the John Henry Newman Institute behind it will produce diplomas of questionable value. The partially ruined buildings in Sümeg do not yet show the image of a starting campus. The future university project is backed by a so-called Pro Deo University, maintained by a knight's order, which has previously been the main character of diploma scandals. The mother institution with a rather confusing background has already received nearly HUF 30 million of public money from various MNB foundations for education funding. The developer, Ferenc Kertész-Bakos, who is himself a professor, has neither a degree or a doctorate in Hungary; he has repeatedly made misleading, unjust press statements in this regard, and is currently a member of the Wekerle Sándor Business College. In recent years, the company called the university has tried to set foot in several cities, but before they started training, they were barred from everywhere. Neither the city leadership of Vác nor the general assembly of Kaposvár supported the plans, and Pécs was separated from them by the university. Thus, the suspicious and frivolous higher education initiative was finally adopted by the mayor of the city of Sümeg. Not only about the fake university behind the initial trainings and the corporate background, but also about the funding of the community college in Sümeg, besides the fact that, despite the warning signs, the MNB foundations have boarded with tens of millions. And the future quality of the training is already well suspected by the fact that they recruited teachers on Facebook, and its official advertising text reads: "Do you want a diploma, but do you not get the minimum score? Don't be discouraged, there is a solution. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. On the basis of all this, I ask Mr Secretary of State whether there will indeed be a campaign for training in the Sümeg, organised by the university, which has already been involved in several educational scandals, or if it intends to take action against fraud that destroys the prestige of higher education. I look forward to your substantive answer. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-05-30-72	Thank you very much. Secretary Bence Rétvári responds. Here. [[12.50]]
u2016-05-30-73	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, I feel that, above all, it is worth mentioning a few words about the whole legal structure about what a Community higher education training centre is. [[Dóra Dúró: I know that, don't talk about that.]] This is not an independent university that we are talking about in these cases, but it was part of a higher education objective to have higher education in places where it has not been in Hungary before, to reach smaller settlements if there is a local social need and, above all, a local economic need. That is why we have created the legal possibility of Community higher education training centres - not universities, but such training centres. This is an external organisation that provides two things for training, the location on the one hand, and the different conditions for infrastructure on the other, so it is quasi responsible for external formalities, while training of another university is already accredited elsewhere. They are usually conducted - there are several such successful locations, whether Ozd or Kisvárda - by carrying out surveys among local entrepreneurs about what training is most needed. Larger companies in the area also give scholarships in many places, as they need these professionals, and then a major university, the University of Debrecen or the University of Miskolc, or in this case the Wekerle Sándor Business College, which brings the training already accredited elsewhere, and, where appropriate, this kft., but this could be the local government or other institution, add the hall, the location, the infrastructure, and another place accredited training provides the content that fits the requirements of the local society, the local economy. This has not been the case here either, with the help of this company, the training already accredited by the Hungarian Accreditation Committee for Higher Education was designed and planned by the Wekerle Sándor Business College. Thank you very much.
u2016-05-30-74	Dear Parliament, Congresswoman Bernadett Wind, representative of the LMP, wishes to ask the Minister of Human Resources: "Why are they not willing to reduce the burden on single-parent families? It's an address. Here you go.
u2016-05-30-75	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, I would like to state that whatever the Orbán government thinks of families or desirable family form, to be a single parent or to be a single parent, in the rarest case possible, is a chosen way of life. Typically, we are talking about a situation in which people are involved, in many cases because of an emergency situation. We're talking about 87 percent women, mothers raising their children alone. Earlier, I asked questions about visitation, access to children's institutions, alimony, and I would like to talk specifically about the burdens of single - parent families, and why the government is not giving any more help to these predominantly mothers. During the previous questions - this fourth member of my series - I have experienced very little cooperation from the government, even though I think that with this negative attitude, the government is turning its back on a large proportion of families. What we see is that more and more families are in a situation where one parent raises his child alone, and we can practically say now that every fifth family in Hungary is in such a situation. I stress that in these families, there is a burden on two shoulders that would be scaled to four. The loss of a earner is a huge cut to the family, so it is not surprising that most single - parent families have financial problems, their poverty rate is twice the average, almost one in three of them lives below the poverty line. However, they barely receive any additional benefits, the family allowance is minimal, the difference is 1500 HUF compared to two-hundred families, and this amount is now no longer rising in the ninth year. Last time the government voted off the LMP proposal for family allowance and child increase, the extra support for subjective rights will be abused by the Hungarian people, and on paper they will divorce well. I think it's a complete bullshit on the part of the government. But if that's how you feel about voters, I'm truly sorry, but you can't get away with saying that you have to help single-parent families. I just told you, you have to see that if the family breaks apart, for example, you will lose a significant part of the family tax relief. The solution would be to give the care parent a tax allowance on alimony. What is your position on this? What are you gonna do?
u2016-05-30-76	Thank you very much. For a change, Secretary of State Rétvári will respond. Here you go.
u2016-05-30-77	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, First of all, you are commenting on our earlier comments here today, but you are not commenting on it at all, and you are not commenting on it as we have said. The government strives to provide family support to all children equally and to the greatest extent possible, no matter how much they live or live. The scale of these has risen in the last few years - this has been mentioned here today - by 42.7 percent, that it does not believe that you can show another European country, or perhaps not in the world, but I do not think that it can show much in Europe, where the rate of family support has increased by this magnitude, 42.7 percent in six years, as in Hungary. It will also be difficult to find one or two other countries in the OECD countries that spend this amount on family support, since the OECD average, as we have already said, is around 3-3.5 percent, while next year's budget will provide 4.7 percent for family support. So by far above the average, the Hungarian budget, the Hungarian government, devotes resources to supporting families. And when it comes to family support, we start with the child, because after the child we give all these benefits, these subsidies. You said that families with single parents often live under more difficult financial conditions, which is lifelike, and obviously so. Therefore, when we extended the possibility of family-type taxation to contributions, this could, in particular, have been a step forward for single-parent families mentioned by you, or not most of all, but to a greater extent, because of the lower per capita income, there was much greater progress for them. But in the case of the Labour Code, I could also give you a number of examples of where and how you can help those who are raising their children alone until the child is three or four years old or later. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-05-30-78	Member László Teleki, representative of the MSZP, would like to ask the Minister of Human Resources: in Zala and elsewhere in the country, why are funds spent on training Roma people? It's an address. Here you go.
u2016-05-30-79	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, Perhaps I could continue my question before the agenda, as the question has been raised, based on the press news published in the last few weeks, that the financial spending around the Türr István Institute of Education and Research has not been the most appropriate in recent years. I'm saying this because, as you can hear in the news, the research institute bought two hotels for HUF 500 million for a total of 340 million more than these properties are actually worth on paper. One of these properties is the Bortó Pension in Fezombor, which was purchased last December by the Türr István Institute for 112 million HUF. The company from which it was purchased valued its property to HUF 32 million. However, the state institution paid at least HUF 80 million more. In Zala county, Zalaszentlászló, the situation is similar with Birdsong Hotel, only different rates. The Türr István Institute therefore paid 388 million HUF, although the company had only 129 million HUF worth of real estate on paper. So István Türr also paid more here by at least 259 million forints. I would like to ask the Secretary of State that the programmes that I have said before the agenda, or in order to achieve objectives, might be better spent on it, but it could be mentioned that in Zala, South Zala, where, by the way, there are very large numbers of people living underprivileged, training, retraining and adult training are completely behind schedule. The question is why the resources that the European Union or the Hungarian State spends on similar things as those that I have listed are being wasted on hotel purchases, and why it does not spend it on such good goals where integration, vocational training and the existence of programmes could be a much more important positive sign. That is why I ask the Secretary of State whether they want to continue to spend this money, to waste it. Thank you very much.
u2016-05-30-80	Thank you very much. Secretary Retvári responds. Before I give the floor, I'll hand over the chair to Vice President Latorcai. Thank you very much for your cooperation. [[Dr. János Latorcai, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]]
u2016-05-30-81	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, As an adult and methodological background institution of the Ministry of Human Resources, the Türr István Training and Research Institute primarily deals with complex social development. It mainly helps disadvantaged people, job seekers, low school graduates, minorities, people living in extreme poverty and people with disabilities in the EU and our domestic-funded projects and programmes in the field of social inclusion, the elimination of extreme poverty and the creation of equal opportunities. Since 2011, this means 110,000 people in need and their families, and they have been reached by the Türr István Training and Research Institute. [[13.00]] According to last year's end data, a total of 69 847 public employees were trained. The social sensitivity of the Institute is indicated by the fact that it provided study support for 32 338 persons between 2012 and 2015 in order not to be deprived of participants and their families during the course of training. To this end, the Institute has paid nearly HUF 5 billion. The rate of successful completion of TKKI training is almost 90 percent, which is an outstanding result compared to market participants. The aim of the purchase of the property mentioned by the Member is to inform the TKKI of the establishment of residential training places in order to improve the efficiency of the training and catching-up programmes organised by the TKKI. These new sites will facilitate the effective implementation of the TKKI's current accredited and, in the future, TKKI's long-term training to be launched by its successor, by addressing key players in an intensive way at one place and at the same time. During the search for new implementation sites, real estate, buildings and building ensembles have been researched to provide an opportunity for people living in the most disadvantaged small areas as a theoretical and practical location for so-called residential practical training. From the point of view of timing, it was important to see real estate that could be used almost immediately or after a small transformation for groups of 30 to 40 or 60 persons. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-05-30-82	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Congressman Gergely Farkas, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Minister of Human Resources: The continuing education of thousands of young people is impossible by skyrocketing sublet prices. When will steps be taken to expand and improve college seats? It's an address. Congressman Gergely Farkas has the floor.
u2016-05-30-83	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, Among other things, Hungarian higher education is characterised by uncertainty, priceless, unrealistically expensive self-costing courses, and scholarships that have not been raised for ten years. In addition, every year, the lack of college seats and the low quality of some colleges are becoming an increasing problem. It is common not only in the capital but also in rural university cities that the number of applicants for college seats is significantly higher than the capacity. One of HÖOK's research confirms the overload of the dorm housing system. Last year, the over-subscription rate was on average 143 percent, and nearly 65 percent of the colleges surveyed were over-subscribed. According to Jobbik, the solution to the problem will not be delayed. It is necessary to review the situation of colleges as soon as possible and to increase capacity. This is particularly important given the current situation on the real estate market, since analyses also show an explosive increase in the prices of rents that may be considered as an alternative to colleges. The issue of housing is an important factor for student costs. Therefore, a significant proportion of higher education applicants are becoming risky in their further education. HÖOK's analysis also showed that co-workers can provide housing for nearly a third of those who live in apartments. This positive opportunity greatly contributes to the positive image of the subjective material well-being of college students. Nearly 35 percent of colleges do not oversubscribe. The other problem can be traced from here. These dorms are generally so broken that they are not a realistic competitor to more expensive housing solutions. We are also aware of a number of colleges that have to be closed recently because of the almost demoralized state of affairs, and it is also a talkative fact that in recent years there has been no financial expenditure in any of the areas of more than half of the colleges. Dear Secretary of State, I ask you when steps are being taken to expand dormitory seats and improve their quality. I look forward to your substantive answer. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-05-30-84	Thank you very much, Congressman. The answer will be given by Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2016-05-30-85	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, You are aware that there are a number of laws on the internal design and quality of colleges, especially those relating to 87/2015. a government decree setting out the basic conditions to be met by colleges of 35 per cent you mentioned, and it is the duty of higher education institutions to create these basic conditions. However, the State is obviously looking at the existence of these basic conditions through the Education Office, and every time the operating licence is reviewed, from time to time, it will look at them, and if these mandatory minimum basic conditions cannot be verified by an institution, a deadline is set for how long it has to comply with these basic conditions. As far as the first half of your question is concerned, the level of state aid and capacity, 51/2007 on student allowances and certain reimbursements they pay. certain sections of the government decree include state aid, the basic services of the college, the maximum amount of the fee, i.e. the maximum and the classification by level of comfort. In 2015, we provided dorm support for HUF 116 500/10 per person in the budget of higher education and HUF 4 billion 265 million for public and non-state higher education institutions. We provided housing support, which is HUF 60,000/10 months for a student, HUF 4 billion 672.5 million, while HUF 273.6 million for a student's home. This is a total of HUF 9 billion of HUF 211 million, which we provided in the institution's budget for dormitory grants. In addition, a 404-person extension is currently under way at the University of Óbuda in Budapest, and two ELTE colleges are renewed from 700 and 900 million HUF, so the number of the Nagytététényi travel college can rise to 890 people, with bathrooms in each room. Thank you very much.
u2016-05-30-86	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Congresswoman Bernadett Szél, representative of the LMP, wishes to ask the Minister of Human Resources:. Why do the benefits for large families not also apply to single-parent families? It's an address. Congresswoman Bernadett Wind has the floor. Here you go.
u2016-05-30-87	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, I am standing here in the interests of 800,000 children in the Hungarian Parliament, and I have now made several suggestions to the Hungarian Government on how to improve the situation of children in single-parent families. I've experienced little cooperation. But here, as my fifth speech, I would like to put a very specific proposal on the table. In particular, I see that Hungarian families have two particularly vulnerable segments, one of which is the circle of large families and the other is the circle of single parents. What I see is that for large families, quite rightly, the government grants subsidies. I ask you, if the situation of single - parent families is very similar, there is a very high risk of poverty, there is a very high risk of depression, then why don't you give these subsidies to single - parent families as well. I would like to remind you that, in most cases, single parents would not be able to get a well-paying job if they wanted to, because in today's Hungary there are few well-paying jobs where working hours last from 8:00 to 4:00, where they let go if the parent stays home more often with the sick child and is flexible even when it comes to school breaks. The tasks of one person limit the opportunities for work and earnings. The government claims that the income-bound benefits better serve the principle that only those in need really receive greater support. However, I would like to remind you that this principle is waived in the case of three or more children, because there, regardless of the need, they are subject to preferential school meals, free textbook supply and are strongly supported by the government through family tax incentives or CSOK. It's all right. All I'm asking you to do is give the same to single parents, give them free textbook care and discount school meals. I think that we are talking about two highly vulnerable groups, with a very high risk of poverty. If one doesn't have to prove they need it, the other doesn't have to. What is the position of Fidesz-KDNP?
u2016-05-30-88	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. The answer will be given by Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2016-05-30-89	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, You've tried it several times here today, but I think relatively few people think that you're confronting big families with small families, confronting single-parent families with multiparent families. For the government, it doesn't matter what kind of composition it is for the family, we support the child. For the child, it makes no difference that he is raised by one or more parents, has a brother, has no siblings. If the per capita income in the family is less than 130 per cent of the net value of the minimum wage, then there will be free nursery meals, there will be free preschool meals. [[13.10]] It doesn't matter how many siblings one has, how many of his parents are involved in his education or how many of his parents aren't, the textbook is also free of charge in lower school, and in the fifth grade and later next year. We are starting from children, the child is the most important thing for us, we are giving support for children, and please, Congresswoman, do not try to confront anyone. In recent years, our measures, which, as I have said, have driven child subsidies into the top of Europe in proportion to GDP, are the same for single-parent children as for multiparent, two-parent children. Why would we make any such difference, and why should we base what you say we are not doing, on what you say would be any support that is not due to single - parent children, but to two - parent children? For each benefit, the child, the child, the family tax allowance, the family tax allowance is extended, for the purposes of working hours, the Labour Code also provides the single parents with additional guarantees, and they also had a discount that the child lasts three years, not only two years, that after several children the benefits can be used extra, that after six months in addition to the care of children [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] parents can also work - all of them help. However, for single parents, regular child protection benefits are more favourable than for multiparents. So, honourable Member, I think we should be glad that support for both single-parent and multi-parent children can increase several times. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-05-30-90	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Mr István Tukacs, representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Minister of Human Resources a question about the situation of GPs without a territorial obligation. Congressman Tukacs has the floor. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-05-30-91	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, I would like to ask you, in the case of those in a very special situation, who are the non-reciprocal general practitioners, who differ from their colleagues to the extent that there is no specific area on which or from which they are required to receive their supplies. These people aren't many, but their practices receive a variety of patients, from 800 to 1500, almost anything can happen until 2000. For some reason, they're being treated step-by-step by the current health government. I have already initiated negotiations on a salad law once in their case, but I have failed to draw attention to their problems. Their problem is: their funding has been stable and immeasurably low for a long, long time. The actors, i.e. non-reciprocal GPs, initiated a consultation with the wallet when they realized that they would also be underfunded in a forthcoming government decree. These negotiations, in their view, were carried out on a very professional and very encouraging basis. There were oral agreements on how, in addition to their basic support, the number of patients, i.e. the size of their practice, would receive more support in lanes, and on a number of issues they seem to have reached agreements. However, it turns out that it will not, and in this particular government regulation, their funding has hardly changed. So the wallet proved to be unbelievable, Mr. Secretary of State. So I ask you, why are these stepdaughters the same as others? Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President.
u2016-05-30-92	Thank you very much, Congressman. The answer will be given by Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2016-05-30-93	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, From 2010 onwards, the government will continuously increase the financing of the basic supply, as is apparent from budgetary law. Between 2010 and 2016, the amount paid from the health fund for basic care increased by 40 percent, and the 2017 draft budget will add HUF 4.5 billion to the area. Last year, according to our promise, we provided HUF 10 billion for the first phase of the renewal of the general medical care system, which was also included in the funding. As a follow-up to this year's budget, an additional HUF 10 billion will be provided for the second phase of the renewal of the basic supply, as expected. This year, according to the draft mentioned by the Member, we will increase the annual funding of each general medical practice by an average of HUF 900 thousand, which means another 6.1 percent increase, but the available amount will also be available to other participants in the basic care, so the HUF 2 billion additional funding for the patrons represents a 10.2 percent improvement, and we plan to provide HUF 100 million extra funding for the full-time medical care, which represents a 6.2 percent increase, and the HUF 2 billion surplus for dental care corresponds to a HUF 7.7 percent increase in the remuneration. The situation of these providers without territorial supply obligations has already been settled in the basic health care legislation adopted last year, thus allowing additional remuneration for these practices and according to the draft, this amount will also increase. This proposal is a necessary step towards achieving one of the objectives of the Healthy Hungary 2014-2020 strategy, which has been named in the Government Decision, in order to provide our physicians with modern information on the health of the population. We want to modernise the current health documentation structure, and one part of this year's additional funding will also reward the activities of GPs. This is called performance-based or indicator-based remuneration, which is a more complex element of financing. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-05-30-94	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Dear fellow Members, Congressman István Szávay, representative of Jobbik, wishes to ask the Minister of Human Resources: When will the field trips really be free? It's an address. Congressman István Szávay has the floor. Here you go.
u2016-05-30-95	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, Dear House, In the context of the real national consultation announced by Jobbik at the beginning of the year, I met with the leaders of public education institutions in Bács-Kiskun County at the end of April. In addition to a number of other topics, it was also suggested that the external class trips of the Unlimited Programme announced by government propaganda actually cost the Hungarian families tens of thousands. In the Kunfehértó Elementary School, for example, 15 thousand, while in Kiskunhalas, in my former alma mater, Bibó István High School, they are forced to ask for 21 thousand for tickets, meals and travel insurance from each student. These items cannot currently be accounted for by the Human Resources Support Manager. The head of the institution also confirmed that this item matters to many families, and therefore many poor children are left out of the program, unable to take advantage of it. The excursions originally proposed by Jobbik would aim, among other things, to allow Hungarian students to visit foreign Hungarian monuments and cultural institutions, which is why it is incomprehensible that EMET does not support these items, so for example the parents of the children have to pay tickets to the Székely museum in Sepsiszentgyörgy, King Mátyás's birthplace in Cluj-Napoca or the munkács castle. That is why I propose once again to the Secretary of State that, for the round of applications closed this year, the EMET should issue an additional tender for admission fees, meals and travel insurance, and that schools which have already received support for this cycle should be allowed to start. The financial framework would be able to do so, since last year the framework could not be completed, but it was raised from 1.2 to 2 billion HUF. Jobbik therefore continues to insist that free class trips are indeed free for families, especially with resources for this. On this basis, I ask the Secretary of State why the free class trips are not really free, and whether the government is planning to reimburse the costs of entry, food and travel insurance during the Unlimited Programme in order to reduce the burden on families and to make this possible for poor children. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-05-30-96	Thank you very much, Congressman. The answer will be given by Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2016-05-30-97	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, The Hungarian government spends significant amounts of money each year to ensure that every seventh grader reaches the Hungarian community across the border, there he can get to know the lives of the Hungarians who live there, and these are huge amounts. If you look at it, this year there were 776 applicants for the seventh grade excursions, and they received a total of HUF 903 million in funding, if I look at the applications of vocational schools, there were 97 supported applications worth HUF 215 million, in 59 cases we spent HUF 269 million to support the limitless programme of high schools, and in 32 cases HUF 53 million to participants in the Transcarpathian action programme. The date of these support decisions was 25 March 2016, and the contracts were started, and most of them have already been made, and there is only a small part left. Our goal is to ensure that as many people get there, we are going according to uniform funding principles. [[13.20]] Obviously, there are communities who decide to put in a variety of programs, some who give less, we give support to all of this. How they can come out of this support is, of course, constantly important to us in relation to feedback. If we receive such feedback to a large extent, which Mr President has said, we will obviously take these into account in next year's announcements, but overall we have given the same amount to everyone for the same type of programme, and as you have seen, it is billions of forints that we spend each year to fund these excursions. There are places where excursions come out completely free, but if there are such additional needs, of course, as the goal is common in my view, we all want to have the satisfaction of returning both teachers, students and communities who have been visited across the border [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Or with whom relationships have been established, we are happy to have all the improved intentions. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-05-30-98	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Congressman Lajos Rig, representative of Jobbik, would you like to ask the Minister of Human Resources a question:, Another hasty step on the part of the Government? It's an address. Congressman Lajos Rig has the floor, please.
u2016-05-30-99	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, It has already been said today on behalf of the socialists that the transfer of active beds within the institutional system, and I would now like to ask Mr Secretary of State about chronic beds. Both professional organisations, elderly patients and nurses fear the outsourcing of chronic and nursing beds. The government has not agreed with the actors involved, and now everyone is afraid that the patients and workers will have to deal with premature restructuring and regulation. Since we do not know much about the specifics yet, the situation is completely uncertain. The draft does not seem to be well-founded, since there have been no substantive professional impact assessments in hospitals, which would justify restructuring. For example, the current social system is not prepared for such a restructuring, since both professional and organisational conditions are lacking. It is true that in most of the chronic beds and nursing beds there is only a care process, but what about those and what will happen to patients who need complex hospital care? They are likely to be burdened with active care and active beds, and in many cases death will result, and relatives can start lawsuits. One more question arises in cases where these institutions are required to provide territorial care, they can take an elderly patient from home, and patients who leave hospitals, active beds, cannot use these nursing homes, and I repeat once again, are severely affected by active care. So I ask the Government or the Secretary of State how these possible problems would be avoided by the draft that has come up. I'm looking forward to your reply. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-05-30-100	Thank you very much, Congressman. Secretary Bence Rétvári responds. Here you go.
u2016-05-30-101	Thank you very much. If you allow me to make a comment before answering the question, it was a little interesting to note that the socialists had already asked me about active care, so I will be talking about chronic care - as if they were sharing it with each other, giving me a feeling. [[Lajos Rig:...because there are few of both.]] But let us be serious, because this is a very important issue that has been calling for a solution for decades, the issue of chronic beds, not by outsourcing, as the Member said, but by restructuring, precisely so that those who need to receive social care rather than hospital treatment, should not be in the long-term, but in the social care system. We believe that this is beneficial for everyone, especially those who are provided, because they receive a care that they really need, not only in the narrow medical sense, but also in all other complex care that the social sphere can provide, because there it is more important to pay attention to other aspects of care, whether physical or spiritual, but, of course, those who need medical intervention or supervision at all times, but those who do not need it acutely, we think that in the same way as in every other Western European country, it would be best and best to stay in the social care system if they were cared for there. It is therefore a multi-stage, continuous transition that we are about to take the first step. Obviously, this has already been discussed with hospital leaders within the social sphere, in professional circles, and I can already say that months ago we discussed this issue with health and social leaders at a fully public conference. This is progressing continuously, and the first phase can obviously be achieved within a year, but then we will build on the principle of gradualness, but of course, whoever is now lying on a free bed does not have to pay a fee, and no one can reduce their salary. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] when transferred from one institution to another as a public servant as an employee. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-05-30-102	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Congressman Gergely Kulcsár, representative of Jobbik, would like to ask the Minister of Defence: When will we finally have combat and transport helicopters? It's an address. Congressman Gergely Kulcsár has the floor. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-05-30-103	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Minister for Defence Csaba Hende also held talks in May 2013 on the purchase of new transport helicopters and rigid wing transport machines with political parties. At the meeting, there was an absolute consensus that there was a need to purchase helicopters. Prior to the settlement, he said that the helicopter procurement was to be announced so that the new government that took office after the elections could decide which offer to accept at the end of 2014. Nothing happened compared to that. The tender for the purchase of flights was canceled in the summer of 2013, while the helicopter tender has not been heard much since. Instead, Soviet Mi-8 transport helicopters, which had aged a few days before the elections, were purchased for nearly HUF 3 billion, without public procurement, with the total exclusion of the public, under a special procurement procedure. But the renewal of the helicopter fleet is absolutely necessary. It is enough to think of the migrant crisis, which, unfortunately, has not yet been completed, namely, the protection of the country requires the acquisition of new modern helicopters, and we have not yet talked about the needs of police and ambulances. In August 2015, we could hope again, since according to János Lázár's announcement, the helicopter fleet of police, rescue and defence could be renewed in 2016. At the beginning of this year, an interesting fact occurred, and the coordination of the planned procurement from the Ministry of Defence fell under the responsibility of the Prime Minister's Office. Unfortunately, there is no cover for helicopter procurement in the 2017 budget and there is no sign of the tender notice, even though Csaba Hende mentioned a source of HUF 172 billion at the time. Dear Secretary of State, When will the promised helicopter acquisition, which is essential for the protection of the country, be launched? Will there be a public tender tender with real competition for the fastest and most economical possible solution? Or is the tender notice still taking place in this cycle, and why did the Prime Minister's Office have a case for basically military procurement? I look forward to your substantive answer. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-05-30-104	Thank you very much, Congressman. The answer will be given by Secretary of State Tamás Vargha.
u2016-05-30-105	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, The only response to the problem of the Hungarian Army's helicopter capability over government cycles was the current and the previous government, which in itself is the same. In this context, it has developed the concept of an instrument army, which is an essential foundation for skills development, with government approval. At national level, too, this development has a significant resource requirement, which can be ensured in a multi-annual timetable without prejudice to also priority developments in other sectors of public finances. In 2015, the government took a decision in principle to support the development of helicopter capabilities. Technical and technical requirements have been defined. For our country, the most economically and technically advantageous capacity development structure requires a very careful examination and consideration by the relevant fields, which are currently underway. As soon as the programme reaches a new decision point, the government will inform the stakeholders accordingly. I would like to add that the conditions provided until the new instruments were put in order, so that the existing instruments of the Hungarian Defence Forces could be used. In conclusion, in the long term, the development of a multi-pillar helicopter capacity that combines the technical possibilities of the era and the burden-bearing capacity of the national economy, for which the defence portfolio is making serious efforts, and behind which it is able to support the government, in addition to the agreement of the parliamentary parties in principle. Pending completion, the implementation of the tasks can be ensured by the existing instruments and resources. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]] [[13.30]]
u2016-05-30-106	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Congressman Zsolt Egyed, representative of Jobbik, would like to ask the Prime Minister's Minister of the Prime Minister's Office a question about the failure to account? It's an address. Congressman Zsolt has the floor. Here you go.
u2016-05-30-107	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, The Habony works have begun to troll over the process of popularism of Jobbik - as the strongest opposition party - called it a party face. By staying in this analogy, we could also say that one of Fidesz's main 2010 election promises, in relation to political accountability, has become either powerless or accomplice. Existing government commissioners responsible for accountability between 2010 and 12 were unable to produce any meaningful results. It is true that more than a thousand cases have been dealt with, but in the end, there has been no results beyond one or two ridiculous judgments. Why is that, Mr. Secretary? What's the problem? The police aren't on top of the situation or the D.A.'s office, maybe the court doesn't want to convict the perpetrators? Ferenc Gyurcsány has not been able to press charges for the exchange of land in Sukoro, which is explained by the prosecutor's office on a ridiculous basis; I quote: "Although there is a valid suspicion of the crime of misdemeanor in Ferenc Gyurcsány, it was not possible to clearly prove the role of the former Prime Minister in the decision on the exchange, as well as the purpose of the procedure. Miklós Hagyó is still out there with a ridiculous two-year suspension, Ferenc Juhász, former Minister of Defence of MSZP. Bábolna Zrt. And Gyula Budai came out of the checks on the money flows between the National Ménes estates with a fine of HUF 1 million. What happened to the election software case, the Daimler-Volánbus scandal, the case of the MTV headquarters, the Postapolota, the sale of Budapest Airport and Malév, the offshore companies of corporate leaders, the severance of state leaders, the falsification of budget figures? Dear Secretary of State, What should the Hungarian citizen think about in view of the results presented equal to zero? The government can't keep its election promise, or you're in line, and you're hand-in-hand stealing national assets with people you want accounted for at rhetorical level. Please answer the questions I have raised because they have been indebted to you for years. I look forward to your substantive answer. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2016-05-30-108	Thank you very much, Congressman. The answer will be heard from Secretary of State Zoltán Kovács. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2016-05-30-109	Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Dear Parliament, We can all conclude that the executive power is independent of justice in all democracies. So what you're asking me is, I can answer that there is a certain government responsibility, and that is independent of justice. What you spoke about in your speech was a significant part of the judicial part. The government took accountability seriously, the means at its disposal. The Government Audit Office conducted 56 investigations into cases of economic abuse of socialist-free democrat governments between 2002 and 2010 and filed 115 complaints. The investigation was ordered in 113 cases. Mr President, part of the case has been the end of investigations against which Kehi filed a complaint. On these matters, your party partner, Gábor Staudt, requested all the documents, so talk to each other, and you will obviously have full information. What you have said has been the subject of 110 investigations by this office in the case of the Office of Accountancy and Anti-Corruption Government Commissioner, also for this period 2002-2010. He did this in two years, between 10 and 12 years. Out of 110 trials, 61 were prosecuted, 39 were prosecuted. Let me mention some cases: Former Secretary of State, Philip Benedek, has been convicted by the Heves County Court of Justice, Ferenc Juhász, Miklós Tátrai was sentenced to four years by the court, Gyula Vári and Zsuzsa Kárpáti MSZP representatives in the case of health stock management, Pál Szabó in connection with the sale of Postapalota, and I might add. So I think what you're suggesting here is not true. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2016-05-30-110	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm in trouble because I got a piece of paper, but it's not signed for a half-hour break. Who on behalf of the Fidesz Group is presenting this? [[No one's reporting. Defiance.]] Sorry, I was wrong. The government wants it. So I'm ordering a half-hour break. Thank you very much. [[Break: 13.34 14.00President: Dr. János Latorcai Recorders: Dr. István Tiba and Ádám Mirkóczki]]
u2016-05-30-111	Ladies and gentlemen, We'll continue our work. We'll be right back in time for immediate questioning. Member Gergely Bárándy, representative of the MSZP, wants to ask the President of the National Bank of Hungary an immediate question:. Mr President has appointed Vice-President Márton Nagy for his response in view of the urgent public task. I respectfully ask the Member whether he accepts the person who is responding or waits for the President to be present. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-05-30-112	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. I want the man who stole the money to give me an answer, so I'd wait for György Matolcsy. Thank you very much.
u2016-05-30-113	Mr President will have to answer at the hour of the second immediate question. Congressman Zoltán Gőgös, representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Minister of Agriculture an immediate question: "How long will you protect and support fraudsters, Minister? It's an address. The Minister has appointed Mr István Nagy State Secretary to respond to an urgent public task. I respectfully ask, Congressman, whether you will accept the person who is responding. [[For signal:]] Congressman indicates that he accepts the person to whom he is responding. Congressman Zoltán Haughty has the floor. Here you go.
u2016-05-30-114	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, On Thursday, I took another tour of the Hortobágy. Now it's the end of May, so I should have found a lot of sheep and cattle. Instead, I found pastures of more than 400 hectares that had not met animals or pasture animals for about three years since the competition was criticized. Farmers in Berettyóújfalu, Váncsód, Fölkpeterd and Kőrösségpád have the right to suggest that, while there are thousands of livestock with very, very few pastures, how long can this be allowed, how long can it be tolerated that applicants ignore their commitments in the tender. How long can it be tolerated that this is going to go to such a level that it is actually damage to nature, because these areas are clearly assigned to grazing livestock. I showed the Kehi investigation to Mr. Secretary of State the other day, and I gave it to him, and it is clearly stated that these keepers did not have any animals at the time of the application, but since then the period for which they were supposed to provide it has passed a long time ago. The other one is such a problem, which is ferocious about land leases, and that's Mezőhegyes. There has been an amendment to Minister Lázár's bill, according to which the President of Fidesz of Mezőhegyes, who risked approximately 300 thousand forints in wages, which is 55 hectares, would now receive HUF 8.2 million in compensation. I don't think that's normal. It is good that you are here, Minister, and at least he is considering the grounds for giving such compensation to people who have not yet taken possession of it, and then they would not take possession until January. They don't have any damage there other than what they've paid for grief money and deposit fees, so far it hasn't occurred, if it's done, maximum interest costs. What is the reason for this tenfold compensation? I would also like an answer from the Secretary of State. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2016-05-30-115	Thank you very much, Congressman. The answer will be given by Secretary of State István Nagy. Here you go.
u2016-05-30-116	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear fellow Member, I understand your political intentions, when you have again upset the long-term closed case in which neither the Hortobágy National Park Directorate nor the Ministry nor the Government can be charged at any level, since Kehi's report of many years ago revealed only minor problems on the part of the applicants. The recommendations for the lease application scheme were taken into account without exception in our portfolio and the tender procedure was redesigned, but already in 2014. We have also informed you of this in all possible ways with the fullest involvement of the public. Let us see how many people could rent land on Hortobágy during the governance of the MSZP. How were the tenants chosen? Public tender? Did you allocate the Hortobágy pastures by providing equal opportunities for applicants? How many times in your time have these areas been checked? The Hortobágy National Park Directorate checks the contractual use on a scheduled and regular basis, as required by law. The congressman can't even give us a concrete case; it's always around something where he sees maladministration and once again makes vague references. The total number of audits carried out by the Management Board in 2015, i.e. overall, post- and target numbers were 456. For this 456 piece, do you say, Congressman, that you're not being checked by the board? Most lease contracts did not find the problem; the tenant's commitments were in order; and where minor deficiencies were discovered, the tenants replaced them for a request. Thank you very much. We'll keep going. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2016-05-30-117	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. For a moment, Congressman Zoltán Gőgös has the floor. Here you go.
u2016-05-30-118	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. One thing is certain that local farmers who have been grazing for decades without state aid or EU aid have never complained that they have not received pasture. Now we know of 60 families who are native, old farmers in these settlements, and currently do not have any state pasture, but have birch-egyháza panel dwellers, Budapesters, Debrecens, everyone has, except those who are real keepers. By the way, in order to clarify, road 42, the part between the Berettyóújfalu-Mezőpeterd, on the right hand, you don't have to come off the main road, Mr. Secretary, so you don't even have to damage the car who wants to check, I simply - if you're curious, I can give it to you - there's a two-metre spiker on the pasture where there should be grazing livestock. And you didn't answer my other question, why, say, give compensation 40-50 times to someone who, for example, didn't suffer any damage to a lease. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2016-05-30-119	Thank you very much, Congressman. István Nagy, State Secretary, will take the floor for a moment. Here you go.
u2016-05-30-120	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear fellow Member, Let's make a deal. I'd like to make you an offer if you define specifically which areas you're dealing with. [[Zoltán Grimlock: I just told you!]] I'll have each of them examined piece by piece, and the results will be made available to you. We would do a great deal for both the public mood and the common good by talking about specifics, because there is only a myth around it, a bad-tasting legend, instead of talking about it with the specifics examined, and we would be able to hold those responsible, if there is, responsible, and reassure you not to have to talk about these issues here. During the 2016 grazing period, the nature conservation guard of the board plans to carry out 215 scheduled inspections, of which the Bihari plain, which you mentioned, was affected by 56 inspections. I hope that the thoroughness of the controls [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] You will reassure my dear fellow Member. Thank you very much.
u2016-05-30-121	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Congressman János Volner, representative of Jobbik, would like to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question:, who is Árpád Habony? It's an address. The Prime Minister appointed Mr János Lázár, Minister of the Prime Minister's Office, as a response to the urgent public task. I respectfully ask the Member whether he accepts the person who is responding, or whether he is asking Prime Minister Viktor Orbán himself for an answer.
u2016-05-30-122	Mr. President. I'd like to wait for the Prime Minister. Thank you very much.
u2016-05-30-123	Thank you very much, Congressman. Congressman György Szilágyi, representative of Jobbik, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: "How long will you share with the Fidesz politicians?" It's an address. The Prime Minister appointed Mr János Lázár, Minister of the Prime Minister's Office, as a response to the urgent public task. I respectfully ask the Member whether he accepts the person of the response or waits for the Prime Minister to be present.
u2016-05-30-124	Mr. President. Since you may be involved in this room, but I would like to ask Viktor Orbán, I would like to wait for Mr Orbán to answer the question. Thank you very much.
u2016-05-30-125	Thank you very much, Congressman. The Prime Minister will have to answer in the next second hour of immediate questions. President Novak, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: why did Zoltán Illés tell Zoltán that environmental protection is left-wing issue, the issue of rich countries, hinders economic development, we cannot spend on this? It's an address. [[14.10]] The Prime Minister appointed Mr János Lázár, Minister of the Prime Minister's Office, to respond to his urgent public task. I respectfully ask the Member whether he accepts the person who is responding or waits for the Prime Minister to be present.
u2016-05-30-126	Thank you, Mr. President. I'll wait.
u2016-05-30-127	Thank you very much. The Prime Minister must respond at the hour of the second immediate question. Congressman István Apáti, representative of Jobbik, wishes to ask the Minister of the Interior an immediate question: "What makes you so pleased? It's an address. The Minister has appointed Mr Károly Kontra as Secretary of State for his reply for his urgent public service. I respectfully ask the Member whether he accepts or waits for the Minister's personal presence. [[On the sign of István Apáti:]] The congressman indicates that he accepts the person who is responding. Congressman István Apáti has the floor. Here you go.
u2016-05-30-128	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, Within the field of public security, a special and priority area is a set of topics and topics related to drug use and drug trafficking. We are meeting with sad data, and without the need for completeness, allow me to share some with the general public here. Between 2009 and 2013, 118 new compounds and new chemicals appeared on the market in Hungary and 268 new substances in the Member States of the European Union. By 2014, more than 60 percent of injecting drug users were infected with hepatitis C virus and doubled in three years. The biggest problem is that drug use starts at a lower age, many become drug users before the age of 14, but it is also seen from data that from 20 percent in 2006 to 30 percent of young people between 14 and 17 years of age who have tried one drug at least once at this age, almost 40 percent of 17-year-old boys are past their first drug experience. In this way, Hungary is one of the countries with medium drug involvement, with a significant increase in the proportion of synthetic cannabis and other synthetic drugs, increasing the market, increasing the number of consumers, because it is much cheaper to buy than high-quality alcoholic beverages, and it is very easy to obtain and very easy to obtain. As a result, drug-related deaths have also increased to a worrying extent since 2011 and drugs are spreading in prisons: 76 cases have been identified in 2010 and reached this figure in 2015 as early as the first four months of the year. So I'm asking you, why are you so satisfied with drug use, drug trafficking? [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] I'm talking about cutting down drug smuggling. What measures are planned to solve the problem in real terms? Thank you. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-05-30-129	Thank you very much, Congressman. The answer will be given by Secretary of State Károly Kontra. Here you go.
u2016-05-30-130	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Good morning. We never said we were very pleased. We have said that the police in all the settlements of Hungary are taking decisive action against all criminals for the sake of the safety of people's lives and property, public order and public security, and considers the prevention of crimes related to the production of drugs and the distribution of drugs as a priority, as well as the capture and prosecution of perpetrators. This statement is confirmed by the fact that the National Assembly adopted the National Drugs Strategy on 16 October 2013 and the main aim of this is to significantly reduce drug-related offences in Hungary by 2020. In order to achieve this, the government has taken concrete steps, and we want to achieve this goal by strengthening the role of families, local communities, schools, parents and legislation, using these tools. The police launched a number of programmes aimed at reducing the consumption of drugs by minors, such as the DADA programme, the Counter-use programme, and in September 2014 launched a new programme for police and family members with the priority partners of the police in the prevention of drug crime. The aim of this is to protect children aged 12 to 18 years, i.e. young people of the age of whom you are talking, who are particularly at risk, by giving their family members direct information on the risks of drug use, at all, of the danger that their children may face. This initiative underlines the role of parents in prevention, and the first results in this respect are encouraging, but we are not satisfied. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-05-30-131	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. A one-minute rejoinder from Congressman István Apáti. Here you go.
u2016-05-30-132	Thank you. Dear Secretary of State, I asked these questions precisely to raise an alarm, or to draw attention to this problem, but how far apart words and actions are from each other, I would like to give you some commentary now. The lack of money and a lot of work seems cliché, but the fact that Budapest received a 360,000 HUF non-refundable funding last year for drug prevention and treatment of drug problems, I believe, is also a more ridiculous category. Then let's take a look at last year's Commissioner's instruction to increase the number of criminal proceedings against dealers or manufacturers to 15 percent in a year's time. In comparison, however, we saw in 2013 that only 15 of the more than 4,000 drug trafficking and drug use procedures were launched against distributors and traders. So there is room for improvement, Mr. Secretary of State, and in this connection, the police should also consider the infamous vamper policy, which virtually often means that drug dealers and drug distributors are allowed to operate undercover for petty information, and therefore, these criminals will escape prosecution in a series of cases. Thank you. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-05-30-133	Thank you very much. For a moment, Mr. Secretary of State Károly Kontra has the floor. Here you go.
u2016-05-30-134	Thank you for the floor. Honourable Congressman, That's the last sentence you said, it's not true, so the police don't keep you undercover as a single... [[István Apáti: Quazi!]] The,, meaning, I've learned Latin to, you know, about, you know, means, that, about. So neither about, technically, nor actually lasts, only the truth... [[István Apáti intervenes.]] You're very sensitive to the truth, and we're practicing the truth, you know, Congressman? [[The president's ringing the bell.]] I'll continue with the answer. We have tightened the rules of the Criminal Code and the new psychoactive substance abuse has been introduced. This is the Criminal Code 184/D. As of the entry into force of this Article, every year the police have increasingly seized designer drugs. In the case of emerging substances in illegal traffic, which you mentioned, the police have taken the necessary measures to ensure that substances not yet listed are listed as soon as possible. As a result, the list in force since 2012 has been amended seven times so far, and since 11 July 2015 the list has been amended in a comprehensive way, as a result of which there is currently only one substance in illegal circulation in Hungary that is not a controlled substance, but is also being included. Our goal is not to have any of these, and to fully curb drug-related crimes. Please help me with this. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-05-30-135	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Congressman Sallai R. Benedek, representative of the LMP, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: "Do you want the government to review the privatisations of the last 25 years? It's an address. The Prime Minister has appointed Minister János Lázár to answer his urgent public mission. I respectfully ask the Member whether he accepts the person who is responding or asks the Prime Minister for his answer personally. Here you go.
u2016-05-30-136	If you'll excuse me, I'd like to wait for the Prime Minister. Thank you very much.
u2016-05-30-137	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Congresswoman Erzsébet Schmuck, representative of the LMP, wants to ask the Minister of National Economy an immediate question:, What will be the money for the 787 billion public sector wage increase? It's an address. The Minister has appointed Mr András Tállai Secretary of State to respond to his urgent public mission. I respectfully ask the congresswoman if she accepts the person who is responding. [[On the signal of Erzsébet Schmuck:]] The congresswoman says she'll accept it. Here you go, Congresswoman Erzsébet Schmuck.
u2016-05-30-138	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Minister Lazarus announced last week that next year HUF 787 billion will be spent on raising wages for public sector workers, which will affect some one million people. According to the Minister, the wage increase that has long been missed in the public sector must be replaced, the Minister spoke of wage increases that have been decided, so it is probably a government decision that has already been taken. [[14.20]] The notification, and in particular its volume, is an astonishing increase in wages, which is currently known in the 2017 budget submitted by the Government, but it is not possible to do so on the basis of the weakening performance of the economy. The Minister himself said in his previous annual speech that I am only in favour of a wage increase that is backed by the increasing performance of the Hungarian economy. On the increasing performance of the Hungarian economy, only the Greek was less favourable in the EU than the 0.9 percent increase in GDP in the first quarter. Therefore, expected economic growth in 2016 is almost certainly below the expected 2.5 percent. Economic researchers are currently forecasting an increase of 2 per cent or less. The LMP has long represented that the Hungarian economy cannot recover from the crisis as long as the government bases its competitiveness on the low price of the Hungarian workforce. Indeed, a significant wage increase is needed, but conditions must be created for this. Instead of panic-like, misguided announcements, the LMP supports responsible wage increases, raising the minimum minimum wage by means of multi-key taxes and comprehensive public sector wage planning. In our 2017 budget amendment proposal, we proposed doubling the sector's wage increase money in the first step. Dear Secretary of State, Where are the specific resources in the budget for the 787 billion increase announced by Minister Lazarus? And I am asking whether that also means that the failure of economic policy to date has been recognised.
u2016-05-30-139	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. The answer will be given by Secretary of State András Tállai. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2016-05-30-140	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and As I understand it, what you have to say is that because the government and Parliament in the public sector can provide such a significant increase in wages in the budget, it is a problem, and you do not see the coverage of it, because the economy will not produce it. Well, I would like to tell you that you can cheer on the fact that the performance of the Hungarian economy will be worse, weak and therefore weaker to the government, but this will not happen. It will not happen because, if macro indicators of the economy are observed, you can see that in the second quarter there are specific reasons for lower GDP growth, such as the accounting of EU funds, which ended at the end of last year, thus affecting the performance of the first quarter. At the same time, if we look at the increase in wages, we look at the increase in employment, we look at the increase in contractual stock, all of which indicate that this was a temporary halt, and that the Hungarian economy will return to a stable growth path, and that there will be no risk of a 2.5 percent increase, but nothing will endanger it. By the way, I would like to tell you that, based on the tax revenue data at the end of May, the tax revenues in 2016 are 7.2 percent higher than the data in the previous year, i.e. in 2015. Thus, the increase in tax revenues also shows that the performance of the economy is adequate. I do not think there is any danger that there will be a source of public sector wage increase, HUF 787 billion. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-05-30-141	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. A one-minute rejoinder from Congresswoman Erzsébet Schmuck. Here you go.
u2016-05-30-142	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, there should be no misunderstanding. We would certainly welcome a raise of this magnitude. In my comment, I didn't mean to say that it was wrong. This is desirable, and I just wanted to ask what the resources of this are in the 2017 budget, as we are in the process of adopting an annual budget plan, in which there is a detailed description of the sources of the various cases. We have not seen the government's proposals for amending the wage increase of HUF 787 billion. By the way, let me add that we see resources in the budget, there are luxury investments, stadium constructions, the Castle, and I could also add, of course, the reconstruction of the Liget. They need to be taken away, regrouped, and then it could be implemented, and it wouldn't just be an election bluff.
u2016-05-30-143	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. A one-minute rejoinder, Mr. András Tállai, Secretary of State.
u2016-05-30-144	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and You have to learn to read the budget. These figures are indeed included in the budget, in the relevant sectors and in the staff expenditure. By the way, HUF 787 billion does not mean that public sector income will increase in 2017, because it also includes decisions that were made in the previous year, the consequences of law enforcement workers and teacher careers. This obviously includes an aggregated data and an increase in 2017. What I can tell you is that the indicators are very good not only in the public sector, but also in the entire Hungarian economy. For example, real earnings increased by 7.5 percent in the first quarter of 2016, i.e. in the overall sphere, together with the economic and public sectors. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-05-30-145	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Congressman Gábor Varga, representative of Fidesz, wants to ask the Minister of the Prime Minister's Office an immediate question: "Do the socialists make us horses? It's an address. Congressman Gábor Varga has the floor. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-05-30-146	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister, Just last week there was a general debate before this House on the bill which aims to settle the situation of the long-standing Mezőhegyesi Ménes estate. Founded in 1785, the stud estates were not only our country, but also the oldest state estate in Europe, which existed for 220 years as an integral part of national wealth. However, the privatizing amok run of the Medgyessy-Gyurcsány government did not spare Mezőhegyes, this was also played by private hands, and the state fortune was squandered. We know that this is not an isolated case, since between 2002 and 2010 the Mafia privatisations destroyed, dismantled or handed over several strategic state assets and domestic property in the agriculture, manufacturing and energy sectors. Dear Minister, The aim of the current government is to make Hungary a prominent model economy and agricultural training and tourism player of the region, which preserves its traditions and is very rich in natural beauties, with state involvement, development adapted to traditions. The area is a significant place of agricultural-cultural history, which is a value for posterity with its buildings, equipment and traditional tools in the economy. Developments in the sample farm would serve horse breeding with the maintenance of native breeds of horses, the breeding of native and other farmed animals, as well as cultivation, mechanization, irrigation technologies, forest and game management. The model economy can be one of the top places for agricultural research, vocational training, adult education and university training. Dear Minister, As to what has been said, do the socialists fool us? I wonder what they're up to now. What interests do they serve now? Why are you protesting the development of the Mezőhegyesi Ménes estate? I'm looking forward to your reply. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-05-30-147	Thank you very much, Congressman. The answer, as I have already said, will be given by Minister János Lázár. Here you go.
u2016-05-30-148	Thank you very much. Honourable Congressman, Your question gives me the opportunity to thank my fellow Members for the constructive debate that they had here in the House last week on the proposal for a law in Jezőhegyes, without the Hungarian Socialist Party, as the Hungarian Parliament did not participate in the debate, which is revealing, since in 2004 Mezőhegyesi Zrt. was privatized once. Our hope, not that if the voters make a mistake and bring them to power again, they will sell again what we are now trying to create. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: Voters never fail!]] My fellow Member is in the wrong place, because the motivation of the bill on the proposal of Commissioner Farkas Sándor was to try to cement Mezőhegyes for the future and to create a compromise around the model economy in Mezőhegyes, the horse centre in Mezőhegyes, the economy and the model economy that will prevent the shame from happening once again, which started in 2004 and has been realized, that Mezőhegyesi Zrt. will be given private hands on the decision of the then socialist agricultural government. Now the executive authority has chosen a completely different path, under the authority of the Parliament, when we create the country's most advanced agricultural business of the highest quality on about 8 to 10 thousand hectares. Indeed, in the field of crop production and livestock production, we would like a sample farm, which is obviously one of the country's most important mentors, and it also operates as a teaching economy, since it can also connect to practical training, higher education. [[14.30]] The law is a framework law, a empowered law, but it also takes care of the forms of asset management, and in essence we proposed this form to Parliament with my fellow Member Sándor Farkas so that we can protect Mezőhegyes in the next period, and we can guarantee the community and the city that this enterprise will also serve the good of the country and the local interest. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-05-30-149	Thank you very much, Minister. Congressman Gábor Varga has the floor for a one-minute rejoinder. Here you go.
u2016-05-30-150	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. My question was what the socialists were up to. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: Why don't you ask us?]] Thanking for the opportunities that this bill, which we discussed last week, allows both the Commissioner of the Government and, as set out in the bill, that we would like to have this value, if we have been able to preserve it for 220 years, we can also preserve it for the late future. These opportunities and safeguards will be included in the bill. Thanking Minister for giving a satisfactory answer to this question, I would like to continue to draw his attention to László Kövér's sentence that he will never become a socialist dog. bacon. [[Interjection: It's not like that!]] Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches. Dr. István Józsa: Well done!]]
u2016-05-30-151	A one-minute rejoinder is given to Minister János Lázár.
u2016-05-30-152	Your suggestion, Mr President, is motivated by the concern that has been expressed in the case of Mezőhegyes in many of our fellow voters. The government and parliament are now about to make a wise decision. This will be thanks to those who support the adoption of this law. Mr.Sándor Farkas asked the Prime Minister to reach a compromise as far as possible. That is why it was surprising and incomprehensible why the Hungarian Socialist Party did not participate in this debate. I think that my fellow Member, Sándor Farkas, is willing and prepared to set up a model economy. We are also open to every professional proposal, to the proposals of the socialists. It was reassuring to the House that he had escaped a Swearing of Zoltán Gőgös in the debate, although this raised the quality of the debate, but he lacked the political guarantee of the MSZP that he also considered Mezőhegyes important. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-05-30-153	Thank you very much, Minister. Congressman Gergely Bárándy, a representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Attorney General an immediate question, 'Stop investigating'! It's an address. Mr. Attorney General has appointed Mr. István Lajtár Deputy Attorney General for an urgent public service. I respectfully ask the Member if he accepts the person who is responding. [[For signal:]] Congressman says he'll take it. Congressman Gergely Bárándy has the floor. Here you go.
u2016-05-30-154	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Deputy Prosecutor General, After the decision of the Constitutional Court, it is clear that the funds of the foundations of the Hungarian National Bank are public money. Let's start with the fact that the MNB has transferred more than HUF 260 billion to non-refundable foundations. I just want to remind Mr. Deputy Attorney General that the foundations of the MNB and the MNB are not the same. As the DA's unbroken practice shows, if someone, say, takes money out of their own property, it could still be a crime. So that's a bad reference we've heard so far. But let's get this over with. The foundations paid public money for things outside the MNB's remit. That can also be stated as a fact. For example, the foundations carried out illicit monetary funding. They gave MNB money to relatives and friends through the foundations, published books and translated them. They are not legally part of the MNB's remit. And the MNB can only finance things that fall within its remit. And finally, the most serious thing we know from Csaba Lentner, curator of one of the foundations, is that the foundations actually have no other purpose than to keep Fidesz in power, and György Matolcsy's rather strange, slightly sprained economic theory violently spread and push out old theories. As I understand it, Deputy Attorney General, this does not fall within the remit of the Hungarian National Bank. If public money is used in violation of the law and there is a material disadvantage or damage, then there is a crime. Who decided and who knew about this is also clear: György Matolcsy, President of the Central Bank and President of the Foundation. So I'm asking Deputy Attorney General why they're not investigating this case anymore. Thank you very much.
u2016-05-30-155	Thank you very much, Congressman. The answer will be given by Deputy Attorney General István Lajtár. Here you go.
u2016-05-30-156	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, The title of Mr President's immediate question lacked a more specific indication of the individual and the case, a reference to it, so that the question itself could not be clearly established or foreseen whether he lacked the order of an investigation in a case or whether he wanted to express the need for an investigation which was considered ineffective to speed up. From what the Member has said in words, it is clear that Mr President objects to the rejection of the complaints concerning the foundations set up by the Hungarian National Bank and lacks the imposition of criminal proceedings. Criminal proceedings, as clearly apparent from the relevant legal provisions, may be committed in the event of suspicion of a criminal offence and may be prosecuted against a specific person when there is reasonable suspicion. A condition for ordering an investigation is that the data reported in the complaint be suspected of a criminal offence and that the initiation of an investigation should not be prohibited by law. I would like to inform the Member that 11 complaints have been received to the prosecutor's office in connection with his questions about the foundations of the Hungarian National Bank, of which 8 have been rejected because of the lack of criminal activity. An investigation is ongoing, a complaint is pending, while another action has been taken in one case. As I have said, if and if the legal conditions of the offence, the legal conditions for ordering criminal proceedings are met, this will take place, in the past and in the future, both in this and in other cases. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-05-30-157	Thank you very much, Deputy Attorney General. A one-minute rejoinder from Congressman Gergely Bárándy. Here you go.
u2016-05-30-158	Thank you very much, Mr. President. First of all, Deputy Attorney General, not the In. I asked for a reading of its provisions. Thank you very much, I know that myself. On the other hand, I will ask you more specifically: why is the prosecution not prosecuting György Matolcsy for the reasons I have listed? Because as far as I know, that's true. The ordering of an investigation in such a case, Mr. Deputy Attorney General, is the responsibility of the Attorney General and the prosecutor's chiefs. Of course, the question is whether he is able to act impartially when his personal involvement in one of these matters can be detected. That's an extremely interesting question, and I'd appreciate an answer to that. It is embarrassing, I know, that it is very embarrassing to take Viktor Orbán's right hand in handcuffs, but sometimes prosecutorial leaders should also make embarrassing decisions. Another example of this lack of investigation, let's understand, Deputy Attorney General, is that the state's top management is acting like the Fidesz's fist. It takes political opponents away and, with its passivity, it promotes government corruption without any principle or law. Dear Deputy Prosecutor General, Don't think it can go without consequences. [[Dr. Robert Répássy: Don't threaten me. Don't threaten me. Dr. Bence of Rétvári: What do you mean?]] Or the National Bank or the D.A.'s office. Thank you very much.
u2016-05-30-159	Thank you very much. István Lajtár, Deputy Attorney General, has the floor for a one-minute rejoinder.
u2016-05-30-160	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Whether it is the President of the National Bank of Hungary or any other person, criminal proceedings should only take place on suspicion of a criminal offence and on reasonable suspicion of it. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: That's what I'm talking about.]] This is a clear legal provision, which the prosecution will continue to fully respect in the future. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: This is what I took down.]] As far as your unfounded allegations about the prosecution are concerned, I must strongly reject that. When enforcing the State's criminal claim, the Public Prosecutor's Office shall take into account only the laws and other legal provisions. Prosecutors shall act in accordance with their oath, irrespective of the subject matter of the case, the identity of the victim and of the persons subject to criminal liability, solely on the basis of the laws and regulations in force. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-05-30-161	Thank you very much, Deputy Attorney General. I would ask my fellow Members to remain calm and preferably not to yell at each other in their speeches. [[14.40]] Congressman Lajos Rig, Jobbik's representative, wishes to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question: "Can we expect a disturbance within the medical infirmary system? It's an address. Mr. Minister has appointed Mr. Bence Rétvári as Secretary of State to respond to an urgent public task. I respectfully ask the Member whether he accepts the person of the response or waits for the Minister to be present.
u2016-05-30-162	Of course, I accept the identity of Secretary of State, since he is a great scientist and scholar of chronic beds. [[Defiance and intervention in the ranks of Jobbik: Nana!]]
u2016-05-30-163	Thank you very much. Congressman Lajos Rig has the floor. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-05-30-164	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, On the oral issue... - the outsourcing of chronic beds and the so-called transfer of the healthcare system to the social system, this has caused a huge concern both in health care workers and patients and in all the people who will use it later. There are many unanswered questions on which I have not received an oral answer or a written answer as to what steps the government has planned in the past. For example, the funding system, or what I have already said to the Secretary of State, which is the biggest problem if this new social care system is given territorial capacity, is likely to take elderly patients from other municipalities and villages who need care, and patients who are currently lying on active beds and who are already out of this system will probably not get into the new nursing homes due to lack of space. My question is: has the government considered this? The other thing is of great concern: many of the patients on chronic beds are in need of care, but there is a complex care system and a complex care system that makes it impossible to move these patients from a chronic bed to a nursing home at the moment, since they need 24 hours of medical supervision. So if I reverse the question, this new supply system will not solve their problems, there is only one solution: active beds will be burdened in the same way by these patients. I ask Mr Secretary of State what will happen to these patients, who require complex care, on the one hand, care and specialist supervision. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-05-30-165	Thank you very much, Congressman. The answer will be given by Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Here you go.
u2016-05-30-166	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Thank you very much for your questions, these are all important issues, which is why we have considered these over the last few weeks, months, and obviously we will also be discussing them in the next few weeks and months of professional dialogue. With regard to your first question, the question of take-over: we would like to adopt legislation that would make take-over mandatory in these cases, as you have said. So if someone is transferred from an active bed to this nursing home, they should be obliged to receive it, as they still need care and care, but they are no longer in a hospital environment, not primarily for health reasons, because they are not there because of infection or because of other diseases or accidents requiring immediate intervention, but because of long-term care and care. However, it is important to be able to move from health institutions to social institutions on a compulsory basis. The other is the question of different complex benefits. We could list not only these benefits, but also others, such as hospice care. If you look at who is going to lie on chronic beds later... - because this will not eliminate the number of chronic beds in hospitals, only those who would need chronic beds in a hospital, but who would not need hospital care in the first place, but who would need social care in the first place; but those who really need chronic care in the hospital will still have their beds, and those who, as you say, in some more complex cases or as I have said, can continue to lie there and use hospital care. Graduality is also important in this amendment, since, taking into account territorial differences, we will gradually reshape the current system, taking into account the different groups of diseases or needs of care, which also has an abnormally high chronic bed in Europe, a system that is much closer to the European average. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-05-30-167	Thank you very much. A one-minute rejoinder will be given to Congressman Lajos Rig. Here you go.
u2016-05-30-168	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr State Secretary, if it is mandatory, we will proceed in the same way as within the inpatient care system, because for most of the chronic beds there is fixed funding, so the capacity is complete if it is operated at 100 per cent. I trust, above all, that a six-bed ward will not have an extra two beds, as is the current system, since it is obliged to take over the social care system from active inpatient care, but even if it is at 100 percent, otherwise they will not be able to solve this, only two or three more, four beds will be inserted into one ward, and there will be as overcrowded as in the current care system - this is one. The other is a question of financing. If 120 beds are financed and they are obliged to take over 40 more patients, the funding for 40 patients will show up minus in this care system, so again they will be raising debts that you would like to avoid. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-05-30-169	Thank you very much. A one-minute rejoinder is for Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2016-05-30-170	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, We want to avoid hospital debts in any case, so, if I remember correctly, between 140 and 160 billion forints, and even more than the amount we spent on hospital debt financing. At the same time, we believe that it is primarily about making internal management more efficient that can serve the purpose of reducing hospital debt. This is a different question, and we are starting here primarily from the point of view of the beneficiaries. I also said at the end of my previous answer that there is a need to find a unique solution for each of them from place to place, because there is no obvious aim of increasing congestion, but there must be places where these capacities still have additional space, extra hospital or additional building. Therefore, gradual, scheduled, month by month, phase by stage, obviously those amendments, those transfers may be made first [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] Which is the easiest thing to do, and then keep moving towards the more complicated. Thank you very much.
u2016-05-30-171	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Congressman Vejkey, representative of KDNP, wants to ask the Minister for National Development an immediate question: å How is the National Public Education Infrastructure Development Programme progressing? It's an address. Mr. Minister has appointed Mr. János Fónagy Secretary of State to respond to the urgent public task. I respectfully ask the Member whether he accepts the person who is responding, or whether he expects an answer from the Minister. [[Dr. Imre Vejkey: Yes, Mr. President, I accept.]] Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr Here you go.
u2016-05-30-172	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, We, Christian Democrats, believe and confess that one of the most important values of our society, the pledge of our future, is the child. Therefore, in our view, we must strive by all means to ensure that they have the conditions for a healthy lifestyle, that healthy generations grow up, with healthy physique and spirituality. When we took over governance in 2010, we learned about the public health situation, and we had to face the fact that we are the hosts of sports habits in the European Union. In Hungary, only 5 percent of the population regularly played sports. About 75 percent of young people who were required to study only did any kind of exercise during physical education, which in itself was not suitable for ensuring healthy exercise in the age group at that time. That is why we have decided to introduce everyday physical education in an ascending system. Some of the investment in classroom, gym and educational facilities under the national public education infrastructure development programme was carried out entirely from central budgetary resources, which we tried to guide our children to a healthy lifestyle and active sport. Dear Secretary of State, On this basis, I ask you what improvements are expected in the first phase of the national public education infrastructure development programme with what deadline. Is it expected that further improvements will follow the first phase of the development programme? I look forward to your reply, Secretary of State. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-05-30-173	Thank you very much, Congressman. The answer will be given by Secretary of State János Fónagy. Here you go, Secretary of State. [[14.50]]
u2016-05-30-174	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Dear fellow Member, The government, as you said, decided on the national public education infrastructure development programme in February 2014, which will result in classrooms, gymnasiums and educational facilities investments across the country, typically in district centres. The government considers it particularly important to make students love sport, and exercise becomes an essential and natural part of their lives. To achieve this goal, everyday physical education has been included in the curricula for years, and the government has become one of its slogans in the field of public education to teach every child to swim. During the first phase of the program, 24 classroom development and 5 complete school development - Geszten, Fertőd, Isaac, Dunakeszin and Budakeszin - to address the lack of classrooms caused by the luxurious demographic changes, 25 gym developments for everyday physical education, and 25 swimming pool developments for the purpose of providing the infrastructure conditions are implemented by the government. Ten of the 24 classroom development projects - Csanádpalota, Diósd, Dunaharaszti, Dunakariszi, Győrújbarát, Nagykovácsi, Petőfiszállás, Sződ, Telki and Vácduka - were handed over already in 2015, and in another five cases the construction is ongoing. In one case, the procurement procedure for the selection of the contractor and in eight cases the procurement documentation is currently being drawn up. In three of the five school development cases, the investment is already ongoing, and one is also in the process of public procurement. According to our plans, all of these will be completed in the 16-17 academic year. Thank you for your patience. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-05-30-175	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. A one-minute rejoinder from Congressman Imre Vejkey. Here you go.
u2016-05-30-176	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, Thank you very much for your reply, which has made it clear that we have indeed achieved a good result in the last six years. [[Dr. András Schiffer: Did you write that down? How did you know what he was saying?]] but also that we cannot stop here, so it is important to further develop the national public education infrastructure development programme in the direction it spoke about in Mr. State Secretary's reply. [[Interviews in the ranks of Jobbik: Is this also written? Did you write the answer in writing? But insanity in the ranks of Jobbik and LMP.]] The common goal of Fidesz-KDNP is to build European Union-class gymnasiums, classrooms and educational schools, which serve the development of young people in the long term, thus helping to carry out the public education tasks of the locality. Thank you for your attention, even if it seems like the Jobbik can't write by hand, only by machine if you're laughing at it. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-05-30-177	Thank you very much, Congressman. [[Interjection in Jobbik's ranks: Andrew started it! Dr. Imre Vejkey: Then András Schiffer, the LMP! Intercoms.]] A one-minute rejoinder, Mr János Fónagy, Secretary of State. I ask Members and ladies - not the ladies, but the gentlemen - to save the intermezzo for their privacy. Mr. Secretary of State János Fónagy has the floor.
u2016-05-30-178	Thank you very much. Allow me to use the rejoinder to ensure that these facilities are, of course, not just part of curriculum education. A swimming pool or a suitable place for sports is a place for a city, a settlement, a place for meeting and agora of the whole area. This is not taken seriously by those who have not had the opportunity to become part of the community in their young life, who have not learned that a swimming pool, a boathouse or a gym has community-forming, community-educational powers. For this reason, these developments will be continued, with HUF 3-3-3 billion available for the continuation of the programme in the budget 17. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-05-30-179	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Congresswoman Anita Heringes, representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Minister for National Development an immediate question:. Minister, how much do you think Paks was involved in the outstanding year of MVM? It's an address. The Minister has appointed Mr János Fónagy Secretary of State to respond to an urgent public task. I respectfully ask the congresswoman if she accepts the person who is responding. [[Anita Herring: Yes, I accept. Thank you very much.]] Thank you very much. Congresswoman indicates that she accepts the response. Here you go.
u2016-05-30-180	Dear Secretary of State, Last week he held the MVM's year review, on which Péter Csiba said that the year was outstandingly successful, and that the operation of the Paks Nuclear Power Plant contributed greatly to this success. So, without modesty, we can say that without the support of Paks Nuclear Power Plant workers and the Paks population, MVM would not be here today. But there are always two sides to the coin, not only to expect accurate, precise work from the locals, but neither to be abused nor proper, the Paks always perform in silence, according to their best knowledge. They couldn't do it any other way. Therefore, I am standing here again, and I would like to draw your attention to the fact that you have still not solved the problems of the Paks Nuclear Power Plant's support policy. It hasn't been a problem for decades, just since they got back into government in 2014. To date, we have not received a long-term reassuring answer on how they intend to solve the money for sport support, foundation grants, regional development grants and information. Just one example: after several speeches, discussions and questions, last week it was announced that the ASE will receive a lifeline: Minister Seszták will allow payment of any delays to date. The problem is that it doesn't fully calm the moods at home, because the delay caused a lot of damage to the sports associations, they couldn't start signing in time for the next season. The rumor is that after 30 June, the city and the surrounding settlements, the press organisations, can expect a final solution. That's why I'm asking, after June 30th, what do we expect? Will there be a long-term solution? Paks and his neighborhood deserve not to become the ball of their political soccer game that's kicked back and forth. It's not gonna happen that Paks is gonna be a tool for the political games, and when he decides who he belongs to, the Prime Minister's Office or to you, then they're gonna do favors and fix the support system? The Paks expect them to show them the same respect they have for their work.
u2016-05-30-181	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. The answer is given by Secretary of State János Fónagy. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2016-05-30-182	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and The MVM group, as you said, as a competitive operational holding company, is a significant participant in the domestic energy sector, Hungary's national-owned energy group. The data show that the MVM Paks Nuclear Power Plant played an unavoidable role in the performance of the MVM Group in 2015 as you stressed. Nearly 16,000 gigawatts produced by the four blocks represented more than a third of the total domestic electricity demand. Last year, the nuclear power plant finished with HUF 38.9 billion, before interest rates, taxation and depreciation, which accounts for more than one third of the group's value. Last year, the Paks Nuclear Power Plant achieved nearly HUF 20 billion in pre-tax results, which is more than half of the group result. All these data show that it is true that the Paks Nuclear Power Plant is a significant, sometimes decisive player in the Hungarian economy. The sales revenue, which also exceeded HUF 1 billion, came from trade in natural gas and electricity in 2015, and gave more than half of the sources of supply. He contributed $50 billion to the budget. All of this provides a sufficient basis for Paks, as has been before, to receive, as a settlement, and as one of the most significant segments of the Hungarian economy, I believe, both in the past and in the present, all the support that Paks has been entitled to on the basis of its results. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-05-30-183	Thank you very much. For a moment, Congresswoman Anita Heringes has the floor. Here you go.
u2016-05-30-184	Thank you very much. Since 2010, the aid scheme has collapsed. This is what we can see from the Paks Nuclear Power Plant, and this is not their fault, because if Paks Nuclear Power Plant employees and managers are able to operate the Paks Nuclear Power Plant, I think they can decide what they want to provide support for and what they don't. Therefore they do not ask, and I think they no longer need the supervision of MVM or this government, and it has worked well for a long time that they could decide on this issue, and then they would not be abandoned either by the 31 settlements, foundations, sports associations, or press organisations through information, nor by anyone. [[15.00]] They work humblely, they do their job. The government would have one task: to let them do their job, and then this system would work well. Right now, they're just throwing life belts. And what we could hear at the press conference was that the clouds were gone from the Paks support system: we can say that the clouds weren't gone, but now the ice isn't beating, but it's still raining. Please solve this problem.
u2016-05-30-185	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Mr. Secretary of State János Fónagy has the floor. Here you go.
u2016-05-30-186	Thank you very much. Dear fellow Member, At a time when the results of the Paks Nuclear Power Plant and its significant role in the Hungarian economy are, of course, stressed, I am asking that these truly outstanding results should not be confused with professional sports subsidies. Indeed, the system of professional sports subsidies has been revised by the government in recent years, in this revised system, Paks and its neighbourhood receive all the professional sports support that other enterprises can receive in other areas of the country. I'm convinced that neither Paks nor his neighborhood are at a disadvantage. [[Dr. István Józsa: Yes, you can.]] Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2016-05-30-187	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, István Ikotity, representative of the LMP, wants to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question:. What will the Hungarian Government do to reassure the population? It's an address. Mr. Minister has appointed Mr. Bence Rétvári as Secretary of State to respond to his urgent public service. [[Ikotity István nodds.]] Congressman says you'll accept the answer. However, before I give you the floor, I will inform you and the House that I will hand the chair over to Vice-President Sándor Lezsák. You have the floor, please. [[Sándor Lezsák, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]]
u2016-05-30-188	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Dear House, I'd like to ask you about the nasocomial infections. These in-patient infections mean that whoever got into the hospital was still free of it, and that's where he got it. He knew that in Hungary, unfortunately, we are in bad shape in this number, so there is a high rate of infection in the hospital, and in many cases these infections also lead to the death of people. This is due, inter alia, to the fact that disinfectants, which are used in the hospital, are available in significantly smaller quantities than elsewhere. By comparison, Western European numbers: one third of the disinfectants used there are used in quantities. Over the last few weeks, there have been serious scandals in neighbouring Romania, and it also shows that a systemic error is often revealed only years later. And such a systemic error is when the disinfectant reaches a hospital in the first place, in the wrong proportion, does not comply with the rules, standards, less than what would be normal. This is not a guarantee, of course, that when you go to the hospital, how many times will it be diluted and used properly. Since the number of nasocomial infections is hidden from all sources in recent years, only general data can be accessed, what are they doing to prevent this? Not specifically, although my question concerned what they were doing to reassure the population, my question is not what they write on televisions or billboards, but what they are doing to reduce these infections. I'm waiting for your answer.
u2016-05-30-189	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2016-05-30-190	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, You know very well that since 26 February 2016 the National Epidemiology Centre has been on its website all the details, all the facts that have already been raised on this issue since then, since it is here that Hungary is at the forefront of those who are trying to prevent anyone from dying from this type of infection in hospital walls at international level. This happens in hospitals in all countries, but our goal is to keep this as low as possible. Therefore, while other countries do not provide this data, Hungary collects these data, and even on the website of the international organisation that collects this data, all the data that you may be interested to see can be read every year, can be seen in the coming years. However, what is clearly needed in order to prevent infections is that as much as possible improvements are made in hospitals, and you know it very well, Mr honourable Member, that in the last five and a half years there has been an increase in hospital infrastructure worth HUF 322 billion, which has improved hospital conditions, either in the hospital rooms or in the disinfectants, or in the scrubbers, to the extent that during the past generations, this development has been at almost no time, on a scale that has made tangible progress in the prevention of hygienic conditions, of various infectious diseases, particularly in rural hospitals. The fact that the area of health can count on additional resources in the coming years and that the health insurance fund's main amount has increased in the last six years has increased its budget to a greater extent than the rate of inflation, all provide additional resources for each hospital, or provides an additional development opportunity for the healthcare system to prevent these infections from getting better. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2016-05-30-191	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I'll give you a return answer.
u2016-05-30-192	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, I think that this terrain is not suitable - and you should know it very well - for this to happen here. The number of hospital infections is not so good, this number is not a good indicator at all, the Hungarian numbers are not good indicators. On the one hand, because these numbers cannot be collected in such a way that this is completely transparent, because these numbers do not come from many institutions, and it can be seen that only comprehensive summary data are published, unlike what has been done before. Secretary of State, the fact that 322 billion have been spent on health care, and these conditions are still like this, shows that something is being spent very badly. And I haven't even talked about 20 or 30 times disinfected disposable devices that shouldn't be used. Secretary of State, it certainly seems to me that in this area, you like to save money. But this is not a question of money in the first place, it is a question of approach, and action should be taken to change it. [[Sallai R. Benedict: That's right! A round of applause from the LMP.]]
u2016-05-30-193	Thank you very much. The Secretary of State is also entitled to a rejoinder.
u2016-05-30-194	Thank you very much. As I said, every year we raised the costs of the Health Insurance Fund above inflation, so we did not want to create any financial obstacles. But allow me to read two sentences from the report of the National Epidemiology Center. One of the sentences is:. In the inpatient institutions that reported significantly different data than the national average rate of infection, the local control of the authority revealed the causes and, if necessary, took action. The authority therefore supervises, controls and authenticates the reports of hospitals. So these are credible reports, Congressman, because in every case of deviation, OEK has colleagues. And allow me also to quote the closing sentence:, Positive phenomenon and the effectiveness of domestic infection control activity indicate that, based on preliminary results in 2015, the number of infections caused by reported blood flow infections and multi-resistant pathogens appears to have decreased. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We hope that this will be the case, and it will continue to be the case in the coming years. The additional resources for this are set out in the 2017 budget. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2016-05-30-195	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The hour of immediate questioning is over. Mr András Schiffer, Head of the LMP Group, asked for the floor on a point of order.
u2016-05-30-196	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. My point of order would now be for the third time that, in all cases where the President-in-Office of the Council finds that a Member is questioning the Government in an unhousely manner on a matter outside the government's jurisdiction, stop the condition of the immediate question. I think - and then I will justify my motion - that neither the spending of the Jobbik faction nor the windmill fight of Róbert Sallai Benedek nor the future plans of the Socialist Party fall within the government's competence. We have also witnessed today that as a propaganda voice, a Fidesz Member - I believe his name is Gábor Varga, I have not yet seen him speak in the House - asked the government about the future plans of the Socialist Party for stud estates. I believe that, under the Rules of the House, the House and the Hungarian citizens are curious about the government's plans, not that it is an opposition party. So I'd like to ask you to stop this practice. Thank you very much.
u2016-05-30-197	Thank you, Mr. Group Leader. Although I wasn't in the room, I watched the meeting on television, and it stands up in a third case, and in a third case it is necessary to tell you that I do not consider the issue of order. [[15.10]] It is necessary to re-inform Mr Group Leader that the Rules of the House are set at 121. §2 clearly provides that the addressee may request the President of the Parliament to reject the question. This was not the case in this case, so the President of the Chamber has no right to withdraw the floor. I will also inform you - and it would be good for the faction leader to act accordingly - that the Rules of the House 138. The Member has the right to contact the Committee responsible for the interpretation of the Rules of the House on this matter. [[It's an intervention from Jobbik's ranks. But it's madness in Jobbik's ranks.]] Thank you very much for your understanding patience. Now, let's get back to work. Dear Parliament, There is a political debate on the steps needed to take against the offshore, which was initiated by the LMP, Jobbik, the MSZP Group and by independent representatives. Opinion on the initiative of the political debate V/10571 The information document of the State Audit Office is available on the parliamentary IT network. Dear Parliament, I ask Mr István Tiba to explain the course of the political debate.
u2016-05-30-198	Dear Parliament, First, a statement from the representative of the Government will be made for a total period of 40 minutes. The speakers of each political group will then speak in 15-15 minutes; then the first independent Member may speak. The remaining time frame will then be open to further speeches by its representatives. Finally, the representative of the Government will respond in 20 minutes to what has been said in the debate.
u2016-05-30-199	Thank you, Mr. Notary. Dear Parliament, Allow me to remind you of the main rules of the time-frame debate. The speaking time of the member of the Government who spoke during the debate is expected to be in the time of the pro-government factions. In the meantime, two-minute speeches should be included in the timeframe, with the exception of responding to personal concerns. Point of order speeches are not included in the time frame. On the meeting room information board, interested parties can monitor the use of time frames. Before we begin the debate, I would like to ask the notary to explain each time frame.
u2016-05-30-200	Dear Parliament, I would like to announce that the Fidesz, Jobbik, KDNP and LMP Group have initiated a doubling of the time frame, so the distribution of the timeframe is as follows: 164 minutes for the Fidesz Group, 46 minutes for the MSZP Group, 76 minutes for the KDNP Group, 82 minutes for the Jobbik Group, 48 minutes for the LMP Group and 9 minutes for the independent Members. The time limits provided for the factions include the 15-15 minutes lead speakers.
u2016-05-30-201	Thank you, Mr. Adam Mirkóczki. Dear Parliament, First, the government's debate will take place in a 40-minute time frame, presented by two speakers on the basis of the scenario. First, I give the floor to Mr Csaba Dömötör, State Secretary of the Cabinet Office of the Prime Minister.
u2016-05-30-202	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, Dear Members, gentlemen and ladies, On behalf of the Government, I would like to address three issues, and I would like to mention three issues in relation to today's debate. Above all, it is worth considering the steps the government has taken in the fight against offshore, what it has done for greater transparency. Secondly, it is worth talking about some specific offshore issues. Last but not least, I would like to address the most important aspects of international cooperation against offshore. Dear House, When the current government took office in 2010, the offshore business flourished in Hungary. Left-wing governance and the world of offshore companies have been intertwined in an unfolding manner. It is not only that the left did not lift a finger to increase transparency, but it was as if it had put directly in the position of companies that were opaque. The offshore companies were cut and won throughout public procurement. Anyone who thinks it's all a coincidence is wrong. The main players of the Gyurcsány-Bajna era, who were the dominant leaders of the offshore world themselves. The left was already full of offshore cases. Thus, for example, Ferenc Gyurcsány's company Altus established an offshore subsidiary in the 1990s. A company registered in a tax haven has also appeared among the owners of Fortus. Prime Minister Gordon Bajnai and, astoundingly, András Simor, then central bank president, were also heavily involved in offshore transactions. But we could recall the scandalous sale of Moscow's trade agency, where an offshore company was also looking for fabulous amounts. So in this situation, it was necessary to clean up. The current government was the first to make it mandatory that companies starting in public procurements should be transparent, i.e. declare their final owner. According to the new rules, 44,000 companies had to comment on their ownership background. Today, it is public for everyone to know which companies are running in public procurements and who are getting mandates, and who are their owners. Much remains to be done, but no opposition party can dispute that the current government has taken substantial steps towards full transparency. We also consider it important that this government was the one that significantly tightened the public procurement rules. The new Hungarian law on public procurement is one of the strictest public procurement laws in Europe; it ensures that the state's best bid will be the winner by declaring its real owners. The world of offshore companies is often closely linked to the black economy. Several measures by the government have led to a significant reduction in the size of the black economy in the period behind us. One of the most important measures is the introduction of online cash registers. The new system makes it difficult to hide revenue. Dear House, Unfortunately, I have to say that the opposition has not been able to count on and we cannot count on in the fight against the offshore and in order to strengthen transparency. This is because the opposition is still full of offshore affairs. Let us consider some examples other than the examples of the prime ministers mentioned above. Panama is one of the focal points of offshore activities, and it is no coincidence that the current worldwide offshore incident started because of the leaked documents. Then what do we see? It turns out that the main supporter of the Joint Party is an individual resident in Panama City who is interested in several companies registered in tax havens. It is the party whose background foundation has already received aid in the order of 100 million from foreign foundations that have taken on a public role. So it is hardly surprising that the foundation associated with the Party Together has been refusing to disclose its true supporters for some time. Of course, the only party on the left that sits to the neck in offshore cases is the MSZP. We do not just think that to date we do not know how several hundred million forints came into Gábor Simon's bank account - a foreign bank account. It was recently found that the former party banker of MSZP was also involved in offshore cases. This is a family company registered in the Samoa Islands. Typically, József Tobias, one of the current presidential candidates of the MSZP, expects László Boldvai to take care of the party's finances. We don't have any influence on, and it's not possible that the socialists are dealing with the black belt offshores, but one thing we're asking you to do is not to organize hunger sessions with them. And then we didn't even talk about MSZP's banker, János Erős, he was sitting up to his neck in the offshore. [[Dr. László Varga: These are factually false allegations!]] He was the CEO of the Hungarian Development Bank between 2002-2010, and under several left-wing governments, while he was the director of the MFB, he parked hundreds of millions abroad. There must have been a good reason why he didn't show up at the Economic Committee meeting, where he would have been asked about these matters. And, of course, here is the latest case, which is also offshore-related: according to the British authorities, during socialist governance, Alstom moved some HUF 600 million in bribes in connection with Metro 4. [[15.20]] Many circumstances are still unclear, but we already know that Péter Medgyessy landed some HUF 180 million in the account of the former Prime Minister's company for counseling, and then the substantial part of the sum migrated to his wife as a birthday present. Dear House, Jobbik is not free from the issues to be clarified, so this is one of the political offshore cases. Jobbik MEPs like to make jokes about this case, to base it, often shout funny in Parliament, but to this day we do not know exactly how much support the MEP Kovács accused of espionage has given Jobbik, what they have asked for in return, and how many others are Béla Kovács in Jobbik. It is not our job at all to distribute work to the brand-new Jobbik presidency elected under strange circumstances, but let us say that this Presidency could start by finally revealing this matter. It's not the only offshore case around Jobbik. We are well aware that a significant part of the factions of the party in intensive identity search are transferred to a mysterious consulting firm, a friend of this consultant also received public funds for study writing in the order of 10 million. Zoltán Debreczeni recently became managing director of a kft., which previously owned an offshore business. This company called Panda, Debreczeni's company, was the delivery agent. Therefore, it is clear that the ownership background here is extremely vague, so the question arises of who is really behind the better company net. Only the good guys know. Dear House, In short, it is also worth mentioning that some of the Hungarian media is also affected by offshore fibres. [[Interviews from the ranks of the MSZP: Andy Vajna! Habony!]] One of the major Internet portals was previously indirectly owned by an offshore company in Cyprus, and the delivery agent - for example - was a former left-wing Prime Minister. Several other Hungarian media owners are involved in offshore cases, one of them is the owner of numerous tabloids in addition to a large Internet portal. I mention this because we believe that clear, transparent relations are needed in the Hungarian media as well, because the opaque ownership structure creates a greater opportunity to exert pressure for business or political purposes, reclassifying the task of information. Dear House, Finally, let me also talk about the international aspects of offshore. I am doing this because it is a phenomenon against which all EU governments are fighting, not least because of tax avoidance risks. Since 2010, the principle of the Hungarian government has been that everyone should pay taxes where they work and where they do business. This is a clear and Hungarian tax principle, which is why Hungary is also active in the international fight against tax evasion. The number of tax exchange partners in Hungary is close to 100, and from 2017 data on financial account information for Hungarian residents can come from more than 70 countries in an automatic exchange of information. As I mentioned briefly, the files of millions of offshore companies have recently been released from a Panamanian law firm, and the case has several Hungarian aspects and threads. The Prime Minister therefore asked the Ministry of Interior, the Ministry of National Economy, to investigate these fibres individually. The task force has already been established and the Minister of National Economy has ordered a tax inspection. However, there is also a great need for an effective investigation to provide the necessary information for foreign partner organisations. Otherwise, this does not always take place smoothly - only if I bring up hundreds of millions of cases of Gábor Simon - and regardless of all this, the Hungarian authorities will carry out the investigations, and if there is any suspicion of lawlessness, they will take the necessary steps. Dear House, To sum up, the government is doing everything in its power to create transparent relations. The aim is to ensure that the ownership structure of companies and companies using public funds is accessible and transparent and that there is no way to circumvent tax obligations through offshore techniques. It is necessary to ensure that tax is also paid in Hungary in all cases after domestic economic activities. We regret that opposition parties full of offshore affairs cannot be expected in this fight. Thank you for your attention.
u2016-05-30-203	Thank you, Secretary of State Dömötör. I now give the floor to Mr András Tállai, State Secretary of the Ministry of National Economy.
u2016-05-30-204	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, The term offshore is most often used in the context of taxation, in the context of tax exemption, tax optimization or tax havens, which is primarily and exclusively not a national problem, but a highly international problem. Tax fraud and tax evasion limit Member States' ability to generate revenue and hinder them from implementing their economic policies. In addition to and in addition to the solutions provided by domestic legislation, the anti-offshore action also raises the need to address the problem in the framework of EU and global cooperation. Combating tax fraud and tax evasion is important both for the protection of the national budget and for the confidence of citizens in the fairness and efficiency of tax systems. It is necessary to point out that there is currently no definition in the Hungarian legal system of what can be considered offshore. I note that the concept used in the related proposals for amendment of the opposition law was not appropriate, as there are parts of the definition such as a low level, real economic activity, the content of which cannot be clearly identified. Similarly, there is neither a sufficiently substantiated nor an accepted set of criteria at international or national level to determine which legal system should be regarded as a tax haven. On this basis, constitutional regulation could be established if the offshore category could be objectively defined. Dear Parliament, In order to protect national assets and public funds, the Fundamental Law sets out the requirement for transparent management in both public funds chapters. The Fundamental Law lays down the obligation to contribute to common needs, i.e. the obligation to bear public burdens, which affects, where appropriate, the legitimate use of foreign offshore companies, by means of which the individual or the entity may avoid any otherwise binding contribution to the common needs. Detailed rules on transparent organisational quality are set out in the 2011 CXCVI on national assets. In its chapter on the principles of asset management, it also sets out the requirements for transparency in respect of companies established by the State and the local government. The 2011 CLX on public finances. Act on transparency in relation to the provision of budget support. The Aht. Chapter 29 on limitations in the use of appropriations states that a return contract with a legal person, entity without legal personality, shall not be made subject to expenditure appropriations in the central sub-scheme of general government. If such a contract has already been concluded, no payment shall be made if the entity concerned cannot be considered as a transparent organisation. There are also a number of different conflict of interest rules in the Hungarian legal system. The purpose of conflicts of interest is essentially to ensure separation of powers, guarantee impartial, uninfluenced tasks and ensure transparent and non-influenced provision of activities in the case of economic conflicts of interest rules. The following will be the experience and results of initiatives at international and EU level on this subject, measures to whiten the economy, as well as audits, in particular those carried out in close cooperation with the tax and criminal fields of the National Tax and Customs Office. Dear Parliament, With regard to the offshore phenomenon and its most important tax aspects and recent international developments, Hungary is also part of a number of recently signed international conventions that help the tax authorities to keep up-to-date information on the amounts held abroad by Hungarian residents and companies. [[15.30]] The number of tax exchange partners in Hungary exceeds 100. From 2017 data on financial account information for Hungarian residents can come to Hungary from more than 70 countries, including many tax havens. The huge amount of data expected can contribute to the effective fight against tax evasion and support our efforts to map tax avoidance as widely as possible. In order to solve offshore cases, an expert working group within the NAV started an analysis of information related to Hungary. With the entire asset system of the State Tax and Customs Authority, it systematically examines whether tax secrecy has taken place in Hungary, involving individuals and their companies. Dear Parliament, On 12 November 2013, Hungary signed the Convention on Mutual Administrative Assistance in Tax Matters. The ET-OECD Convention was jointly prepared by the Council of Europe and the OECD on 25 January 1988 and is currently part of 94 States, including many countries considered as tax havens. The agreement provides an opportunity for the Hungarian tax authority to seek information about the jurisdictions that are also signatory, which greatly increases the ability of the tax authority to detect tax evasion. In addition to the exchange of information on request, the Convention also allows the use of other forms of assistance in tax matters. These include: automatic exchange of information, spontaneous exchange of information, simultaneous tax controls and the conduct of tax controls abroad, the provision of data and assistance in the collection of tax claims. On 13 February 2014, the OECD published a report on the new comprehensive standards for the exchange of information between countries of the world, which resulted in the establishment of a common reporting standard. Under these new comprehensive standards, each country should request financial information from the financial institutions under their jurisdiction, and the data thus obtained should be sent automatically to another country on a regular basis, at specified intervals. The OECD's common reporting requirement does not contradict any other information exchange tool, in fact does not replace the exchange of information on request, but rather complements it. The common reporting requirement... - legal forms are in fact fulfilled by a multilateral agreement between the competent authorities on the automatic exchange of information on financial accounts. It may be a country which has previously signed the above-mentioned Council and OECD Convention on Europe. The agreement was signed by Hungary on 29 October 2014, which opened the possibility for Hungary to receive data on financial information automatically from more than 100 countries each year. Under the agreement, the tax authorities of the Signatory States and the Hungarian tax authority shall automatically exchange information on the accounts of customers with domestic jurisdiction in the partner State, registered in their territory, provided that both States have adequate safeguards and infrastructure for the effective exchange of information. Our country is committed to automatic tax exchange, according to which it signed the multilateral agreement on automatic tax exchange between 51 countries at the Berlin Conference in October 2014. The exchange of financial account information shall begin between the competent authorities of the signatories from 2017. Tax assistance under a multilateral agreement between the competent authorities on the exchange of country-by-country reports shall be based on the automatic exchange of annual corporate reports. With the exchange of reports sent under the agreement between States, accession to the agreement, it is possible to strengthen the processes desired by Hungary as well. The reporting obligation would be the first for 2016 data, the companies concerned would be able to submit the reports by mid-2018, and the first exchange of information between tax authorities will also take place in 2018. Advanced work is also being done on the exchange of country-by-country reports in the European Union, in which Hungary, Hungary, is also actively involved. As far as the United States of America is concerned, the USA is not one of those countries that is bound by the common reporting standard. The United States of America has indicated that it will automatically exchange information on the basis of the so-called FATCA from 2015 and has concluded intergovernmental agreements with other countries to this end. FATCA is a law voted by the United States Congress in 2010, one of the purposes of which is for the United States to collect financial account information from foreign financial institutions in respect of its own nationals. On 14 February 2014, the Government of Hungary and the Government of the United States of America concluded an intergovernmental agreement on the promotion of international tax compliance and the implementation of FATCA legislation. The Agreement is set out in Annex XIX of 2014 to this Agreement. It was published on 15 May 2014 and entered into force on 16 July of the year. The essence of the agreement is, therefore, that the identification of Hungarian financial institutions, as well as the obligation to report to and through the Hungarian state tax authority, is created to the Federal Tax Office of the United States. This obligation to identify and report applies to persons, natural persons and entities considered to be so-called specified United States of America, where they are the holders of an account covered by the FATCA Act. Dear Parliament, The OECD International Tax Centre sent the Panama Project Plan to the National Tax and Customs Office. A meeting was held in Paris on 13 April 2016 to deal with the situation arising after the leak of Panama documents and to coordinate actions in some countries, at which, of course, the National Tax and Customs Office was represented. This particular Panama project plan is divided into several parts, such as the exchange of information, a summary of identified risks and strategies to mitigate risks, a summary of the results of the project. The two main stages of the project are the exchange of information obtained from high-risk intermediaries and the development of methods to detect tax avoidance techniques of offshore companies. Prior to the publication of Panama Papers, the tax administration paid particular attention to persons with an interest in offshore companies. During the expiry period, 26 individuals and 19 companies were controlled, resulting in a total tax margin of HUF 9.1 billion. In addition to the closed inspections, the NAV reviewed the 40 581 ongoing controls, which found that 6 pieces were linked to offshore interests in some form. Cost accounting and invoicing chains have typically been identified following fictitious economic events during the ongoing audits. [[15.40]] However, the control area has in many cases been confronted with the fact that the company was wound up or simply disappeared during the procedure. The NAV primarily prepared a list of companies registered in major offshore states from the company registry and Orbis databases, which have a domestic attachment, and then started risk analysis of the Hungarian aspects. A total of 2205 companies are 532 companies registered in Panama. With regard to 68 companies in the list of taxpayers transferred by the Constitutional Protection Office, it was found that the 25 non-tax checks closed by taxpayers within the limitation period revealed a tax difference of HUF 186 million of HUF 697 thousand. Of the 91 companies in Panama Papers, only 12 have active offshore connections. The vast majority of 91 companies, 27 in the British Virgin Islands and 27 in the Seychelles and 25 in Niue islands, were related to offshore companies. Based on the information published in the press, 17 individuals and three legal persons were brought to the eyes of the tax authority. However, it was found that the press reports typically contain information on a period beyond the limitation period or no longer active relationship, so that a check could not be carried out on them. Criminal risk analysis has also been carried out for all taxpayers in relation to offshore interests. In accordance with OECD guidelines, the mapping of actors involved in the setting-up of offshore companies has also begun in Hungary. In recent years, the NAV's criminal field has conducted approximately 10-15 procedures per year and is currently conducting 25 offshore procedures, which have found that basically seven criminal behaviours can be identified. These are: real or fictitious creditors' claims were submitted during the winding-up proceedings. The following is: the perpetrators used domestic and foreign companies that did not perform real economic activities to carry out chain transactions, which hid their real owners behind offshore companies. The profit from the crime was also realised in the accounts of offshore companies. The following is: the perpetrators place offshore companies in the distribution chain, avoiding the obligation to pay taxes. The perpetrators shall attach to the application for support from the European Union or from other sources a performance invoice issued by an offshore undertaking. In relation to the account, it can be concluded that the value of the item is a multiple of the fair value of the goods. The perpetrators use offshore businesses for transactions capable of concealing the origin of criminal property. Last time, domestic businesses are trying to legalize their cash transactions through a loan agreement issued by offshore companies. Dear Parliament, In conclusion, the European integration process has led to a closer concentration of Member States' economies, leading to an increase in cross-border transactions, while reducing their costs and risks. This process has brought huge benefits to EU citizens and businesses, but it has brought new challenges to national tax authorities in terms of cooperation and information exchange. We can strengthen the fight against tax fraud and tax evasion through a coordinated approach at national level and at EU level, where decisive action is needed. With the European Union's comprehensive toolbox, Member States can fight more effectively, which could result in less tax fraud and tax evasion restricting Member States' ability to generate revenue in the implementation of their economic policies. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-05-30-205	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The speeches will now be held by the representatives, the first of which will be held by keynote speakers, within 15-15 minutes of each group of representatives. First, I give the floor to Mr Erik Bánki, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2016-05-30-206	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Madam and Lords, Fellow Members! At the beginning of the debate day, I think it is worth clarifying the definition that we are talking about, because when most of the Hungarian people hear that offshore company or even this word is offshore, they think that it must be something sinful and something to be persecuted. Of course, they are partly right about this, but the concept itself should be clarified and known in order to see what opportunities we have to limit the harmful functioning of these companies and, if possible, to eliminate them. The concept itself, the offshore, if translated literally, means something far from the coast; it was basically used in the Anglo-Saxon territories, both in Britain and in the United States, to classify companies that fell outside the borders of the state, and obviously in a completely different legal order, working under different tax conditions and other rules, they were able to create a more favourable environment for both farming and taxation. The biggest problem is that today neither domestic nor EU legislation has a definition that would enable offshore to describe itself, and legislation that could limit the operation of companies that are registered in countries that have a favourable tax system or a waiver of ownership or an administrative relief can be regarded as offshore tomatoes. Hungary is committed to narrowing down the scope of companies wishing to take their income generated in Hungary abroad, mainly in order to pay cheaper taxes, or in order not to see who the real owners at the end of the company have obtained this result, these profits. All Hungarian citizens and us, in particular, Members of Parliament, must be aware that in Hungary, after there is a freedom of contract, it cannot be prohibited for any Hungarian citizen or company to set up a foreign company or acquire ownership in a foreign company. Thus, the fact that in Hungary a Hungarian company or Hungarian private individuals have foreign-owned businesses cannot be persecuted in this sense alone, even if those companies are registered in countries that exhaust the offshore category for the reasons already listed. There are three important things that could be an advantage for an offshore company or its owners. One and perhaps the most important is the tax facilitation, the other is that the owners do not have to be listed in these countries, and the third, to which I referred, administrative relaxation or facilitation, which can also be an advantage for the owners in terms of operation. Hungary is also at the forefront in the European Union of countries that have done everything at the level of legislation in recent years in order to limit companies that are trying to benefit from these three areas. In particular, we can obviously fight against the loss of transparency, so that companies contact the Hungarian state where it is not visible who owns the company. In this, Hungary is exemplary, since we in the Constitution, the Fundamental Law, laid down that contracts relating to national assets, i.e. neither sales nor asset management contracts, can be concluded with a company, a company whose owners are not public. We have also stated in the Fundamental Law that companies in which the owners are not public cannot be contracted to receive budgetary support. [[15.50]] Accordingly, with reference to the Fundamental Law, both in the Hungarian National Property Act and in the Public Finance Act, these legal requirements have been transposed, and to date, no contract can be concluded with these companies. We believe that further tightening of this is still to be expected. The same decisions have been made by the municipalities over the past period, so I have to say that these companies have been successfully excluded from the use of public funds. Why was that necessary? This was necessary because opaque companies are not only a risk because we do not see who the result from tax is, but also because, unfortunately, they do not want to reveal them not only from economic interests, but also from other interests, because they can belong to terrorist organisations, or they can be owned by foreign interest groups wishing to weaken the political system or economic system of other countries. The question is whether if we have managed to regulate transparency and we have managed to do everything possible to push out those players whose real ownership background cannot be explored from here, we will be able to achieve results on the front of taxation. Unfortunately, we are not doing well yet, because not only in our country, but in the European Union as a whole, they have not found a solution to limit the transfer of profits generated in that country abroad and to tax them in a much more favourable tax system. However, the Hungarian government has also achieved significant results in this area, as we have reduced the tax burden every year since 2010, with companies below HUF 500 million's turnover falling by 10 per cent to 15 per cent and personal income tax to 15 per cent, so we have been able to establish a favourable tax regime in Europe, which would otherwise mean that Hungary is also a tax haven in Denmark, Norway or Sweden. That was our goal. We wanted to reduce the tax burden, and the government and the Fidesz and KDNP factions are committed to further tax and contribution reductions to reach the psychological threshold where it is no longer worth extracting the tax either through offshore companies or through foreign interests, but it is worth paying taxes in Hungary under such favourable conditions. I think that we have set an example for Europe in this area, too. Let us look at what else we have done in the field of economic whitening. Mr Tállai, State Secretary, said that the measures taken over the past period, either through the introduction of the online cash register system or the introduction of the electronic road traffic control system, the EKAER, have produced very significant results. With the introduction of the scheme, fictitious freight transport or unpaid VAT obligations have become easier to detect and demonstrate. We have been able to expel international tax fraud networks from Hungary that have previously damaged the budget by hundreds of billions. In the case of online cash registers, the country has 217 thousand cash registers and, where they have been introduced so far, there has been a marked increase in reported legal traffic and therefore an increase in tax revenues. Last year alone, there was 60 billion forints of extra income. In 2015, if we aggregate the results achieved by the EKÁER system and the online cash register system, the overall revenue of public finances increased by HUF 550 billion by 2015. This means that we could spend more money on health care, education, welfare measures and Hungarian citizens. The increase in the results of the economy over the past period has also enabled us to lay the foundations for tax reductions. Let us not forget, ladies and gentlemen, that Hungary has also been at the forefront of Europe's economic growth in recent years, not to mention that every year since 2010, we have kept our public finances below 3 percent. In total, there are three EU Member States that have been able to reduce their budget deficits over the last three years, maintain this level below 3 per cent, while also producing significant economic growth. Fortunately, Hungary was among these three countries. In recent years, profitability has also improved in the financial field. It is clear that the banks have also recovered from the period of economic crisis, so funding has also started. We hope that the credit market will grow by several hundred billion HUF this year, which will further strengthen the engine of the economy. According to our calculations, next year's budget will receive HUF 270 billion for education, HUF 167 billion for health care, HUF 155 billion for social security and welfare, and HUF 66 billion for culture. We wouldn't have been able to do this or we wouldn't have been able to do it if we hadn't been able to achieve a significant increase in revenue for the Hungarian budget by bleaching the economy. And speaking of a European outlook, ladies and gentlemen, let us see what we can expect from the European Commission. As I said, in order to limit international tax evasion, the European Commission itself has proposed to the European Parliament to set up a special committee and to address how the practice of multinational companies that will be taxed in another country offering more favourable tax conditions could be limited. I look forward to the European Commission's attitude, as we all know that Jean-Claude Juncker is the President of the European Commission, who has been the finance minister and then the Prime Minister of Luxembourg, the largest tax haven in Europe for many years. Today, the figures that, during its former prime ministership, said that Luxembourg had granted special discounts to some 500 large groups of companies, resulting in a turnover of $95 billion in Luxembourg, of which a total tax of $1 billion was paid. Ladies and gentlemen, this is less than 1.1 percent. As long as such practices can be implemented in any Member State of the European Union, it is very difficult to talk about the restriction of tax avoidance. I am very confident that the good robber will be the best pandur; the President of the European Commission knows the tax avoidance methods against which he must now fight as President of the Commission. I would very much like to see meaningful results in this. They promise to come up with a concrete package of proposals within a few months and put them on the table of the European Commission. Minister of State Csaba Dömötör said that news has appeared in the Hungarian media from week to week that offshore companies are also behind the Hungarian media empire. We do not consider it fortunate that behind media that influence domestic publicity there are foreign offshore companies that we do not know about, and which we do not know what type of economic groups they intend to serve by informing the Hungarian public not about the real situation, but by providing news that can support their economic or political interests. Therefore, we would also like them to announce themselves who the real owners are behind the media and to announce what kind of foreign funds, foundations or companies they have received support from in the past period. Mr Secretary of State also spoke about the problems and problems faced by the Hungarian opposition in the offshore area. Speaking of MSZP, they were the lead in this, since all of their former prime ministers had offshore companies except for Gyula Horn. Mr. Csaba Dömötör spoke of Péter Medgyessy's Alstom scandal; we know that the apartment of Gordon Bajnai was also owned by an offshore company in which he lived; he was the head of an offshore company himself; just like Ferenc Gyurcsány, who we do not know from which sources he founded his company in Luxembourg until today. Today's news is that one of the main contributors to the Joint is the owner of several offshore companies, which are partly registered in Cyprus and partly in the British Virgin Islands. The thing is, he lives in Panama himself. Here, too, we look forward to seeing what money and where it flowed towards the Ensemble. And let's not forget the Jobbik. It has also been said today that Béla Kovács's case is one of the biggest scandals in Europe today, because we do not even know where Béla Kovács received the money, how he moved them, how they got to Jobbik. As the latest news from the past few days is that the owners of the company Panda also own offshore companies, and if we have good information, they are in the vicinity of party president Gábor Vona. [[16.00]] Let us not forget András Simor, who, as central bank president, parked HUF 800 million in the account of an offshore company, and it took the opposition a great deal of effort to get him to bring his money home, to set an example for Hungarian businesses. So there's plenty of scandal. I think that the results, the steps that the Hungarian Government has taken in recent years, are also outstanding at European level. What I can promise you is that if there are any substantive proposals today, we can convince the government to accept them and incorporate them into its legislative proposals. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-05-30-207	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to Mr Bertalan Tóth, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group. [[Dr. István Tiba will be replaced in the notary seat by Attila Gelencsér.]]
u2016-05-30-208	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, allow me to congratulate the representatives of the government and my fellow Fidesz, who spoke before me, on their wonderful acting. They weren't all knockers, though. You seem to have made your speech quite as if you would believe what you were talking about. As if they believed that the Government of Viktor Orbán had indeed taken action to combat offshore companies and former evil offshore knights, to fight to whiteen the economy and to increase the transparency of public finance management. Seriously, all of this sounded believable, and I was almost emotional in the appreciation of the Orbán government's measures to increase transparency. It's a shame that all this is a cynical lie, the reality is quite different. If we turn down the sound of the propagandaistery and see what actually happened in this area under the government of Fidesz, then we see that there is a difference between heaven and earth between government horse-zung and real action. Ladies and gentlemen, I agree with Erik Bánki that the operation of offshore businesses in Hungary and in the European Union is not yet against the law, but the offshore background itself becomes a corruption phenomenon when public funds migrate to tax havens. When we see that the laws that you have mentioned to make public money management more transparent are in vain if they are not complied with or there are no consequences for their violation. Fidesz regularly legislates against the anti-corruption defence system. I am thinking here about the Trafik law, land leases, casinos, but as an topicality you can talk about the postal law, the legal proposal that encrypts the affairs of the foundations of the Hungarian National Bank, and then failed at the Constitutional Court. But we can talk about the provision in the salad law on which the budget is based that you want to hide what public companies are getting, how they are getting, and, in the case of energy companies, they intend to encrypt these data, contracts for 5 or even 30 years, and thus conceal how the public corporate sector works. You would, in your heart, hide everything, and if you happen to get caught, you still have Attorney General Péter Polt, who either doesn't prosecute because he thinks the perpetrators are too clever or because you're involved. Ladies and gentlemen, Viktor Orbán, your Prime Minister, once said in a narrow circle that you should not listen to what he says, but what he does. So it is not important to pay attention to what Antal Rogán's propagandaistery is saying in our ears, and not to what measures the Government of Viktor Orbán has taken to whiten the economy and increase the transparency of public finance management, but to what is real. If you could seriously believe what the representatives of the government and Fidesz are talking about, if the government took the fight against offshore seriously, then today would not be Minister Antal Rogán, Miklós Seszták, Péter Szijjártó and László Trócsányi. There wouldn't be a government commissioner Andy Vajna, there wouldn't be a central bank president György Matolcsy, there wouldn't be a settlement bond business in this form, and there wouldn't have been a system of Stability savings accounts as a public money laundry. The MET case would not have been the case, the State would not have dealt with Quaestor, and perhaps it would not have been a Quaestor case, it would not have been an indirect owner in any of the interests of Magyar Posta, partly a company with a Panamanian background, and Lajos Simicska's interests should not have been filled with European Union or state resources before. In addition to the previous ones, many others, government officials, businessmen and advisors close to the Prime Minister, would obviously be sensitive if you really did what you were talking about. I would like to clarify two sentences that have been mentioned by both the Secretary of State and my fellow Member. It is about the fact that public procurement will no longer allow companies with an opaque ownership background to obtain public orders. This is true: all you have to do is make a statement that he is the real owner. But that still leaves this company an offshore company, so the risk of tax evasion is the same. The other thing that was mentioned is that the law on national assets indeed states that no Hungarian state company with an opaque ownership structure can enter into contracts unless it is approved by its superior body or even by its owner. This is how, in the MET case, when the subsidiary of the Hungarian Electricity Company, the MVM Partner, concluded a contract with the offshore company, this was approved by the MVM owner or by the board of directors of the MVMP, so the contract could be concluded. So in legislation, they always hide a loophole with which these big statements fail, because they can still enter into contracts with these companies. But we could also talk about whether our fellow Member János Kerényi has anything to fear - I do not see him here in the Chamber of Parliament - there is something to fear from former Fidesz MEP Zsolt Horváth - it has been said that there will be serious NAV investigations here - or even the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Interior of Tibor Pogácsás, who also have an offshore interest. Ladies and gentlemen, But let us take a look at the way in which the government of Viktor Orbán or the central bank led by György Matolcsy helped or helped offshore companies operate. Here, for example, is the first place in the residency bond business linked to Antal Rogán, also known as the net theft without added value. As you know, this is the story that the Hungarian State grants a residence permit to certain third-country people and their family members for HUF 75-90 million. The real problem is that for an incomprehensible reason, the state involves offshore brokerage companies based on opaque procedural criteria. The essence of the construction is that the Fidesz majority Economic Committee of the Parliament has decided which companies will be the intermediaries. These companies record and retain the settlement government bond with a maturity of five years at a discount price. The State is therefore indebted to offshore companies. Intermediary companies also hand over some kind of company paper to those who wish to enter the EU and settle in Hungary, which at the end of the fifth year may require the persons who have obtained a residence permit against the offshore company. Of course, only if the company still exists or can be invented. On the sale of one of these bonds, the offshore company concerned could have made up to HUF 25 million. So far, thousands have been sold, so the players behind the intermediary companies could earn up to HUF 100 billion in profit. Obviously, Antal Rogán could tell you in detail about the informed selection if he wanted to, and if he were here. From the publicly available documents it is only apparent that there was no tender, the first was the later largest intermediary company, HSSDF in the Cayman Islands, who were accidentally known by Rogán, looking at them, and they were very reassured by the names, some of which were also listed at such a level that serious people, listed businessmen, and their biographies were impressive. And that's all the committee's gonna do. According to uncontested press reports, the presence of Árpád Habony, the prime minister's large-footed informal advisor with an incomprehensible financial background, can be detected in the background of several companies selling settlement bonds. In view of this, it is particularly amusing, which Mihály Varga replied to a written question in which I asked whether he was not disturbed by the confusion of business between the state and offshore companies, such as the sale of settlement bonds. [[16.10]] He replied then: as Minister, I consider it very important that everything in the area entrusted to me be clear, clear and transparent. This is particularly true of the operation of public companies. The government has already achieved significant results in this area over the past four years, as it has brought new laws and legislation into order in previous chaos. The government's measures have enabled greater protection of national assets, more transparency in asset management and public procurement. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. [[He replaced Adam Mirkóczki in the notary seat as Loránt Hegedűs.]] Miklós Seszták's answer to a similar question is even more funny or sadder:. The government's intention towards offshore companies is clear, says Miklós Seszták, and has been consistently reflected in both legislation and the contractual practice of state wealth management for four years. The Public Finance Act states that offshore companies cannot obtain public funds unless they announce their backup owners and unless their contracts are approved by a superior body. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Increased protection of national wealth therefore means that the state is indebted to offshore companies and provides them with inaccessible business with a profit of ten billion, which is being paid by Hungarian taxpayers and ordinary people, and that is to say, public money. So if you, fellow Members, believe that today offshore companies cannot obtain public money in Hungary, then I would like to send you a message from this point: but, indeed, the government will reward those who may have taken their assets abroad or run their money away from domestic tax rules into offshore companies, because there is a stability, savings account where the money will be brought in, and in a year's time they will be able to take it with favourable taxation, no one will ask where it came from, and these people will pay much less taxes than teachers or even any working person in Hungary. And while we are talking about the relocation of offshore companies to the state, let me mention the MET case once again, which was about the fact that, for years, the subsidiary of the Hungarian Electricity Works has been able to highlight a certain amount of gas, it has been given the opportunity to bring in cheaper gas from Austria to replace it, and instead of doing so, it has played this opportunity to an offshore company, MET, and for years it has released nearly a hundred billion dollars in profits to MET Zrt. And since I mentioned Miklós Seszták based on his statement about offshore companies, it is worth examining the former work of the minister when he was still on the other side, because the press found a number of companies that are related to the minister and are offshore. We should have thought, when it was appointed, that the best pandurian saying would prevail, but in the case of the Orbán government, this turn of events would not have happened. And we cannot pass the biggest broker scandal in Hungary, besides the Quaestor case, because Quaestor was also an offshore company, with the leaders of which Viktor Orbán, Péter Szijjártó, Antal Rogán and many other Fidesz politicians were very often present at various events and events. We know that the entire palette is already covered by the ownership of Quaestor companies, in Liechtenstein, Panama, Delaware, Virgin Islands, so it can be classified as the ownership background of Quaestor, the state is happy to do business with Quaestor, and the Fidesz municipalities have also invested hundreds of billions at Quaestor during the various investments. And then, of course, we can't leave without a word in addition to the contracts of the MNB foundations with offshore companies: luxury castle with a premium of 100 billion, but I could also mention the Eiffel Palace case, which was previously announced for EUR 31 million, and then it was purchased for EUR 45 million, leaving a significantly greater profit for an offshore-owned company. I would like to point out here that the valuation of this Eiffel Palace sale was made by the Grand and Trocsányi Law Office for a very small amount of money, so the attorney's office, which is currently in operation, has prepared the valuation based on which the foundation of the National Bank has lost so much profit and the offshore-owned company has benefited so much. And what happens if anyone press charges at the D.A.'s office? We saw it at TIG Zrt.: either there is no causal relationship, or someone's consciousness doesn't get through something, and it is certain that no procedure will start, nothing will have any consequences. These sound words can be said, you can refer to the beautiful economic indicators, but we can see that in the surroundings of Viktor Orbán there is offshore Andy Vajna, with Zoltán Spéder at the FHB group, the Rogán bond transactions, and could be classified and classified. The legislation is worthless if it is not respected. Thank you very much.
u2016-05-30-209	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to Congressman Imre Vejkey, the lead speaker of the Group of the Christian Democratic People's Party.
u2016-05-30-210	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Allow me to draw your attention from the philosophical memory of the Christian Democrats to the guiding thread of three things that you should bear in mind before you act: where you come from, where you go and who you must account for the actions of your life, that is to say, in all circumstances, we must bear in mind who we are, what we represent, that is, our identity. We need to know that identity is not a primary definition, because, on the one hand, while it is horizontal and vertical, on the other, it can be ethnic, religious, cultural and geographical. So everyone has a specific identity, even if he denies it, or if he doesn't recognize it, because he lives in a rootless society. So does the socialists, the liberals, the greens, the anarchists, and just like us Christian democrats, we have an identity, which is basically a national Christian and affects all aspects of our lives. Thus, there is also an economic policy aspect of our identity, which can best be summarised in the Rerum novarum encyclical: on the one hand, we are criticising the economic policy based on Marxism, but also criticising the purely capitalist economic policy system; on the other hand, we support the arrangement that encourages the state to play a prominent role in the economy. So our Christian Democratic identity is based on the rejection of class struggle, as well as individualist liberalism, in such a way that we regard organic development and social peace as the central value at the centre of which is created man. Ladies and Gentlemen, Civil society has created the social contract, the essence of which is that, in order to achieve a higher level of civilization, the people are contracted with the state to achieve common goals. Therefore, members of society pay the statutory share of the goods they produce, i.e. they pay taxes, and the State maintains and protects its citizens, and, through the redistribution system, they return amounts to those entitled to do so. Because of the above, tax evasion, whether through offshore or otherwise, directly affects all members of society, because if less taxes are paid than required under tax law, less resources will be available to carry out joint tasks, as the tax is the most important source of revenue for the state's budget. For all these reasons, the issue of offshore and tax avoidance is one of the most important issues of our social and community existence, which is also extremely complex. In the area of tax law, compliance is a social adjustment that is the result of the effects of external legal, economic and social consequences on the one hand, and of the internal effects resulting from the morality of the individual on the other. We, Christian Democrats, agree with the Master's teachings, believe that you should give Caesar's things to Caesar and to God's things to God. [[16.20]] Ladies and Gentlemen, We, Christian Democrats, are of the opinion that only those countries and the Europe that restores Christian values, Christian ethics, into the everyday tissues of their economic and social lives will be viable. We created a new Fundamental Law that begins with God's name. We look at Hungary and Europe on the basis of Szent István, recognising Christian roots as an important element of European identity. We believe that the future of our continent, and thus the future of the so-called Western world, is or will fail to see whether Europe will succeed in stepping out of christophobia, that is to say, questioning the Christian roots on which it is based. Ladies and Gentlemen, On this basis, we see the essence of economic law-making and thus the essence of the operation of the entire Hungarian economy in that in the spirit of the common good we must promote the development of the lives of our fellow citizens on the basis of justice, not in the interests of the majority or minority. This is why we have seen it necessary to lay down in the Fundamental Law the requirement of transparent management for the protection of national assets and public funds. Pursuant to Article 38 (4) of the Fundamental Law, a contract relating to the transfer or exploitation of national assets may be concluded only with an organisation whose ownership structure, structure and activities relating to the management of the transferred or transferred national assets are transparent. Pursuant to Article 39 (1) of the Fundamental Law, payments may be made from the central budget only to entities whose ownership structure, structure and activities for the use of the aid are transparent. In addition, Article 40 of the Fundamental Law states that the contribution to common needs, i.e. the obligation to bear general public burdens, is an obligation. This clearly affects foreign offshore companies, because through offshore companies, the Hungarian citizen or entity can avoid the otherwise mandatory public burden, i.e. the contribution to the common needs. Ladies and Gentlemen, In view of the general public burden-sharing, it was also considered necessary that the 2011 CXCVI on national assets. Act 3 contains detailed rules on transparent organisational quality, which are laid down in Article 3 of the Act. Paragraph 1 (1) is defined as follows. 1. The State, the budgetary body, the public body, the local government, the national government, the association, the ecclesiastical legal person, an economic entity in which the State or the local government holds a 100% stake separately or together, a public limited company established for the regulated market of the international organisation, the foreign State, the foreign local authority, the foreign state or local government and the State party to the Agreement on the European Economic Area. 2. A domestic or foreign legal person, or an entity without legal personality, which meets the following conditions: ownership structure, effective owner of the money laundering and the prevention and prevention of terrorist financing, as defined in the law on the prevention and prevention of money laundering; if it has a tax jurisdiction in the Member State of the European Union, in the State party to the Agreement on the European Economic Area, in the Member State of the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development or in a State with which Hungary has an agreement on the prevention of double taxation; or if it does not qualify as a controlled foreign company determined in accordance with the Act on corporation tax and dividend taxation; or a legal person directly or indirectly having more than 25 per cent ownership, influence or voting rights, and as regards an entity without legal personality, the conditions set out in the preceding points; a civil organisation and a water company which meets the following conditions: its leading officials are known; a civil organisation and a water company, and their leading officers do not have a holding in a non-transparent organisation; its registered seat in the Member State of the European Union, in the State of the Agreement on the European Economic Area, in the Member State of the Member State of the Member State of the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development or in which the State of Hungary has a State with which it has a dual taxation. Ladies and Gentlemen, On this basis, it can be concluded that we have formed laws under which the State and the local government cannot establish an economic company, on the basis of inheritance or legal provision, and, with the exception of the holding acquired in return for the claim, can not acquire a participation in an economic company which is not transparent by any of its members. Ladies and Gentlemen, Due to the generalisation of public burden-sharing, it was also considered necessary that the 2011 CXCV on public finances. Legal provisions on transparency should also be included in relation to the provision of budget support. The Aht. Chapter 29 on limits to the use of appropriations Paragraph 6 states that in the central sub-scheme of public finances, no contract with a legal person, entity without legal personality, or payment which is not a transparent organisation may be made on the basis of such a contract, may be entered into at the expense of expenditure appropriations. XXXVI of 2012 on the National Assembly We have also established a ban on company or shareholder positions in the company in the event that the company is not considered transparent under law as a rule of conflict of interest in relation to the mandate of its representatives. XLIII of 2010 on central government administrations and the status of members of the government and State Secretarys. We have laid down rules on conflicts of interest with regard to political leaders. We still have reserves here, because the economic conflict of interest covers the senior official or supervisory board member, but does not cover membership shares or shareholder positions. In addition to the above conflict of interest provisions, we have also established the 2011 CXCIV on public service officials. Act No CLXII of 2011 on professional leaders, government officials, civil servants and employees in the public administration and on the status and remuneration of judges. Act CLXIV of 2011 on the status of the Attorney General, prosecutors and other public prosecutors. In law, too. Ladies and Gentlemen, It is clear from all this that, over the last six years, the Fidesz-KDNP majority parliament has established a number of conflict of interest rules in order to strengthen democracy. The purpose of conflicts of interest is essentially to ensure separation of powers, to guarantee impartial, non-influenced tasks and to ensure transparent and non-influenced activities in the case of economic conflicts of interest rules. With regard to the prohibition of shareholder or member participation in offshore companies, it is necessary to highlight that there is currently no definition in the Hungarian legal system of what can be considered offshore. [[Dr. András Schiffer: We've determined.]] The concept used in the related opposition legislative proposals, dear Member Schiffer, was inadequate [[Dr. András Schiffer: Why?]] as there are parts of the definition such as a low level, real economic activity, the content of which cannot be clearly identified. Similarly, the presumption for each country is not well founded. [[16.30]] There is no established set of criteria at international or national level for which a legal system should be regarded as a tax haven. On this basis, constitutional regulation could be established if the offshore category could be objectively created. Ladies and Gentlemen, The national Christian government of Fidesz-KDNP was the first to make it mandatory that companies starting in public procurements should be transparent and declare their final owner. Previously, the Balliberal parties, the Balliberal side, did not lift a finger to ensure that only transparent companies had access to public funds. We are convinced that the ongoing investigations - because we know that there are countless investigations - will be successful, although there is no doubt that in some cases foreign partner organisations are not always willing to cooperate. Despite the problems mentioned above, the competent Hungarian bodies carry out their tasks at a high level, investigations are being carried out, so they will initiate liability against those who have not complied with the laws of our country. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-05-30-211	Thank you very much, Congressman Vejkey. I now give the floor to Mr Gábor Vona, leader of the Group of Jobbik.
u2016-05-30-212	Mr President, Dear Parliament, After the foundation of Church History and Social Philosophy, my fellow Member Vejkey prepared a very professional, ground-bound speech. There is something symbolic about the fact that six years after the establishment of the second Orbán government, we had to get together here for such a debate day, because the Prime Minister said that this government should have started a huge battle against the offshore knights, which, of course, did not happen. The then electoral promises and the Prime Minister's cab revolutionary heat in the majority of society, of course, especially in the voters of Fidesz-KDNP, gave the impression that there would be some substantial change in this issue, but, as in many other things, there was no end to abuses, the age of stromanes and the age of offshore practices. On 10 May 2010, at the inaugural meeting of the National Assembly, Viktor Orbán inspired his followers here in Parliament:, We will overcome the real estate problems, the techniques of abuse of power, and the attempts to escape responsibility. We will defeat the practices of the offshore knights and undeserved government payments. We will defeat corruption and waste of the nation's capital. We will overcome the past, because Hungary has decided uniformly to defeat it. - Very nice words. - Mm-hmm. The momentum, if at all there was momentum and true intention behind these words, was very quickly broken. This quote has already been mentioned here, but it really wants to come here, Mr.Orbán himself said during one of his diplomatic negotiations that we should not look at what he says, but what he does; that is basically a very political statement of the lie. What happened was that after that, those words remained completely infertile. The detection of economic abuses, the accountability of those responsible have been cancelled, and the tax forints that migrated into private pockets to serious hundreds and thousands of billions have not been returned to the state register, and instead we are witnessing all-inclusive, industrial-scale corruption. Fidesz, which promised clean hands before 2010, now controls the country with dirtier hands than its predecessors. For most of the offshore transactions that have come to light are the starting point of corruption, because it is one of the best ways for you to hide money that you have illegally acquired at the expense of public wealth. Corruption and offshoreing are basically - whatever euphemistics they are - related to each other as mother to her child, one parent to another, corruption is the birth of offshore play, where offshore play is, there is corruption, and where there is corruption, sooner or later there will be offshore play. It is true that in 2012 you, by drawing up laws to protect the Fundamental Law and related state assets, apparently excluded opaque organisations from receiving public funds, but the essential word and expression in the whole sentence is that it seems to be, so unfortunately, this expression is the emphasis here. What happened in practice was that regardless of the provisions they created themselves, ignoring them, rather than changing the relationship between the state and the offshore world, they allowed even greater scope for such abuses. It was Jobbik who was the first to lead the fight against offshore mugs, we set up an expert task force, and what you may remember, we addressed a series of questions to the Cabinet at the beginning of 2013, so the question was: what kind of ownership structures do organisations benefit from the funds provided jointly by the European Regional Development Fund and Hungary's budget? With our questions we have been bombing government politicians, government leaders for many months, we have revealed to you organisations listed in Cyprus, the Marshall Islands, Gibraltar, Seychelles and other exotic countries with unknown owners, which, despite multiple legal bans, have received EU grants of HUF 10 billion. Although we have never actually received a meaningful answer to our questions, we have nevertheless achieved that after a while the government was already unable to maintain the situation, and perhaps it was due to it and thanks to it that all the development policy functions related to the use of EU development resources were withdrawn from the Ministry of National Development, former Minister Lászlóné Németh. At that time, Ágnes Molnár, State Secretary for Development and Deputy State Secretary, Györgyi Nyikos, was forced to leave the government, and finally the National Development Agency itself was abolished. Needless to say, the situation has not been resolved since then, on the one hand, we still do not know who has actually received support through these offshore organisations, nor do we even know if these amounts have been repaid at all. Despite the lack of practical results, we recognise that on 1 April 2014, the Prime Minister, who is leading the Prime Minister's Office, may or may not have published at least the results of his own investigation, confirming the truth of Jobbik's claims. But from this point on, the story came even more dramatic and even more shocking, because, among my honourable pro-government colleagues, the 260 companies, which the Prime Minister's Office has named as an opaque organization, we find dozens of those that are still rich in state orders: the largest public bodies such as the National Police Headquarters, the background institution of the Gyemsi, the Hungarian National Bank, the Financial, Stability and Settlement Nonprofit Kft., the State Health Services Services Services Support and Asset Management Fund, and now let us hold on to all - not many of us - to all of us - to the Directorate-General for Public Procurement and Supply, as well. [[Interventions in the lines of Jobbik and MSZP: Ay! Wow! Unbelievable!]] More than once in a negotiated procedure without notice, which in Hungarian means that offshore organisations are invited to tender directly. So no matter what kind of investigation, any list of shame you're putting together, corruption, abuse, offshore operations continue to go on undisturbed. It is obvious - and this must also be said - that none of this can happen except with the approval of the Cabinet and, in particular, the Prime Minister himself. Nothing proves that better than HM EI Zrt. The case of Dr. Maróth Gáspár, Chairman of the Board of Directors. The Chairman of the Board of Directors of the state company of more than 4,000 people has offshore relations that neither himself nor the competent minister have refuted, and even confirmed those words directly in mid-2016. Six years after the declaration of war against the offshore knights, he gave us the following reply in writing when it was discovered that the chairman of the board of directors of the largest back-up institution was off-shore; I quote: "The Ministry of Defence does not have any information at its disposal to show that Dr. Gáspár Maróth's business relations would be incompatible with filling his post or would pose a security risk. So, according to the official opinion, if today the senior officials of public organisations with billion-dollar public funds are also involved in offshore businesses, they are not at all a security risk or a conflict of interest. All indications point to XX. The parties of the century are simply unable to resist the temptation of the offshore. The names of Ferenc Gyurcsány, Gordon Bajnai, János Veres, László Puch are similarly well-known: Miklós Seszták, Andy Vajna, Zsolt Horváth and János Kerényi. János Kerényi, who, to my knowledge, is not only still a Member of Parliament, but also the regional director of the Fidesz political party in Central Hungary, is the one who recently turned out to be interested in almost the entire family's offshore organizations. While the Prime Minister, as I have repeatedly referred to, is fighting offshore knights, he seems to overlook this in his narrowest environment, among his top advisors. On 28 March 2013, the Prime Minister said the following, and I will quote again from him: "The Hungarians, Honourable House, are also determined to push the trick out of the use of public funds. It is almost unanimous that Hungarian taxpayers' money cannot be disposed of through offshore companies, for example, as it has become a daily practice in the previous era. Now, with regard to János Kerényi, it seems that this almost unanimous social expectation does not oblige the Prime Minister to continue the day-to-day practice of previous or previous governments, as he puts it. The most painful thing about this phenomenon, my fellow Members, is that you are also trying to idealise this, and they say that it is actually the strengthening of the national capital class, which is in the interest of the nation. [[16.40]] What we call corruption is actually the essence of Fidesz. "You," said one of your chief ideologists. So, actually, we should be happy about this, and we don't see the historical process, the social justice that you're allowed to do here in the context of corruption offshore. So it is not just that talented and talented businessmen, through opaque offshore organizations, are extracting and avoiding the tax liability, but unfortunately it is also a matter of pumping out tax forints paid specifically by Hungarian people through offshore operations. This current government needs this practice in order to hide from the eyes of the country the unfair use of unauthorized subsidies, multiple overpriced government orders. I think the above examples also show that it would be a legitimate social expectation that you would follow Jobbik's example of offshore operations. [[Intercoms from the pro-government benches. István Hollik: We do not want to follow that!]] Because we were the party - and it is worth paying attention now, because I see that we have moved it, too, Mr Happy Member, and I am very pleased to do so, but I will give you the opportunity to see more recovery - when Jobbik's representatives made public with us the declaration of wealth of family members living in our household, for example, we have offered you the opportunity to do the same. We've been waiting ever since, but you didn't dare do that. [[Happy Stephen: Mine is public!]] Then, when the broker scandal broke out, Jobbik's group also declared their criminal liability, knowing that we did not extract money from the brokerage companies. We wanted you to be small, whether Erik Bánki or István Happy, or our fellow Members to do so, that you didn't get any money out of the brokerage companies before they fell for it, because it's a crime. You didn't comment on that either. And now, when the offshore scandal keeps the world on fire, we have declared that we are not involved in any offshore business, and not just us, but our family. You are not willing to comment on this either. You, too, my fellow Member, have the opportunity to do so, so let's wait for the paper you dare to sign. Because let's think with common sense: by refusing to sign a paper that neither I nor my family are involved in offshore companies, what do you think they prove to Hungarian citizens? They wouldn't dare sign a paperwork saying that it wasn't me or my family. With this, I'll tell you, it proves that there are some of you who are involved, it's that simple, you prove that. You're supposed to represent the public interest at all times, but that's not what you're doing, hiding behind offshore companies and trombones, baking your steaks at the expense of the nation. In addition, the abuse of the Hungarian economy will also cause an amazing amount of damage, which will clearly also be reflected in the data of the Hungarian economy. But even more dangerous than that is that this mentality that you show, and this kind of indulgent, often arrogant style that masks your own dirty affairs, is slowly leaking down into the various tissues of society. We can't even really assess the harmful effects of this. Not to mention the kind of corruption, the kind of political attitude you show, how contrasted it is with the Hungarian entrepreneurial society, because it says to Hungarian entrepreneurs that you can't just kick the ball if someone enters your dirty network. These issues are now a serious issue on an international level, and you should also slowly realise that you cannot lead a country and a nation on an ongoing basis with such matters. Believe me, now you think you can afford anything, but sooner or later, the moment of truth will come. You are now digging your own grave with these cases, and in 2018, if we finally cross this long XX. From the 21st century to the 21st century And the Jobbik will replace the current government. [[Dr. Pál Völner: You said that four years ago.]] , then the XXI. The first and most important task of the 100th century government must be to eliminate, settle and end your dirty affairs, your stooges, your corruption, your offshore affairs and every corruption case of XX. It's a company that you still like to swim in. But don't swim in it, because I'd like to tell you that it's a swamp. So it would be good to get Hungary out of this swamp. We're not sure we're gonna get you out of this swamp. But let's make one thing clear: when you accuse us or anyone of off-shoreing, an owl talks to a sparrow that's a big head. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Intercoms from Jobbik: That's right! A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2016-05-30-213	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Mr András Schiffer, leader of the LMP Group. [[Sallai R. Benedict: Give it to them!]]
u2016-05-30-214	Thank you for the floor. Mr. President. Dear Parliament, At the time when the May Other Group of Politics initiated this debate day, it was not in our mind that this debate day was about the XX. The Hungarian parties of the 20th century tried to clean their own laundry with each other's dirty laundry. We initiated this debate day because, globally and at national level, if it is a strategic issue, a question of fate, it is how we can eliminate tax havens. Recently, Thomas Pikety demonstrated that in global capitalism that exists today, only those who inherit can become rich. According to American philosopher John Rawls, if there is no significant state redistribution, those who are not born into a rich family have no chance of capitalism. It is therefore a key issue for people's prosperity and, above all, for the welfare of poor people and citizens of poor countries, whether we can eliminate tax havens. And we also need to be absolutely clear that tax evasion by various global corporations, as well as by individual country robbers, by industrial-scale tax evasion, does nothing but damage individual nations, and today offshoreisation is one of the main tools for the global exploitation of society and the environment. That is why we need to talk about this phenomenon, and not that those who are guilty of all the dirty laundry in the last 25 years are here trying to clean themselves with each other's sins. It should also be said that we are faced with a serious phenomenon because hidden incomes all over the world dramatically reduce the tax base of individual countries. It is not true that offshore is simply a tax competition, Honourable Parliament. That's why the government reaction we heard a few days ago in the offshore case is false. For example, Western welfare states can only be maintained by corporate tax levels of around 30-35 percent. Only this guarantees that people across Europe have access to quality knowledge and quality health in quality education. There is no state in Europe that can compete with 1% tax rates on offshore jurisdictions. This is not healthy tax competition, but simply undermining the financing of welfare systems. We also need to make it clear that, at a time when individual governments are declaring austerity across Europe, politicians themselves are often guilty of the fact that there is a situation in which restrictions are even raised who are talking about austerity. To give you a specific example: a few years ago, he was the main negotiator of the Greek conservative government - a government led by the Fidesz sister party - while negotiating with the Germans on how to smear the Greek people, it turned out that he was hiding his own property in an offshore place. And it is quite obvious that if these funds, which have been pumped out into tax havens by politicians from Greece or Hungary and the various economic explorers who have recovered from them, would be in the state register today, whether in Greece or in Hungary, there would be no need for restrictions. The offshore work today has four tragic effects both globally and with regard to individual countries. Firstly, on the basis of the efficiency of the market, it detracts funding from the welfare systems developed in the 1970s. So with the right of neoliberal ideology, you can say that these welfare systems are too expensive. The offshore sites, the offshore system, make various welfare measures virtually unsustainable. Secondly, the existence of corrupt tax havens that can be easily influenced is a blackmailing potential, so that, for example, it is easy to force the various European states to have a tax reduction, to have deregulation, which means nothing more than a welfare system, education, healthcare, and, by the way, the reduction of rules protecting people, the community. [[16.50]] Thirdly, we also have to face the fact that several times the development money actually goes to tax havens. So when a single dollar of development aid is given to an unfortunate African state, then ten dollars goes to tax havens. So when the subject is thrown off the table, saying that this is not essentially the problem of the Hungarian government and not essentially of Hungary, think that until development aid has the desired effect, but instead enriching thieving politicians and thief dictators, it is no wonder that migration crises will continue to grow again and again. Finally, and not least, offshoreisation undermines democracy. After all, who are those who transfer their income to tax havens? On the one hand, political decision-makers, economic decision-makers who have accepted bribes for their corrupt conduct and those who simply do not want to pay taxes. Dear Parliament, The numbers are even more global than they should be. According to one research, they have $21 trillion of undeclared property in the world's richest offshore tomatoes in 2010. This is roughly equal to the total annual emissions from the United States of America and Japan. According to Oxfam's report published in January, the wealth of 62 richest people in the world is the same as that of the poorer half of the world, more than 3.5 billion people. We cannot go without saying that since the 1980s, the political-economic elite has flowed $242 billion from Hungary to tax havens, i.e. two and a half times the Hungarian government debt. This means that the various austerity packages, from Lajos Bokros to Viktor Orbán, would not have been necessary if these funds were in Hungary. There would have been no need for cuts in the last 25 years if the income generated here had not been pumped out from the Hungarian national economy to various tax havens. Dear Parliament, We also need to make it clear that, according to international research, Tax Justice Network, Hungary is involved among the twenty countries worst affected by offshoreisation with this loss of $242 billion, thus preventing countries like Poland, Ukraine and Kazakhstan. When we talk about domestic relations, of course, we may and should throw names at them, because we remember exactly what tax-saving techniques have been attached to the Simicska-Puch axis, János Veres, László Boldvai or Gordon Bajnai. We remember when Viktor Orbán said during the Presidentship of the Central Bank of Simor that the Magyar Nemzeti Bank should not be an accommodation for offshore knights. A few years have passed, and we see that the Hungarian National Bank is a place for offshore knights. [[Németh Szilárd István: That is not true!]] But it is true, my fellow Member, Németh, because who, among other things, appeared among the Panama papers? My fellow Member Vona raised Mr Kerényi Regional Party Director, but we can mention a member of the Matolcsy-Semerey clan, a member of the Matolcsy-Semerey clan, who is, by the way, the beneficiary of the empire that has developed around the central bank. We can also say that, of course, you rightly refer to the fact that the new Fundamental Law, together with the Public Finance Act, excluded organisations with non-transparent structures from State aid, as the various successor parties of the Bajnai Government rightly refer to the fact that even the Bajnai Government has introduced a rule under which, after a service fee, interest or royalty transferred abroad, the Hungarian assignor has to pay a so-called withholding tax of 30%. My question, Mr Vejkey, is why, if you are so proud of your performance, you have abolished this rule, which happens to be made by the Bajnai government, that anyone who transfers money abroad must pay a so-called withholding tax of 30%. Why have you made it easy, my fellow Member Vejkey, for the offshore knights? But we can move on. How is it that there are only offshore companies around the settlement bond business? What kind of national capital class are you talking about when various Caymans and Marshall Islands investors are being enriched? Dear Parliament, We called this debate to talk about how this money pump can be closed once and for all in Hungary. The LMP has put a bill on the House's table three times, Fidesz-KDNP has said on all three occasions that it does not wish to negotiate the means with which the offshore pump could otherwise be blocked. I would like to make it clear that what you have done in the Fundamental Law is not enough to act as an act. Because in our own bill, we clearly defined what we mean by offshore. Offshore means the so-called legal offshore, so when the ownership structure is not transparent and we understand the so-called economic offshore, when companies registered from Andorra to Vanuatu are trying to raid Hungary. Among these are Andy G. Vajna, the bravest Hungarian-loved Curaçao, and Panama, which is popular with the Party Together, and many other countries. [[Dr. János Latorcai, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]] It would be our respectful request that Fidesz-KDNP be a partner in Hungary as LMP is a Ptk. In its codification, you claimed that companies with offshore backgrounds should not be registered. They should be partners in making sure that state, municipal bodies, state and municipal companies, even the Hungarian National Bank, are not allowed to enter into transactions with offshore companies. Why does my fellow Member Vejkey cover the fact that the Hungarian National Bank is transferring the multimillion-dollar purchase price to Saint Vincent's? Why are they covering for the offshore knights? Why do companies who profit from the residency bond business and then damage Hungarian taxpayers, harming Hungarian health, education and pumping them out into tax havens? We also demanded that the offshore knights be removed from the area of development resources, and, of course, we also demanded that no person with offshore interests be given concession rights. So if LMP's proposals had been accepted by Parliament, Andy Vajna, the two-armed robber would indeed not have a casino concession in Hungary today. In fact, I will go further, not with a government assignment, because the story is round if we say that no person who has an offshore interest is allowed to carry a state mandate. Today we see that you, like your ancestors, are covering for the offshore knights. This is not just a question of corruption; offshoreisation undermines welfare measures and undermines the welfare system. These money that's gone to offshore for the last 25 years is missing from schools today, missing from hospitals. I would also like a clear, direct answer from you, Congressman Vejkey, and also from Mr Tállai, Secretary of State, as to why they prevent us from sweeping the offshore knights out of the country, and why they prevent us from destroying any legal transaction that companies with State, Municipality, State and Local Government have to deal with offshore. Please give a clear answer on the interest of Fidesz-KDNP in controlling offshore companies and sucking the life force out of the Hungarian national economy. Dear Parliament, At a time when we initiated a debate on the fight against offshore, we would, of course, also like to talk about what Hungary, as a Member State of the Union, would have to do at European Union level. In 2009, when Viktor Orbán was still busy riding Andras Simor and Gordon Bajnai day and night offshore, he made a statement that he had agreed with Angela Merkel as president of the CDU - then the party relations between the CDU and Fidesz flourished - that CDU and Fidesz would act together to eradicate tax havens. I am interested in the report by Vice-President Szilárd Németh on what Fidesz has done at the level of the European People's Party in order to eliminate tax havens throughout the European Union. Thank you very much. [[17.00]]
u2016-05-30-215	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. An independent Member has not applied for a speech, two-minute speeches will follow. I give the floor to Congressman Imre Vejkey. Here you go.
u2016-05-30-216	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, It seems to me that András Schiffer has convened today's debate, but in fact neither he nor the LMP have anything to say about offshore. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-05-30-217	Thank you very much, Congressman. [[For signal:]] Mr. András Schiffer's group leader for two minutes. [[Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks. György Szilágyi: Sew a button on this. Defiance. The president's ringing the bell.]]
u2016-05-30-218	Thank you very much, Mr. President. This profound intellectual speech, however, was also shocking by Congressman Vejkey! The fact is, my fellow Member, that we have here this bill, which we have submitted three times to this House, has been swept off the table three times. I say it slowly so that you can understand: we are here to discuss what the Hungarian Parliament can do to get the offshore knights out of the way, and we will discuss what the Hungarian government should do about this phenomenon at EU level. It is a phenomenon that, as it turned out from Panamanian documents, also affects the main players of international politics. Mr. Vejkey, this isn't some communication trick in Habony works. What happened was that from the Panama papers it was clear and clear that the Chinese and Russian leadership had a rocky impact on the story, the environment of Hillary Clinton's American presidential candidate, György Soros, active in Hungarian internal politics, was involved in the story, and this story extends to David Cameron's environment. So it is nothing less, my fellow Member, than whether democracy can be eradicated through corruption money and offshore channels on the ground. It is about whether the richest people, those who once seized political power, can withdraw from taxation, allow different global corporations to undermine health, education and environmental protection all over the world. I would ask my honourable fellow Member to try to talk about this with the seriousness of the matter, and if he has nothing to say, he may also be able to keep quiet. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-05-30-219	Thank you very much. Fellow Members! I would like to draw your attention to the fact that I am not going to tolerate personal behavior. Speak to any subject in such a way that, at the moment when a personal edge comes that I consider inappropriate, I will withdraw the floor. A two-minute speech will be held by Congressman György Szilágyi.
u2016-05-30-220	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Congressman Vejkey, Then I'll tell you why we're here. We're here because you guys are fighting very hard in words, and you're running a very big anti-offshore campaign when you need to prove yourself in action, and you're not doing anything. This was the case when the offshore statements were not signed, so it was at the meeting of the Justice Committee a week ago, when you did not vote to be incompatible with the parliamentary representative who owns the offshore company, to lose his mandate. They didn't dare vote because they're full of offshore companies, and a lot of their congressmen would have lost their seats. We're not afraid of that. Let's just make this law, bring it to the House, so that whoever owns an offshore company can't be a congressman. It is simply outrageous that a Member of Parliament who should work to work for the nation's wealth, to work for the country's well-being, is filling his own pockets. [[István Hollik: It is in the declaration of property. Dr. András Schiffer: János Kerényi? Noise, interruptions from the opposition.]] He's trying to make the property disappear through offshore companies; it's not even fit to be a Member of Parliament. That's why we're here to discuss these things. Thank you for listening. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik. Noise, interruptions. György Szilágyi intervenes. The president's ringing the bell.]]
u2016-05-30-221	Thank you very much, Congressman. My fellow Member! Would you allow me to apply to you what I said? Don't make me warn you again, okay? This is Congressman Zoltán Haughty from the MSZP.
u2016-05-30-222	Thank you, Mr President, for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I also think that the situation is serious enough, and that politics is in a very deep moral crisis all over the world, which is why we really need to take this day seriously, and we could set an example for Europe to agree that there should be no longer a Member of Parliament who has, let's say, a company with such a background. I tell you honestly, I wouldn't see any problems here, because it's amazing that those responsible for the legislation and, let's say, those responsible for taxation and other legislative procedures are trying to play out the rules that they themselves have made so that they don't make their own clean or unclean money disappear. I think that the entire Hungarian policy would need this enormously, and I think that this is a good initiative. It doesn't matter what happened in the past or who did what, that's not what we should be dealing with right now, but that if there's a sound suggestion, let's get behind it and show that it's not in our interest to hide anything. Until we do so, the entire Hungarian Parliament will be frivolous in this matter. We should do this regardless of whether these documents have come up, in which András Schiffer is right, the almost complete political elite of the world is affected at some level, and this is a very, very sad story. For those of you who really only have the income that you confess here every year in your small declaration of property have nothing to fear from, say, voting such laws or subjecting yourself to such a rule, and I myself have no problem doing the full screening of family members. I do not consider the declaration of property to be serious in itself, because it is not only possible to play with things in a common household, we know that. Let's just bring in the fact that every time we change our cycles, it's a full wealth test. There were rules about that, too. Anyone who doesn't dare to submit to this doesn't want to be a Member of Parliament and a lawmaker. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2016-05-30-223	Thank you very much, Congressman. Attila Petneházy asked for a two-minute speech from the Fidesz Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-05-30-224	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Unfortunately, it has been bitten, and there are many people in this room who are responsible for the fact that in the eyes of Hungarian people, when it is said to be offshore, this word, it shrinks the stomachs as Pavlovi reflexes, and that is why it is dangerous that they approach us in all these ways. Because why are we being attacked, those who have in fact been the only civil government in the last 25 years to make any move? [[Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks. Zoltán Grimlock: All conflict of interest rules have been abolished. The president's ringing the bell.]] Exactly, companies starting out in public procurement must be completely transparent, thus helping. The government was the first to exclude domestic offshore companies from domestic procurement. [[Dr. András Schiffer: You didn't rule it out! György Szilágyi: That's a lie!]] It was the only one.
u2016-05-30-225	Congressman Szilágyi, when you give me two minutes, I'd be happy to give you the floor, so I can only warn you.
u2016-05-30-226	This means about 44,000 companies who have had to make a statement on this basis. And I'm gonna ask for that, and it's good that we look at each other, that one at a time, that everyone should be considered uncharacteristic, that everyone should be considered a liar. For example, no one should judge me when I myself signed a wealth declaration and published a wealth declaration, and no one should say that I am a liar. But I'm also saying this on behalf of the others, agreeing that this is a problem in the world, what people are doing. Just saying, how do I come to this, how do you like to make insulting remarks to my face? [[György Szilágyi: Ask Zsolt Horváth!]] On behalf of all of us, I challenge myself here in the name of the people in this room. Thank you very much for the floor. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-05-30-227	Thank you very much. András Schiffer asked for the floor as the author.
u2016-05-30-228	Is he nice?
u2016-05-30-229	The rapporteur may speak at any time in an unlimited time.
u2016-05-30-230	It's debate day, I'm not a referral.
u2016-05-30-231	I'm sorry. I haven't checked that part yet. So this is gonna be a proper speech?
u2016-05-30-232	Yeah.
u2016-05-30-233	Then László Szabó asked to speak on behalf of the government. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2016-05-30-234	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would like to say very briefly that, in order to really do off-shore in a bad way, because we still do not know the objective criteria, but in order to stop off-shoreing in the wrong sense, we need organizational changes, we need to organize the economy so that these start-ups die out on their own. And how do you stop off-shoreing? With lower taxes. The lower the taxes, the less attractive the offshore. [[17.10]] Let us look at what has happened in the last five years, now almost six years as a result of the current government's economic policy. It is quite clear that tax avoidance will be reduced if a minimum tax is to be paid. The introduction of a single-key 15 percent personal income tax in Hungary is now close to the criteria for naming an offshore country. Usually, when you tax below 10 percent, you call a country offshore. [[Zoltán Haughty: That's not true either!]] The fact that state aid can only be granted to companies with clear backgrounds who can clearly prove that they have no offshore contact, the fact that Hungary was able to make such changes is clearly due to the economic policy that brought Hungary out of the global economic crisis. Let us not forget that in 2008-9-10 Hungary was in a worse economic situation than Greece. Let's see what happened during this time. [[Zoltán Pride: Nothing!]] In 2013 there was a clear economic turnaround, and since then Hungary has achieved twice the average growth of the European Union in 14 and 15 and three times the average growth of the euro zone. The number of employees has also reached a 23-year record. In 2010, 3.7 million people worked, and now more than 4.2 million people work. The target is employment of five million. The unemployment rate fell from more than 11 per cent to less than 6 per cent. I could tell you all that. Practically, the introduction of online cash registers by the government, the introduction of the EKÁER with great success, served both to whiten the grey economy. [[Zoltán Grimlock: That's too much!]] I feel like this is a big success. By the way, we're already exporting this knowledge. I said all of this because I think it is a clear proof that getting rid of the real grey economy, whitening the economy, can be achieved by structural and organisational changes, and this government has been working on this for six years. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2016-05-30-235	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Regular speeches will be made at the expense of the time frame. I am speaking to Mr Richard Hörcsik of the Fidesz Group. Here you go.
u2016-05-30-236	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Secretary of State. I agree with my fellow Member, András Schiffer, that today's debate would aim to discuss, jointly, whether the government or the opposition, or whether Hungary and the European Union, what steps are needed for offshore companies to be able to act as effectively as possible against tax havens and other tax evasions at home and on the Union stage, if necessary together. I believe that it is worth looking around how the fight against tax evasion and tax evasion in the European Union stands. Well, I believe that in the fight against tax evasion, there are general arguments, EU and international goals with which we should not argue at all, but agree. One such basis is that taxation can be effective in a country if the tax is paid where the value is generated [[Dr. András Schiffer: Where does Andy Vajna pay?]] i.e. there is a real link between the place of actual economic activity and the place of taxation. As my fellow Member, Mr András Tállai, State Secretary, mentioned in his exposé, the positive factor in the European Union is that 51 states and territories, including Hungary, signed an agreement in Berlin to start automatic exchange of financial information in order to combat financial abuse and tax evasion. As the Secretary of State said, the purpose of this system would be to avoid concealing income from the tax authority through transfers of funds between participating countries. I feel that this is the fundamental objective of all European Union countries. Unfortunately, the exchange of information starts only in September 2017 and the exchange of information has become automatic only at the request of the authorities. Therefore, the exchange of data and the exchange of information in addition to bank account information also covers the balance of the capital income account and, in addition to the banks, insurance companies and investment funds. I would like to mention here, ladies and gentlemen, that if, for example, someone opens an account in Austria with an amount of suspicious origin on it, then the data must be sent automatically to the person's country, i.e. Hungary. For example, the Simon case, I remind my fellow Members, could have been resolved by the Hungarian authority much earlier if this automatic exchange of information had already worked. Ladies and gentlemen, We also consider it an important step to be taken by the European Commission in January 2016 to present a so-called comprehensive tax avoidance package, which, in my opinion, calls for stronger and more coordinated action against companies in the Member States seeking to avoid a fair tax liability. Well, when Commissioner Pierre Moscovici presented in the European Parliament, he drew attention to the damage caused by the loss of EUR 50 to 60 billion per year of corporate tax avoidance to Member States' budgets. The French Commissioner also calculated that an average European company has a proportional tax burden of 30% higher than multinational companies exercising different types of tax avoidance. The European Commission's above-mentioned anti-tax avoidance package was already discussed at the Council of Finance Ministers meeting on 12 February and was a priority topic. Let me quote Minister Mihály Varga's speech, who mentioned that with the general aim of the proposals, such as tax avoidance, combating aggressive tax planning techniques, Hungary agrees, the Hungarian Government believes that it is important to maintain healthy tax competition at European level, but that consideration should be given to the practices and existing obligations of the Member States' bilateral tax conventions. Ladies and gentlemen, As is known, this is not the first Commission proposal concerning the automatic exchange of information between Member States on tax rulings offered to multinational companies. I also consider it a positive step forward that last year the European Commission condemned the Luxembourg, Dutch and Belgian tax incentives to multinationals from the point of view of state aid. However, we also need to see that the substantive implementation of EU legislation is progressing very slowly. But he's on the move! Given the Commission's above-mentioned avoidance efforts, I would like to highlight an important aspect: the issue of credibility. The credibility, because it is a fact that the current President of the European Commission, as my fellow Member Erik Bánki mentioned, Mr Jean-Claude Juncker was also the former Prime Minister and Minister of Finance of Luxembourg, which turned out to have attracted hundreds of large companies, at least in tax law, to Luxembourg. In other words, large companies settled in Luxembourg because they had to pay much less taxes than, say, Italy or Austria, the real place of economic activity. Yes, Luxembourg's profit is a clear loss on the other side. That is why the European Commission and the national Member States must act together. I would just like to mention that the Luxembourg tax optimization is linked, for example, to the interest of Ferenc Gyurcsány in Altus Rt. His daughter's company, too. Ladies and gentlemen, Let us now take a brief look at the domestic measures of the past few years. Regrettably, it should be mentioned that in the period before 2010, many offshore companies have been in a rush through public procurement. Yes, we must see that the left has helped to make public money available to opaque companies. Well, compared to that, my fellow Members, in 2010 the civilian government was indeed the first. [[Dr. András Schiffer: Landing policy!]] which made it mandatory that companies starting in public procurements should be transparent and declare their final owner. [[17.20]] It hasn't been like this before, fellow Members. So I feel that the current government - anything can be said - is struggling for transparency, because this government was the first to, I repeat, exclude offshore companies from domestic public procurement. It wasn't like that before. And we've made laws that prohibit offshore companies from competing for public money. On the basis of the new rules, as my fellow Member Erik Bánki mentioned, 44,000 companies had to declare who or what their ownership was, so that public procurements would not be available to offshore gangsters, but to companies operating in Hungary. Whoever wins public procurement, do not avoid taxation here. I repeat, the civilian government was the first to take these measures. As is known, however, the promotion of foreign working capital by a support scheme is an economic interest which contributes to creating new jobs and increasing export volumes. Under the government's decision to grant direct grants for investments with eligible costs of at least EUR 5 million of investment promotion appropriations, the aim of which is to help investors come to Hungary and not to the neighbouring countries by offering competitive support schemes with neighbouring countries. Accordingly, aid may be granted only if the applicant for the aid is a transparent body in the case of a legal person or other entity without legal personality. Ladies and gentlemen, I feel that the government has taken the necessary steps to whiten the offshore world. However, we see that the opposition is accusing us, but I must mention that the opposition has been full of offshore cases ever since. I just want to mention two pearls. One: Ferenc Gyurcsány's subsidiary also shows up a suspicious Cypriot offshore company. Altus Rt. of Ferenc Gyurcsány's interest. As a subsidiary company, Altus-Luxembourg S.A.H. was founded the days after the fall of the Horn government. In examining Gyurcsány's wealth, the socialists prevented the offshore business from being dealt with, so to this day it has not been revealed what source the company's HUF 380 million core capital came from, as the company's role in the tax optimization of Gyurcsány remained a secret. And among the owners of Fortus, Altus' Hungarian subsidiary company, a company registered in a tax haven, Dryden Enterprises Limited in Cyprus. Ladies and gentlemen, The other gem - my fellow Members will tell you - is Béla Kovács' offshore affairs. In May 2014, it was announced that the Supreme Public Prosecutor's Office initiated in Brussels the suspension of the immunity of Béla Kovács, a better EP representative, on suspicion of espionage against the institutions of the European Union to Russia. At the beginning of April 2014, the Constitutional Protection Office filed a complaint against the politician. If it turns out that the accusations were true and Kovács did work for the Russians, he could get eight years in prison. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm not gonna tell you any more. I feel that the Hungarian government is clearly committed to suppressing the offshore world and has taken the necessary legal steps to do so. I believe it is in our common interest, either to the government, to the opposition, to Hungary or to the European Union, to take these steps together. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-05-30-237	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr Gábor Harangozó István is coming from the MSZP Group. Here you go.
u2016-05-30-238	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear fellow Members, Firstly, I would like to start with what the leader of the debate-starting LMP faction pointed out that before we go into the analysis of the Hungarian situation today, it is worth talking about why the fight against offshore is important. Since it is not certain that for an average voter it is quite clear what this is about, I would also like to start by saying a few words about why offshore is a huge problem and why offshore is a major problem in Hungary. First of all, let's see what's wrong with the phenomenon itself. Who avail themselves of the opportunity to start a business somewhere abroad in tax havens and invest money in offshore companies? Typically, those who do not want to pay taxes at home take advantage of this opportunity, so they put money in such companies for tax avoidance purposes. Or those who simply want to hide stolen money are taking advantage of this opportunity. Accordingly, this issue must be taken seriously, and it cannot be said that offshore operations are not banned, and therefore offshore companies can be set up freely. If someone's setting up an offshore company, then let's live with the suspicion lawsuit that he's either trying to hide stolen money or he doesn't want to pay the taxes. What's the big problem? Because, ladies and gentlemen, you, Fidesz MEPs, after posters have been posted all over the country by how well Hungary is performing and what great economic growth there is, how much more money can be made to finance public tasks, while you come up with the fact that there is no money for pensions, a 0.9 percent pension increase, hospitals are collapsing, workers' poverty in Hungary has reached such a level that health care is collapsing because there are no nurses, there are no doctors, that the foreign entrepreneurs who would invest in Hungary are actually delaying their investments because there is no qualified workforce, because everyone is leaving the country. Can we raise wages in Hungary? The economist says that wages can be raised if productivity is also increased. However, if we look at what has happened in Hungary over the past thirty years, we can see, as my fellow Member Schiffer has already referred to, that according to the Tax Justice Network, in Hungary, money that represents several times the amount of public debt has been taken out of Hungary through offshore transactions and other capital operations. So while we can't finance public tasks, we can't provide normal health care or maintain a normal education system, while someone is taking huge amounts of money out of the country so that they don't pay taxes or simply dispose of stolen money. Just how much we are talking about: it has already been said that Hungary is involved in the twenty most affected countries. I would just like to compare that it is practically on the same level as Malaysia, but it precedes Singapore or Côte d'Ivoire in this comparison, and then Kazakhstan, Iran, Ukraine and Turkey in terms of extricated money. So, this is some serious, amazing phenomenon we need to talk about. It's no coincidence that from time to time, there's an offshore event in politics. And I have to say that in the 2010 campaign, Fidesz has fought the offshore orally with very hard and serious political outbursts, and they promised to stop it here, and we will never be able to extract money through offshore companies again. Since then, many things have been done orally, for example, Miklós Seszták talked about the fact that a public company should deal with a company with an unclear background or conclude a contract, not only is it unacceptable, but it is also illegal, so there is no such company in Hungary. Our fellow Member of the Parliament also spoke about offshore transactions. Although Interestingly, he talked about the importance of not being able to offshore in terms of the use of public funds, I think it is just as important for private money to not be offshore. [[17 .30]] After all, it is also intended not to pay taxes. If the tax is not paid somewhere, public services cannot be financed if these tax revenues are lost. But I find it particularly interesting that our fellow Member Bánki was the lead speaker for Fidesz in this matter. Because if we look at what the Panama scandal has revealed, and here I would also like to refer back to our fellow Member Petneházy asking on behalf of the entire Fidesz faction, how we come to assume unfairness here and try to pin any suspicious things on them. If you look at the offshore files in Panama, it turns out that János Kerényi, regional director of Fidesz in Central Hungary, is involved in these offshore transactions, not personally, but through his wife and son. To mention only a few things: Dr. Árpád Kerényi, who is his son, the managing director of Abacon Hungary Property Management and Ingatlanhasznosító Kft., which is wholly owned by a company registered in Cyprus, or Café Porte, which is owned by a company named Airport Holding, which is registered in Seychelles, or Fashion King Kft., which is the airport Kft. Holding took over from Árpád Kerényi or in Royal Property Group Ltd., which is owned by RP Group Worldwide Limited, registered in Belize. Frankly, I suspect that if we look at Zsolt Horváth's offshore transactions, this may not be a separate, isolated story, but simply built up a shadow empire, a network of companies through which these funds are being disposed of, or at least make it opaque where those funds from investments, from the use of EU funds, are going to go. Why did I think of that? Because what my fellow Member Bánki was talking about, I came to the conclusion that they were actually upset at the first time about what money was missing in the world through offshore, but instead of banning it instead of eliminating it, they practically copied this model and made it a state system. They've basically made it part of the Fidesz state money pump that there are these nice offshore companies all over the place that make a huge amount of money disappear. And then let's look at the details of why I dare make such allegations. Let's look at the settlement policy first. The settlement policy, my fellow Members, is the rudest part of the insolence of the Fidesz government. [[He's sipping his glass. Németh Szilárd István: Cheers!]] Thank you very much, Congressman. It is nothing more than that, while Viktor Orbán went to Brussels and voted for himself to install people from third countries into Hungary, he came home and started a great revolution against Brussels and the whole world, so that no such people could be deployed here. In the meantime, they created a settlement policy, which is to say that through five offshore companies, third-party citizens who want to establish themselves in Hungary can get a residence permit, but these Fidesz-based offshore companies pay hard money. This is nothing less than that in the last year, since this thing has worked, 16,000 people have received such a residence permit in Hungary, through which these companies have put 100 billion HUF in profit - not the Hungarian state. And when Fidesz MEPs are talking about whoa, but they're good for the budget, because at least that's the budget money, then everyone should know it's a lie. That's not what this is about. These people buy sovereign debt, which the Hungarian State will then repay in five years' time. In the meantime, the intermediary companies that are selling this, so far, I'm telling you, they've made 100 billion forints in profits, and the state, the taxpayers, have a cost in this regard, as the state has more expensive access to money through this paper than if it were to borrow money from the market. And if we look at these companies, these five offshore companies, we need to see that there are three offshore companies in which Árpád Habony clearly appears in the background. They are companies of his acquaintance or interests. But let's continue to look at other important offshore transactions, what money is involved in its scale, what money is missing in the Fidesz offshore network, let's say, from health care and education. There's MET Zrt. the case. Through MET Zrt., HUF 100-150 billion was not paid into the state register, i.e. HUF 100-150 billion went into private pockets in a company where, if you look at the papers and what appeared in connection with this company, you will find the following. It is very interesting that the newspaper Tages-Anzeiger in Zurich and the also Swiss newspaper Basler Zeitung also write that in the background of Viktor Orbán's Swiss travels, this is probably the MET Zrt. chin. He probably went to Switzerland to negotiate so many times because he could handle the affairs of this MET Zrt. - the Swiss assume. This is MET Zrt. He concluded a contract with the state, in which, in the end, based on the fact that the state wants to support district heating service providers in a bad situation, he gave this company a profit of virtually HUF 150 billion, which was nicely disposed of through a very troubled offshore network of companies. And we can only assume exactly where, to whom, and through what channel these funds have reached. But let's keep looking. There was a discussion here, and Mr László Szabó, State Secretary, said that Hungary's situation was worse in 2010 than that of Greece. Wow. Right when we get to the offshore, this is a very interesting sentence, as the Hungarian National Bank recently started to disappear the 260 billion forints through this beautiful Fidesz offshore network, a significant part of which, my fellow Members, came to me in no other way than when the current head of the Fidesz group stood out in 2010 and told the world that Hungary was in a worse position than Greece, which wasn't, but it was enough to scare the markets well, then it broke down the forint so that the Hungarian National Bank won huge ones in this forint crisis. And since then, the Hungarian National Bank has made forint transactions that have won HUF 260 billion in the weakening of the forint. Ladies and gentlemen, The problem here is not only that these funds are being disposed of through offshore companies, through real estate businesses, but it is also a big problem that the Hungarian National Bank obtained this money by destroying Hungarian families. People have been killed because in this crisis, in the forint crisis that these statements have made, people have died, families have been destroyed, because suddenly they have not been able to finance the loans that have become unfunded due to the weakening of the forint. But the Hungarian National Bank won 260 billion forints on it, and you are also trying to make these money disappear through these offshore companies, such as Eiffel Palace Kft. His real estate deal, which was also provided by László Trócsányi's Attorney General's firm, is being used to make it disappear. [[17.40]] Moreover, when these cases are revealed, instead of quickly removing all the characters from public life, because this is completely unacceptable and outrageous, they also say with their own mouth that Matolcsy deserves the 5 million forints salary, because he is such a genius that he managed to make 260 billion forints at the expense of Hungarian families, playing to weaken the forint. Congratulations. And then we manage to make these money disappear through this network. Congratulations on that, too. The other huge scandal, also in the order of magnitude, is the 200-250 billion forints money disposal - by the way, which is the same money as the annual budget of an education system - the Quaestor scandal. Quaestor scandal: I don't see how this can happen in this country. All we know about Quaestor's ownership is that there are two names, Csaba Tarsoly and his wife, and there is an offshore company. No one should have any doubt that Csaba Tarsoly said that he owned this offshore company, but to this day there was no evidence that if there was a registered owner behind a company, and there is an offshore company that still doesn't know who's behind it, then it's probably the real owner where the money was stolen, where you should be looking for where the 260 billion of it might have disappeared, it could be in this offshore company. I believe, on the basis of all this, that the representatives of Fidesz are very nervous in this debate today. Their speeches have also shown that they have tried to cut, and apparently my fellow Member Schiffer has also been called upon to initiate this debate, but there is a place for this debate. If we add only the things I have said here, it is a HUF 700 billion item in itself, which has been removed through this particular Fidesz offshore network. When this can happen in Hungary, we do need to talk about how this phenomenon can be eliminated. I fully agree with my fellow Member, Mr Gógös, who confirmed the otherwise good point that there is no place in the Hungarian Parliament for a Member who is involved in such offshore transactions. I would therefore suggest, for example, that, if I am wrong, my fellow Member Bánki, as well as the other Fidesz regional directors, should, in particular, make a statement that he is not involved in any offshore company, or admit where they are, how much money is parked in it. Let's get this straight for once. Because until we can see clearly about this, Hungary is not fair to build a country where we spend money in a transparent way on what we should be spending money on, because in Hungary these funds are producing. This could be used to maintain decent education. This could finance workable health care and hospitals, but it should not be allowed that the political elite, which, perhaps because there was no real change of regime in Hungary, only such a loose transformation, has built a system in which it has become acceptable that politics and the economic elite do not properly account for money and that resources flow into questionable channels like these offshore companies. I think it's time we put an end to this. All politicians must declare that they are not involved in such money pumping companies, and at last policy must focus on building the common good with all existing resources. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2016-05-30-239	Thank you very much, Congressman. Government speeches will follow. First I give the floor to Secretary of State János Fónagy. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2016-05-30-240	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, After 18 years of parliamentary service, I am aware that the political debate day is primarily for the opposition to abuse the government. At the same time, this topic is more important than taking things to such a level, to say the least, so let me say that in my first one or two sentences, and that, where appropriate, a legal function and its use do not always overlap. In Parliament, I have repeatedly said that a knife can be used to cut bread and kill people, and not to be angry at the knife, what it does, but at the brain that controls it. The offshore itself is not forbidden, it's a known thing. Any exclusion means that Hungary is excluded from the world. I've got these nexus. Question is, what's it used for? If it's used for the wrong thing, it's wrong, of course. To stay with a historical example, for 20 years we have been able to talk about privatisation with a bitter mouth, because to this day we are moaning both the consequences of spontaneous privatisation and the consequences of liberal-socialist privatisation. However, the question is whether it is possible to make a social change of regime in a country with 90 percent public property and 10 percent private property without privateising this 90 percent public property. Obviously, I can't. The question is, how do they do that? If they do it the way they did it in Hungary, we got to the point that the Hungarian state's wealth was played out, robbed, stolen, practically the Hungarian raw materials industry ceased, the Hungarian energy industry ceased, the Hungarian service system ceased, and a significant part of it fell into foreign hands. Does that mean we didn't have to do the economic change? Of course, it had to be done - just not like this. I'm just saying, with all these very sloppy opinions, I'm asking you to be a little more thoughtful. I asked for the floor to say that where offshore is used for evil, it is perhaps the most dangerous area, and that is why I have brought the example of privatisation - state property, state property. It is no coincidence that, when we were once again elected by the electorate in 2010, we thought that one of the first things we did was to protect state wealth, based on bad privatisation memories and the bad experience we had of off-shoreling in recent years. Those of my fellow Members who were here at the time may remember that it is not a coincidence that in 2010, perhaps the first law we put forward was the Law on the Protection of State Property. We had bad memories, be it Sukoro, be it the sale of the Posta Palace, be it other types of subcontractors, we thought that 2010 had to be a milestone in this, and that more could be used with such tools, otherwise for good purpose, but with misused means it could not be included in the state's wealth. From the very first moment, and this was true not only for 2010 but also for 98, we said that state wealth must be increased in the first place, and that for privatisation we also said that, as this term should be abolished, in the future, state wealth can only be operated in order to increase state wealth. In fact, this also applied to the offshore of recent years with a bad taste in the mouth and a bad consequence. It is no coincidence that the Fundamental Law, which was born five years ago, demands transparency at the highest possible level, since offshore activity is not what it does, its problem, but the way it does, that it leads to intransparency. For this reason, the Fundamental Law clearly requires transparency for all organisations which have been set up for the transfer or exploitation of national assets. Payment from the central budget under the Fundamental Law shall be granted only to an entity whose ownership structure, structure and activity are transparent, either on the basis of a grant or a contract that can be concluded. [[17.50]] So at the top of the domestic legislative hierarchy, the government ruled out the possibility of public money flowing into offshore companies in the Fundamental Law. The Public Finance Act, which can also be dated in 2011, clearly states that offshore companies cannot obtain public funds. One of the greatest achievements of the legislative work is that the legislator defined the concept of a transparent organisation by removing an old legal gap. I would also like to emphasise this because some of my fellow Members who have spoken before me have indicated that this is not defined; I report, it is defined, it is clearly declared. The National Development Ministry presented the bill on national assets five years ago, and the fundamental legislation adopted by Parliament gives the most accurate definition of the concept of a transparent organisation that can be sharply separated from offshore businesses as far as possible. So the point isn't on the offshore, it's on transparency. As a strict requirement for transparent, efficient and responsible national and municipal asset management, the law states that the State and the local government cannot form an economic company and, as a main rule, cannot acquire a stake in an economic company which is not transparent. If the public-owned company, the public-government establishment, becomes non-transparent after acquisition, the review of the company contract and the proper restructuring of the ownership structure shall be initiated. The legislation also introduced similar requirements for the majority state-owned company and subsidiaries. The legislator requires the State to fully enforce the transparency criteria not only as owner but also as a contracting partner. The fundamental law in force since 1 January 2012 states that a contract for the exploitation of national assets or a concession can only be concluded with transparent entities in addition to natural persons. In the asset recovery contract, the counterparty must undertake to involve only a transparent entity as a third party in the exploitation process. According to the law, transparency is also essential in the event of the transfer of ownership of national property. The National Property Act not only set future expectations, but also a full review of inherited harmful practices. By the end of 2012, the legislation envisaged the restructuring of the ownership structure of non-transparent entities in the public and municipal interest. The property management or benefit contracts previously concluded with organisations with questionable backgrounds have been terminated by the owner's right practitioner without compensation under the statutory mandate and with immediate effect. Ladies and gentlemen, The government's firm rejection of the offshore phenomenon is demonstrated by the measures that have been taken for half a decade now. Hungarian legislation also stands the test of international comparison: in European perspective, our transparency rules are among the strictest. The property regime of the United Kingdom and Luxembourg does not set any barriers to the offshore phenomenon in property recovery. Several EU Member States examine transparency at agency level, such as France and Latvia, without a general ban, on a case-by-case basis in relation to specific transactions. In Greece offshore companies are not automatically excluded from state tenders, not so much that 15 percent of the value of the state assets they acquire is to be paid as a tax. The Czech Republic is about to tighten up property regulation in order to avoid the offshore phenomenon more effectively. Perhaps the most stringent Bulgarian standards can be applied to the domestic framework. In Bulgaria, there is a law prohibiting the participation of offshore companies in public procurement, concession and privatisation contracts and does not allow them to hold ownership shares in important economic sectors: media, banks, insurance companies, pension funds. Sofia's rigour also attracted the disapproval of Brussels, demanding the relief of prohibitions on several occasions, and considering the possibility of bringing proceedings if the amendments were not made. The Hungarian Government is determined to go to the wall on this issue as well, so we consider it possible to further tighten up the existing legal provisions, which constitute a serious deterrent and which are applied effectively overall. The recent information suggests that we still do not see clearly from pre-2010 offshore fibres - so it is not our problem that offshore - in corruption cases involving them as almost a series of items. The name of Gábor Simon has already been mentioned here. The international effects of the Alstom case are discussed in the press, and their perception is seen in different refractions based on investigations. To share a personal experience with you: I was preparing for this day to collect Alstom's affairs from the Ministry Archives between 2002 and 2010 [[He's showing me a sheet of paper.]] and I have to say that the materials made in 2002 and 2005 simply cannot be found in the Hungarian archives, they have been posted somewhere, and here in the great battle noise they disappeared at the time. [[German Szilárd István: Gone with the Wind!]] According to well-known data, in the crime of offshore relations, besides the current opposition parties, news portals condemning abuses are not entirely innocent either, since in many cases we do not know what foreign supporters are behind these press organisations. Ladies and gentlemen, Of course, there is still work to be done, but the government is determined to do so, the government is determined to reduce the phenomenon in Hungary and gradually reduce the increasingly obvious harmful effects, in order to close any loopholes. As has been the case so far, the Ministry of National Development is always available for success in this struggle. Thank you for your attention. Mr President, thank you for this opportunity. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-05-30-241	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. We will continue with the government speeches. Madam Secretary of State Eszter Vitalos is next. Here you go, Madam Secretary.
u2016-05-30-242	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear House, Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, What offshore and what we consider offshore in Hungary today are two different things. Allow me first of all to highlight the difference between a misinterpreted concept and its real meaning. According to the professional definition of offshore, if a person does business in A country, he uses resources to do so there, but he believes that this activity has too high a tax rate, takes his company to a B country and taxes it there. There are two kinds of offshore tricks. In one of these areas, they are moving their money to a Member State offering more favourable tax conditions within the EU, which they cannot do without a single EU tax policy, even because of the fundamental right to free movement of capital. Another type of offshore case is to hide the owners of companies with companies registered in different tax havens. However, what the public sees as offshore in Hungary today, and what the debate is about, is whether we can see the last owner behind a complicated network of companies, which could even have obtained budgetary resources. In itself, what a person does with resources from his business, what he uses and where he uses it, for the Hungarian public, I think it is irrelevant, because that is not the focus of the debate. Let us note that what the public generally makes a negative judgment is that the ownership of a company is not transparent, i.e. it does not show who the real owner is, for example, whether there are politicians and businessmen linked to politics behind these companies. What is most important, and what we must state before everything else: for the first time in Hungary, there is a Fundamental Law that prohibits the granting of public money to opaque companies. We believe that the state can only give money to a company if it is possible to find out who stands at the end of the chain of companies, who is the owner, so if the company is transparent. [[18.00]] We believe that the offshore workers, who tax their incomes here not at home, are stealing Hungarian citizens, all those citizens, whether they are teachers, nurses, state officials or even honest entrepreneurs, who pay part of their income each month as taxes. In the same way that the Hungarian state operates our schools and hospitals, from which we renovate the pothole roads, from which, for example, we support the police and soldiers who are guarding our borders at these moments. They are being stolen by tax-absorbed offshore people who do not want to tax their incomes in Hungary. Of course, offshore knights are very diplomatically talking about tax optimization, for them it is optimal, for the country, but not for the millions who pay decent taxes at all. Our basic principle, as Prime Minister has already stated clearly, is that the Hungarian State does not wish to deal with legal or private individuals or companies with which it is not in business. If they don't violate the law, the state has nothing to do with where and what companies are set up. However, it is also a principle to pay taxes where someone earned the money. Therefore, those who made their money here must pay taxes in Hungary under Hungarian law. Of course, we cannot ignore the fact that offshores are not for small-time pensioners, not for district agents serving on the streets of our settlements, not for nurses and educators working 10-12 hours a day, as they usually can't afford them. Although that is not entirely true, we know of a teacher who was interested in the offshore business with hundreds of millions, but please believe us, as much as we would like to, we cannot afford our teachers as well as we do. However, the case of the exceptional teacher mentioned above, who is not, incidentally, the wife of a leading socialist party politician, highlights another, even greater problem of offshore operations, which is why the Hungarian government does not tolerate offshore operations. In particular, the possibility of not only tax evasion, but also the elimination of money of suspicious origin. The question is rightfully raised in the mind of every normal-thinking Hungarian citizen, of which an average Hungarian teacher was offshore with hundreds of millions of forints. From the paid salary or from your husband's parliamentary salary? If so, the question arises: why did the world have to hide this money, but especially from the eyes of Hungarian voters and the Hungarian tax authority? In this and in cases like this, we have the right to talk about money of questionable origin. I would also like to point out that, before 2010, under socialist governments, there was no attempt to examine the ownership of companies starting in public procurement. We believe it is important that all stakeholders in public life are committed to increasing transparency. In this regard, Jobbik would also have more to do, we think, since, on the basis of the examination of the State Audit Office, the party's financial accounts have repeatedly failed to meet the most basic requirements. [[Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks.]] Money of questionable origin, corruption, tax evasion: all these can be synonymous with offshore. This is why the Hungarian Government has decided to exclude the possibility of participating in public procurement and EU tenders by companies with such dubious backgrounds. In general, Hungarian law does not prohibit the establishment of offshore companies or the acquisition of ownership in such companies abroad. Under Article 38 of the Fundamental Law of Hungary, however, contracts relating to the transfer or exploitation of national assets may be concluded only with an organisation whose ownership structure, structure and activities relating to the management of the transferred or transferred national assets are transparent. In accordance with Article 39, payments from the central budget may only be made to an organisation whose ownership structure, structure and activity for the use of the aid is transparent, either on the basis of a grant or on the basis of a contract that can be concluded. Therefore, the transparency of all firms which submit aid applications as aid applicants or which are suppliers to State-owned beneficiaries should be examined. Our government is fully committed to this, and we have therefore introduced a number of measures to increase transparency. One of the pillars of this is the new Public Procurement Act, which entered into force on 1 November 2015. Hungary is the first EU Member State to transpose all three new EU public procurement directives into domestic case law. We are so at the forefront of the fight against corruption and offshore that only four Member States have transposed these directives into their own legal systems by 18 April. The provisions of the new Public Procurement Act are more stringent than those of the Directive. The new Public Procurement Act also contains a good number of anti-offshore measures. The legislation provides for the exclusion of the so-called offshore for the elimination of economic operators with an opaque background. I note in brackets that the grounds for refusal, as far as we know, do not exist in another Member State. Under the new Public Procurement Act, an economic operator who is not in an EU, EEA or OECD Member State, a State not party to the WTO Public Procurement Agreement or any of the overseas countries and territories referred to in Article 198 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union or in a State which does not have a bilateral agreement with the Union on public procurement or on the avoidance of double taxation with Hungary, or a company not listed on a regulated stock exchange which is not able to identify its beneficial owner or has, directly or indirectly, more than 25% ownership or voting rights in the economic operator, is a regulated non-listed company which is not able to identify its beneficial owner. Following the amendment of the Act on 1 December 2015, it also contains one of the strictest rules of conflict of interest in Europe. I think that it is clear from all this that the Hungarian government is strongly and adequately protecting the interests of Hungarian taxpayers, in terms of transparency in public procurement and the use of EU funds, from all those who want to steal the country off-shore. Finally, allow me to respond to Mr Vona Group Leader's question when he asked who the resources of the Regional Development Fund are moving to. In the autumn of 2013, Minister Lazarus ordered an inquiry into the beneficiaries of which included the 44 thousand projects that had won EU funds in 2007-13. Of this all 6286 projects were where there was legal support for the investigation. Of these 6286 projects, 111 were identified as suspected irregularities. This has been issued to the managing authorities responsible for the implementation of the operational programmes for examination. That's all I wanted to say about this. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-05-30-243	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, Thank you for those who indicated that Fidesz and KDNP did not use the time consumption, as the government's representatives can address it on the Fidesz or KDNP time frame. It was 9:56 a.m. Eszter Vitalos's speech. [[But it's insane. Intercoms, among them: 9 minutes!]] It was nine minutes and 56 seconds. Please, we will not go further until this time frame is set, and I ask that if there is any problem on the part of the technical staff, please report it, because we must pay particular attention to how the time frame develops. I was going to give Agnes Hornung an opportunity to speak, but that means he's leaving. László Szabó asked for another word. With all due respect to the ladies and gentlemen of the Secretary of State, I would like to say that more people are prepared and would like to speak to him, that the comments should be divided and not given at the same time. Of course, if that's what you want, I'll give you what you want. Under the Rules of the House, the national representative of the Government may speak at any time, within any timeframe. I give the floor to Secretary of State László Szabó.
u2016-05-30-244	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I promise I'll be brief. In short, I would like to say that the European Union Commission, in response to the situation created by the Panamanian offshore scandal, stresses the importance of tax transparency and anti-tax evasion measures. As a result of the scandal, it would like the Member States to transpose the rules already adopted as soon as possible, and would like the ongoing legislative tasks to soon be transposed as a result of a rapid agreement. [[18.10]] Now, the Hungarian government has actually been a pioneer here in recent years, and Hungary is committed to combating tax fraud long before the outbreak of the Panamanian scandal, and has become a member of the international and EU exchange of information agreements. Hungary will also conclude its double taxation conventions only if the rules on the exchange of information recommended by the OECD are adopted. As President Hörcsik has already mentioned, Hungary is part of a number of recently signed international conventions that help the tax authority to keep up-to-date information on the amounts held by persons and companies resident abroad. The number of Hungary's tax exchange partners is close to 100, in 2017 data on financial account information for Hungarian residents can come to Hungary from more than 70 countries. In order to solve offshore cases, an expert working group within the NAV started analysing Hungarian-related information, systematically examining individuals and their companies as to whether there was tax secrecy in Hungary, with the entire asset system of the state tax and customs authorities. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-05-30-245	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. We will continue with the proper speeches. Member István Hollik of the KDNP Group asked for the floor. Here you go.
u2016-05-30-246	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Allow me, before I tell you what I have planned, to respond in a few words to opposition concerns, and I must say, to accusations as well. The first thing I would like to say is that, before me, secretary of state, gentlemen, but Erik Bánki also referred to the fact that today the Hungarian laws on offshore companies are clear: today, offshore companies cannot go near the use of public money, the Hungarian government, the Fidesz-KDNP government in the Fundamental Law, the Public Finance Act, but, as we have just heard, guarantees this in the Public Procurement Act. Therefore, if a person has information contrary to this, he has information that, contrary to these laws, the State is concluding a contract with such companies, he is otherwise obliged to report this to the authorities. [[Dr. Gábor Staudt: We did it!]] So, ladies and gentlemen, please turn to the authorities, but as long as we see you're making accusations, [[Adam Mirkóczki: No, that's you!]] Until then, it's not very credible on your part. So please make an announcement, but until then, don't make any accusations, because until then, that's an empty accusation. I would like to say once again that the Secretary of State has spoken here about the Public Procurement Act, and we can see that it is extremely strict, so even in a European comparison. Then I would like to ask my socialist fellow Members and my better Members: why have they not voted in favour of the Public Procurement Act? [[It's a rare applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. Adam Mirkóczki: You are a great king!]] You didn't vote for it! Why didn't they vote? Madam Secretary of State has made it clear that this is one of the strictest laws, by the way, in terms of what you allow in relation to offshore companies, because there is nothing. That is why I ask, and to this day we have not heard the answer from you: why have you not voted in favour of these laws? The second question: Jobbik suggested that all Members should make sure that they have an offshore company or not. Again, this seems to be a very sound announcement, but it is also certain that our better fellow Members are aware that all economic interests must be indicated in the declaration of assets. [[Ádám Mirkóczki: What you are changing backwards for five years!]] Anyone who doesn't show real data is in violation of the law, so it is completely unnecessary to declare the Members of Parliament, because if they are not involved in the declaration of property, but any Member has an offshore interest, a violation of the law, and anyone who violates the law will be punished by the authorities, because Hungary is a state of law where no one is above the law, my fellow Members. My third point is that I listened to the speech by the President of Jobbik with interest and regret at the end, as we have heard nothing about Panda Investments Ltd. and Zoltán Debreczeni's relationship, because according to the latest news, it seems that Jobbik is not even on government yet, but offshore companies are now connected to Gábor Vona's trust circle. I'd appreciate it if you guys would be as loud as you normally are in this case, and if you'd be so kind as to clear that up, because, by the way... [[Dr. Gábor Staudt: Erik Bánki has already been sued! Erik Bánki is going to court for this! Adam Mirkóczki: You can go too! The president's ringing the bell.]] If I may say so and if I may say so, I would like to say that the good communications in this respect do not reassure us, because they are avoiding this issue, Panda Investments Ltd., without saying a word about it. The fourth case I would like to talk about, as several of my opposition fellow Members have raised it, is the matter of the settlement policy. The fact is that we are seeing major slippages here again, because the ownership structure and ownership structure of all companies contracted by the state are known. [[Gábor István Bellozó: No!]] So, when you say no, my fellow Member, Mr Bell, when you say no, you are not telling the truth. Five companies were declared by the State, and the five companies that eventually contracted with the State revealed their ownership structure. So when you say that the companies with which the State has contracted are not known to its ownership structure, you are clearly not telling the truth. The second question is that the proceeds of HUF 1100 billion have been reported to the state by the purchase of settlement bonds that have taken place in the past. So, in fact, it can be said that the settlement policy does not carry public money, my dear fellow Member, it brings public money. And if my fellow Member, Mr Harangozó, said that the Hungarian state and the Hungarian taxpayers are being damaged here; if someone is otherwise damaged, where the profits of these companies are otherwise generated, it is not public money, it is not harming the Hungarian taxpayers, so to speak, but those who purchase the settlement policy, because they are bought at a discount price by the company that is contracting with the State, and the two remain with them. [[Gábor István Bellozó: Do you understand what you're saying?]] But no one harms the state, the Hungarian taxpayers. [[Gábor István bellozó: the state loses 21 million apiece!]] I say, the Hungarian State has revenue from buying settlement government bonds, the government debt of the Hungarian State and its refinancing are supported by settlement bonds, and it is cheaper than buying government bonds on the market. Then allow me to get to what I wanted to say in advance and give my personal opinion on offshore activity. I think that it is fundamentally wrong and immoral, because the purpose of the owner of the offshore company is always to try to hide some economic activity or property from the tax authorities or other authorities. So basically, the owner's explicit intention is to circumvent and circumvent the rules that apply to him. Countries also called offshore or often tax havens allow companies to be set up at a typically low tax rate for foreign persons whose operations are not adequately controlled by the State concerned, either intentionally or intentionally, but the essence is the same. The creation of offshore companies is not an illegal activity in itself, but these companies are capable of managing untaxed money without having information from the countries of the actual owners. In addition to tax evasion, such offshore companies can use money laundering and the financing of other crimes such as arms, drug and human trafficking, as well as terrorism, as we have seen recently. The whole point of the system's operation is that individuals who do not want their country's tax office to see what their assets are, and possibly examine their source, create an offshore company in such a country under an alias. Following this, offshore companies are typically subject to untaxed or even criminal assets. The offshore companies then create a range of intermediary companies, so it is almost impossible to trace the fibres back to the actual owners at the end of the chain. Subsequently, the real owners make investments and purchase their assets through the chain of companies. As offshore countries typically do not conclude information exchange agreements on the exchange of account data, the owners of offshore companies are not known to the authorities. In short, this is because the owner acquired the property he wanted to hide by committing a crime, or does not want to pay taxes according to the law on the property legally acquired, and therefore chooses offshore. [[18.20]] So, if there is perhaps any consensus between the opposition and the ruling parties, it is that this offshore activity, offshore activity, is in no way fortunate, and in every country, we must strive to prevent this activity from happening, either by means of a broad cooperation between the countries. But the fact is, there is also a third option, which is most important for today's debate: if a politician or government official who has government information that provides confidential economic advantage, he uses this information for his own enrichment and at the expense of his country, but he wants to hide it from the public, and that's why he hides in an offshore company. As we can remember several of these cases from the period before 2010, my fellow Members have already talked about this, and even two or even three socialist prime ministers have been linked to offshore companies, it was perfectly natural and welcome that the Fidesz-KDNP government has already stated in the Fundamental Law that, in the event of public funds being used, only a contract can be concluded with an organisation whose transparent ownership structure can be clearly defined. That is what Article 38 of the Fundamental Law is about. And what we can see is that Hungary's Government remains committed to achieving these goals, so the Orbán government has since taken a number of measures to increase transparency. Madam State Secretary spoke about the new Public Procurement Act, which is quite clear, and she says that an economic operator who has a tax jurisdiction in a non-EU State without a bilateral agreement with the Union on public procurement or on the avoidance of double taxation can be excluded from all procurement procedures. However, it also includes a regulated non-listed company which is not able to identify its beneficial owner or has, directly or indirectly, more than 25 per cent ownership or voting rights in the economic operator of a regulated non-listed company which is capable of naming its beneficial owner. After the offshore affairs of socialist governance, of course, we should not be surprised that these tightening rules were not voted by our socialist fellow Members last year. However, we should be surprised that Jobbik and LMP did not vote for them either. And speaking of offshore affairs linked to the socialists, allow me to point out two points in which the left is still indebted to us today. One is the case of John the Strong, and the other is the case of Dataplex. János Erő was the leader of the 100% state-owned MFB throughout the eight years of the socialist government. During his term of office he had an offshore company in Panama, through which he dealt with an Austrian investor with significant media interests in Hungary between 2007 and 2009. This was exactly the time when OMV wanted to acquire MOL, which involved both parties on different sides of the case. János Erős is Heinrich Pecina, one of the most well-known Austrian businessmen, who has long been present in Hungary as a major investor, currently has an interest in Mediaworks Hungary Zrt., which is publishing the FHB Bank through its investment companies, as well as the Népszabadság, National Sports, the World Economy and several county papers. The offshore documents and Austrian company papers quoted by the Austrian newspaper Falter show that Pecina's private foundation Collegia sold a company called Wintercastle to this businessman at the end of 2007 for about 50,000 euros to the Garuda Group registered in Panama. According to offshore documents, Garuda, who had an account at UBS Bank in Switzerland, was owned by János Erős. According to the documents quoted by Falter, there was a significant movement of money between Garuda and János Erős' offshore company and Pecina's Austrian businessman. In July 2009, Garuda transferred EUR 5.4 million, i.e. more than HUF 1.5 billion of loans to one of Pecina's companies, but a few months later this company repaid this amount, but not to Garuda, because Strong asked for the money to be transferred to a Viennese trustee. The Austrian businessman should also be aware that at the time when OMV wanted to acquire MOL's management rights, it bought - I mean Pecina - the Russian billionaire Megdet Rahimkulov 5,6 million MOL shares. On 25 June 2007, the Austrian businessman announced to MOL that his company, Vienna Capital Partners, now owns 6.1 percent of MOL's shares in total and passed on the shares to OMV that day. The point is, in short, that the president of the MFB has dealt with an Austrian businessman through his offshore company who has actively participated in the economic maneuver which was intended to obtain the management of MOL for OMV. There are a number of questions about the case with which the left still owes the answers. First of all, how could they allow a 100% head of a state company to run an offshore business? So that John Strong, while head of the MFB, should be an offshore company? How could they allow this as representatives of the state of ownership? Secondly, how could the president of the MFB be allowed to deal with a man who violated Hungarian national interests by trying to play MOL into the hands of OMV? Thirdly, how could he, after all this, have enjoyed the confidence of the left-wing government as Chief MFB János Erős and not been fired? It would be good if, after eight years, we could finally get answers to these questions. [[Interjection from Jobbik's ranks: Who's on the wheel?]] The other matter I would like to draw your attention to is the Dataplex case, since there was an offshore in this case, but it was also an act of squandering state assets and dealing with government influence. The point of the Dataplex case was, in short, that the Wallis Group, led by Gordon Bajnai, purchased Dataplex Kft. in September 2005, which dealt with the hiring of server capacity, which was sold to Telekom a few months later with a profit of HUF 3 billion with the intervention of three Cypriot offshore companies. One of the companies in Limassol, Fleminghouse, the director of Bajnai Gordon himself, has since become known, the other belonged to Gyula Lepp, the father-in-law of János Kóka, then Minister of Economy of SZDSZ, and we still do not know the third ownership structure. The case was prosecuted, but unfortunately, in the maze of accountability, it died. One of the threads is offshore, as it turns out that the Cypriot companies included Bajnai and Kóka. One of them, right, later Prime Minister, and the other, János Kóka, then regent Minister of Transport and Economy. Kóka abused his influence and damaged the Hungarian state, because the Dataplex for hiring server capacities did not become a business worth HUF 3 billion in three months. This was due to the fact that, thanks to the powerful government influence of Kóka, after the purchase of Dataplex by Wallis, he suddenly received a number of fatty orders from public companies and background institutions, keeping the company busy with its capacities and making the company more valuable. This case also shows why the country was on the verge of bankruptcy by 2010, because it was led by the left, where national interests were always preceded by the desire to get rich by government politicians. The KDNP, therefore, remains committed to keeping the offshore knights away from public funds. Thank you so much for listening. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2016-05-30-247	Thank you very much, Congressman. A proper speech will come from the Jobbik Group, Mr Gábor Staudt. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-05-30-248	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, My speech was partly overwritten by the flood of lies that we had to keep quiet from István Hollik here at the Parliament meeting. I'd like to start by saying, since you mentioned Kóka, who gave him a diplomatic passport to travel as a businessman with the government delegation? You. Who decorated Medgyessy? You. And who's doing business with the people he's listed? Mostly you. And you're the ones who consider those companies that you don't see, and put these lists on the Internet, and they're also giving you public funds, public funds, EU funding. [[18.30]] That's what happened. My colleague György Szilágyi will tell you in detail. By the way, from week to week, you're going to be able to read on your head what companies you put on the Internet are having an opaque background, and then you're going to give them state money. Not to mention the fact that Mrs State Secretary here has told us about the irregularities the State Audit Office has discovered in Jobbik's management. You forgot to tell me what years this covered - the year 2006-2007 - and what huge irregularities they were. By the way, Jobbik didn't get any state money in those years. These were irregularities, such as the fact that someone wrote his name inappropriately on a two or three thousand forints donation cheque, in an unreadable manner, and these funds had to be double-repayed to the state. There were such serious irregularities. And we're reading the theft of a thousand billion forints on your head. I must say that the size of the voter can be decided by the voters. I also have to say that it was a novelty for me that the Béla Kovács case is now an offshore case. I didn't know that, and you're the ones who want to know what information we have on this case. We don't have any information. Szilárd Németh, as a member of the National Security Committee, may be able to provide more detailed information, but we do not have any information about what he is accused of. Or, at the very least, what Béla Kovács is accused of, but how detailed information is beyond that, neither we nor the public can know about it. So it's very difficult to defend against them. By the way, you have repeatedly raised the huge amount of money that Béla Kovács supported Jobbik. Do you know how much money you've been supporting him with? As much as a state manager can take home every month as a salary you've raised. If these are huge money, you'll pay your state executives very well. And then we're looking forward to the evidence in the cases that have been told here. You can talk about offshore cases here, of course, because a friend of Gábor Vona's knows a man who's ever heard of someone who's been off-shore. And by the way, we're not talking about public money. So you have to answer for these statements before the court. By the way, as today's announcement, it went out to Erik Bánki, because he said things that went beyond the borders that he could defend in court. And by the way, we could see that I could refer to János Halász, who was also trying to mention these cases. He ran away from the press conference just as brave as Sir Robin did when Richard Forrai went to this press conference and wanted to face János Halász. He ran away, by the way, just like you ran away from Congressman Juhász. [[István Hollik: I didn't run away! Check it out. I was standing right there!]] On the news, at least, and on the video, he ran away. You can run away, there is nothing wrong with that, you only have to stand up to the voters and tell them what they are saying and why they are saying it. You've had a very difficult time protecting this. So what I see is that they can't wash themselves clean, because that would be impossible. What you can do is try to frame others. The MSZP is quite easy to deal with, because before 2010, the MSZP was involved in a number of transactions, but it does not excuse you from continuing these practices. The fact that they did this in the MSZP would not expect the citizens, the voters, to continue these dirty games in the same way as the MSZP has started, and as events have been happening in Hungary since 1990. Tax Justice Network has been quoted several times, which is a British research firm, which, according to conservative estimates, is estimated to be 250 billion dollars - and these estimates were made a few years ago - the amount that was stolen from our country after 90 in the offshore direction. It's probably a lot more than that, by the way. We want to know who stole this money. This is two and a half to three times the Hungarian government debt. Based on conservative estimates. That's what we want to know. Fidesz or MSZP, or whatever party they belong to or are SZDSZ, people would like to know who stole this terrible amount of money from Hungary. The rest is just a whiff that, yes, the MSZP, or yes, the Fidesz stole more, or how much of these 250-300 billion dollars out of their share as far as theft is concerned. I must say that this concerns people only in what way accountability should be carried out. Then they didn't talk about the fact that it was a strange country where the president of the NAV was banned from the United States of America for similar cases, and exactly what cases you hadn't made public yet, but as far as you could tell, they were not satisfactory at all. It also crossed my mind while listening to, say, István Hollik and his fellow Members, that if you or most of the people present were not involved in these transactions - now I should be very optimistic - then what kind of a spiritual world they could hide it or protect those who would do so. Because no one tells me, for example, that in the settlement government bond business, say you, my fellow Member Hollik, do not notice what is going on in this country, that this commission of about HUF 100 billion, which is being paid to these offshore companies, in a monopoly market, could otherwise, let us say, be able to do this work by foreign representations. And we don't even know what that commission is, because you're saying it's not about public money while you're selling a state monopoly, the right to establishment. It's like a concession. They're selling it, and the money they're making is that it's public money. And the income, does it know what it is? The one you're gonna have to pay back. This is not an income that the Hungarian state can spend. And you're gonna have to pay interest on that. In fact, as has been said, it is on sale, and instead of EUR 300 thousand, it is EUR 271 thousand that will come in, and the difference between that and commission is not enough, it is also left with these companies. When we wanted to set up a committee of inquiry for this, it was rejected for whatever reason it was said. So, for example, these issues should be clarified and not pointed to the opposition after six years of government or pointed to Jobbik. Or they can, but they'll be completely uncredited. Read what comments are received on the Internet portals after their similar announcements. Like the biggest Internet portals that Jobbik has nothing to do with. And by the way, it's written by commentators who also write that they're not Jobbik sympathizers, they're not Jobbik supporters, but what the government does is unsustainable. I believe that in 2018, you will see the result of this policy. Thank you. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-05-30-249	Thank you very much, Congressman. Government speaking, Eszter Vitalyos. Here you go, Madam Secretary.
u2016-05-30-250	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would just like to respond to some of the questions that Congressman Staudt has just addressed to the government. First of all, the analysis of the results of which appears on our website was conducted by the institutional system between 1 October 2013 and 5 June 2014. So at this particular moment of time, the findings that we made at the time were valid. The organisation may have made itself transparent after the investigation. With these organizations, it is now legitimate to conclude contracts with anyone. Otherwise, it is always the responsibility of the institution who wishes to enter into a contract with these companies which were previously considered opaque. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of Fidesz.]]
u2016-05-30-251	Thank you very much. We will continue with the proper speeches. Mr István Németh Szilárd is coming from the Fidesz Group. Here you go.
u2016-05-30-252	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Dear fellow Members, Several people have tried to express the purpose of today's debate. I think that's how you listen to the conflicted opposition, because practically everyone here is on the far left to the far right. [[Moore in the ranks of MSZP and Jobbik.]] , and, by the way, the reality and the response to it, the government, parliamentary measures given to it, the legislation adopted, the economic environment in which Hungary can live today, I think that since 2010, but since 2014 in its entirety - we have heard the policy of tax reduction here, we have heard the constitutional, fundamental legal safeguards that do not allow wild offshore companies, i.e. direct tax avoidance offshore companies, to obtain public money in Hungary, whether they can participate in public procurement in Hungary - they are all incidental to them. They'll tell you theirs, find out an answer, and then it'll go on again. So, in effect, today's debate brings to mind the debates that have taken place over the past period. The same thing happened on the pedagogical debate day, the same thing happened on the public security debate day, so whatever day of debate we organize, we see the same thing, we see the same drivers, we see the same hunger for power, we see the government's intention to overthrow, we see the political upheaval at all costs in this whole story. There is no problem with that until we look back on historical perspectives. Solzhenicin said that there is no lie requiring thick skin that a communist wouldn't say without blinking his eyes. [[Dr. Gábor Staudt: Because you have never known Fidesz!]] If it's in the interest of the movement or your personal well-being. [[18.40]] On which I say, I am extremely surprised that Jobbik was unscrupulous - and it was as if the continuation of their convention yesterday, listening to Gábor Vona here - to join this principle unscrupulously and are capable of virtually any kind of lie. I'm sorry, my fellow Member, but the settlement bonds have to be dealt with like this. It brought 1100 billion into the Hungarian budget. HUF 1100 billion was added to the Hungarian budget by the settlement policy [[Dr. Gábor Staudt: You didn't bring that much! He said 200 on the Rogan. The president's ringing the bell.]] And the settlement policy is the form, the non-illegal form, which, by the way, our dear comrades have mixed up that there is a struggle with illegal immigration, but this settlement policy is here. These two aren't the same. The settlement policy is the safest system from a national security point of view. The safest system, and you don't have to ask me that, because Jobbik's representative is sitting at the National Security Committee meeting, and he knows exactly when he gets the information from the Immigration and Nationality Office about the bonds about what we're talking about. The commission of the bonds is not paid by the Hungarian State, not by the Hungarian taxpayers, and they know it as well as we do, but they have completely the opposite statements. The foundations created by the Hungarian National Bank and the 260 billion. Foundation, everyone knows you don't have to watch big ones - 260 billion can be spent? How can it be spent, the foundation's fortune! The foundation must use it, and if it has income from it, it can spend it in addition to the income generated. But here's the line, now we're used to it, and I could tell you all the stories you pulled out of your hair that you and the good guys and the MSZPs shared with us. I am sure that what I am about to present to you is a example of how to rob a local government, how to rob the people of Csepel, how to virtually eliminate its prosperity in the last two and a half decades, that can no longer happen in Hungary today. We're talking about Csepel SC, Csepel Workhouse and Csepel Works, huge money, and we're all in focus when we recreate this whole thing, and the whole thing lands at an offshore company, an offshore company, a comrade-in-chief offshore firm and put in a position. I don't want to go too far back, but I think it'll be enough to outline this story by 1991. In Csepel, what happened, whether from before the First World War to the change of regime, Csepel's story is the story of the factory, the one that Weiss Manfred founded here a few weeks ago, about what Weiss Manfred did when he founded this factory, and he took the measures to put Csepel's people in a position either on a cultural level or on a spiritual level, or on a welfare level, as he provided for the workers. This ended in 1989-90, and the comrades also lost power. A 35-member body of representatives was set up in Csepel, where there was a crypt communist and a communist, all the others or some new party, or a representative of some old historical party, and an SZDSZ-fidesz mayor was placed in the mayor's seat in Csepel. But life made it so that they couldn't decide on economic matters, because they didn't even know how to go into the municipality, where to attack. But the comrades knew exactly what they were doing in person, by the way. Later, MPs and mayors became former first secretaries, György Podolák is up to his neck in this case, Dezső Avarkeszi, I think you are familiar with these names, former State Secretary, Mihály Tóth, the last first secretary and so on. But let's not get into the details so much. They took the factory and organized it into a holding organization, and it was stolen with a jack and a jack. All of Csepel SC's assets, all of his properties, all of his assets were transferred to one foundation, this is the Csepel SC Foundation. The Csepel Workers' Home was also taken to a foundation, the Csepel Workers' Home Foundation. Let it be enough that one of the leaders of these two foundations was György Podolak, and Dezső Avarkesi, and they made rules, put in a man of honor who was hanging out of the stripes, and then nodded to them, so someone seemed to be on the other side, but it wasn't there, and these people made the decisions they wanted. For ten years, it could be done that practically all the properties of the sports in Csepel, the fencing room in downtown, the resort in Siófok, the hotel in Csokonyavisonta, everything that served the sport at that time. When the wealth ran out, or it wasn't much to go on, they decided that this should be played out in some form, but they left everything completely to the full extent, so that there would be no price, but still there was a price to the story, it still meant 4-5 billion. Well, what did you have to do? In 2005, Cs. Island Invest, which is a company empire of 220 offshore companies in Hungary - its boss is named Dániel Jelinek, the chief company is registered here in Delaware - and the founder's rights have been granted! Literally, no contract, nothing. The founders sort of resigned or died, anyway, someone's missing somewhere. The judges were reasonable, twice denied this registration, but they couldn't refuse it any longer, because one day there was a resolution of the legal unit. There was a law order that said, "Yes, it has to be registered." What could the judge do? He logged it in, and that's how he got through the entire Csepel SC fortune to an offshore company. And when, dearly-right-wingers, last year, I brought in the Csepel Workers' Home Act to prevent this - they are right that five years after the 2010 takeover, but they are so strong, and we cannot fight against them in October 2010, and then in November everything is played out, they are so strong - then the goodies have been talking to me all the time, talking about how we deal with this situation in law, constantly. At home, they didn't dare. At home, the good representative voted for it in the municipality, but they were against it all along. Tell me why. Why have you provided assistance in this matter? Or they didn't know him and they did what they did irresponsiblely in the Csepel Workhouse case, and they still keep the opportunity to steal him, by the way. It is true that if the court now applies the law, we have passed the law a year ago, but the court has not yet decided, but if it is to be applied once, it is most likely that it will not be able to decide otherwise than to allow it to fall into the hands of an offshore company, say, the Csepel Workers' Home. So I think that at the time that this debate day was decided, we really should have gone to the stage that the secretary of state and the secretary of state were trying to represent here. I think they were very professional, very fair, and also presented the historical background, Secretary General Fónagy, to what kind of work it is that we have to deal with here. It's not gonna work out, we can't do our own thing, we can't do our country's life if we're impatient, and we keep looking at who we can get our ax into. So I think that the direction is good, we have heard the legislative environment, the economic environment, and what the government and Parliament started here in 2010, we must, I think, complete it. Today, I have every assurance that Csepel Workhouse, Csepel SC, has been summarized in the book Red Csepel, and I tell you that I have not yet talked about the factory in Csepel, which in the end is completely compatible with the offshore company. So today, two thirds of the factory in Csepel are owned by the offshore company who, by the way, wanted to steal the Labor Home, and they also wanted to steal the Csepel SC's assets. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-05-30-253	Thank you very much, Congressman. A proper speech will come from the LMP Group, Mr Sallai R. Benedek. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-05-30-254	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, Let's talk more peacefully. I don't know what's causing such intense anger. [[Németh Szilárd István: Maybe the Csepel Workers' Home or the Csepel SC, I don't know.]] So Csepel SC, or I don't know why. I will start by bringing peace, by responding immediately to what I fully agree with my fellow Member Hollik. That's the word he said, the offshore is basically bad and immoral. We fully agree on this, and that is very far from what my fellow Member, Mr Major, said, who began to distinguish between a public offshore and a private offshore and the purpose for which we use it; he said that the knife could be cut into someone and sliced bread. So I agree with my fellow Member Hollik, that is what his sentence was about, and I think that the offshore is fundamentally unethical and wrong, and that is why we should be persecuted, and that is why we should be talking about it, which is why we need to face the problems, because let's see what you are doing. In one word, they say that the government is doing everything it can to eliminate it, and in the other word, they say that the huge offshore scandal affects everyone to the right of me. [[18.50]] Is there an offshore or no offshore? If you face this and acknowledge that there is any background to this in Hungary, then you will practically do that, while denying your existence. Mr Csaba Dömötör, State Secretary, started the speeches here from the propaganda industry. He said very interesting words and phrases: Fidesz finally had to clean up. That's the expression he said. Everything is now clear, he also said; no one can argue that the government did everything and then brought up online cash registers. Before I go to online cash registers, let me tell you that my fellow Member, Csaba Dömötör, was probably still a Boy Scout, while some of his fellow factions were already stealing from the MSZP.
u2016-05-30-255	Excuse me, Congressman, Csaba Dömötör is not a Member of Parliament but a Secretary of State.
u2016-05-30-256	I am also thinking of Secretary of State, Csaba Dömötör. So, on the whole, it's obviously possible to talk about it. It's good when online cash registers come back again and again, because that's the kind of thinking, that's the difference of opinion we're talking about when we talk about offshore. Online cash registers have nothing to do with offshore. With online cash registers, you have made a lot of small businessmen pay taxes more than the multinationals, who have barcodes everywhere, but the little ones. You're implementing an anti Robin Hood program, you're taking it away from the little ones to give it to the big ones. That is basically what this day is about, and how this system can be eradicated. The reason you don't have to apologize for a lot of cases is because you don't have to ask because I'm not saying that every MP in this group has an offshore interest. All I'm saying is that the offshore phenomenon is here in Hungary. I bet my fellow Member Hollik knows more about computers than I do. If you hit Google to say offshore companies, in the first 50 hits you will see how it can be founded in Hungary and how many people offer this option to this day. When I was about to come here, I did this, I looked at it. It's an opportunity, so they're trying to avoid taxes. And there's no positive version of that. There's no such thing as public money and not public money. The claim that public money is not going out is also very, very interesting, because you are telling me that you are doing everything you can to ensure that public resources are not put into such an opaque system. Yes, but in the meantime, if indirectly legal persons own the offshore, and the Hungarian legal person has an offshore owner, and the owner of the Hungarian legal person is another legal person, as we have seen in particular in the case of EU subsidies, then without further delay a significant part of these resources can be indirectly excluded from the Hungarian taxpayer's obligation, as they are carried out there by very simple techniques so that they do not have to pay taxes in Hungary. It is strange when my fellow Member Erik Bánki comes by saying that we have made a tax haven here in Hungary compared to Denmark, Sweden, Finland, because if it were a good tool, then the indicators in Hungary would not be worse in this respect than those in those countries. The countries mentioned here have a maximum tax rate of 50 percent and above. Nevertheless, their offshore share is smaller than that of Hungary. Nevertheless, tax discipline is higher and yet more effective in most indicators. Well, then, please, this device isn't right for this, so we need to find a different device. And the proposals that the May Other has brought here on several occasions are an opportunity to consider. But I also accept that Fidesz does not accept anything that comes from outside the system of national cooperation, but if you were at least to think about these proposals, you might at least look at it and rewrite it in a way that would be submitted as a stand-alone motion for representation, then you could see an effort. But at the moment, we see two things being said: that there is no such thing in Hungary, and they say that there is a great deal of it at the left, Jobbik and such. With these two statements, it's very difficult to deal with. While we see that public money does have something to do with the offshore background. Zoltán Spéder's name has already been mentioned. We can see a typical example from the media that you are now monopolising the small-town postal services and so on, as we insert your name together with the offshore, and it appears that you are significantly affected. But in the same way you can see the Habony works that have been mentioned several times and the entrepreneur András Vajna and casino business, who also have an interest. And that's not all, because they're just businessmen who are somehow connected to the government. But please, the Balatonfenyves case that we brought to Parliament several times when someone from a Natura 2000 area was given four hectares as a gift to make a luxury marina there, and they spent 100 million in EU funding on it, also an offshore company. They told us to press charges. So what happened? Did we press charges? And then what happened? The D.A.'s office rejected the investigation in the absence of suspicion of a criminal offence. I'm on 24 charges in two years because I'm convinced there's evidence of a crime. What right do you have to ask me to report when we are practically unable to achieve results? The question is, what opportunities do they find? And after my time is running out, let me tell you that according to a French economist, the wealth that has been saved in tax havens could easily be confiscated. Why don't you think about it? I'm not against the Fidesz. I want the state register to grow. Why can't you think about completely banning any legal activity in Hungary for a company with a background that is not registered in a country with a transparent background? In fact, I'm going to go further: why not make more stringent rules, and why not do something about giving back all the money that has been saved to its rightful owners, the Hungarian citizens? Let me give you an interesting example: in 1791 we came up with a common system for registering land. At the same time, much of the property and property were real estate and land. For this reason, it was invented during the same period that it needed a single register. Today, the person sitting here is completely natural about the land being registered by the Land Administration, and we have access to the owners by local map number. In the case of legal persons, in the case of companies, why do we not introduce a registration system that would allow the full background of each Hungarian business partner to be transparent? And it should be clear that not only small children should have their taxes accounted for, as they did with online cash registers for all small businesses. No! I don't know anyone in Hungarian agriculture who thinks about offshore, and I should probably explain to a significant part of it. But just those who treat billions, who are now at the top of the Hungarian billionaire list, come up with the name line and line. One of the billionaires recently turned out to have 77 billion in Singapore plus, and then someone got to their head and said, "Yeah, there's 77 billion there." And what's the plot? Nothing. He continues to keep the list of Hungarian billionaires, and no one wonders what the solution will be when the public wealth that has been thus rescued from the country and tried to hide untaxed or black income is how it can be fully legalized. Instead, what happens? And here's the criticism that we disagree on. They're trying to make this legal, and they're giving amnesty to tax frauds. That's what's happened in the last few years. In the tax rules, the amnesty happens on an annual basis, and they say that they bring the money home, and we allow them to pay very low taxes here, so that at least the money is at home, because then I don't know in government bonds how it will appear in the Hungarian budget. This amnesty is a sin. And that's what we're saying, that it doesn't show that you're doing everything you can. And in the same way, when my fellow Member Hollik tells us that the legislation on public procurement, as Mrs State Secretary mentioned, was not voted by the opposition, it was because we think it is bad because we consider it inadequate. They may say that this is the strictest public procurement rule in the universe, if practice shows completely different from all EU resource use, and the family relationships that lead to decision-makers are obvious. You can say how good this is, but the exercise is different. And the laws that are unsuitable for an instrument will not vote for our faction because we are trying to make better ones. The motions that our faction has made in this matter are, in my opinion, good. The debate day is good for talking about it, it is good for them to face the problem, that it exists, that they recognise the problem and that they seek solutions. The fact that the register is to be created is that offshore assets can be confiscated, and you have the opportunity, the majority of Parliament, without further ado, if you have the intention, to do something about it. And I ask you with all due respect. Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President.
u2016-05-30-257	Thank you very much, Congressman. There are two-minute speeches coming up. First, I give the floor to Mr András Schiffer. Here you go.
u2016-05-30-258	Thank you very much, Mr. President. What the Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs said a good hour ago that the Hungarian Government intends to fight offshore by reducing taxes points to exactly what is the biggest crime of offshore activity globally. The exact logic of offshore knights is followed by Secretary of State Szabó and the entire Orbán government, since offshoreing strengthens the policy that states compete with each other in taxes and wages, and compete with the offshore knights by reducing taxes lower and lower, the price of which is paid by all taxpayers in hospitals and education, in debatable education. It is disastrous for Hungary if the Hungarian government concludes from global offshoreisation that the level of tax burden should be even lower. It's not that! [[19.00]] Once again, Congressman Hollik came in here with a very large breast, saying that your government, he was nowhere near the room, would have banned offshore operations. Then I'd like to give you some names. Hungary State Special Dept Found. This company organizes, among other things, settlement bonds for Chinese citizens. Where do you think this company is registered? I'll help you: the Cayman Islands. You capitalize the national middle class in the Cayman Islands. But here's another company: Voldan Investments; or the other one, Arton Capitol, which organizes economic immigrants in Islamic countries in exchange for settlement bonds. They're all offshore companies. And behind one and the other is the shape of the government's professional Rasputin, Árpád Habony. But if you have already pressed a button, my fellow Member Hollik, explain to me how a spider sitting on the top of an offshore network, called Andy G. Vajna, can be a government actor in Hungary today. Answer that. What did you ban here? There's nothing in a single world! Our bill is exactly to sweep the offshore knights out of the country, to ban offshore owners from public money and state life. Thank you very much.
u2016-05-30-259	Thank you very much, Congressman. A two-minute speech from the Jobbik Group will be followed by Mr President Novák. Here you go.
u2016-05-30-260	Dear Parliament, The proposals of the Jobbik programme package against political crime against offshore have been presented to you in vain, and none of our proposals are even considered by the government. Here we see such unworthy and aimless personalities as, let's say, the Béla Kovács case, which may have been called the largest spy business in Europe, and then the biggest corruption case in Europe, it has turned out today that it can start in a new genre, as it has also been called an offshore transaction. Perhaps it will be called the biggest election fraud in the debate of the electoral procedure law. I don't know how many more skins you can pull off. Anyway, I say we start talking about the solution. That is why we have recommended to your attention that the encryptions that are contrary to the public interest should be reviewed, which has been typical of the governments of the last 25 years. The secret declarations of property held in the safe of the National Assembly shall be made public by Members of Parliament to family members living in the household. As Jobbik initiated, as Jobbik published on its website. But you won't do it. However, transparency would require this to be revealed, for example, by the discovery of the world's largest offshore by the wife of the former treasurer of the MSZP. This was, say, at least in the sealed envelope, in the Parliament's safe, or was it already a violation of the law? These should be dealt with. However, you are also unwilling to disclose, for example, any other nationality of Members of Parliament. However, if we had known, let's say, in the case of Gábor Simon, that he had already built an escape route in an African banana republic, since he had a passport, I think he could have been prosecuted earlier. That is why we should consider these proposals. As if we could get there, yes, the suspension of immunity, the introduction of a double sentence would be a good idea if we could talk. But right now, we're not on punishment, we're not on investigation because you guys have classified all the shit. That's what we need to talk about when they're finally supporting any of Jobbik's anti-politicisation programs. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-05-30-261	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr István Hollik is coming from the KDNP Group. Here you go.
u2016-05-30-262	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I don't understand. Because we have told you, the secretary of state and the woman have repeatedly told us what is in the Fundamental Law. We've told you what's going on in the Public Procurement Act. [[Intercoms from the opposition benches.]] What's in the Public Finance Act. On this basis, it is quite clear that a company whose ownership structure is unknown cannot be contracted with the State. On the other hand, you say that, well, these laws do not matter, because otherwise, we see something quite different in practice. I can only conclude from your explanation that you do not respect the rule of law. You don't believe in the rule of law. [[Deterioration in opposition benches.]] That's what we're talking about. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] If you say that it doesn't matter if you make a law in the Hungarian Parliament because that's how you laugh, then I think it's outrageous. That's outrageous. Those who do not believe in the law, which you have adopted, were here in Parliament when we voted on this, and they say that it has no binding force, no significance, no rule of law in Hungary, I think it is outrageous. [[Dr. András Schiffer: Do you know what we're talking about?]] Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-05-30-263	Mr. Team Leader! Your two minutes have already been mentioned, so I'm afraid I don't have a chance to give it to you again, but don't jeopardize the possibility of your later comments. Mr Gábor István Bellozó is next. Here you go.
u2016-05-30-264	Thank you very much. Congressman Hollik, I have a very simple question. Then please explain to us who Voldan Investments Ltd., which belongs to the settlement bonds of the Balkan and former Soviet countries, is in its ownership background. If you can answer that, you're right. Thank you.
u2016-05-30-265	Thank you very much. We will continue with the proper speeches. From the Fidesz Group, Mr Vas Imre is next. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-05-30-266	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, First, I would say to my colleague, Mr Sallai R. Benedict, that there is also a Hungarian business register, not just a real estate register. The business register includes the owners of all companies, except public limited companies and cooperatives. At the cooperative and the public limited company, you can see the stock book or the membership register at the company's seat. So at each company or cooperative, notary office or executive office, it is possible to know which company owns it. It's not as old as the real estate register, but it's over 20 years old. I would like to talk primarily about the offshores before 2010, when offshore companies in Hungary were in momentum, winning a whole series of public procurements. In the past, he did not lift a finger on the left so that only transparent companies could access public funds. Left-wing governments used coordinated, organised action to provide public funds to private companies with mostly offshore backgrounds. I mention two cases which are referred to under Article VII. The district is connected to the then MSZP-SZDSZ leaders, and the companies profited from the municipal assets. Annex VII is amended as follows: In district real estate, the then local government sold its properties to offshore investors through the intervention of minimum capital kft.-s. Or let's just think about rebuilding the metropolitan market in Garay Square. Looking at the background of market reconstruction, we can see the 7th century. General recipe for district real estate management: buy some offshore companies, surround yourself with insiders and offshore lawyers, then buy valuable properties from the district cheaply, then sell them with great profit. You can see that through new, newly-established, low-capital companies, we managed to purchase properties with low-cost high-quality properties from the then MSZP-SZDSZ municipal administration. The municipal cycle before 2010 meant the last period of privatisation, a wasteful period of abuse without a strategy with national assets. Based on the bad and damaging solutions of the predecessors, the current government has interrupted previous offshore and pro- PPP practices and placed public interests at the centre of its asset policy. With the announcement of the new asset policy, the definition of the principle of unitary asset management and government measures along it, the establishment of a more economic, transparent and responsible asset management system focused on safeguarding assets began. In line with the government objectives of fair and efficient management of the nation's wealth, the Fidesz government also wanted to ensure the protection of national assets at the highest level in terms of legal standards. [[Dr. András Schiffer: You don't mean that either.]] [[19.10]] In view of this, it is also stated in the Fundamental Law that the property of the State and the local government is national property and the requirements for the preservation, protection and responsible management of national property have been laid down. The 2011 CXCVI on national assets. a fundamental law has created a uniform regulatory environment for managing state and local government assets as a whole by laying down the principles. The law precludes abuse by offshore companies in the spirit of the Fundamental Law [[Dr. András Schiffer: But it doesn't rule it out. It doesn't rule him out. The president's ringing the bell.]] , allows the exploitation and sale of national assets, the formation of public and municipal companies only with the involvement of transparent organisations. From the aforementioned cases, you can see that the opposition is full of offshore affairs. [[István Apáti: Unbelievable! Defiance. Dr. Csaba Gyüre: You laugh at it too! Novák Előd: It is written in brackets that with a face! The president's ringing the bell.]] and a more economical, transparent system has been established by the current government with the publication of the new asset policy, the definition of the principle of a single asset management and the measures taken in this context by the government. Thank you for listening. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2016-05-30-267	Thank you very much, Congressman. From the Jobbik Group, Mr President Novák is coming to a proper speech. Here you go.
u2016-05-30-268	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Please raise your hands if you dare to say that since Fidesz came to the government in 2010, there has been no government corruption. If there were none, someone dares make such a bold statement, raise your hand! That's not gonna happen. Thank you for your honesty. [[Defiance.]] And it's not that much of a shame, because it's not that much, but I mentioned it because then they can make a government promise they made in 2010. And I quote not so bold, not so radical politicians, and even one of the most liberal, Zoltán Pokorni, who promised in 2010, that the first to reach into the cash register would be cut off. Well, let's see. [[Dr. Pál Völner: No one has been cut off!]] Well, let's see. If you acknowledge that at least one has happened, then let's see the very first, if one of your most liberal politicians campaigned like this in the 2010 campaign, that's how you won the election with the promise of accountability and that you'll be different. Well, that's not what happened. [[Dr. Pál Völner: You're no longer Vice President!]] This is not what happened, and they can even rob with both hands, for for example, Viktor Orbán's two-armed robber Andrew G. Vajna, is here. And speaking of offshore transactions, the offshore connections of his casino pooper and the offshore intercom company he founded. I would not even like to talk about the business of a film distribution company, but I would like to talk about an offshore business, which is not well-known, but which is supported by the Hungarian state. The Digic Pictures Ltd. was founded by Andrew G. Vajna in 2002, but of course it is not officially owned. The company is owned by Magyar Enterprises, an offshore company registered in the Netherlands Antilles. This offshore company received indirect state aid of HUF 150 million in 2013 [[Dr. András Schiffer: Only?]] [[Dr. András Schiffer: Only?]] as a result of the 2012 amendment of the Film Act. (Dr. András Schiffer: Just?) Indeed, it is not a large amount of money, perhaps only pocket money for him, he may play or launder such money in one day on roulette, but the Hungarian Enterprises offshore company with an opaque ownership is tied to Vajna with a thousand threads, for example, owns the Buno Kft., which Vajna may still be the managing director of. Magyar Enterprises is also the owner of InterCom, from which Vajna officially resigned because of his state assignments and conflicts of interest. Dear politicians! Returning to the parliamentary support of the offshore company, which you were pleased to legitimize and vote for, thanks to a personalised amendment to the film law of Andrew G. Vajna, Digic Pictures Kft., founded by Vajna. also became eligible for 20 per cent indirect state support after the animation videos they produced, advertising a few minutes of multi-game video games. Previously, the film law did not consider such works to be State-supported, if this can be called what Digic Pictures Ltd. it prepares, but after the amendment it has already been included in the eligible films - and I quote - the material prepared as a preliminary to a game programme available either on a computer or on any platform, which has thus become eligible for indirect State aid. At the time of the amendment of the law which I had already whipped before its adoption, Andrew G. Vajna, or András György Vajna, was already a government commissioner in the film industry, because since we knew that the country where the profits were, that is what they are called, let us be fair then. Digic Pictures Ltd. Moreover, it does not need State aid at all, since it has already operated with a profit of 100 million. In addition, tax relief works are used to promote video games, so in fact they are purely advertising and advertising films should not be supported by taxpayers' money. Finally, foam on the cake of Vajna, that Digic Pictures also called off the tax reduction, which was made before the 2012 amendment of the law, i.e. the lex Vajna. There was money for these, while for Hungarian historical films, we know well, no. Today's news is that more people saw the film The Horse Arrow, which was not supported by the Film Fund, than the other Hungarian films this year. I think that, in view of all this, it is only possible to compare the fact that Hungarian films are hardly ticketed by Hungarian viewers to the construction of stadiums without fans. It would therefore be more appropriate to support such works instead of offshore companies, in which Andrew G. Vajna has a very important role, because he has a lot of interests. However, it seems that if a person is a personal good friend and a two-armed robber of Viktor Orbán, he can do so without consequences. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches. Dr. András Schiffer applauds.]]
u2016-05-30-269	Thank you very much. Bence Rétvári of the KDNP Group asked for the floor. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-05-30-270	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, In fact, I look forward to the fact that if a letter from Novak Elod intended for another internal mailing list leaks out, in which he will appreciate the background people involved in offshore affairs around Jobbik, then what will be the real opinion that we can find out about this issue, and what he really thinks about the more and more offshore knights around the party. Let's hope we can read this sooner or later. [[Dr. András Schiffer: Will Vajna be better?]] leaked from another forum. [[Novák Előd: Speak of Vajna in the meantime. Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] Let me start by saying, on behalf of KDNP, that all such cases, series or mechanisms based on tax evasion, tax secrecy, concealment of ownership are obviously based on a very strong lack of ethics. When we talk about it either in politics or at other times, or when we write in the Fundamental Law that Hungary needs a kind of spiritual or ethical renewal, I think that we really see in such cases how much it is needed. How much is needed in training, in economics education or elsewhere, and how much fundamental values need to be laid down. For if they can become stronger, and money is not the only measure of value in life, but, as KDNP admits, that we can make much more important moral values clear in society than that, then these tricks are much more avoidable. Because there are certainly many rules in many countries, and there are many international treaties, there have also been countless initiatives within the European Union, especially by large industrialised producer countries, to reduce offshore activity both within and outside the EU, but basically these speculators are always looking for new ways to hide their income and identity. So it must be the strengthening of ethical principles that protects us most from this kind of money and profit-making. Our important principle, which may seem remote on this day of debate, is that capital itself, money cannot be separated from value-making work. The more a mass of money or capital becomes incomprehensible on a more human scale, inhumane, the owner can no longer influence exactly the fate of that large investment fund or that mass of money, distance itself from man, become inhumane, which is incomprehensible to a family business or to a larger company, sooner or later will be antihuman. They are antihuman, because they are taking that public space out of the country, saving the public space for the owner, which would actually be for the community in that country, would be for the people to bear the public burden. We Christian Democrats believe that property, money, greater wealth comes with two obligations. One is the obligation to create jobs for others, the other is the obligation to be charitable and social solidarity. Those who thus eliminate their assets by tax optimization, these two, we believe, do not do their obligations with property, with money, but only increase their earthly wealth as much and as much as possible. In addition to maximising profits, social responsibility must also be an important aspect to be taken into account by everyone. [[19.20]] Obviously, the state has a duty to reduce social differences with this public burden. In fact, all such offshore activities help to increase social differences instead of making a profit in some parts of the local value, the local surplus increasing the total national product. This is the ethical basis for the rejection of both offshore and offshore routes by KDNP at the base of the Hungarian Fundamental Law. Now, we have a bit of a difficult situation here in Europe as a member of the European Union, because we know that the leader of the European Union, Jean-Claude Juncker, has been a leader of Luxembourg for years, for decades as Prime Minister and Minister of Finance, which in international scientific life, for example, Professor Stephen Shay, international tax law expert at Harvard University, called him a tax reverend during the time of Jean-Claude Juncker, where every major company has almost turned around trying to hide or conceal its tax revenue as a multinational company. Yes, I think quite a lot of international journalists or other organisations have found that, under the leadership of today's President of the Union, Jean-Claude Juncker has defined Luxembourg's history of becoming a tax haven from 89 to 2009 as finance minister and from 95 to 2013 as prime minister. Well, this has taken a lot of tax revenue out of the pockets of other countries, especially other EU countries. Not only do we claim this, but the UN Development Organization also found that Luxembourg has become a capital-investing country that has actually served only tax optimisation, since the few hundred thousand people who live there are not justified by such financial movements. The Financial Times wrote about Jean-Claude Juncker that, during his 18-year prime ministership, Luxembourg became the EU's largest tax haven, and the OECD also found that the Grand Duke Luxembourg did not meet the financial transparency and publicity requirements. The Commission, when not led by Juncker, wanted to take action over a long period of time against this practice that would harm other countries, disproportionate practice, not only against Luxembourg, but also against the Netherlands and Ireland, as the Commission, the Commission, which has not yet led by Juncker, has said that the multinational companies in Luxembourg led by Juncker and the other two countries have benefited from unfair tax advantages. The other two countries cooperated with the Commission and Juncker's Luxembourg did not cooperate with the Commission at the time. This is also talkative of how many times we are called upon to cooperate with the Commission in areas which are not harmonised, because it was not a nation-state competence, and he himself refused to cooperate in a harmonised area when it came to such optimisation, tax avoidance or special tax legislation, tax agreements, he himself refused to cooperate with the committee at the time. In the context of the recent scandal in Panama, we can also say that the country of Jean-Claude Juncker, the second of the Panama-related countries, is Luxembourg with 10 877 offshore companies, and then very much behind Cyprus with 6374 such companies. The entire tax regime of the Grand Duke, which is the product of the Juncker governments, the current President of the Commission, is also completely questionable on the basis of leaked documents. The Luxembourg Government, as I said, has been managing it for 18 years, and has concluded a customised formal tax agreement with 343 multinational companies between 2002 and 2010. Such was the IKEA, Apple or Deutsche Bank. We can say that the companies in question have passed hundreds of billions of dollars through Luxembourg on very advantageous terms. According to the Financial Times calculations, the profit transferred to Luxembourg was effectively paid less than 1 per cent, i.e. less than one per cent. Of the 500 largest U.S. groups, 170 were present in Luxembourg with their subsidiaries, 95 billion dollars of revenue were transferred, and 1 billion USD of this 95 billion revenue was paid to Luxembourg in 2012. This is also evidence of a tax rate of around 1 percent. This is what he said - as I said - that the international tax law expert at Harvard University has become a kind of Eldorado. Jean-Claude Juncker defended the tax system of his country all the time, only when the Union threatened to punish him, Luxembourg was willing to make any concessions and then changed these rules, transparency rules, but basically banking secrecy will remain in practice there until 2017, preserving the elusiveness of these companies for quite a long time, or giving them this tax optimization, also known as tax evasion, on an international scale. I wouldn't say much more about what kind of transfer pricing center was the Luxembourg network that was built. So it is difficult to fight offshore in the European Union with the fact that if we look at the sides of the robber-pandur, then it is not certain that the President of the Commission has just acquired deep knowledge of the nature of offshore operations on the right side. It is also difficult to talk about this in full in public, because there are also many areas of offshore property in the press. If you look at the ownership structure of the most read portals in recent years, you can see at the Index one of the names in the Panama scandal, who, according to the leaked documents, was authorised by two companies, the Whitestone International Seychelles Company and Novum Asset Management. Whitestone has been the owner of Central European Media Publishing, the CEMP, which also owns the Index for years. Index Zrt. Directly owned by the Cypriot offshore company Fleminghouse Investment Ltd., which was reported in the press to have been connected to Gordon Bajnai to the extent or rather to the extent that he was the delivery agent of the company. However, the Index portal was also owned by another Cypriot offshore company, Vitonas Investments Ltd., which was able to manage this media empire through the intervention of a front company. In the meantime, it was also possible to read today about Zinc, that the American publisher who gave money to it was in such a great deal of trouble, and that he might have to close the deal because of a personality lawsuit, which produced him a great deal earlier, but personality protection in America seems to have finally stopped this kind of media creation or like hunting wave in this area. Blogwire Hungary is also the owner of this former website. was the sole shareholder of which Gawker Media Group Inc. was registered in the Cayman Islands. The basis for this was also an American website, from which a family of websites developed. If we also look at other media organizations, in the case of 444 or the Hungarian Oranges, the name of a Hungarian law firm has also been mentioned in the Panama papers, which are also known as a mediator for 96 offshore companies by journalists, which also means that the law firm was the most active Hungarian player in the Panama offshore party. The company law firm was also the delivery agent of Media Development Investment Fund Inc. This company, let's say MDIF, bought a stake in the Hungarian Jeti Zrt., which published 444.hu in 2014, and previously in the Hungarian Orange Publisher. There may still be examples, but this shows that full reconnaissance is difficult, as we can find the offshore thread in part of the press and in the leadership of the European Union, which may be an obstacle to finding out the full truth. Speaking of all the details of the truth, let us not forget the former Prime Minister Ferenc Gyurcsány's businesses controlled by Altus Luxembourg in connection with the already mentioned Luxembourg. Consider that in the first half of the 2000s, former Prime Minister Gordon Bajnai acted as a delivery agent for an offshore company in Cyprus, or consider the socialist exchequer László Puch, who can be owned by companies in Switzerland that can be associated with tax planning, János Veres, András Simor, László Boldvai. These are socialist politicians, who would certainly be able to talk a lot more about the offshore, because we ourselves feed on the documents or newspaper articles, and they themselves were so affected that the ex-Chief of MSZP or his former chief financial officer, László Boldvai, even withdrew from the party offices, but József Tóbias, who is currently the president of the MSZP, assured him that he would continue to expect it. This shows that a major change on the left cannot be expected here, since anyone involved in any matter still has the trust of the MSZP in relation to it. [[19.30]] I can also say as a conclusion, as I said at the beginning, that although legislation can keep us away from such cases, such craftsmanship with great guarantees, it is very important that Hungary's Fundamental Law, as a pioneer - and I believe that it is an example even for European legislation - contains an offshore ban, which provides the basis for any action, the possibility that anyone in this debate is asking for and demanding today. The basis for legitimate demands, whether formulated in Parliament, on the pro-government and opposition side, or expressed in public opinion, is to banish offshore companies, which have an opaque ownership structure or tax structure, from the public life and from the area of public life, and which are to be paid, will be removed from Hungary, and the legal basis for these claims will be laid down by the new Hungarian National Fundamental Law, which was adopted and entered into force five years ago. Without the Fundamental Law, Hungary would be much weaker, we would be much less able to act against these businesses, even because these terms are included in a two-thirds cast law, the Fundamental Law, which makes it clear to everyone that, in the long term, even if governments change, they come and go in Hungary, and again I say the excellent, quote-mark, people, whose appointments make Hungary rejoice with sentences such as András Simor, that: I have no offshore investments, but I bring them home. In other words, even if such ones were restored to power in Hungary, the Hungarian Fundamental Law will protect taxpayers from them, it will protect the nation's community, because the offshore ban was foreseen in the Fundamental Law in the long term. So if you want to go off-shore, it is better to avoid the Hungarian state and Hungarian public funds, so the Fundamental Law has created the possibilities for legal action. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-05-30-271	Thank you very much, Congressman. A proper speech will be followed by Mrs Schmuck Erzsébet from the LMP Group. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2016-05-30-272	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Today, several press organisations asked me what the purpose of the offshore debate day initiated by LMP was. As one of the objectives, I said that we would like to remind the Prime Minister of his promise six years ago, when he said that he was sweeping the offshore knights out of the country; unfortunately, he had forgotten this, as if it had not been said. The other goal is to raise awareness that offshore business is causing serious economic and moral damage to the country. It follows from both that strict rules should be laid down to stop the offshore business: at the very least, economic offshore companies must be excluded from state aid and EU subsidies, but it is also evident to us that the state leader, civil servant, cannot be owned, but is not part owner of the offshore company. Unfortunately, the government's intention to do so cannot be discovered, perhaps not by accident. Erik Bánki's comment showed that they were even proud to support the tax optimization of multinational companies, which is now damaging the taxpayers of a Western country: Hungary wins 500 billion, the giant company robs 1500 billion, and at other times we are robbed of the same business. Dear fellow Members, In this game, a country cannot win, only the transnational companies and their owners, the 62 people that my fellow Member Schiffer talked about, are getting rich. On this basis, it is no coincidence that Hungary is on the Brazilian offshore ban list. It seems that we are here today in Hungary, explaining and proving that the economic offshore is harmful to a country, the less developed, the more harmful. And the Secretary of State's proposal is to reduce taxes then, but this will make the multinationals even richer and make their own country even more poorer. First, we should answer the question that if we reduce tax levels by half, then by a third, then by a quarter, and even by giving benefits from it, then from what we will finance public services. One-key, one-digit tax sounds great, but do teachers and nurses feed off the air? But we can also consider an example in Africa, and in many respects we are closer to it. In Zambia, two thirds of sugar production is controlled by an offshore British-owned company, and the profits of this giant company amounted to $132 million in five years. Of which only a small amount of tax is paid, a total or 0.5 per cent, whereas retailers selling their products pay heavy taxes on the market, essentially providing for the country. All of this shows that we do need to take action to combat economic offshoreisation, and here we have come to the point: unlike legal offshore, Fidesz is not only not at the forefront of this, but it is also at the root of initiatives that would be a solution at European level. My fellow Member Vejkey missed the proposals for solutions. Here are some, all of which Fidesz fights with teeth and nails. The Hungarian Government refuses to accept the EU initiative to standardise tax bases with regard to the Common Consolidated Corporate Tax Base, which was proposed by the European Commission in June 2015. As Prime Minister Viktor Orbán said, the question is not to move quickly or slowly towards tax consolidation, but not to go in this direction. This is the strong Hungarian position. In an impact study by the Commission, the introduction of a consolidated corporate tax base would reduce economic growth in Hungary by 1 percentage point per year. This is a clear and clear position: Viktor Orbán supported the tax fraudous multinationals, because the 1 percent increase he mourns is not the country's loss, but the multinationals that produce half of GDP. The other proposal, which Fidesz could support, is the country-by-country reporting obligation, because multinational companies are tricking away from transferring income between their many establishments and their subsidiary companies, and we have no idea. If at least you could see how much they produce in which country and how much they tax, it would be clear where the money is being pumped. And beyond that, there are initiatives that could be embraced, especially in the European Parliament. And once again, it is very stupid and self-destructive, and in a government position, it is a country-wrecker who believes that downward tax competition between countries can be won by tax cuts. This competition has only one winner: the transnational global corporate network. Instead, in cooperation with others, the possibility of this competition and offshoreisation should be limited. Finally, allow me to say a few words about the moral side of offshore. It is deeply moral-destructive, because people experience that anyone who cheats, cheats, wins, gets rich, and those who are honest pull the short straw. The burden of the fraudulent tax is borne by the small people, and do not forget that when resisting LMP's proposals for tightening up. Thank you for your attention.
u2016-05-30-273	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. There are two-minute speeches coming up. First, I will address Gábor Harangozó from the MSZP Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-05-30-274	Thank you, Mr. President. The Secretary of State of Rétvár very nicely stated how tax avoidance techniques are incompatible with the Christian moral spirit and how he condemns it. Dear Secretary of State, Then I suggest you ask the representative of the economic portfolio - Hollik's fellow Member spoke a few minutes ago about the fact that the five offshore companies that sell the settlement bonds have already made 1100 billion in revenue, and if we calculate it quickly, they have a profit of HUF 120 billion - ask, please, the secretary of state, that these five offshore companies, which marketed this 1100 billion paper and made HUF 120 billion, paid taxes in Hungary. After HUF 120 billion, a Hungarian company should have paid a minimum tax of HUF 50-60 billion. If this amount is less than or less than zero, please consider whether you really are in the right place, if this upsets you so much that there are tax avoidance techniques - one. Two: I see that avoiding the truth or lying is not so incompatible with your moral standards, since a socialist politician was involved in an offshore case: László Boldvai, who used to be the treasurer of the Socialist Party. When it turned out that he was involved in an offshore transaction, he was not a member of the Hungarian Socialist Party from the next day. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: But count on it!]] [[19.40]] That is what I recommend to you, all the Members and politicians you have been exposed to are in place, and you are proud to protect them. You might want to take an example of us in this case. Thank you very much. [[Sallai R. Benedek applauds.]]
u2016-05-30-275	Thank you very much. It is also for a two-minute speech from the Jobbik Group that Mr István Apáti will take. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-05-30-276	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, Let's go back to the settlement government bonds. Tell me something about it, something worthwhile, a real explanation of what made it necessary that what the state could sell directly for 300 thousand euros would be offered in a completely unnecessary and pointless way for 271 thousand euros, and they will intervene completely unnecessarily and senselessly to companies to whom it is sold for 271 thousand, which will then pass it on to companies for 300 thousand. They're taking 29 thousand euros out of the state's pocket. There's no point in such an intervention, there's no place for private companies with Luxembourg and the Cayman Islands offshore suspects. But that doesn't bother you. And it doesn't bother you that not only this HUF 10 million per government bond falls out of the pocket of the state, but also about EUR 40-45 thousand of so-called administration fees are taken off, pulled off, pulled off these people. [[Dr. András Schiffer: That's the point.]] From now on, the profit is around 70,000 euros/person, which is a muscular amount of more than 20 million forints, which could migrate to the state, enrich and increase the state, instead it increases private companies, offshore companies, which can be linked either to Andy Vajna or Árpád Habony or, where appropriate, to Rogán Antal. But, of course, there is one explanation for this intervention, because Viktor allowed the Toni. That's the story. [[Deterioration in the ranks of Jobbik and LMP.]] Nothing more, ladies and gentlemen. Well, that wouldn't make matters less racially serious without Viktor Orbán's diamond-grade main support, and that would certainly do it. That's what the story is about, give me some sensible answers, and don't bullshit, and don't play the opposition like they've been doing here for six years, because it's extremely boring and extremely annoying. Thank you. [[Applause in the lines of Jobbik, MSZP and LMP.]]
u2016-05-30-277	Thank you very much, Congressman. From the LMP Group, Mr András Schiffer Group Leader will be here for two minutes.
u2016-05-30-278	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'd like to continue with the story that when we talk about the offshore phenomenon, it's not just about exotic islands. Of the 100 largest companies in the United States of America, 99 have extensive offshore networks. But we do know that Viktor Orbán is the best friend in the Union, David Cameron, one of the biggest drivers of the offshore is the London City and British islands, the Channel Islands and the Cayman Islands. It is therefore very interesting why the Hungarian Prime Minister has not taken any steps in the Union since his entry into office in order to eliminate tax havens. It is also clear, however, that a significant part of aid to developing countries is leaking into tax havens, if you will, offshoreisation is nothing more than the continuation of colonialization by other means. But, Mr Retvári State Secretary, who is still here, although Congressman Hollik has gone to my grave regret, I think that a straight answer should be given to a direct question. My respectful question is that if you are so transparent champions, please tell me who the Cayman Islands national capitalist is who owns Hungary State Special Debt Fund, VolDan Investments and Arton Capital. Who's behind the three settlement bonds brokerage company? Two: why are they against the law saying that the offshore interest is incompatible with the parliamentary assembly? Congressman Vejkey, I hope you understand that we not only regard the ownership structure as an offshore, but also if it is known that the owner is registered in the exotic tax havens listed in the LMP bill from A to Y. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] Let's face it, why are you resisting, as proposed by the LMP, sweeping the offshore knights off the public and public authority grounds! Thank you very much.
u2016-05-30-279	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. I'll ask Mr. Bence Rétvári, Secretary of State, to represent the government... [[For signal:]] Then, if you'd like to take your seat, Secretary of State, please come, because that's the only place you can speak as a congressman. If you're in the horseshoe, you should know you're representing the government. In the meantime, I will address Congressman Péter Csizi of the Fidesz Group. Here you go.
u2016-05-30-280	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I think that the walls of this long-built house can handle a lot when the representatives of the Hungarian Socialist Party comment on a particular debate. Especially when Gábor Harangozó says that no one in the Hungarian Socialist Party was involved in offshore affairs, and why we bring out Gordon Bajnai or Péter Oszkó or the former President of the National Bank or Ferenc Gyurcsány here. Honourable Congressman, Ferenc Gyurcsány is the owner of Altus Rt., who, after the fall of the Horn government, founded Altus' Luxembourg company. By the way, Altus' Hungarian group of companies owned by Fortus had a subsidiary in Cyprus. [[Dr. András Schiffer intervenes.]] This subsidiary in Cyprus is, moreover, quite interestingly, Energol Rt. has been made public during a search of one of his principals. Or, honourable Member, when you ask the representatives of the ruling party so intensely, I ask you to help me. and have a partner in the intensity of asking the deputy group leader of his own party, Bertalan Tóth, when they wanted to sell the Nick Court in Pécs. [[Dr. András Schiffer: Right.]] To a company in the Seychelles, who did he negotiate with? Because he hasn't told me that since then, he's been claiming to be an offshore company. Bertalan Tóth also does not tell us who Pécsett, as deputy mayor, was negotiating the sale of the Zsolnay plant, where a Maltese-owned offshore company applied to him, and also does not tell us who owns the company whose buses owned by Pécs, owned by public transport in Pécs, were outsourced. [[Dr. András Schiffer: But who's on the wheel?]] and for this outsourcing the city of Pécs had to pay a tax penalty of HUF 1.6 billion. [[Dr. András Schiffer: Count it out! The president's ringing the bell.]] So I would like to ask the Member to have a partner in his intensity, and to find out what kind of involvement Bertalan Tóth had in these three cases. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-05-30-281	Thank you very much, Congressman. From the KDNP Group, Mr Bence Rétvári is next for a two-minute speech.
u2016-05-30-282	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Let me continue my fellow Member's thoughts. We can address one person from the MSZP right now, because he's the only one here in the debate. Mr. Bellozó said that Mr. Boldvai, as party financer, was a high-confidence man within the MSZP, when he was surrounded by the accusation of offshoreisation, then he acted immediately, I do not know exactly whether he suspended his membership of the party or quit, that is, I think, secondary, because that is not the point, but that at that time President Tobias said that he was counting on Mr. Boldvai, László Boldvai, for his further activity. And you just told me, a few minutes ago, that, well, in the MSZP, as soon as someone got close to the offshore charge, they weren't even in the MSZ anymore. That's what you were trying to tell me. Now tell us, Mr Harangozó, that you would like to see László Boldvai continue to assist MSZP, as your party president has requested, now agree with the party president or disagree with the party president. [[Dr. András Schiffer intervenes.]] He suggested that he wanted László Boldvai away from MSZP. I ask you to clarify this, that you can agree with your party president, you cannot agree, you will join Mr Tobias' statement or not, because here you seemed to say something different about this matter than your party president. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-05-30-283	Thank you very much, Congressman. Congressman Gábor Bellozó, I cannot speak now, only at the end of the next round, because then there is another two minutes. That will take place after four speeches. A proper speech from the Fidesz Group will be followed by Mr István Happy. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-05-30-284	Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Today, too, I was convinced that we were not going to convince each other. Actually, there were only two speeches that surprised me. The Socialists' speeches don't surprise me, they're up to their necks in this whole corruption, offshore world, we're just saying Simon András... [[Intercoms: Gábor!]] Or, like, the Simon Gábor. András Simon, when he was the President of the Central Bank, had very serious offshore interests, so I didn't miss him, Congressman. [[Intercoms, that's Simor!]] Simor, I'm sorry. So the point is that András Simor was in on it, and Gábor Simon was in on it, and they're trying to deny Ferenc Gyurcsány, because why not? László Boldvait has just been suspended. [[19.50]] I don't think you can put all this behind you. But Congressman Schiffer surprised me. [[Dr. András Schiffer:]] He says tax cuts are going to strengthen the offshore world. I'm sorry, that's not the opinion of my teachers. After they lost their personal income tax, they didn't go off-shore. Yeah, not even before. [[Dr. András Schiffer intervenes. The president's ringing the bell.]] So don't be angry, but the tax reduction encourages people to pay less taxes, the more they pay taxes and don't risk the punishment. But the person who surprised me more than you was Gábor Vona. [[György Szilágyi: Oops!]] Well, Gábor Vona is the party president of this entire Parliament, who could even get over Ferenc Gyurcsány, because he had the party foundation's money transferred to his own personal-owned company. [[György Szilágyi: What is it? He doesn't have a company!]] Well, please, no one's ever done that before. [[István Apáti intervenes.]] Not today, but he did, but he's already done it. So let's not deny it. [[Intercoms in Jobbik's ranks.]] So let's not deny it, that's what happened. It's true they started to explain that, but that's what happened. And yet Jobbik is the party that has a representative, László György Lukács, who, through his family interest, was worried about what was going on with the doctors and leaving Hungary, while they transmitted the doctors abroad through the family company. [[Dr. András Schiffer: What does that have to do with anything? Intercoms in Jobbik's ranks.]]
u2016-05-30-285	Just a minute, Congressman. Mr Schiffer, Group Leader and fellow Members, I look forward to your two-minute check-in. I'm asking you to try to concentrate your interjections on that. Now Mr. Happy Congressman has the floor.
u2016-05-30-286	After all, the foundation from the foundation to car mechanics, drivers and relatives belongs to the party of the right-wing representatives, which gave millions of forints for all kinds of studies that did not come out of their qualifications that they could write. [[Adam Mirkóczki: How do you know?]] After that, you talk about corruption and offshore; I think it's a little harsh. But I'm not surprised. I'm not surprised that now that they're supposed to be cute, and now they're a big national cute couple, it turns out your party president's friend has a very good offshore company with his friends, which means he did, because he's already outdone it because he sold it to his friend. And it's not just any name for this company - obviously it's cute in the spirit of cuteness. [[György Szilágyi: Panda!]] - "Panda" [[György Szilágyi: Yes!]] Because the panda is a cute animal, that's right. So, I see that you've had a great time with this thing, and you're doing very well with it. [[Interjection in the ranks of Jobbik: He lives in the forest like a viper. Adam Mirkóczki: Seriously, is this level?!]] I would like to draw your attention to the fact that it is not enough to point out anything else, that you should also look at your own front door, because while you are talking about political crime, your representative, President Novak, is talking about political crime, there are all sorts of suspicious cases in your home, starting with your party president, who should explain why the party foundation has transferred millions of forints to his family company, his personal-owned company. I think this is an important case. [[Dr. András Schiffer: It's not a family company.]] And I think we're doing everything we can to keep offshore companies away from public procurement, which is why we've got a law on this, and they're not going there. Thank you very much. [[Dr. András Schiffer intervenes. Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-05-30-287	Thank you very much, Congressman. Before we go any further, I respectfully announce that the Group of the Christian Democratic People's Party will hand over 20 minutes of the time frame of the political debate to the Fidesz Group. I would ask the staff to modify the timeframes as announced. Thank you very much. Mr György Szilágyi is next from the Jobbik Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-05-30-288	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. To tell you the truth, I've just been really sad, although I can see that happy István has had enough, he's leaving quickly, he's fulfilled the money; he wasn't wearing the nice tie he used to wear. Congressman, my problem is, I'm telling you honestly, I thought we were gonna start talking about how things could be changed here. But I realized that you don't even know what an offshore is. So instead of changing the problem, you don't even understand what you're talking about. [[Defiance in Jobbik's ranks.]] We heard a lot of bullshit from him... [[The president's gonna turn off the speaker's mic. An uproar in Jobbik's ranks.]]
u2016-05-30-289	Congressman, I made it clear at first that I will not tolerate personal behavior. [[István Apáti: Could it be him? Intercoms in Jobbik's ranks. The president will turn back on György Szilágyi's microphone.]]
u2016-05-30-290	I didn't say what he looked like, say, István Happy, because I could have talked about it, but I don't want to offend him...
u2016-05-30-291	You mentioned your tie, Congressman, and you said... [[Defiance.]]
u2016-05-30-292	I'm judging what he said, so it was obvious that he didn't even know what offshore was, and that's what we're arguing about. And he told lies, which I hope for lies, we will sue him in the same way; as for example, János Halász ran away from that press conference, and there we could have clarified these situations - whatever. The problem, by the way - and I don't understand it, I really don't understand your argument - is that they keep saying here in almost every single speech that the socialists have stolen and offshoreed. Yeah, it's okay. But that gives you the right to steal and offshore! ? No! They'll tell you that the socialists lied. It's okay. But that gives you the right to lie. ? No, you don't! Well, that's the problem. You're constantly making arguments to say that you're authorized to do so. The other: we said that the offshore statement that we don't have offshore companies has been signed by all the better-looking congressmen. Why do you say you won't sign these statements? Because they say you don't have anything to hide, because you have to make a statement in your property statement about whether or not you have any company. That's what they say, that's their argument, and in the meantime, there's Zsolt Horváth, gentlemen. Did Zsolt Horváth have to file a property statement? You had to turn it in! Was the offshore company involved in your asset statement? It wasn't in there! Then what are we talking about? ! Well, if you guys don't have offshore companies, your asset statements have been duly filled out, then just tell me what kind of obstruction there is in signing another piece of paper that also says I don't have an offshore company and sign it. ? Well, nothing, because you have nothing to hide. That's another argument I'm saying I don't understand. Zsolt Horváth, your former Member of Parliament, is an eloquent example of the fact that a Member of Parliament with an offshore company - since he owned an offshore company when he was a Member of Parliament - did not include the offshore company in his declaration of assets. He lied! He deceived the citizens and deceived everyone. So? Well, here's the example. Well, why don't they change that? Over the last three years, I have only revealed and presented to this House dozens of cases in which the outlines of abuse of public funds have been quite thorough. I have to say that, unfortunately, despite the many loud speeches, after 25 years, it is not the public interest, the increase in public wealth or the possibility of development that serves as a guiding principle for responsible decision-makers. EU subsidies have been tapped, as have domestic budgetary resources, the various rights that were previously freely exercised, and then reaped using a fashionable word by handing over concessions where they have never been sown. It's been six years. Where stromants hide behind offshore organizations, they sabotage the principle of transparent, responsible management with public wealth. However, one thing is common in all such cases, namely that it has been illegal since 1 January 2012. Since 1 January 2012, you have done nothing but break your own set of rules and commit illegal acts; I stress, lawlessness. And because of their indiscretion and arrogance, they rely lightly on the lack of consequences. I'm telling you again, they're doing it illegally. Billionaire support for offshore organisations, then competition in public procurement procedures for the same organisations, and then commissioning them, are all legal transactions that are simply null and void. I see and experience that individual pro-government representatives, senior state company managers, are unable to resist sharing interests with organisations listed in various exotic countries. All I can offer them is to taste and repeat the provisions of the Civil Code, which reads as follows: a treaty which violates law or is concluded by circumventing legislation is null and void. With the establishment of the Government of Jobbik, the time will come sooner than you would think, when these transactions will be declared null and void, and the tax forints that are now easily cut into pockets will be repaid with torture and interest. To date, we do not know who is behind those companies that receive HUF 30-40 billion of EU funding in 2012 alone. Mr. Secretary, I can see you're smiling at him, that's right. Since 1 January 2012, there has been a law that offshore companies with an opaque ownership structure cannot receive EU funding or receive public money, as there is public money in EU grants, and cannot receive it. [[20.00]] What happened? In August 2012 - we looked at it - 76 companies were given more than HUF 30 billion in money. That's why the NFÜ was shut down. That's why they took all the rights away from the then minister. That is why Lazarus came to John. That's what you did, you gave these companies these money, over 30 billion forints. You can smile about it, that's all that happened. These are facts. Then ask Minister Lazarus if that's the case, okay? ? Ask him, go ahead. That's when they started looking into these companies. As Panama was the end of many renowned political leaders' careers, Hungarian practice, the practice of the government of Viktor Orbán is quite different. From week to week, I will present to Parliament those specific cases - I think that will not be true either - in which, obviously, offshore companies were illegally paid, which the Prime Minister's Office itself had previously declared opaque. And for those leaders who have signed these scandalous cases, their hair will be fine. I see that's not true either. Probably István Hollik, if he were here, he wouldn't have gone, who says that we laugh at the law - you laugh at the law, you laugh at the face of all of us. [[Dr. Pál Völner: We make the laws.]] when, contrary to the law, offshore companies are constantly entrusted. Because, indeed, the Fundamental Law, the Public Procurement Act, and we could list it as being possible to enter into contracts with offshore companies. [[Dr. Pál Völner: We voted for it.]] I'll tell you then, but I'm sure you've looked into it, because I'm guessing that Madam Secretary of State is at home in these things, when this NFU didn't happen, they didn't disband the NFÜ, and they didn't investigate 44,000 companies, and it's probably not true that 260 companies are still on the Prime Minister's website today, which you declared to be offshore. Is that right? Do you have 260 companies? Did you call him an offshore company? [[Dr. Eszter Vitalos: That's right.]] Indeed, very good. Then tell me what the similarities between the following companies are: Montana Kft., Szaktudás Kiadó Ház Zrt., Pentamen Kft. or Noreg Kft. What is the similarity between these four companies? They're all in 260 companies, you've declared them offshore, and you're paying them billions of forints in public procurement procedures. They received mandates from public institutions such as the Directorate-General for Procurement and Supply, the National Security Service. We're talking billions! They paid off these billions to offshore companies! In fact, Noreg Kft. In this case, you have even provided grants. It's true it's offshore, but let's do it. And what do you do, why don't you think it's an offshore company? Because they put a piece of paper in front of them, and they asked them how to tell them you're offshore? And he signed it, no, we're not an offshore company. They did the same thing at the National Development Agency. That was the big statutory accountability. [[Sándor Lezsák, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] But why is that? Because in Hungary there are good offshore companies and bad offshore companies. Bad offshore companies are subject to legal regulations, good offshore companies, and no buddies' companies, so they can do whatever they want. And I'm afraid that's true. So that's the insolence, that's when they laugh in the face of all of us and say that you can do anything. You yourself generate situations in which some people can create unfettered private assets at the expense of the public, so they want to create their own economic base. This is your real face. However, neither economic development nor job creation nor an increase in internal consumption can be expected. All of this appears to you only as a secondary aspect, the truth is that people who are unable to manage and operate on the market hide behind opaque organisations, abuse the power of the state, unfairly acquire government orders and even whole sectors, pushing out all other market players. It is enough to take a look at the following list: one of the Prime Minister's right-handers, the regional director of Fidesz in Central Hungary, and his parliamentary representative, János Kerényi, knight offshore. His immediate relatives are interested in companies registered in Belize, Seychelles and Cyprus. For a good friend of the Prime Minister, Andy Vajna was also an offshore knight, with the government commissioner of the film industry, with state aid, he could be a casino mogul, a TV owner. Or in the case of settlement bonds referred to more than once, offshore companies have an interest and a fidesz interest in them. But I'll tell you something else, I'm sure that's not true either. I'm guessing the state-owned HM EI Zrt. Who is the chairman of his board of directors? Maróth Gáspár. I wonder what this Maróth Gaspare is doing. He is interested in a joint venture with the Cypriot Herbex holding company. So you have a business that's offshore. We write to the competent wallet, we write to the minister, what does the minister say back? It's totally okay. It's a company the size of which has 4,000 people working. It's okay that his leader is off-shore. Well, why shouldn't he be off-shore? Well, you're fighting offshore in words! So, it's enough to just take a look at 50 shades of offshore, and the only thing we can find together in every case is easy - you know what it is? It's that none of the cases have had any consequences. Not only could those affected remain in their offices without disturbance, but, after a prank or two, they are guaranteed a further uplifting track, a booming success. After that, let no one say that these matters did not take place according to the Prime Minister's knowledge, approval, will and purpose. We know from György Rubovszky: Viktor will or won't allow it. Viktor lets these things happen, which is probably why it happened. Over the past six years, as there are basically one or two or more cases of corruption every day, so every day they would have had the opportunity to call those responsible to account, set an example and prevent further offshore abuse. When we look at the issue of settlement bonds, what we see is that offshore companies are specifically deflecting with the sale of citizenship. The state itself created a framework for the system where the privileged were able to work for a commission of unimaginable proportions in fabulous and other sectors. This example is perhaps the best expression of Fidesz policy, which is systemic corruption dominated by offshore knights. That's Fidesz policy. In the original sense of offshore, it would have applied to companies that would have developed their activities for better taxation, but you have completely changed it, because it is not only about that, it is about removing illegal money, hiding from the tax authorities, which is why these offshore companies are being set up, and that is why these offshore companies are being operated. This is white-collar crime, let us safely say it, to which political crime is closely linked; the use of state assets and national resources for private purposes, and the hiding of these activities behind offshore companies. It chews and digests both our economy and our society from within, causing incalculable destruction. And in the end, let me tell you one more thing. 6 June 2010, Viktor Orbán said in front of Parliament's agenda: "The fact that millions of people were forced to circumvent this tax system in order to preserve their lives has provided a basis for a narrow group to build a separate business line from tax evasion and tax evasion. This became the world of offshore knights, who ate themselves under the skin of the state, and did not pass through hundreds of millions of offshore income, nor would it be good to withdraw a few million forints of public money from taxpayers' forints. The Prime Minister's assessment of the situation was absolutely correct on 6 June 2010. [[Dr. Csaba Gyüre: It's still time.]] There is one big problem, this great tragedy, that it is also fully timely on 30 May 2016. [[Dr. Csaba Gyüre: That's right!]] The world of offshore knights, who ate themselves under the skin of the state and did not pass through hundreds of millions of offshore incomes, is not good enough to withdraw a few million forints of public money from taxpayers' forints. I think it's time to clean up public life from the offshore knights. But you're not going to do that, because you're corruption, you're the offshore, so you never want to change that. [[Dr. Csaba Gyüre: That's right!]] Thank you so much for listening. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2016-05-30-293	Thank you, Congressman. I'll give the floor to Dr. Secretary of State Eszter Vitalyos.
u2016-05-30-294	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, I would like to respond to some of the ideas that we have heard from Congressman Szilágyi. As I mentioned earlier in my speech, the transparency study on our website lasted from autumn 2013 to June 2014, and at this time it contains virtually the findings of companies that are on the website.44 thousand projects were examined, and they were supported until that date in the period 07-13. Of the 44,000 projects, only 6286 were able to carry out a legally substantiated transparency investigation. These are the companies that received support in a call for proposals that appeared after 1 January 2012. [[20.10]] By the way, the remainder of the project, about 36,000 projects, is also the test result on the website, so there will be around 300 of the number mentioned by the former Member, which contains a list of organisations that were then considered opaque. Yes, but these organisations have since made themselves transparent. In this way, it could have been that, out of the 111 projects for which it could at all be relevant to establish suspicion of irregularity, 68 cases where no irregularities were identified by the managing authority, for example because the organisation became transparent; 40 cases of irregularities were found by the managing authority, the decision became final; 2 cases of irregularities were not final and 1 cases of irregularity were still pending at the end of April. In 40 cases, which I mentioned was that the decision was final and that an irregularity was established, the grant agreement was abandoned by the managing authorities. The companies mentioned in your speech are Montana Pentamen, Noreg Kft. With regard to Montana, it can be concluded that the calls made before 1 January 2012 relate to the applications on which it received aid, so that the managing authorities were not able to establish an irregularity, precisely because of what I mentioned, there was no legal justification after the Fundamental Law entered into force after 1 January 2012. Pentamen Kft. It also relates to the call made before 1 January 2012. So, Congressman, I have to say that with the cases in which we are unable, because there is no legal justification for it, we cannot establish an irregularity, so we can do nothing, so the Szaktudás Kiadó Ház Zrt. This was also the case in this case. I think you mentioned these companies. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of Fidesz.]]
u2016-05-30-295	Thank you, Secretary of State Eszter Vitalos. Next up... who's next? [[For signal:]] Congressman Jenő Manninger, Fidesz.
u2016-05-30-296	Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, In addition to the original intention, such a day of debate may have the purpose of actually discussing certain topics in substance, but, as usual, a debate day will be rather such a competition, who can say something bigger. Obviously, on the opposition side, I believe that the predecessor of Novak and Gábor Harangozó are difficult to overcome, but we have to do our best for the rest of the time. I myself thought that I didn't talk much about the past of MSZP, but then there was an absurd sentence that would be difficult for you to surpass: Mr Bellman said that an example of MSZP would have to be taken. I suggest, despite his youth, that he study the recent past of his fellow Members and the medium in which he works, because the MSZP did indeed function as an organisation specialising in the removal and outsourcing of state assets, and, of course, this also had an offshore background. Specifically, if we wanted to take an example of it, it would be very sad for the whole country. There have been cases, mentioned here, and many have mentioned that the President of the National Bank of Hungary was appointed when the former government of MSZP kept its assets in offshore, but we can also talk about a lot more. I would like to talk about something less well-known, which was also an example of how they tried to outsource the property, because they either privatized the property and sold it or tried to play it for so-called outsourcing. The Volán investigation committee was established, where the outsourcing of transport companies was clearly started at the time of the MSZP. Luckily, that didn't happen. In the case of Volán, we could also see, in the case of the Committee of Inquiry, that subcontractors already had MSZP ties and had a significant offshore background. Fortunately, there was no time to complete the original goal and outsource the activity. And after 2010, when the new government was formed, probably seeing that circumstances changed, interestingly, these companies, which had different contracts with Volán companies, here mainly with the Volán bus, suddenly became Hungarian owners. So the ownership structure has changed. This has not been done, however, and it must undoubtedly be acknowledged that there has been a lack of accountability, although there are clear reasons for this. We've been trying to find out who's behind the offshore background. It couldn't be found out, because, of course, it's hard to do it legally, because the whole point of offshore is not to find out who's behind the companies. I think we've done everything we can. This did not work, so the audit was canceled, but it also missed the fact that the MSZP could privatize, organize and dispose of the assets of transport companies in offshore backgrounds. So it's a solid part of the past with MSZP. So I mentioned these examples because, if you should take an example of MSZP, you can take one example, you can say that what MSZP has done is clearly not to be done. I think there have been various accusations here. I would like to refer to EU funds for one more sentence. I believe that very strict laws and regulations were in place after 2013. Therefore, it is not possible to find in recent years that offshore companies have received EU support. Many procedures have been suspended, and the government is careful in this regard. I also think that this proves that it will do everything in its power not to provide offshore companies with state aid and state money. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of Fidesz.]]
u2016-05-30-297	Thank you very much, Congressman. The next speaker is Mr István Ikotity, LMP.
u2016-05-30-298	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, One of the most important questions is why no more decisive action is taken against offshore and tax havens, if this is so harmful. The answer is that because those who could do so are the beneficiaries of the system themselves, both at national and individual levels. Allow me to give you some examples. On their entry into the EU in 1973, the British specifically ensured that the Channel Islands, i.e. Guernsey, Jersey and the non-subsidised Isle of Man, should not likewise be part of the EU, should not apply EU capital market law. The same was done to Hong Kong and Macau to absorb Chinese capital, to the Caribbean, including Bahamas, the Cayman Islands, the British Virgin Islands, and to attract American capital. Then another example, the United States of America, is one of the world's largest onshore-offshore centers. In particular, some Member States such as Nevada or Wyoming, but especially Delaware, are highlighted. When, in an interesting story, Barack Obama once mentioned that there is a building in the Cayman Islands called Ugland House, where 12,000 companies are registered. My fellow Members, there are 12,000 companies registered in a building in the Cayman Islands! Anthony Travers, president of Cayman financial supervision, was not responsible for this, and he replied as follows. In Wilmington, the capital of Delaware, there are no fewer than 217 thousand companies registered under 1209 Orange Street. Under one address in Delaware, 217 thousand companies! If the second largest city in Hungary, the population of Debrecen, moved there and everyone got a company, there would still be 10,000 left. 217,000! If Minister Miklós Seszták were here, I think he'd be hiding somewhere in shame. He could only register 550 companies for an address; of course, they are not offshore companies, it is Kisvárda. It is worth a moment to remain here at 1209 Orange Street, where it is also worth knowing that two thirds of Fortune 500 are registered in this city, as is 90 percent of their primary emissions in 2007. [[20.20]] Consider some examples of personal concerns. It is well-known that, after the end of their term of office, the prime ministers of some countries, financial or economic ministers, are located in multinational companies and will be consultants to such companies. And sometimes, they don't rarely return from there, back to the world of politics. It's called a revolving door phenomenon. This phenomenon ensures that, as politicians, they do not represent the interests of their electorate and not the country, but the private interests that are behind these multinational companies, often offshore companies. And not only do they help companies, but they also do offshores as private people. An example of the British Conservative Party. The long-standing vice president, Lord Ashcroft, has been in the British newspaper offshore case for years. Since he was a significant donor to the party, Prime Minister Cameron refused to resign. He is now in this Panamanian material, which was published a few months ago. But we can also find Putin and his environment, respected by the Hungarian government, among the offshores and the complainers, as well as Ukrainian, Pakistani, Argentine, Chinese, Egyptian, Azerbaijani and Saudi leaders, as well as Hungarian individuals, and indeed a fidesz politician among them. It's an interesting fact that a few weeks ago in Iceland, a month or two ago, the Prime Minister fell for it. In Europe, besides London City, the main offshore player is Luxembourg and bank lobby Jean-Claude Juncker. It is amazing that he, the first man in the 500 million EU, is the former Minister of Finance and Prime Minister of the tax evasion state, which represents 1 000 percent of the EU. They also protect tax havens by ensuring that, while campaigning against them on the surface, the definition of specific measures is very narrow, not for all companies, not for all activities, with thresholds, so they are constantly softened from the inside. So we can't have too many illusions, but we also need to see the possibilities. Because of the Panama papers, LuxLeaks and other scandals, this elite has narrowed its scope. Western countries produce not only the problem, but also the action against it, so to speak. We hope that this will be a step-by-step step in a short time. Our job is to support the civilians who want to control the latter, the non-taxing multinationals, and these forces. The public is a very good tool for all of this, apparently. Finally, some reactions from the debate. I'm truly sorry, obviously we're here as a new party, the May Other in Politics - [[To intervene:]] Well, compared to hearing Fidesz refer to MSZP very often, what happened there. In Péter Csizi's comments today, very positive things were said, and I think it is only 2016; all these things should have been implemented intensively. You would have liked to have made a nice step forward in this. That's what we really miss. And the fact that you're constantly pointing back, you know very well that this doesn't legitimize your actions. This will also bring down the moral state of the country to refer again and again, my fellow Member Manninger, recently, to what the MSZP has done. With all due respect, I would like to ask my fellow Members to look ahead. There have been a lot of problems in the past, there are a lot of problems in the present too, and we should be looking for a solution, not pointing back to the parties, one to the other, but I think these things should also be promoted by politics. We should not wait for a world to come when it will be the exclusive opportunity for civilians who are completely independent of politics to purify politics. I think that it is also our job, as politicians, to make progress here, because if we do not do this, fellow Members, then others will do it, and we will notice that this policy, this political system, has failed. Of course, the Possibly Other Politics would also like to state that this policy must be different. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2016-05-30-299	Thank you very much. They're two minutes away. First, Gábor Bellozó, MSZP.
u2016-05-30-300	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I thought that Bence Rétvári pressed a button to tell me that I was behind, because János Kerényi, regional director of Fidesz in Central Hungary, was no longer a member of Fidesz, because he obviously resigned from his party membership on account of his involvement and paid all the taxes he had avoided and paid to the Hungarian state. Unfortunately, this was not the case, but we heard some pitiful mishap from him, and since then several Fidesz MEPs have been doing the same. But the other part of my question remains. I would like to ask the secretary of state of the economic portfolio how much tax forints were paid to the Hungarian State by the five offshore companies selling Rogán bonds after HUF 120 billion. We are still waiting for an answer. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2016-05-30-301	Thank you very much. Congressman György Szilágyi, Jobbik!
u2016-05-30-302	Thank you very much for the floor. Madam Secretary, I think we can agree on three things. I think we can agree on that, because János Lázár also acknowledged that EU funding was paid illegally to offshore companies in the NFÜ, which is why the investigation was initiated. We can also agree that the offshore companies you examined have published a list that is still on the Prime Minister's website; you have declared them offshore companies. And the companies you're talking about are on this list. Then they're either illegally listed or offshore companies. And we can also agree that the Public Finance Act states that an offshore company with an opaque ownership structure cannot be contracted to public institutions. Yet what I said, I can tell you facts: Pentamen Kft. Indeed, they are right, offshore company, since 16 December 2009 Netberg Ltd. has been the owner of a company in the Seychelles. Then why did Markhot Ferenc Hospital, EMMI, and even invite them to do so by direct HUF 50,000 below the threshold of HUF 25 million, so as not to have to do open public procurement. But then we can move on. Here's the next company. Indeed, offshore company Montana Kft., because it was correctly published by you, YES Investment is the company that owns it. This is also a company registered in Luxembourg. With this, the National Police Headquarters, Gyemsi and the Directorate-General for Public Procurement signed a contract worth HUF 15 billion. But also interesting is the third company we are talking about, Noreg Kft., which has received 30 million from the Bajnai government and 125 million from you, but this company is equally opaque. I wonder who owns it. Same Yes Investment. The same impenetrable ownership company, and he also received a commission from the Directorate-General for Public Procurement, the National Security Service, worth HUF 13 billion. Well, there's two things, or your list is wrong, and you can take these companies off because they're still out there, or if they're offshore, they're gonna be illegally contracted. That's what I'm saying. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-05-30-303	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Secretary of State Eszter Vitalyos.
u2016-05-30-304	Theoretically, I agree with you on a lot of things you said. I think that three topics are not subject to discussion between us. However, when we looked at the date of the investigation, so when were the relevant calls: after 1 January 2012 a call for proposals could be examined. Companies that submitted applications for tenders after 1 January 2012 and then received EU funding could say that they were not transparent. But, Congressman, your answers lie in your question. As you said, in 2009, there was Pentamen Kft. It's opaque, and you've got it. [[Intercoms. The president's ringing the bell.]] But understand, we did not have a legal opportunity to say what he had won in the framework of the call for proposals before 1 January 2012. I'm telling you, we couldn't tell. We watched it in this particular moment of time. [[Gábor István Bellozó: The Fundamental Law!]] [[20.30]] We couldn't because of the entry into force of the Fundamental Law, which is exactly why we couldn't look at the previous ones.
u2016-05-30-305	Madam Secretary. Don't worry about the yelling. Thank you very much. [[Attila Mesterházy: Stupid representatives just talk.]] The speakers will be announced; first, Mr Dénes Galambos, Fidesz.
u2016-05-30-306	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, My fellow Member Ikotity called back on my fellow Member Jenő Manninger, not to look back on the past, but to look ahead. Then, in the second part of my speech, this is the main direction. However, let me take this opportunity to look back, not to the past, but relatively to the recent one. But first, allow me to set up a definition for myself or to give you a definition of offshore. The offshore is a simple tax avoidance category, harmful in nature, as it promotes lack of transparency and transparency, while the aim is to avoid taxing in the country where the actual economic activity takes place. I think that this statement is certainly important in order to introduce to you a scandal stone that rocked Hungary in 2008 or which started events with serious consequences. In 2008, everyone remembers that the former socialist government officials caused some HUF 20 billion in damage by evading the 17 thousand square meters of Moscow's downtown property. To date, it is not known exactly who ordered it, but it is certain that it was an illegal transaction. The then Moscow ambassador signed a sales agreement that the Hungarian State would sell and sell the unique strategic object with this contract. I have to add immediately that this is also a scandal stone, because in volume and extent, in the capital of the largest trading partner, such an object was sold, and then I will tell you what price difference is not a mistake, but a sin.In 2008, the state received the full purchase price from a Luxembourg offshore company, which was roughly seven times the market price. In addition, this was before the government decided on the mechanism under which the property was sold at all. The Luxembourg offshore company that had access to the Moscow commercial branch was almost seven times the property shortly after the building was taken over. The commercial branch was sold for HUF 23.5 billion after being acquired from the Hungarian state for HUF 3.5 billion. This example and the cases mentioned today by my fellow Members in the Fidesz-KDNP fraction show that before 2010, the strategic partners of the socialists were offshore companies. However, in my speech, I would like to refer not only to this unworthy and scandalous issue, but also to Mr László Szabó Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs and Trade, Mr János Fónagy and my fellow Member Richard Hörcsik's line of thinking, I would also like to refer to the direction that the Hungarian government is implementing with the involvement of foreigners, which is not always mentioned in the circle of residency bonds, but in a different direction. This is the government's strategic partnership programme, a programme currently managed by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade, and I believe that it serves the interests of Hungary and the Hungarian people.Since 2011, the government has entered into a strategic partnership with large companies that undertake to create new jobs, engage in high added value activities and participate in the social responsibility programme and the employment of Hungarian suppliers. I could also say that he will join forces with those who are not looking at tax avoidance, but who intend to turn some of their profits back to Hungary for improvements in Hungary. The strategic partners of the Hungarian government employ more than 200,000 people and are currently employing nearly 15,000 more workers than in the first phase of concluding agreements. Since the agreements, these companies have invested approximately HUF 1500 billion in Hungary. I would also like to give a good example of this programme of government from my constituency, Hankook Tire Magyarország Kft. Hankook invested approximately HUF 90 billion in the region, and in 2013 it created 950 jobs in the Danube New City area related to the third phase of development. The number of employees employed by the factory now reaches 3300 employees. I'm glad that Secretary of State is already in the room, and I can tell you that. The proportion of Hungarian suppliers is approximately 70%. As a responsible company, it supports the cultural and sports life and associations of the region by hundreds of millions of forints a year, contributing to tax revenues in the order of billions at local and national level. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I think I have been able to shed light on the fundamental philosophical difference between the current governing parties and the previous ones. The strategic allies of the Hungarian government are companies that take responsibility for the future of Hungary's economic development. At present, the country has 68 strategic partners, and we hope that there will be as many as possible, and with this, I think we have shown the possibility that there is also an opportunity for foreigners that does not affect the offshore and not the tax evasion, but the increasing number of Hungarian jobs. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-05-30-307	Thank you very much. The next speaker is Congressman Adam Mirkóczki, Jobbik.
u2016-05-30-308	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, In view of the fact that, at the first stage of the debate, we have encountered the usual, quite astonishing and hair-scraping accusations, I would certainly like to respond to that. It is completely nonsense that the only argument of a political community on government for six years is that, in addition to not being able to defend its own position on this subject, the only argument is that we are throwing an enormous lie at the political rival and chanting it in 0-24. The fact is that Erik Bánki will meet our fellow Member in court, I think that István Hollik and István Happy will be prepared, because what they have formulated here is unbelievable. On that basis, I could tell you a great lie, and from then on, I would just like to ask you... - we don't have one, but you have a faculty that has sunk to an amazing level in the Habony works, which will spread this lie in 0-24. And given the fact that they're on public notice, it's okay to have them in two years and pay after the court's verdict. I would like to point out to my fellow Member Hollik that he has, as a kind of slugger, that he should not sign such statements initiated by Jobbik, because there is a declaration of all Members' assets and that our Btk. responsibility is fully aware of reality. Then I would suggest to our fellow Member Hollik and everyone that you look at it calmly, for example in your benches, who and how they filled out the declarations of assets, which companies, which were left out of it. And then all that happened, there's been a recent case of me going back five years, and I'm just gonna fix it, and that's it. And then, on the basis of these events, we should believe that, of course, there is no need for specific statements, because that is okay. Well, we don't think it's okay, and every single one of your actions is very clear that, yes, respect for the exception, of course, there's a lot of dirty stuff, and there's a lot to hide. And if you had the courage to publish the property statements of family members living in your household, there might be more surprises. So, obviously, we can only guess. What's said here is that there's the Fundamental Law, and then there's the Public Finance Act, that's true. It is regulated, there are good legal guarantees, and there would be if it were respected. What I am saying is that we do not necessarily have to invent Spanish wax, we simply have to comply with the laws that are in force at the moment. But you can point to that and argue that, well, we made these laws. Yeah, you brought it, and you're not gonna keep it. That's the problem. [[20.40]] It is not always necessary to invent great novelties, to keep the existing ones and to enforce them. This does not work, and the examples that have been given in the last few hours or minutes show exactly this, that even if it is regulated, it will be kicked wherever they want. Given that you've been polishing yourself so much lately, how to guard public money and how to filter out con artists, I'd like to give you one example in Eger. This already applies to the period of the second Orbán government, the post-2010 period, the history of the Eger parking house, which looked about like there was a two-thirds Fidesz majority of concrete-proof government, who is very careful about public money and is very careful about legitimate, clean business, and there is an Eger municipality, which is also in Fidesz majority with Fidesz mayor. He takes the municipality and sells his property, the property, and then hires a company to build a parking garage. As a self-reliance, this company adds half of the planned amount of HUF 800 million to the parking house, by way of credit, as it can be reclaimed later, and obviously it will be done, in return the company owned by the municipality of Eger will rent the property back from this company for HUF 4.5 million a month. Technically, the company put zero forints in it, took zero risks, and, in a few years' time, it hits a billion forints. And the foam on the cake, who does the company hire a contractor to do the construction, by the way? A kft., this is Crosscom Kft., whose owner, by the way, what God gives, has a limassoli offshore company registered in Cyprus - all of this in 2012. That's how you watch out for public money and fight offshore knights. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-05-30-309	Thank you very much. The next speaker is Congressman Péter Csizi, Fidesz.
u2016-05-30-310	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Today, the debate, the political debate day and many things have been said, various politicians and political organizations and companies have been presented, attacks have come from Jobbik to Fidesz, from Fidesz to MSZP, and I could say more. However, we did not discuss one thing: we did not compare the anti-offshore laws of the period before 2010 with the anti-offshore laws of the period after 2010. It is very simple, since there is no basis for comparison, there was no law on the exclusion of offshore companies prior to 2010, neither tax avoidance nor the purchase of state and municipal property was prohibited against offshore companies before 2010, even though it was an example of both. There was also an example of tax evasion, as we have already talked a lot about Ferenc Gyurcsány, Péter Oszkó, Gordon Bajnai, and I could only mention former members of the government of MSZP and the bail-out of real estate, because from Pécs to Újpalota, as we have already heard the examples, offshore companies appeared, who wanted to buy state and municipal assets, so that at the end of the day no one would know, in particular for the public, who actually had the valuable public property. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, since there is no debate and no basis for comparison in this area, I mean which government has passed a stronger law to protect offshore companies, it is worth looking at in the European outlook where our country is in the post-crisis fight against offshore. I am talking about the post-crisis period, because it was primarily after the crisis that European countries did or thought tax evasion was important, although, let us say, before the crisis, it would have been good if the governments led by Ferenc Gyurcsány, Gordon Bajnai, had preferred to replace the budget deficit by taxing offshore companies, rather than seeing the solution in expensive loans and commitments taken from international organisations. But returning to the field of legality in Hungary, as so many of us have already said in this debate, it is already enshrined in the Fundamental Law, and I quote:. Payment from the central budget may be granted only on the basis of a grant or contract to an organisation whose ownership structure, structure and activity for the use of the aid are transparent. Our Fundamental Law was also followed last year by the new Public Procurement Act, which also contains a number of anti-offshore measures. We also had an obligation to do so, as OLAF, the European Anti-Fraud Office, made its recommendations which should have been incorporated into the procurement laws of the 28 Member States of the European Union by 18 April 2016. Ladies and gentlemen, Only five out of the 28 Member States carried out this recommendation together with Hungary, so if we compare, as the opposition says, that the legislation that Hungary is fighting against offshore companies is small or good, then we first have to look at the past, there were no such laws before 2010, there were no such measures, we have to look at the European example, from the Member States of the European Union, from the 28 Member States five people considered it important to incorporate the directives and deadlines into their own legal systems. But let us then look at the five countries who have entered the deadline for what measures have been taken. We are talking about Bulgaria, Denmark, the United Kingdom and France in addition to Hungary, where, I cannot stress that the Fundamental Law also excludes offshore companies from receiving state contracts. In its Law 203 of 2012, France set up a committee to monitor the quality and transparency of public real estate activities, which is practically only a consultation committee. In 2013, the United Kingdom prepared a coordinated strategic plan to combat offshore phenomena and joined the United States of America with the agreement on automatic exchange of information, but there was no regulation in those two countries, which would have covered the exploitation of state assets. There is only one country, Bulgaria, where it is clearly stated that state and municipal property cannot be transferred to companies registered under preferential tax conditions, i.e. offshore companies. Ladies and gentlemen, The European outlook also shows that we have taken the strongest legal measures in Hungary in recent years in order to prevent offshore companies from obtaining even greater wealth through more favourable taxation, to participate in domestic public burdens and, on the other hand, to avoid access to state property or to public property. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-05-30-311	Thank you, Congressman. The next speaker is Congressman Ander Balázs, Jobbik.
u2016-05-30-312	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, The annual size of the Hungarian property protection market is estimated at HUF 1000 billion by experts, accounting for around 40 percent of this amount, i.e. some HUF 400 billion by municipal companies or state firms through public procurement. And when you think about the incredibly largeness of this amount, if you compare it to police or defence expenditure, then you get a very plastic picture of what a huge meat pot this is. It is no coincidence that the asset protection sector in Hungary is now almost traditionally one of the blackest sectors, according to official statistics of the National Labour Office and the National Tax and Customs Office, it is the second largest black employer after the construction industry. Although the minimum fees previously established by the government helped to resolve the situation, they have raised the minimum pricing of property protection services procurement to a legal level, making it clear that it is only through payment or illegal solutions that property guards can be employed in Hungary today. [[20.50]] So listen, my fellow pro-government Members, if there is a good thing, we from here, from the opposition, are also able to acknowledge that this was also the move. But that's okay on the first level, but where and in what place you're registered, how trashy companies end the sub-contracting chain, that's a whole different question. Of course, the successful main contractor, who has always had good political relations, accidentally washes his hands and takes care of it with the pious wording that they expect their subcontractors to comply with the legislation. An amazing example of this is that the metastasized tentacles of companies guarding the sites of Magyar Posta reached the companies of the internationally notorious Vanuatu-based offshore knight Charlie Calo Pungi. The Hungarian property guards employed by him and very badly fooled could tell us a lot about this case as well. At the top of the current property protection pyramid of Posta, the former company of the Spéder JNT Security and Minister of Interior Sándor Pintér, Civil Security Service Zrt. chin. In addition to such anomalies, it is particularly outrageous and incomprehensible to the outsourcing of railway guard activity from the MÁV, which I have spoken about several times in the walls of this house myself. Not with much results, I must admit, because on your part, my fellow members of the Government, there was little reception capacity to hear the legitimate complaints received from the railway guards. Even though neither professional nor economic reasons support such machinations, the multibillion - dollar business would continue to fill the pockets of some insider and money - hungry sharks. The fact that small people who are affected, truly hardworking, and who are sucked out by subcontractors for outrageously low wages and in extremely bad working conditions are terrified of the uncertain future is no longer of great interest to the authorities. The last time I spoke for them was a month ago, and I wanted to give you the signature-packet that is here anyway, and like it or not, but at the end of my speech, I will give it to you, and I will put it on one of your desks. I very much hope that at least now there will be such a reception capacity that you, fellow Members, will forward this to the right place. Here is a name and title for where these hardworking little people look for a reassuring answer. We can only hope, I repeat once more, to hear the complaints of trade unions and these workers. The other important area, which I would like to mention in any case, concerns the Volan companies. As we know, in 2012, Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry examined the far-fetched history of the division of some of Volán's assets. In recalling this, we often stumble upon offshore companies. Fidesz's accounting impotence is typical of the fact that no one's hair has even been bent over the billion-dollar items. So, what was promised about the big tidying up was bluffs, bluffs and bluffs, like MDF's Tovaris Konyeca, or the famous anti-communism of the blood-bolt-rooted SZDSZ. I would add that what my fellow Member, Mr Bellozó, said earlier, I fully agree with that. On the other hand, when this committee of inquiry stood up, the Socialists had a special opinion that there was no maladministration that would have harmed the Hungarian state, the Hungarian taxpayers. We absolutely can't agree with that. What you have done for the last eight years, what you have done, what you have done for the past six years, obviously does not save the current governing parties. This case also proves very well that behind the scenes, in some form, the things that belong to each other are well joined together. CHAPTER XX In this case, the parties of the 20th century have found each other, because nothing has happened on the basis of the principle of handshake. Just some of these really blood-cooking, outrageous stories. Panamanian company owned the technical site in Szentendre and the railway station in Luxembourg. But based on the valuation of a company in Wisconsin, they also got rid of the Andor Street site, that the new owner of the Cypriot and Wallis interests, on his board of directors, with Mr Noa Steinberg, will continue to pass the contract with a profit of HUF 700 million in just four months. This also worked in a similar way for the outsourcing of flights to taxpayers with an unjustified additional cost of HUF 540 million, with companies with a rather vague ownership background such as Color Tours in the Seychelles, or T&J Bus Projekt Ltd. in the Gödöllő region and in the Pest region in Luxembourg. However, it was not only a lack of accountability, but it was not only a lack of explanation, it was not only a lack of blame, it was a lack of, it was an unidentifiable owner, it was a lack of evidence, it was also a happy business with the actors of the time, and it gave them new markets. Just think of the business that, after the Volánbusz, BKK also gave BKK a fancy and expensive operating contract. The whole point of politics, ladies and gentlemen, is that they lied to the public when they said that they would hold those who loot public money accountable, and even when they led people to believe that the pockets of your beneficiaries would no longer swell from offshore money. Yes, you can. In reality, I was so attracted to this method and this practice that not only the stooges continue to be employed to this day, but the intellectual authors of that time were included as important advisors. See, for example, the appearance of János Kóka on diplomatic passports and non-leading lines in the advisory moonyard. In the light of all these things, it is a very legitimate question of what interesting things we will find when the European Union's expectations bring about the liberalisation of public transport in Hungary, which is supposed to bring about the marketisation of long-distance passenger transport. Attention, this means tendering a service worth approximately HUF 1400 billion in the framework of the ten-year concession, where further companies will be able to operate in addition to the Volán companies currently responsible for the services. So it will be good to be careful. In any case, the Jobbik will keep an eye on these processes. We're gonna act like a good Boy Scout: we're gonna be on the lookout. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2016-05-30-313	Thank you. I give the floor to Congressman György Szilágyi for two minutes.
u2016-05-30-314	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. I would like to respond to Peter Csizi's speech. No one has said, Congressman, that before 2010 and after 2010, there would be the same legal environment. There's been a change in the legal environment. You can only list the laws that have been changed! Indeed, after 1 January 2012, offshore companies cannot receive EU support and similar, Fundamental Law, Public Procurement Act, can be listed. That's not the problem! The problem is, you don't follow them. So my problem is that what we've listed shows that even though it's in the law, it wouldn't be possible to sign contracts with these companies, for example, to public authorities, everyone from the National Security Service has to sign contracts with them. There could be a law if we don't follow it. That's exactly the point. That way, there's a strict law if we don't keep it. It's the same as before 2010. The offshore companies are swimming in the same way and enjoying themselves because they don't comply with the laws you brought in. That's the biggest problem! Every law is worth as much as we respect it. These have been pointed out more than once, not twice, that they are not being observed, and when they are not being observed and we draw attention to this, the task of a responsible government would be to act immediately. You admit your mistake because why shouldn't you admit it? Why shouldn't the government make a mistake? And he says I'll admit my mistake, and I'll fix it right away. But that's not what's happening. You're apologizing. In such cases, the question arises as to why they are apologizing to these companies. Is it because there's any connection to you? And you're not allowed to act legally about these companies? 'Cause it's supposed to be an act. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2016-05-30-315	Thank you. The next announced speaker was Mr Zsolt Becsó, Member Fidesz.
u2016-05-30-316	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, As the Panamanian documents come to light, it seems that the list of politicians involved in the offshore scandal is endless. [[21.00]] Although it is a long line, I only want to deal with the Nógrád county line, more specifically the Salgótarján line. László Boldvai, the former MSZP treasurer, MP and county party president, also became involved in the story through his wife. It turns out that the spouse owned an offshore company registered on the island of Samoa, moving significant amounts during its operation, and, together with the Samoan company, he also obtained a bank account at one of the most patinated Swiss banks, and the arrangements were made on the day the property was acquired, so that his company could receive a larger amount of nearly HUF 80 million. As a result of the scandal, Boldvai suspended his party membership, but he did not retiring in a crafty way, and held the county assembly's mandate. I would also like to say to Mr Boldvai that he continues to have the support and trust of President Tobias. He also does depth work in the city, and apparently there is still no peace within the MSZP in the county of Nógrád in Salgótarján. The fact that the socialist politician's involvement was revealed did not cause a major storm at the county seat in Nográd, because many people remembered a story in Salgótarján in 2004. Twelve years ago, the Medgyessy government promised HUF 864 million non-refundable funding for the investment of an Israeli company in Salgótarján. The foreign-owned company would have set up a diamond grinding plant from HUF 4 billion in the leased area of the cove glass manufacturer to be privatized. At the time, several people thought that the business was behind an Israeli gentleman. It is now only apparent that according to the company data, Duna Silver Kft has been wound up during the period in question. His manager was indeed an Israeli businessman. The special interest of the case is that the company was registered with a minimum of 3 million stock capital, following the usual method, and its ownership structure ended in offshore companies. It is true that the diamond grinding case was forced by László Boldvai, MEP of MSZP, and the project was supported by Sándor Burány, Minister of Labour at the time, but after all, the investment was not realized, nor did it ever reveal where HUF 864 million had disappeared. I believe that recent scandals have confirmed the need for greater international cooperation. Let us consider some facts in this context. Hungary is also part of a number of recently signed international conventions that help the tax authority to keep up-to-date information on the amounts held by persons and companies with Hungarian jurisdiction abroad. The number of tax exchange partners in Hungary exceeds 100, from 2017 data on financial account information for Hungarian residents can come to Hungary from more than 70 countries, including many tax havens. The huge amount of data expected can also contribute to an effective fight against tax evasion and confirms our efforts to map tax evasion as widely as possible. As regards the issue of international tax exchange, Hungary signed the Convention on Mutual Administrative Assistance in Taxation on 12 November 2013. Currently, 94 states are parties to the Convention, including many countries considered tax havens. The agreement provides an opportunity for the Hungarian tax authority to seek information about the jurisdictions that are also signatory, which greatly increases the ability of the tax authority to detect tax evasion. In addition to the exchange of information on request, the Convention also allows the use of other forms of assistance in tax matters, such as automatic and spontaneous exchange of information, simultaneous tax checks and the provision of data and assistance in the collection of tax claims. Important information: The OECD has developed a multilateral agreement between the competent authorities for the automatic exchange of information on financial accounts, whereby the jurisdictions Parties exchange information on account information for persons resident in another jurisdiction. The agreement was signed by Hungary on 29 October 2014, which opened the possibility for Hungary to receive data on financial account information automatically from more than a hundred countries each year. Under the agreement, the tax authorities of the Signatory States and the Hungarian tax authority shall automatically exchange information on the accounts of customers resident in the partner country, established in their territory, provided that both States have adequate safeguards and infrastructure for the effective exchange of information. Thank you for listening. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-05-30-317	Thank you, Congressman. The next announced speaker was Mr Dániel Z. Carpathian, Mr Jobbik.
u2016-05-30-318	Mr President, Dear House, We have to tell you, the problem of offshore offshore operations in Hungary has appeared in many aspects, for example, the last time during the taxi drivers versus Uber debate. But it is important to see that since the publication of so-called Panama papers and the leaking of a number of documents, it can also be seen at economic level that offshore operations are no longer a simple tax optimization scheme or a debacle mechanism, but in fact one of the most serious problems facing the market economy, which, if we do not find an answer, Hungary can bury certain plans. We see that, according to various estimates, there are between 7 and 32 billion dollars in the mass of the wealth saved into various tax havens, and the comparison is amazing if we take into account Hungary's total annual national product, which is around 140 billion dollars compared to the number mentioned above. It is even scarier to see that last year, the Wall Street Journal was able to find a very interesting analysis of the subject, according to which more than half of the profits generated in the US are made via some offshore channel, while in 1982 only 20 percent of the different types of profits could be channeled through such channels, 35 percent in 2000 and 55 percent today. This is where the responsibility of a state arises, in the light of more sophisticated, sophisticated methods, and the offshore business is now not only by setting specific low tax rates, attracting, grabbing and grouping different types of capital, or minimizing tax burdens, but also by creating a legal environment that favours companies with public burdens, as the excellent publicist Gábor Balogh put it. Unfortunately, Hungary seems to be a good example of this, as our country, years, I can now say, has been releasing billions of forints of taxes to various multi-enterprises in exchange for so-called job creation. He does this as if job creation is some kind of charity, which is done here in good faith and in good service, and as if this work is not for profit production, often for shamefully low wages. We also see in the draft budget submitted later, which, by the way, becomes a budgetary law, that not only the way in which the government debt was managed has not changed, but also that in Hungary the profits generated by these multi-networks are still over HUF 4,000 billion per year, which are, of course, taxed for tax optimisation purposes, or are not taxed elsewhere. But in Hungary, if we could only catch 10-15 percent of this amount, it would be visible at national level. At the same time, there is no substantial difference in the management of this problem between the activities of previous Balliberal Governments and the current Cabinet. And that is a particular problem, which, with the ringing of the so-called sharing economy, the appearance of Uber, Airbnb and various branches, appeared in Hungary, that it is completely unprepared not only for the current, but so far the current government against the problem of being a modern, XXI. What regulatory tools should be used to organise an economy based on digital technology in the first century. The last miscarriage was the intention of banning online gambling sites, which was avoided by two clicks, so this attempt to settle was a complete failure. And now Uber, as an app, has come out with the intention of effectively banning its application, which is a bit of a funny, slightly childish idea in the age of the Internet, because the Internet cannot be banned. It's as far from me as the extreme liberal position of throwing the reins into the horses, and then the tax evaders can do whatever they want. We can't accept that either. The example of Uber is, by the way, the perfect example of the basic recipe for offshore operations. [[21.10]] After all, the company founded as a classic startup company in 2009 - by the way, I remember that the basic capital was only $200,000, which is equal to or less than the price of a better family house in Hungary, so it started - according to the one who downloads a mobile application, which allows you to reach the nearest driver. There is no vehicle park, there is no dispatch service, and apparently there is no middleman, but Uber pockets 20 percent of all transport charges. So, in addition to dividing 80 percent back to the driver, 20 percent of the operating 40 countries generate a billion dollars profit. It can be seen that one fifth of the price of each transport is essentially transferred to a company in the Netherlands, but even there they do not pay almost anything to do with it, as the parent company created a subsidiary in the Netherlands, and then sold it the right to use the software and the idea outside the USA for a one-off symbolic amount, and then set up another company that operates this whole system and system and collects brokerage fees. Of course, they should pay the former company for the use of the Uber application, which is 90 percent of the proceeds, but the royalty is exempt under Dutch law. There would be another branch that points to public burdens, which means that if a company is profitable in all parts of the world, then it is usually appropriate to pay taxes on a percentage basis. We experience this almost everywhere, but it is even more accurate to say that almost everywhere. The company that owns the royalty, to which these billions are therefore flowing, has its seat accidentally in a place in Bermuda where this tax rate corresponds to zero percent. So this is a very well-organised international tax optimization, tax avoidance mechanism that needs to be dealt with, against which the ban is not the right way, but to move towards public burdens with a flat-rate tax. In addition to the fact that the fundamental and long-term problem is clearly the fact that the Government of Hungary creates a lack of legal environment, which is practically the hotbed of offshore activity, and according to which in Hungary employment creation and other programmes that are not exactly effective allow them to obtain unjustified benefits on the one hand, multi-networks and, on the other hand, to untax the profits from the country, to profit from the work of the Hungarian people on the other hand. Now, that's what you guys should be up against. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-05-30-319	Thank you very much. The next announced speaker is Mr Attila Gelencsér, Member Jobbik. [[For signal:]] Sorry, Fidesz.
u2016-05-30-320	I almost had a heart attack. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen,
u2016-05-30-321	At least my fellow Members woke up. Here you go. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: Desires and Reality!]]
u2016-05-30-322	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, As a notary of Parliament, I had the opportunity and duty to listen to this debate for more than six hours, while thinking. For example, I have been thinking about how much Hungary has benefited from the day of debate initiated by the opposition or how much the opposition has profited. It is an unsolvable mystery to me how, by the way, the opposition initiates such a debate day, and then an hour has passed from opposition speeches so that it could not be found out. If someone had come in here right now and listened to him, he wouldn't have figured out what debate day we were on. There was a tok to ankle, but the offshore problem often didn't come up for half an hour or an hour, but only the accusations and the attack. I understand that, this gut opposition attitude, I just don't know if that's enough for the electorate and that's enough for a government. Spend six hours here without any constructive suggestion, shooting anything that moves; if you think that's enough, it's up to you. Then I feel the desire from the opposition side that pretty much everything started in 2010, especially on the left, and then there is a common ambition of the complete opposition that the government side is just talking, doing nothing. And then he also has an ambition like having an island in this country, and practically only we have such a problem, offshore affairs would only be with us, and, of course, everything is the fault of Prime Minister Viktor Orbán. My fellow Members have rejected these allegations in a row, and I have now thought of such a summary towards the end of the debate day. First of all, András Schiffer, one of the several speakers of the opposition, asked Viktor Orbán, for example, why he did not do something in Europe. We know that Viktor Orbán is very strong there, and that is how you see it, and we understand that Europe has actually started listening to the Hungarian Prime Minister, and that we also understand that, and that Viktor Orbán may not have come to the point of calling Brussels' attention in the offshore case, which may have been a mistake. I would like to ask you quietly, from the four opposition fellow Members who are still present - by the way, you have representatives in Brussels and belong to one of the party families - I would have liked to have heard or presented the motions made here in Brussels on offshore matters. Obviously, at least from these six hours, and they were very quiet about it, it turns out to me that in Brussels, the socialists did nothing about the offshore case, the Jobbik did nothing, the LMP did nothing. By the way, it is a special charm for today's debate that Jobbik is trying to present itself as a political community away from all such sin and trouble. Indeed, Jobbik has a huge advantage: he is very young, let's just say he is in his infancy, and children's pranks have been made in comparison to this, and we have learned from the government's speeches that they are already faced with serious matters for a few years. I would like to ask you, obviously a rhetorical question, whether you know a country in the Union, other than the one that solved this whole offshore question somewhere, anyone would have solved it. It follows from their speeches, from the power of the fire of the attack, that otherwise a solution is outlined everywhere, except in Hungary, where it does not succeed. Let us therefore take it very briefly, really in a list, because my fellow Members have already said it in detail. The accusation that we are talking and doing nothing is exactly the opposite: we are doing something, we have taken a number of measures, and the opposition is doing nothing, not even in Brussels, as it wanted us to do. The Fundamental Law has been mentioned by several people, but at the level of mention I say that there are two articles about it. The new public procurement law has been mentioned today. As a matter of touch, I say very briefly that the call for a contract notice of more than HUF 100 million must be made on the Internet, four tenderers must be invited instead of three, more data must be presented, and failure to provide public information will result in a serious remedy procedure. Free and electronically everything is available, conflict of interest rules have been expanded, exclusions have been extended, so-called normative suitability issues, and what is new is the monitoring by the Public Procurement Authority of the performance and modification of contracts, both on the contracting authority's and on the contractor's side. The Public Procurement Authority should publish in detail a reasoned decision on the legal basis for negotiated procedures without notice launched with extreme urgency. Responsible accredited public procurement consultants may be professionals with professional knowledge, experience and liability insurance. It could be described, but now that the public procurement law is interesting here today, let us turn to this: anti-offshore measures are in place, so it is specifically regulated to prevent the proliferation of offshore. This is about the Kbt. Some companies can be excluded, and it has been said here earlier, and it is mandatory to terminate contracts with certain companies if the conditions are not met. Therefore, the Public Procurement Act makes a significant contribution. He mentioned my fellow Member Zsolt Becsó, so I really just want to join him in saying that the government has started another way: a know-how has also come into the system, and this is called international cooperation. [[21.20]] Our country has recently signed several international conventions in order to prevent us from being able to act, prosecute or provide us with appropriate information in the absence of data. Moreover, not least on 8 April, Viktor Orbán asked the Minister of the Interior, the secret services and the Minister of Taxation to launch investigations. In BM, this task force has already been established, and Minister for National Economy Mihály Varga has ordered a tax inspection. I am convinced that there will also be results from the ongoing offshore investigations. Although there is no doubt that, in some specific cases, foreign partner organisations are not always willing to cooperate fully. We used to mention the Simon case at a time like this. Last but not least, my fellow Members, this is not a Hungarian issue, the problem of offshore companies and tax evasion in many countries in the world. On 15 April, the five leading countries of the European Union, the Germans, the French, the British, the Italians and the Spanish agreed on a reciprocal exchange of tax information. In the spirit of tax avoidance and the fight against corruption, the five propose to draw up a list of tax havens, punish countries that refuse cooperation and to disclose the identity of the real owners of front companies through automatic exchange of information. The aim is to ensure that no one hides behind complex legal structures in the future. To sum up: Fundamental Law, Public Procurement Act, Public Procurement Act, International Cooperations, offshore investigations, paragraphs and articles and various conventions and cooperations, we are close to the two dozen measures taken by the Fidesz-KDNP government. So at the end of the debate day, I wanted to deny the opposition's accusation that we were talking and not acting. It's the other way around, we're acting, and I think we're on the right track. I'm honored by your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-05-30-323	Thank you, Congressman Attila Gelencsér Fidesz. Congresswoman Loránt Violin, Jobbik!
u2016-05-30-324	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen of the State Secretary. I would like to say to my fellow Member, Mr Attila Gelencsér, that, in view of the late hour, I am very much trying to get to the point of discussing the offshore problem. Let's start with what has been said here several times in the House walls over the last few hours, discussing the offshore problem, so that if we see a problem that is suspected of being abused, then what do we do with this problem? He has often called on us, us and the opposition, to press criminal charges. Let me give you a specific example of what happened recently in such a case; what is the value of the criminal report, for example, will be this small story. In Budapest, in the Bérc street, in the street of Gellért Hill, which is the highest in comparison to Citadel, there was an unbuilt, very large and therefore very valuable plot. This property was bought by the daughter of a Fidesz mayor and the son of a Fidesz major contractor who got married and in the heat of it formed an offshore company. Well, this offshore company bought this big property, which, according to the National Property Act, is clearly not a transparent company. If you look at where it's registered, you don't have to look too long, the formula is quite clear. When this came to our attention, we wrote a letter to the local government of District I selling the land, the Metropolitan Municipality with the right to pre-emption, the Metropolitan Government Office exercising legal supervision of both of them, and the Public Prosecutor's Office. In short, what happened to the end of the story? The fact that we have received the paper from the prosecutor's office, given that this company has stated that it feels transparent, has therefore, according to the law, fulfilled its minimum obligation, and the prosecutor's office claims that there is no authority or body in Hungary today entitled to examine the content of this declaration, only to examine whether there is a statement or not. And if, by the way, an offshore company feels transparent, otherwise that should be considered sufficient. This attitude is scandalous, even because the sales contract itself included countless additional question marks for us, such as 25 percent discount in the purchase price compared to the preliminary real estate valuation, because the land is slippery. I like to understand, so the value reduction factor on Gellért Hill is that the plot itself is sloppy. Well, then you wonder why they don't buy land on Hortobágy, if it hurts so much that a plot is sloppy, why do they really need a property on Bare Street? We can also see from this story that, yes, such an infringement contract could have been created by crushing the national property law, but the Hungarian prosecutor's office is doing nothing in this case. So even though we make criminal reports one by one, unfortunately the final result will be the same in every case. It is very important to talk about the type of behaviour that is reflected in this story, and unfortunately, many very rich, very large municipalities have had in recent years; for example, how they dealt with offshore companies in some municipalities. We know that the basic model in this regard is György Hunvald, who has recently been discharged in full, and even the Hungarian State has to pay compensation for having to sit in prison for a few months. But what is this pattern that György Hunvald created for the municipalities and for some corrupt local government leaders? I will list features: arbitrary exercise of rights, the deception of municipal tenants - when it comes to the type of real estate sale - such as being sold at the same time, and therefore cannot the individual tenants, the individual tenants, exercise the right to pre-emption. It is very typical that contracts of this type are concluded in closed session, and tenders, which would otherwise be mandatory under the law, are avoided. In all cases, the sale of individual municipal assets is carried out with a noticeable lack of value. Therefore, the damage to the municipalities is significant. The characters, they are always typical of each story. On one side, of course, there are municipal decision-makers and their employees, but on the other hand, there is the trinity that In every case, Hunvald had it: there is a project company with a minimum share capital, so there is no real responsibility for it, with which the municipality enters into a contract, but there is an offshore company right behind the project company. Here there are various tax havens to consider, there were plenty of them at Hunvald, and the real owner of this offshore company is the investor who actually wants to acquire these national assets, for example, in the case of Hunvald, Arie Jom Tov or Péter Tordai and so on. We can list many others, but who took the sample faithfully, who copied it, let me tell you a specific case. Well, in Rogán, it was Antal Rogán who used to sell municipal properties exactly following the Hunvaldi pattern, for example, in one case not only sold a whole building but also offered a package of buildings. In that regard, let me have a little story. Back in the 2010 elections, I was approached by an old man who lives in the Matild Palace. We know that there are two twin palaces at the Pest bridge of the Elizabeth Bridge, one at the Klotild Palace and the other at the Matild Palace. In the past, they were both owned by the downtown government, which is the past. [[21.30]] The old gentleman who lived in Matild Palace, who was a descendant of the builder of the Matild Palace - only after it was built and communism fell upon us, the uncle was familyly moved to Hortobágy, and in connection with the strange fintor of fate he could get a small apartment in Matild Palace later - he showed me a priest from the pen of Antal Rogán, in which he was offered the property to buy, in such a way that he could buy the Matild Palace, the Paris court and a property on St. Stephen's Square for HUF 5.5 billion. The uncle was heartbroken, by the way, but yet he survived reading this letter, which is once again an insufferable, arbitrary exercise of the right to virtually deny the opportunity for the little man in the house, hardworking little man, to buy the local government apartment he owns, so he can also own it. Of course, I could give you a lot of examples, one more, of course, of the difficult transactions of SCD Holding, which, for some strange and elusive reason, is also linked to the Fidesz administration, but not to this cycle, but to the cycle of 98-2002, because we still don't know who the real and real owner of Siótour, Zalatour or Balatontourist is. Allow me one more thought. We were also told to give solutions. We've given you solutions. There is the amendment of Aht., which would mean forbidding both the state and the municipality to enter into a contract with offshore companies. We tabled an amendment in this respect, and the House voted off without debate, and they could not even make a substantive objection. Thank you so much for listening. [[György Szilágyi applauds.]]
u2016-05-30-325	Thank you very much, notary. I'll give the floor to Congressman Gábor Bellozó for two minutes, MSZP.
u2016-05-30-326	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My fellow Member, Mr Attila Gelencsér, I do not know if he was not in this debate. He said that the opposition accused the ruling parties of speaking and not acting. On the contrary, fellow Members, our problem is that you are acting and not acting internationally, but that the Hungarian government and companies directly linked to Fidesz are dumping hundreds of billions of public assets. The Quaestor scandal, which is one of Europe's biggest scandals, its 260 billion forints were shoveled through an offshore company where no one can yet tell where the money went. Ladies and gentlemen, If you guys are fighting so hard to get rid of the money, tell me where the quaestor's 260 billion forints is. Or let us finally account for how it is possible that the Magyar Nemzeti Bank finances buddies, relatives and persons related to Fidesz continuously through various offshore real estate agents, and that the wife of the Attorney General is practically involved in this business, and still has no consequences. Please tell me how it is possible for offshore companies that sell Rogán bonds to pocket 120 billion forints without having to pay any taxes, and the whole thing has no consequences. They're making huge money disappear. We were talking about all kinds of previous corruption cases. It's bad enough if they've had them, but they're not in the woods for any of the transactions. What you're doing is a disgrace! You shouldn't be talking here. They should sink the way they are! That's what I'm talking about, my fellow Member, Gelencsér. Thank you for listening.
u2016-05-30-327	Thank you very much. We'll be out of line for two minutes, Secretary of State, Mr. Tuzson Bence.
u2016-05-30-328	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Listening to the debate here, some interesting questions arise. I would like to respond briefly to one question. The sale of Siótour and the sale of various such companies just came up. I would like to draw the Member's attention to the fact that these were sold under socialist governments in 2004, so this is the time when Siótourt, for example, is the ÁPV Rt. He sold it; I just checked this data, by the way. [[Mrs. Loránt Violinist intervenes.]] This is one of the issues that is very important in this regard, and I think that these are worth clarifying before making such speeches. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-05-30-329	Thank you very much. Speaking in advance, MEP Ferenc Hirt, Fidesz.
u2016-05-30-330	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to talk about offshoreisation and the whitening of the economy, as the reduction of the black and grey economy can be shown to reduce offshore activities, make it difficult to hide income, thus strengthening the efficiency of tax collection. When talking about tax evasion, offshore activities or even the black economy, it is worth stressing that we are talking about hidden economic activity, so we are talking about activities not registered by the authorities. What I have to say is that the extent of tax evasion and the need for tax avoidance on the part of the perpetrator depend directly on the relative return, the magnitude and even the frequency of the fraud. Unfortunately, offshore, tax evasion, the existence of a black economy is part of the operation of the economy. We know that it has always been, and we believe that it will always be, but the extent of it is not at all the same to us. It doesn't matter what kind of body it takes, and it doesn't matter how much tax secrecy costs. We know that because of the hidden economy, the budget falls away from significant tax revenues, but unfortunately it also distorts competition on the market to a significant extent, makes it often difficult, and even can destroy the prosperity and predictable functioning of the law-abiding operators. The black economy also distorts statistics to a significant extent, since we do not get an accurate picture of very important areas. Think of unemployment indicators or the accuracy and measurability of occasional employment data. Think about the importance and legitimate expectation that economic policy decisions should be made on the basis of real and accurate data and sound decisions. Unfortunately, these good decisions are often made difficult by the operation of the black economy, the existence of hidden incomes and jobs. The proliferation of the black economy in our country is also organically linked to the world of opaque offshore companies. It is safe and proud to say that our government has done a lot in the fight against the black economy. According to some estimates, the size of the black economy in Hungary can reach 20-25 percent of GDP. For the sake of interest: this figure is 22-28 percent for the Poles. By the way, we are not satisfied with this data, we have a lot of work to do. The road to date is hopeful, as according to some international analyses, the hidden economy has decreased by more than one-and-a-half percent of GDP since 2010, which corresponds to HUF 1500 billion. One of the keys to this is the introduction of online cash registers, which make it difficult to hide corporate revenues and significantly increase the risk of being caught, strengthen the efficiency of the tax administration's control and contribute to the reduction of grey and black jobs. The sales tax bleach effect of online cash registers could reach HUF 150 billion in 2014. As regards the use of online cash registers, it is important to mention that the decree of the Ministry of National Economy has already been published in the Hungarian Gazette to extend online cash registers. According to this, as of 30 September of this year, only cash registers connected to the NAV system online can comply with their obligation to provide receipts, including pharmacists, motorcyclists and motor vehicle repairers, motorcycle and motor vehicle parts retailers, plastic surgeons, disco and dance hall operators or clothing cleaners. It is estimated that by installing another 30,000 online cash registers, we can predict an increase in revenue in the budget of 20-30 billion HUF/year. Dear fellow Members, There is still work to be done on this subject. I wish offshore-free, clean operation. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-05-30-331	Thank you, Congressman. I'll give the floor to Congressman Erik Bánki for two minutes, Fidesz.
u2016-05-30-332	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, We have become accustomed to the fact that it does not bother you at all that you are saying things here in the Hungarian Parliament that have nothing to do with the truth. He's practically an insolent liar all the time. That's what he did in his previous comments. [[21.40]] He's trying to piece together the image to alert people, the population. He's talking about stealing 700 billion forints. You're talking about obvious things that he obviously knows are lies when he tells you. So he's openly and publicly lying when he talks about how 260 billion forints were stolen through the National Bank's foundations. Congressman! You should be aware that according to the relevant legislation, foundations cannot spend their founding assets on anything, they can farm their profits. So when you scare the population by spending 260 billion forints of public money, along with your fellow Members, you know you're lying and you want to deceive the Hungarian voters. I ask you very nicely that, along with cheap and cheap political interests - I know that the killing battle is now taking place here in connection with the presidential nomination within the MSZP, obviously they are also trying to use the meeting room of the Hungarian Parliament, which is disgusting, and Hungarian voters are being tricked and deceived on the road and on the road. Thank God, Hungarian voters have the sense to know exactly what is true and what is lying. It is no coincidence that, according to you, at the end of the previous term, we heard the same gibberish on your part, on your part, who destroyed the country, who brought Hungary to the brink of insolvency, who were saved only by the IMF and the European Commission's credit from total bankruptcy. Do you dare talk about stealing and cheating and lying in this Parliament? They did nothing else for eight years, even their Prime Minister Ferenc Gyurcsány admitted that they lied in the morning and at noon and at night. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2016-05-30-333	Thank you, Congressman. Next announced speaker was Mr Attila Petneházy, Member Fidesz.
u2016-05-30-334	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen. I could go on where Erik Bánki left off and where my fellow Member Attila Gelencsér left off, because he said that the opposition actually achieved the attitude of shooting at everything that moves. And I would say that it is, because I was preparing a sentence while I was listening to my fellow Member beat the Fidesz where you got it, and that's what it was about. And it's been practically implemented, because in one unit of time, he can throw more dirt at the governing party, that's actually the point. But, in truth, and referring back to my fellow Member, it is truly outrageous and indecent what our fellow Member Bellozó has accomplished, because if I approach the matter from the point of view of the fact that the party which, in the Hungarian public discourse, has devolved things, because they were the ones who gave certain concepts in public thinking a different meaning because of their cursed activities. I could give you examples. Here's the passionate truth speech, which in reality means boundless lying. Or a budget management, and that is: how can I skim money? So I think that the Socialists have endowed the offshore with all sorts of other things, because we can agree that there is also an offshore naming debate today, because everyone has slipped into it, even though they have said to each other that you have already said something that doesn't apply to offshore companies, and you have again said that everyone from the opposition has made it possible for us to rush everything down on each other quickly. My fellow Member, György Szilágyi, has repeatedly said - and he has said that I will say this again - that lawlessness is happening. And Congresswoman also said that this is what we will come up with, but we have to, lawlessnesss are the only viable way for a Member who thinks of justified lawlessness, to press charges. Or it just becomes that sentence where I come up with things over and over again that I can throw at it. I know that the opposition is allowed to do this, we must not bullshit, we must not say that this is part of the offshore, although we have never had an exact answer to this - I look at my fellow Members questioning - because whenever the name of Béla Kovács came up, my fellow opposition Members have only been deeply silent. At least I never got a serious answer. [[György Szilágyi: Offshore too? The president's ringing the bell.]]
u2016-05-30-335	Go on, Congressman.
u2016-05-30-336	Thank you very much. So towards the end, as my fellow Member, Mr Attila Gelencsér, said, let me say this once again, because we have to say that there are also online cash registers that help whitening, there is an electronic road traffic control system here. I know that these are all only slightly in your opinion, but according to a certain figure, the online cash register was 150 billion forints already in 2014. And this particular EKAER, this electronic road traffic control system, represents an annual increase in VAT revenue of HUF 60 billion. Of course, I have to add that this is a constant challenge for the government, and the results, I think, speak for themselves, but there will always be people who want to avoid the laws, and on this basis they will want to increase their wealth and to cover it up somehow. But among the government's actions, I have to list red tape reduction factors - I know, again, not offshore, I'm sorry if we should talk a little more than about offshore - and make the administration transparent for everyone. Well, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen of the House, I will be forced to say again - and here again I am looking at my fellow Member Belling - that you have had a lot of government factors involved in this, we could talk about former finance minister, who had a VAT-dealing partner in certain institutions, who, if we remember, had to hide from the cameras, or we could talk about tens of billions of friends or hotel development in Egerszalók, which we know has gone bankrupt. In fact, ladies and gentlemen, listening to the professionally well-founded views of the Secretary of State, Attila Gelencsér has given me several examples, as this is a major global problem and has approached it from here, but I have actually only been able to detect a flood of filth spilled upon us. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2016-05-30-337	Thank you very much. I give the floor to notary Attila Gelencsér for two minutes, Fidesz.
u2016-05-30-338	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I was forced to speak because of Gábor Bellozó, too. First of all, because without qualified him - I try to avoid this - I think it is the misunderstanding that if he speaks out loud, then what he says is true. He starts raising his voice, and he's getting stronger, more aggressive and bigger, as Erik Bánki said. The problem with that, Congressman, is that doesn't make it true. And he's so reliving his own speech, he's moved by it. Perhaps the last time Ferenc Gyurcsány was so effective, I read studies about him that suggested some kind of borderline syndrome, that if he says it many times and loudly, he would eventually believe what he was saying. I just wanted to draw your attention to the fact that you should be careful not to overdo it, because if you mention my name in a speech about corruption and offshore affairs, you've gone a long way. That's what just happened. So you need to be a little more careful about this. [[István Gábor Bellozó: Are you threatening me? Don't be silly.]] I don't want to go to court. Yes, in the sense that I obviously cannot tolerate this, I cannot allow you to mention my name twice in a three-minute speech about corruption and offshore, which I do not think is correct. I didn't do that. I didn't mention your name on this. I was just talking about the political community that you were talking about. [[21.50]] In conclusion, I think it's good for us. I think it will be good for our political family, and we will be given confidence as long as there are speeches of your kind; there is no proposal, there is no modesty, there is no humility, there is no constructivity. That's good for 15 percent. Thank you so much for the opportunity. [[Applause in the ranks of Fidesz.]]
u2016-05-30-339	Thank you, Mr. Notary. A two-minute speech will be held by Congressman Gábor Bellozó. I give you the floor.
u2016-05-30-340	Thank you very much, Mr. President. First of all, I would say to Erik Bánki that Lajos Kósa's faction leader said that public money in the MNB foundations will lose its public money character. That's what I'm talking about. Yeah, that's what I'm talking about. That's what I'm talking about. That's what I'm talking about. And in this, several offshore companies have been used through several real estate transactions, that's a fact, fellow Member. That's what I'm talking about. By the way, I asked you a question: when are you going to comment on how many offshore companies you're interested in? In fact, when do Fidesz regional directors say how many offshore companies are involved? Here's a statement on the table that you're not interested in these matters, and then we'll see a little bit more clearly. My colleague, Mr Petneházy, was talking about pouring filth all over your neck. Ladies and gentlemen, What Fidesz is doing in draining money is the offshore network, through which the stolen public money is eliminated and removed from public use, indeed, is a huge waste. All we're gonna do is put this filth back in your neck, and we're gonna confront you. If you don't like it, I believe that you're upset, I believe that my fellow Member Gelencsér also thought it was time to threaten me the way the former mayor of Siófok's friend does, that anyone who mentions some suspicious case, like sharing it on Facebook, would immediately report it. I understand that's the speed of the fidesz. I have some bad news: they won't be able to threaten me, they won't be able to stop me. You know, I'm so sick and tired of what you've done in this country, and I'm not gonna keep my mouth shut, and I'm gonna always bring it to you, and I'm gonna put all that filth you've been talking about back in your neck. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2016-05-30-341	Thank you, Congressman. Ms Csöbör, Member of the Council, Fidesz, has made a preliminary statement.
u2016-05-30-342	Mr President, Dear fellow Members, Thank you for the word at this late hour on this day of debate on the measures needed to take action against the offshore. It is possible to cut here, but if we look at the period after the change of regime before 2010, in particular between 2002 and 2010, we can clearly see that left-wing governments have done nothing in the world to ensure that only transparent companies have access to public money. On the contrary, just left-wing governments have put offshore companies and private companies into state resources with coordinated, organised action. At the time of their government, several left-wing prime ministers and ministers came in close contact with offshore companies. For example, under the direction of Bajnai Gordon, the Wallis Group purchased Dataplex Kft. in September 2005, and the company was then transferred to Magyar Telekom with a profit of HUF 3 billion a few months later. It's the same circumstance that makes you wonder. What concerns us now, however, is that the sale was carried out through three offshore companies by Gordon Bajnai, and he was the director of one of them. It is also difficult to estimate how many offshore companies Wallis has optimized or minimized its tax. Under left-wing governments, it was also the case that Omninvest Kft., a company that produced a vaccine against the H1N1 virus. Its ownership structure is 98 percent unknown, and it covered an offshore company in Cyprus. In light of all this, loud corruption from your side, the opposition side, can be called impertinent. The Jobbik, which has not yet been on the government, says that we do not act, they can say the word lying down, so far they have not been able to act. But if we are going to stick to the strict facts, then I would like to say that, yes, the civil government was the first to make it mandatory that companies starting in public procurements should be transparent and should also declare their final owners. And this government, the civilian government, was the first to exclude offshore companies from domestic procurement. We have repeatedly said that 44,000 companies had to comment on their ownership. The new public procurement directives of the European Union were first adapted to Hungarian legislation from among the Member States. The world of opaque offshore companies is closely linked to the proliferation of the black economy. Indeed, the current government is fighting effectively to reduce the black economy. International surveys have shown that since 2010, the black economy has decreased by HUF 1500 billion. Domestic advertising tax regulation is also a critical area, especially the tax burden of advertising published on the Internet. In order to enforce advertising tax obligations for companies placing advertising on the Internet, this year's tax laws allow the tax authorities to impose a default penalty which is dissuasive in the event of failure to comply with the obligation, as well as a presumed statement of the advertising tax that has been declared and failed to pay. This is, of course, in order to ensure that taxation is properly carried out in the country. So the Fidesz government, the civilian government, is acting and not just speaking, as my opposition colleagues say. Thank you for the floor. [[Applause in the ranks of Fidesz.]]
u2016-05-30-343	Thank you very much. I'll give the floor to Congressman Erik Bánki for two minutes, Fidesz.
u2016-05-30-344	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, I would like to continue to rebut the statements made by Mr Bellozó. First of all, does that sound very good, Mr. Group Leader? Sorry, Congressman, the impression that everyone is making a statement about how many offshore companies they own and what they're interested in. Once again, you lie and mislead the public, because you know precisely that every Member's declaration of assets contains companies in which they are part. According to the official company statement, at any time you can easily determine which companies are offshore and which companies are not. Now I bet in large lots that you won't find any Fidesz faction or KDNP faction in any declaration of property between representatives who have offshore companies. Because it's not like us, Congressman. Once again, he is taking forward the traditional socialist legacy taken over from the old Communists, according to which they always attack others with what is your fault. Let us look at it, honourable Member, you have heard it a few times today: apart from Gyula Horn, all your prime ministers, Péter Medgyessy, Ferenc Gyurcsány, Gordon Bajnai, were all interested in offshore companies. At your time, the President of the Central Bank, András Simor, parked HUF 800 million in an offshore account in paradise. Congressman, we have not yet talked about the Boldva case, we have not yet talked about Simon's fellow Member's illegal money and the things that your former fellow factions or predecessors have done on behalf of the MSZP. I think if you had a little self-criticism, you wouldn't say a word about this matter in this Parliament. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of Fidesz.]]
u2016-05-30-345	Thank you very much. The next speaker was Congressman Robert Simon, Fidesz.
u2016-05-30-346	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear House, Many things have been discussed in today's debate. In this way, as we approach the seventh hour of the debate, I would like to mention perhaps the conflict of interest and the relevant laws. By conflict of interest in Hungary, we mean primarily the prohibition of the joint holding of certain positions. This is to ensure that the person who holds the public office acts independently, unlawful or otherwise inadmissible without political, economic or other influence. [[22.00]] The conflict of interest of the office shall also serve the division of power by excluding the concentration of powers and shall ensure the transparency of the income and property situation of the person holding the public office. Therefore, conflicts of interest arise when the person holding the public office acts in his/her own interests, although he/she should primarily protect the public interest. Since relations between the public and private sectors are regular, conflicts of interest may arise and arise on a regular basis. Legislation guaranteeing the impartiality of public officials and their actions is therefore essential. Effectively enforced legislation can prevent biased measures and decisions and abuse of power. It may also help to prevent the use of public funds and confidential information for personal benefits. It is therefore worth recalling the rules of certain legal acts concerning economic conflicts of interest. First, the rule of conflict of interest for the President of the Republic, as laid down in Article 12 (2) of the Fundamental Law. This is how it is said: "The office of President of the Republic is incompatible with any other state, social, economic and political office or mandate. The President of the Republic shall not engage in any other occupation of earning employment and shall not accept remuneration for any other activity other than the activities covered by copyright protection. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Next is the XXXVI of 2012 on the National Assembly. Under law, conflict of interest rules relating to the mandate of representatives include a prohibition on membership or shareholder position in the company if the company is not considered transparent. Article 30, this is about conflict of interest, 80. Paragraph 1 of the Act, I quote: "The term of office of representatives is incompatible with any other state, municipal or economic office or mandate. The representative shall not engage in any other gainful employment except in the context of scientific, academic, artistic, literary, editorial or legal-protected intellectual activities, and shall not accept remuneration for any other activity other than in the context of scientific, educational, artistic, literary or foster-parent employment. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Then on the economic conflicts of interest of Members under Rule 84. Paragraph (h) of the Act on the Capital Markets shall not be the sole or majority owner, senior official, senior employee of a financial entity operating in the financial sector under the Act on the Capital Markets. In other words, point (i) reads: "Member or shareholder holding a holding holding in an entity which is not a transparent entity under the law on national assets." § : The representative may not conclude a purchase agreement during his term of office or for two years after his termination to acquire the holding of an economic organization in which the Hungarian or foreign State, local government, local government association or foreign local authority, party, domestic or foreign religious community has direct or indirect exclusive or majority influence. Law defines conflict of interest rules with regard to political leaders. Economic conflicts of interest do not cover membership shares or shareholder positions; only senior officials or supervisory board members are prohibited. Paragraph 10 (1) of the Rules of Procedure: the political leader's relationship to further work The representative shall not be the sole or majority owner, senior official, senior employee of a financial entity operating in the financial sector under the Capital Markets Act. In other words, point (i) reads: "Member or shareholder holding a holding holding in an entity which is not a transparent entity under the law on national assets." § : The representative may not conclude a purchase agreement during his term of office or for two years after his termination to acquire the holding of an economic organization in which the Hungarian or foreign State, local government, local government association or foreign local authority, party, domestic or foreign religious community has direct or indirect exclusive or majority influence. Law defines conflict of interest rules with regard to political leaders. Economic conflicts of interest do not cover membership shares or shareholder positions; only senior officials or supervisory board members are prohibited. Paragraph 10 ( 1) shall not establish a relationship for further work (including the membership of the supervisory board, the head office of the company or cooperative, the membership of the management organisation of the foundation and the position of the representative organisation) and shall not receive remuneration for its public participation in the performance of its functions. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Moving on, the 2011 CXCIX on Public Service Officers. Law contains rules on conflicts of interest for professional managers, government officials, civil servants and employees in the public administration. Economic conflicts of interest do not cover membership shares or shareholder positions. In particular, 85. Paragraph (2) of the Act states: "The government official's further relationship - scientific, educational, artistic, literary, editorial, legal-protected intellectual activity, the employment relationship of the foster family and the state project evaluation relationship The Government official may establish a further relationship, with the exception of scientific, educational, artistic, literary, editorial, legal-protected intellectual activities, the employment relationship of the foster family and the public project evaluation relationship (hereinafter referred to as "the jointly exercisable activity") and voluntary activity of general interest, only with the prior authorisation of the employer. The legal relationship with the pursuit of the exerciseable activity, as well as the legal relationship with the pursuit of voluntary activity in the public interest, must be notified in writing to the practitioner of the employer's powers prior to its establishment, where such activity is directly related to the duties of the government official. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Point (c) shall not be an official or supervisory board member of a company, unless the company is a municipal or public body majority-owned company. Law bans members of the Supervisory Board, senior officials, personal involvement and unlimited liability between conflict of interest rules. The shareholders' or members' shares themselves are not incompatible. For the purposes of this Regulation, the following definitions shall apply: Paragraph (2) of the Act reads: "The judge may not be an economic company, a cooperative company, a senior official or a member of a cooperative, a company, a cooperative company, a member of the supervisory board of a cooperative, an unlimited member of an economic company, a cooperative company, and a member of an individual company, and a senior officer of a civil society organisation engaged in economic and business activities. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. The 2011 CLXIV on the status of the Attorney General, prosecutors and other public prosecutors and on the career of the prosecutor. Law bans members of the Supervisory Board, senior officials, personal involvement and unlimited liability between conflict of interest rules. The shareholders' or members' shares are not incompatible with them either. XXXIII of 1992 on the status of civil servants According to law, only senior officials or supervisory board members are considered to be incompatible. Within the law, the 41st. Paragraph (1) of Article 1 shall not apply if the public servant is in conflict with his/her job as a public servant. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. LXVIII of 1997 on the service of judicial staff It also does not prohibit a holding in a company or a shareholder position. Article 36 (a) (ii) (iv) (iv) (iii) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iv) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v)) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v)) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) According to § (1):. The judicial staff member may not fulfil a job in which he or she would be in contact with his or her relative in terms of management, control or accounting. (2) A judicial employee (c) may carry out a search activity, with the exception of scientific, educational, artistic, literary, editorial, sports and legal protection not affecting his or her working time, only with the prior permission of the employer's practitioner. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Ladies and gentlemen, Based on what has been said, the public office holders can be divided into several groups. Thus, constitutional officials, heads of government bodies, public servants, including judges, prosecutors, law enforcement workers, parliamentary or municipal representatives, and so on can be distinguished. Laws break down conflict of interest rules to varying degrees. Thus, certain Hungarian laws regulate the different types of conflicts of interest, the prohibition of the simultaneous holding of different public offices, the abuse of office in order to gain undue advantage, the exclusion of the holding of economic offices, the restriction of shares or other holdings, the obligation to declare them, the inadequacy and many other forms of conflict of interest. If we look out, we can see that the conflicts of interest systems of the Member States of the European Union are not internationally uniform and may differ even within the same state. At the general level, conflicts of interest can be approached in two ways, as restrictions or disclosures. [[22.10]] Ladies and gentlemen, The conflicting situation violates the socially acceptable balance between the personal interests of public officials and the public interest, when situations which are not adequately managed can lead to corruption, distort competition and the distribution of public funds. This appears to be a threat to national development. Identifying and resolving conflicting situations is essential and important for good governance, maintaining confidence in public institutions and democracy in general. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of Fidesz.]]
u2016-05-30-347	Thank you, Congressman. I'll give the floor to Congressman Péter Csizi for two minutes, Fidesz.
u2016-05-30-348	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. At a late hour, I am trying to find out about Congressman Gábor Harangozó, who said an hour and a half ago that there was no representative in the Hungarian Socialist Party involved in the offshore case. I immediately replied to him: Besides Ferenc Gyurcsány, Gordon Bajnai, Péter Oszkó and András Simor, I mentioned that, by the time he was a deputy group leader, Bertalan Tóth, when he was a deputy mayor of Pécs, how and how they tried to get the public property in Pécs to the various offshore fibres and offshore companies. The answer to this was that Gábor Harangozó regretted that there were measures in the past that the Hungarian Socialist Party was not proud of, but now we are not talking about the past, but about the future. Then it will be another half hour, and then, I quote Gábor Harangozó, he said that no matter how much time will pass, he will always be you, I mean the governor's party, pouring the filth that we accumulate here year after year. Then, in the same speech, he asked us why we were nervous. Well, I will now answer you, dear Gábor Harangozó, who no longer respects the functioning of Parliament, that I am very nervous when, in a city of 150,000, where 65,000 people use public transport on a daily basis, during the time of the Socialist City Administration, during the sub-Mayorship of Bertalan Tóth, 175 buses were outsourced in one hand-written account, which is in fact the total number of buses in urban public transport. Dear Gábor Bellozó! I'm also nervous when these buses are rented back five days later, but I have separate buses and tires. I'm nervous when they don't pay taxes and VAT for all this, and I'm nervous about all this when they have to pay the Pécs a HUF 1.7 billion NAV penalty for this whole transaction. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of Fidesz.]]
u2016-05-30-349	Thank you very much. The next speaker was Mr Tamás László, Member Fidesz.
u2016-05-30-350	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I must say that as I look through the Chamber, it is more or less obvious that with this extremely difficult problem we are almost alone, with two good opposition representatives in the bench. [[György Szilágyi points to Mrs Loránt Hegedűs in the notary seat.]] Three, excellent. One thing is obvious; if I watch the debate over the last few hours, then there is one thing that I wish to shed light on with a joke. It's like a one - time man goes home from his Sunday morning Mass, and his wife asks him what the priest was talking about. He says it's about sin. - What did he say? - Convicted. That's about what everyone in the horseshoe said. Everyone has different motivations, some who are burdened with some guilt, some who enjoy accusations or some who, driven by some kind of sacred heat, think that this absolutely amazing global problem will be solved with a knight cut. This whole offshore case has four stages. There is tax planning, which is a legal tax optimization, a search for opportunities, which means the most favourable tax payment for a company. There is no problem in itself. There's tax evasion. This is already a border area, a legal reduction of the tax burden, but in a way that the legislator and the official tax policy did not want to make available to taxpayers. These are the loopholes. So there are certain loopholes that need to be closed as much as possible. If we look at the tax policy the government has been doing over the last few years, this tax evasion is becoming increasingly tight and there are fewer loopholes. There is the third, the tax escape, this is an international form, which is incredibly difficult to defend against when the taxpayer transfers its seat or residence to the lowest tax burden country. I believe that this is what shows the global dimension of the whole matter and shows that a nation state cannot defend itself against it. The fourth is tax evasion, which is a specific category of criminal law. This is an illegal form, a violation of tax laws and other laws. Most of these cases have come to light in the Panama papers, and they belong to this category. Here, most of all, the LMP MEPs said that it should be banned, terminated, and as if there were a miracle weapon in the face of the offshore phenomenon. I gotta tell you, there's no miracle weapon. So there's no such thing as a miracle weapon, because it's a global phenomenon. It is only possible to defend against this in a coordinated way. There's relatively little chance of that. This whole offshore phenomenon is a little bit like the spread of nothing in Michael Ende's Infinite history. So this is an extremely dangerous and harmful phenomenon, a global phenomenon, and indeed, those who talked about large multinational companies and transnational economic interests were telling the truth. This is the spread of nothing, against which the Hungarian government has done an incredible deal since 2010. This phenomenon is a little bit like the seven-headed dragon of the Hungarian folk tales. It's a very real seven-headed dragon. If we cut off a head, it'll grow again, and I see these heads growing up day by day, and they'll come out every day. By the way, every case like this is gonna come out, so you don't have to worry about that. Such, let's say, a relatively recent case, the case of Alstom, which was brought to the surface in England, affected the Demszky era, the BKV there, and it seems that Péter Medgyessy was involved with quite a significant amount in this case. I am very sorry that the MSZP Member is not here, but he will probably read the Parliamentary Journal and you will hear that new cases will be mentioned here. There's no miracle weapon. So I said that there is no miracle weapon, only the combined use of coordinated, synergisticly connected devices is effective. I think that's what the Fidesz government has been doing since 2010. It's enough that you've told me in the last few hours that I can only mention a more detailed tool with one word. These include the reduction of economic whitening, personal income tax, the transparency provisions of the national property law or the relevant provisions of the protection of the Hungarian land, the establishment of the EKÁER system of economic whitening, the tightening of the public procurement law was mentioned by many. The international exchange of tax information is a huge help in this area, as it is a matter that seeks an international solution. The tax authorities must unite here. This is a series of international anti-money laundering measures. Such is the system of economic whitening with cash registers, the transparency rules of the Public Finance Act, the many anti-corruption measures, or the tool of economic whitening with advertising tax. But such is the VAT reduction, which again means the whitening of the economy, because if it is no longer worth travelling, only milk, grain or any other goods, but lower VAT rates, it can be a means of whitening. I must say that this whole matter cannot be solved alone, only by acting together can it be resolved, and it can also be declared that a natural union of strong, self-aware nation states is needed. That's what Fidesz is doing, trying to expand its international relations in this area, and I think we're on the right track, and I wish the opposition would cheer us on to cut off all seven heads of the seven-headed dragons and not grow again. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of Fidesz.]]
u2016-05-30-351	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Congressman György Szilágyi in two minutes, Jobbik.
u2016-05-30-352	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Robert Simon listed conflict of interest rules here, and I agree with him. That is why we have tabled an amendment which would say that if Members of Parliament, let us say their profession, whether their profession as lawyers or their medical practice, while Members of Parliament are in conflict, there would be a legitimate expectation that they would not be able to carry out economic activity, especially economic activity with offshore companies. [[22.20]] In our opinion, this would be acceptable, we suggested that whoever owns an offshore company should lose their mandate, not be a Member of Parliament if they have an offshore company, or [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Step out of these offshore companies, so let's clear this section. This has not been accepted, and we will submit it once again, in case the Member may support it.
u2016-05-30-353	Thank you very much, Congressman. I'll ask if anyone else wants to take the opportunity to speak. [[No signal.]] I don't see any contact. We have reached the end of the speeches. I give the floor to Mr Tuzson Bence, State Secretary of the Prime Minister's Cabinet Office, within a 20-minute timeframe.
u2016-05-30-354	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, We have heard a lot of things here today and interesting speeches, but it is, however, that when we talk about such an issue, we must approach governance itself on a fundamental basis of value, but also politics itself, and we must decide, along the lines of values, what we will do on some issues, but values must also be set somewhere. If we are talking about this issue, I am sorry that the socialists are now honoring this meeting of Parliament, even though they were also the initiators of this evening, but their attitude is very strange, but it is understandable somewhere. So their anger, their over-excited comments, their dignified conduct here in Parliament is obviously due to the way they had dealt with this issue before, even under their government, where prime ministers were involved, various representatives were involved, the state's finances were completely opaque, and the state made payments in such a way that it is difficult to explore their path to this day. When you look at Jobbik, my right-wing fellow Members who are still here in Parliament, I must tell you that, in fact, you feel a little bit like talking to SZDSZ in the early '90s, because the SZDSZ was the party that stood up with a great deal of an elegance to an anti-communist party, and then, by the way, acted differently under the grass. [[György Szilágyi: Who was the youth organization of SZDSZ then?]] The behavioral elements were quite different from those which, by the way, their voices, in word, what they said, would have worked. [[György Szilágyi: Who was the youth organization of SZDSZ then? The Fidesz.]] This is also the case in your case. While you're talking in a big voice against the offshore, you're getting involved in all sorts of suspicious finances in various cases. Here the Béla Kovács case has been mentioned several times, which we have asked you to clarify several times, and on the other hand the recent Panda case, which has also been mentioned here at the Parliament meeting, which would also be clarified by Jobbik, since you have not been on the government, you have not had the opportunity to carry out any kind of activity in this regard as a government, but in this position you are also going in this direction. I would just like to draw your attention to the fact that what you say and what you do should be balanced, because you are always very brave when it comes to words, but somehow this courage, when it comes to action, always goes away, and behaves quite differently on a referendum. First they say something, then the opposite is what we are witnessing, when there is a question, a fundamental question, when we talk about how the country's finances can be fixed, then they can speak in a strong, big voice, but otherwise their actions do not support them. However, I think that our fundamental line is defined by the Fundamental Law, and I am very sorry that, when there were more of these laws before the Parliament, you have not supported these laws at all, the kind opposition representatives. For example, we have our Fundamental Law, which sets out one of the most important basic values in this regard in Articles 38 and 39, when the Fundamental Law lays down that contracts cannot be concluded with non-transparent organisations for the outflow of public funds, and this must be broken down, as in all legislation, in various other legislation. This is how, for example, the Public Procurement Act appears on the other side. It can be said that the system is not perfect yet, but it is necessary to work to ensure that this system is perfect and that the transparent spending of public funds in Hungary is achieved at the highest possible level. This is what is happening during our governance, because the government is committed to ensuring transparent finance in Hungary, transparency in the whole of the public sector, transparency for all officials. We have created conflict of interest rules for civil servants, and Parliament has created them, for example, for Members of Parliament, because the Member of Parliament also has to make everything public and disclose all of his economic interests. There are few countries in Europe that would seek such great transparency as the Hungarian Government seeks transparency with the support of Fidesz. There are interesting proposals that are raised here in the Parliament, and I would like to mention a sentence here on the proposal of the LMP, when LMP sees the solution of offshore cases in creating a European tax system and a European tax base, and on this we should build the Hungarian tax system on it. In addition to the fact that this would probably not solve anything in this problem, it is a strange approach from the LMP, who has a strong attitude towards some of the European Union's actions, because it is precisely this type of action that can destroy the Hungarian economy. It is no coincidence that the Prime Minister's speech also pointed in this direction that this should not be introduced in Hungary, and that every effort must be made to ensure that this is not introduced, since it would be very restrictive of economic growth in Hungary and, on the other hand, it would eliminate the country's freedom of action. We also fight for the country's freedom of action on this issue. It is important that the country's economic freedom of action remains, because this is how we can act on all the issues, such as the issue of transparency, because if all these issues are handed over to Brussels and Brussels can decide on these issues, then we can go on to be like the immigration issue, where Brussels is taking over issues that are not otherwise of its concern, because there is a European hypocrisy on this issue. There may be European leaders leading or leading countries in which offshores are otherwise divining, specifically offshore states, and then on the other hand speaking against this when they are speaking as MEPs. At home, their own state is built in this form, and on the other hand, which appears, is a sentence from the mouth of a European politician that they are fighting against. These are contradictions which we must not allow, we must not allow in Hungary as a whole, and I think that we must go further on the path that we have started, on the road that is the transparency of public money. All sensible proposals in this regard are welcome to be considered by the government, and we strive to make legislation, to create an environment in which there will always be clear and transparent finance. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-05-30-355	Thank you very much, Secretary of State Tuzson Bence. Dear Parliament, The political debate is closed. We have reached the end of the discussion of our agendas today. We now have an after-the-meet speech. I give the floor to MEP István Ikotity LMP, who will address the message of Pope Ferenc in five minutes. [[22.30]]
u2016-05-30-356	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like you to know a video message from Pope Francis here, as well as some of it, and some of it. In a video message from Pope Francis in April, he spoke for the farmers, for the people who earn their bread with the sweat of their faces. The Pope says, I quote, the earth is a gift from God. It is not fair to use this gift only for the benefit of a few, depriveing the majority of their rights and benefits. I want you to think about it, and your voice will unite with mine in this prayer. Small farmers should earn a fair income for their valuable work. So far, the quote. In the message, the pope repeatedly thanked small farmers for their work. Most of the time we call those who are small farmers who are really indispensable to all mankind, there are about half a billion people who work as small farmers on earth. Despite the rapid urbanisation and the spread of large farms, the global size of agriculture remains in the hands of small farmers, but their situation is getting worse. That is why the pope asks for a just income, a decent living. We are all called upon by Pope Francis, and, as I quote, it is not fair to use this gift only for the benefit of a few, deprived the majority of their rights and responsibilities. It is no wonder that a pope of Argentine origin feels the position of small producers as we know the processes that have taken place in agriculture, the small farmers have been destroyed and they have had to migrate to the suburbs of large cities. József Ángyán, former State Secretary, warned the Orbán government on numerous occasions that if the current processes continue, there will soon be 200-300 interests in the majority of Hungary's land, which is similar to the South American model, the model of latifundiums. He believes that large owners will literally drive people away from the land, from small settlements, and that monoculture, very chemicalized and unsustainable farming is being introduced. The communities leave the land of their ancestors and appear around the big cities where ghettos are created. In Hungary, the new aid rules introduced in 2015 have not yet made the distribution system much fairer. Again, the top 10 percent received 76 percent of the subsidies, while 12 percent of the subsidies were shared by 80 percent of the applicants. Obviously, if you take an average, you can even say that this is some kind of medium rate, but when you look at these numbers, they are very talkative, especially when you look at farmers with a record size of land, such as Sándor Csányi, who farms on 25,000 hectares, Tamás Leisztinger, who farmes on 26 thousand hectares, Tibor Flag, who farmes on 9 thousand hectares and Lőrinc Mészáros, who farmes on 5400 hectares. The land that gives food cannot be regarded as merely a profitable commodity to be eviscerated; we cannot allow the land to be subject to the desire of the rich for meaningless profit, so that mankind, instead of the welfare of individual people, serves the meaningless riches of few. In Hungary, the land estate system suffers from the overweight of the estates, the possession of the land, the subsidies that can be called after, the good investment, the guaranteed financial profit, makes it important for the landlords of the present age. The Hungarian government does not protect and support the small and the weak, but gives it to those who do not need it and take it away from those who are vital to the bottom of the earth. We believe that the Hungarian government, if it considers these Christian values important, should hear the Pope's voice and not only should hear it, but should also turn to action. In view of this, he would be lucky to reconsider his estate policy and put it back on what he had previously proclaimed, even by the words of József Ángyán. Unfortunately, this is not the direction the government is heading in right now. We hope that these words will come to them and change that. Thank you for your attention. [[György Szilágyi applauds.]]
u2016-05-30-357	Thank you very much. It seems the words have come to pass. Secretary of State Tuzson Bence will answer on behalf of the government.
u2016-05-30-358	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Indeed, it is very important that the layers that live on the ground are supported in a country, and especially when we are talking about an agricultural country, such as Hungary, in relation to its own opportunities. Indeed, if we are talking about half a billion people worldwide, we are talking about half a million people in Hungary. Therefore, it is important that what the government has started earlier in order to support small estates in Hungary, the former situation, which, by the way, has been achieved in Hungary with the lease of land, should be changed by the government, and that the land should be the one who produces it, we are trying to put those in a position in Hungary, who are also landowners, who are farmers of the land, who can be small owners and owners. There are a lot of land, state-owned land, the sale of which took place in Hungary on the basis of these principles, as most of the sales, a very significant part of it was the estate under 3 hectares. Of course, an agricultural country must also pay attention to the balance between the great estate and the small estate, and the balance between the two should not be disrupted. I do not agree with Mr President's approach to saying that this balance has been upset in Hungary. The opposite is true. In Hungary, the proportion of those who are small owners has increased, and even these layers have been transferred to property by the government in the last period. Of course, I'm not saying that all the tasks are done. In fact, of course, it is necessary to work to ensure that those in this situation have land ownership and land ownership in Hungary and are able to live in better and better conditions. There are also many kinds of help within the EU system, although this is not necessarily in balance with other European countries' support systems, as we know that elsewhere in Europe landowners are better supported under European rules. Unfortunately, the previous EU agreements did not have an impact in this direction, but in Hungary we must strive to ensure that these subsidies are implemented as widely as possible, and that small and medium-sized owners can earn a living from the ground, a good livelihood from the ground, because it is in the interests of all of us. Thank you very much for the floor.
u2016-05-30-359	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that the next Spring Session is expected to take place on 6 June 2016. I thank you for your work, the meeting is closed. Good night, everyone. [[The meeting ended at 10:37 p.m.]]
