u2016-12-06-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] Dear Parliament, The 29th day of the autumn session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that István Tiba and István Ikotity will be attending the meeting to help me. Welcome to our guests and to all those who monitor our work. Dear Parliament, Mr Ákos Hadházy, Member of the LMP Group, asked to speak before the agenda. I'll give the floor to Congressman.
u2016-12-06-1	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, - who's here. This will mean the abolition of social security, which is not a new process; it has already started to adopt the Fundamental Law, since the adoption of the new Fundamental Law leaves so much left in the Fundamental Law that the state will continue to seek the security of its citizens. In fact, it left out the essence of social security, left out social rights, left out the need to ensure that everyone has the right to health care and has the right to pension insurance. It is very important to talk about this, the termination of the National Health Insurance Fund - it is called OEP - because we all know that the government may not know it, but the building of Hungarian health care is creaking and we don't know when it will collapse. The fact that it has not yet collapsed because of the unbelievable underfunding is due to a number of factors, especially the doctors, nurses and staff working in it, but there is a very important institution that we can still thank for the fact that there is health care in Hungary, and that is the social security and the employees of the national health fund. They are doing a very serious professional work, the results that Mr. Secretary of State usually lists here are that certain waiting lists are shortened because of the rationalization of the use of medicines, by using cheaper medicines, but good medicines, for example, thanks to these professionals. However, after 125 years, independent social security, independent of the state, will cease in Hungary. By the way, in the '50s, the Communists brought the distribution of these funds to them. This is no coincidence, since it is good to decide on these funds by hand, but you should know that this is a very special profession and requires quite special expertise. Quietly, in the summer, between the huge campaigns, the huge migrant campaigns, during which two government decrees came quietly. One talked about the termination of the Board of Pensions, which became the National Family Support and Social Insurance Office as of January 1, which, according to the decree, will take over the budget tasks of the health fund with cash benefits, accident sickness benefits, and will end nicely on 31 March, and will be incorporated into the Hungarian Treasury. Then this regulation said that the health fund would simply be merged into the Ministry of Human Resources on 31 December. They didn't dare get away with this. They wanted it very much, and they did, but the government decision came, but a new government decision slightly modified it and said that a national health insurance fund was created under the leadership of EMMI, the Ministry of Human Resources, but it lost its autonomy. This step backwards has been made, it is a positive step backwards, yet this process can be inserted very well into the virtually smashing of the health fund. There's nothing to explain how these people's bodies are upset. There's no explanation. The national health fund has been operating practically cost-effectively, but from now on, in a situation like this, when we know that health care as a whole is in crisis, there is no reason why the tasks should not be clear in the next six months, one year. You can envelop permanent decision-making disorders, powers will not be clear, obligations will not be clear, and it shows very well that in the summer they will say that they will merge the whole thing into your ministry, and then in December they will say that it is good, that a certain autonomy can remain, and then the government agencies will get something. It doesn't make sense. There's only one thing that can explain this if you want to create a mess, because you know that in the mess, you can fish very well. I think it's no coincidence that Social Security has been removed from the Fundamental Law. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] and the opposition must work to get this back there. Thank you very much. [[Sallai R. Benedek applauds.]]
u2016-12-06-2	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Parliamentary Secretary Bence Rétvári wishes to respond to what has been said. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2016-12-06-3	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, If something is confusing, then that's LMP's opinion on the pension issue, I think, because they said otherwise before, say, four years ago, they're talking about something else. Let me read to you the proposal of the LMP on its own pension system, this 2012... [[Dr. Ákos Hadházy: I was talking about OEP, health insurance. The president's ringing the bell.]] I think it's all about social solidarity, okay? [[Dr. Ákos Hadházy: Talk about social security. Mr. Benedek intervenes. The president's ringing the bell.]]
u2016-12-06-4	Congressman, you had the opportunity to speak, and now you have the floor. Please keep this to yourself. [[Sallai R. Benedict intervenes. Dr. Ákos Hadházy: Talk about social security.]]
u2016-12-06-5	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. The principle of social security solidarity, which can be reflected both in health care and in the pension fund. I see that you do not want to hear the LMP MEPs' earlier position, because it seems embarrassing and they know this, so they want me not to read their own vision of the pension system, which rested on two pillars, according to the earlier idea of social solidarity of the LMP. According to the LMP, the main principle of social solidarity was to strengthen self-care on 1 June 2012, in which the LMP saw the basis for social solidarity at that time, and a German-type system of points would have been introduced at the pension system, and, by the way, they fought fire and iron to ensure that the compulsory private pension system could still be maintained in Hungary in some way. So much for the principle of social solidarity, which is what the LMP considered important here in Parliament this morning. Our Fundamental Law makes it clear that Hungary strives to provide social security for everyone, especially for those groups to whom it does this: maternity, sickness, disability, disability, widowhood, orphanage and unemployment outside its own fault are the specific cases where the Fundamental Law contains these guarantees and speaks of a single pension system based on social solidarity, which is complemented by the voluntary private cash register system, who wants to enter it, can do so. It can also be seen from the opposition, on the one hand, that it says that the state is too bureaucratic, that it has too many organisations, that there are too many administrations, and when there are programmes to reduce public administration before Parliament, it always opposes that it is not good, that it is wrong, that guarantees are drawn away. Honourable Congressman, Here too, all the functions provided by the OEP continue to be provided, we are only trying to bring it closer to customers and undergo significant IT development. The OEP does not cease to exist, but a National Health Insurance Fund Manager carries out part of its tasks, while the EMMI carries out other parts of its tasks, and the IT tasks are carried out by NYF, but is obviously coordinated with this National Health Insurance Fund Manager. Functional and basic management tasks are added to the EMMI, such as the Health Insurance Fund and the tasks related to accident sickness and travel expenses for the ONYF, and, as I said, the tasks related to ensuring the IT background of the tasks. [[9.10]] Important: the integrated legal protection service is implemented through the OBDK, the National Patient Rights Centre. Here, too, we hope, that everyone's defense will be even stronger. Honourable Congressman, I believe that we can guarantee greater social security for everyone and tax reductions in addition to social security, because it opens up more opportunities for everyone to work. We have seen this, the government's tax reduction policy carried out in recent years has been successful, as it has created jobs for 600-700 thousand people in Hungary, and the sense of security of these people is much greater, as they themselves can take home more of the work they produce and pay less as taxes. This policy of tax cuts has benefited everyone, apparently for companies, for people and for the country. That's what moved the country forward. And whether you were protecting private insurers or private banks in relation to health insurance or pension insurance, you represented their interests here in Parliament and outside Parliament, I think you are talking about what your true position on this issue is. What is important, however, is that the Hungarian Fundamental Law and the legislation that has been passed in recent years provide more security for everyone who wants to work. And if, for a time, you are excluded from this because of sickness or other cases other than your own fault, then, of course, social security will guarantee your livelihood for that time as well. I think the most important thing we can say is that now the labour market itself and its own employment can guarantee its livelihood by 700 thousand people more. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2016-12-06-6	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Speaking before the agenda, Mr Lajos Korózs, MSZP Group asked for an address entitled Retirementes deserve more. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2016-12-06-7	Good morning. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, So by the end of the year, I think that a lot of people, a lot of politicians, are making an account of where we were this year or where we were at the end of the year. I would like to say a few unsearchable sentences here in front of this House about the elderly, because I see that the relationship between the government and the elderly has deteriorated this year. This is not necessarily the relationship, all the more so, because in the recent past, Lajos Kósa, the leader of the largest governing party, has even suggested that pensioners be deprived of the right to vote, or at least not as much as the vote of a pensioner as the vote of society as a whole. Then there was the mayor of Szolnok, who acted unqualifiedly with the elderly women in the context of an assembly hearing. And here are the government measures that have made it clear today that from this year on, older people are not allowed to benefit from equity care, they are deprived of housing support, and they have taken away the debt management service, which has helped a lot of small pensioners in the past. And recently, the government has re-submitted the parenting institution. It is well known that a final vote was held in front of this House about two hours later. One thing is certain that the relationship between the parent and the child will be ruined forever by this institutional form. In the parliamentary debate, I was referring at the time to the fact that it was unworthy of older people, to their families, to the measure the government is planning to take, according to which a parent must prove to the court that he is in need of the support of his child, and that the child must prove to the court that the parent is unworthy of the maintenance obligation with which he was burdened. Non plus ultra, although it is connected here, as we dealt with the negotiation of social law to redefine the institution of home assistance. It is also known to the House that some two years ago, she had such strict limits on the need for four hours of care that virtually only people who had to be cared for and cared for in a residential elderly home could receive home assistance. The government's intention now is that anyone who can pay for home assistance can also enjoy an advantage over those who have no money, and it is not certain that there will then be capacity for older people who need state help or local government help. Dear House, Dear fellow Members, The events of the last three days revolved around the Elizabeth voucher, and I thought I saw a burlesque film starring Chaplin, because at the end of the week almost all government politicians spoke on this issue. We believe that this resource, if it was available to 2.7 million pensioners, should have been used primarily for the equity pension increase, because it would have helped or helped small pensioners, and not the ministers who take their ministerial salary in addition to their pensions, and still hold their hands for the ten thousand forints of Elizabeth's voucher. I said that I thought this was a joke because András Tállai, the tax expert of the nation, was at the forefront of this explanation, unable to state what the Virgin Mary costs HUF 45 billion when it comes to the purchase order of HUF 2,7 million pensioners. He was beaten yesterday by Lajos Kósa, the leader of the ruling party, who said that he should be taken out by government professionals in order not to think that the postman is a month after month, and the postman will bring them a voucher of 10,000 HUF each month. I think that if there's something humiliating about this case, then it was very humiliating. Dear Secretary of State, In the time I have at my disposal, I would like to address three questions to you. Tell him to be nice when the pensioners get the Elisabeth voucher. Tell them who's taking this Elizabeth certificate out to them because it doesn't matter who they let into their apartment. And how long will the voucher be valid? Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2016-12-06-8	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári, who wishes to answer on behalf of the government. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2016-12-06-9	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, It is not an easy task, even at the end of the year, for a socialist politician to try to prove that a socialist government for pensioners can be a better time than a Fidesz-KDNP government. It's a difficult task, he didn't even make it today. And to prove that it is a disadvantage for any pensioner to receive an Elizabeth voucher worth ten thousand forints before Christmas or between the two holidays, because then they can deliver these extra vouchers to them, well, that seems even more reckless. We remember the time when all decisions regarding pension insurance or large public funds were somewhat taken by the SZDSZ, and the business approach also dominated the pension area, and they struck an annual hole of HUF 400 billion in the pension fund, which had to be patched up by Fidesz-KDNP, in order to ensure that all pensions were paid. We took over the pension fund with a huge shortage here on the debate day on pensions, didn't we, your former minister, Erika Szűcs, who admitted to a deficit of HUF 200 billion, that there was so much missing from the pension fund. But according to the less modest estimates, who did not come from the government, there was 320 billion forints, which could have increased to 460 billion forints by 2014. On the other hand, we have undertaken to stabilise the pension fund and make sure that pensions are kept safe. This has been done, as we have undertaken, and in addition, overall, pensions have increased by 8.4 percent between 2011 and 15 in terms of purchasing value, of course this is 21.1 percent nominally, but the value of the buyer, if I look at the pension basket, is much higher. In doing so, the pensioners were able to return what they had taken, the 13th month's allowance, because whatever the socialists had given was usually given out of credit, and it was only granted temporarily, since it was on credit, they could not pay after a while. As Margaret Thatcher said about the socialists, she had never seen a socialist government that would have repaid the loans it had taken. If this is true of the English socialists, it is also true of the Hungarian socialists. But all of this puts pensioners at risk, putting the livelihoods of pensioners at risk. On the other hand, the Fidesz-KDNP government has retained and even increased the value of the pension for pensioners. [[9.20]] They also managed to reduce their expenditure by essentially eliminating inflation in Hungary, which mainly hit small-time earners and low-retired people in the previous period. With the reduction of the rent, it was also possible to reduce the expenses of pensioners from 88 to 120 thousand forints. By reducing the VAT on basic foods, we can also provide the pensioners with 20-30,000 HUF of help next year by spending so much less in stores. I'd like to disprove what you said about home assistance. You know very well that in the case of home assistance, we provide these services under the same conditions; there are only elderly people who do not need a qualified person, because they do not have to carry out care tasks, but they have asked for the cleaning of the aquarium, walking the dog or giving up the lottery ticket in the context of home assistance. We have split up the two public services, one carried by qualified people, and the other obviously has to have another aspect, because it is a nursing task and another is walking dogs. I think that makes perfect sense. However, in addition to those who have been in the past due to their health, they will, of course, continue to walk and do so free of charge. And let me also correct, honourable Member, what you said about who can and cannot afford it. Those who are in need of care must continue to be entitled to it, and those who are not entitled to it according to the need must be paid if they can do so. If you don't need it, but you pay for it, you can also use this public service. And it is also important to preserve the value of pensions, the quality of life of the elderly, that we have been able to help many people precisely with the job protection action plan, since seven out of ten workers over 55 are still guaranteed by the job protection action. We were able to help 340 thousand workers over 55 years of age to spend their elderly years on a higher pension amount from work. It is also important that we have been able to help hundreds of thousands of pensioners within the Erzsébet programme, with a total of 170 thousand vacations, either with a spa ticket or in other ways. I trust that these Elizabeth vouchers will also be available to everyone this year and will be able to use them usefully within the stated period of validity next year. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-12-06-10	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Mr Staudt Gábor, Member of the Jobbik Group, has also applied for a pre-meeting speech:, Is the amendment of the Fundamental Law no longer important to Fidesz? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2016-12-06-11	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Since spring we have heard from Fidesz that only the referendum can protect the country, this is the most effective tool. We have always said that it would be the amendment to the basic law that could protect our country cheaper and more effectively, although we have also said that 100% protection can only be achieved with an effective Brussels representation. Then you found out, too, when this referendum failed, that a fundamental amendment was needed. It was also submitted to the Parliament, but we know that an amendment to a law or a fundamental law can be spelled well and misworded. That this is professional slendrian or conscious is already left to you, but we have certainly seen that this has been presented as a semi-solution, since, as long as the poor migrants have been excluded, not the rich ones. The settlement bond structure, which we can safely classify as terrorist bonds, has been left out, has not been introduced, and even when Jobbik called attention to this, they were not willing to do anything about it, so we thought responsibly that until we have a perfect solution, we need to push you to find a way to get the right solution through the National Assembly. You refused to see this, so the amendment of the basic law did not go through on 8 November. As I said, we do not want poor, rich migrants, Juncker quotas or Rogan quotas in any way to be able to insulate foreigners in Hungary. You have classified this as extortion and better party interest, although we do not understand that outside of you, including the country, who else can profit from the entire bond business scheme, especially in the case of interest on the state with a fourfold profit. Until November 8, we have also heard from you that the one time that this vote can be taken is very important that the amendment to the basic law goes through, it depends on the protection of the country. By the way, Csaba Dömötör said yesterday that this would be an effective protection for Hungary. Then what can we see? After the vote has not passed, and we have tabled a proposal that will ensure the protection of Hungary without any gaps, you have refused to address this proposal in committee even three weeks ago, and since it was voted out yesterday, we must wait until February for it to be on the committee's agenda at all. The question arises whether it was really important for you to amend the Fundamental Law. There are two variations: it wasn't important and people were fooled when they said it in the press, or it was important, but it wasn't as important as the bond business, the holding of terrorist bonds. These are the two variations. [[Sallai R. Benedict: Shame!]] Yeah, it's a shame, I agree with that. Then we heard from three ministers three versions of when these bonds were going to be issued, whether they would be issued at all, and we could also hear, "Oh, no, I'm sorry, they're just suspended; for a day, two days, a month - who knows? You're indebted to the fact that you're specific when you're going to be led out. It is certain that not this year, because the law should be amended, and the Parliament will be meeting for the last time next week, it will still be the majority of the votes. We welcome the decision of the Constitutional Court. Of course we welcome the fact that someone refers to Hungarian sovereignty! However, reading this decision carefully, I must say to you that you are on very weak feet. There is no better proof of this than that more than half of the eleven constitutional judges who did so wrote parallel explanations or separate opinions. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: It's not the same! Parallel justification confirms!]] The constitutional judges felt that he was weak. And if you read it, even Bence Rétvári will read it - although I know 32 pages, but believe me, it is worth reading - you will see that this decision refers to the decision of the Constitutional Courts of different EU countries rather than to the rules of the Hungarian Fundamental Law. And I must say that this confirms that the amendment of the basic law has never been more important than after the decision of the Constitutional Court. Yes, we could not support it in that form, but in February, you will have the opportunity to vote in favour of the same form that failed here, of course supplemented by terrorist policies, and believe me, this will provide Hungary with more effective protection. If you say that this decision of the Constitutional Court is a perfect solution, you have unfortunately not read this. 32 pages isn't that long, so take your time and read it through. Thank you. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-12-06-12	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Mr Csaba Dömötör wishes to respond. I give you the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2016-12-06-13	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Allow me to consider your speech just now to be a form of psychic struggle concerning the fact that Jobbik did not vote for the amendment of the Fundamental Law. Even though they try to kill characters, extort me, even if they justify left-wing gray matter, and even if they join money people, it won't make it happen that Jobbik faced the will of 3.3 million people. However, it is worth considering what is and what is the most important thing to do after the referendum on 2 October. Let's record here, the result of the referendum was clear, 98 percent of the people said they didn't want to hear about resettlement programmes. We thought that this result was binding on everyone, including the government, which is why the Cabinet initiated this amendment to the basic law. However, opposition parties have crossed from MSZP to Ference Gyurcsány to Jobbik. This behaviour is particularly irresponsible because the European Commission has consistently made it clear since then that it is not in its right mind to withdraw resettlement quotas. I would like to tell you that there will be an EU summit in a few days, where the issue of migration will be once again on the agenda. The Hungarian Government's position is confirmed by the result of the referendum and last week's decision of the Constitutional Court. I'm sorry you're already attacking this decision. The Cabinet will fight to repeal quota decisions and the EU will use all means to protect its borders. Action against quotas is also essential because everyone sees the serious security risks associated with uncontrolled immigration. Just to give you a few examples: the brutal murder committed against a 19-year-old girl in Germany has triggered major disputes. This girl had previously volunteered to help immigrants, and her killer was a migrant who arrived in Germany in 2015 as an unaccompanied minor. [[9.30]] It is not an isolated case, but similar brutal attacks are becoming more frequent. Unfortunately, terror threats have also become part of everyday life [[Dr. Csaba Gyüre and Sallai R. Benedek will intercede. The president's ringing the bell.]] The U.S. State Department cautions its citizens arriving in Europe, and the European Union warns that more terrorist attacks are likely to occur in Europe. Let me ask you: did you take these security risks into account when, on your own account, you decided not to support the amendment of the Fundamental Law? Have you considered that? I think, by the way, that if Jobbik really cared about the security of this country, he would not cooperate with organizations whose members hold dozens of weapons at home, illegally. If security was really important, he wouldn't tolerate Jobbik spies among his ranks. If security were really important, they would have voted in favour of amending the Fundamental Law. Otherwise, even in their own ranks, the better position is called to account. One of their vice-presidents on ATV, in their new favorite place, said that 3.3 million Hungarians told the parties and Brussels quite clearly that they wanted Hungary to protect itself. If he's assessing the significance of the question, why don't the other good guys do it? By the way, Congressman Staudt, a few months ago, you said that the Jobbik will add your vote in favour even to measures that we do not consider to be perfect for 100 percent, but we consider progress from the current situation to be progressing. Honourable Congressman, There was an opportunity, they could have supported such a proposal, but Jobbik chose a different path. The amendment of the Constitution was not supported, although it was considered technically acceptable at the meeting of the TAB. You must remember that very well. Yesterday, perhaps on Facebook, your president tried to draw a confused conclusion from the European referendums. In contrast to his opinion, voters around the world are severely punishing leaders who do not take into account concerns about national identity and the security of countries. That's what Jobbik can do if he goes against 3.3 million people's opinions. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-12-06-14	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Mr Péter Harrach, Head of the Group, KDNP Group, also applied for a speech before the agenda: at the end of the meeting, before the holiday. You have the floor, Mr. Group Leader.
u2016-12-06-15	Mr President, Dear House, I apologize for the indecency of going from party politics to a more peaceful scene. [[Dr. Gábor Staudt: You're forgiven.]] Thank you very much for your forgiveness. The two appointments are coming up. On the one hand, it is the end of the session and on the other hand, Christmas. I think everyone knows that at Christmas, the Christian world celebrates the birth of Jesus Christ. That's the point of the holiday. But I do not want to talk about its religious content, but about the message it conveys to the whole society and what it says to unbelievers. When we look at the Christian teaching about Christmas, it is about the incarnation. God has become human because man is important to him. One point of the message is, therefore, that there is human dignity, and that human dignity must be respected in others, and that it should be appreciated in ourselves. Of course, there is another message for this holiday, and it is also about family. But what does the human dignity that he sends us mean? That applies in all areas, even in the area of political action, because political struggles include a hard fight, even what we have just heard, is understandable and natural. In fact, I dare say that even the so-called confrontation campaign belongs to this category as a means of acquiring political power. But it can't be the humiliation of the other man, the crushing of the other man's dignity with his feet is part of this activity. Of course, this also applies to media activity. Think about it, I'm not the only one who's experienced that if he says something, and then he reads about it in a psychic or hears it in a channel, he doesn't recognize what he said because they're distorting that message. So in some way, in honor of the other person, it's part of not lying about it. [[Sallai R. Benedict: Is that what you're saying? János Pócs: You don't understand, Sallai.]] And, of course, it is part of it, and perhaps this low point, it is not worth noting that there is a very serious point in the media, in the public world, and that is the style of some commentators. The alpari style and the hatred of the other person appear in great numbers here. Another issue is that something must be done to deal with this, but this is not the subject of today. We also have to say that everything that Christmas sends corresponds to human nature, even if there are phenomena that contradict it. I think that, now, a little looking back at the past period and its specific problems, and looking ahead, the message of this holiday should also be applied to these areas. And now, almost the last time, let me wish for all of you to be able to move forward in this next period, so that the message of Christmas will convey a peaceful, calm world to all of you personally and in the community. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-12-06-16	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the government, Secretary of State Bence Rétvári wishes to respond. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2016-12-06-17	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Chief of Staff, Dear House, I also thank Mr Group Leader for his thoughts before Christmas and approaching the end of the session. I think that we politicians and every parliament in the world, every politician in every country, must show this respect for each other and, above all, to the electorate. And a politician can show respect for the voters by saying that he is bound by the opinion they make. Our title is also that we are a representative, that we represent the opinions of the people, that we represent the opinions of the people, that we represent the interests of the people here in Parliament. I think that in recent years we have managed to do this in many areas, and today people live more safely, whether they are workers, family members, pensioners, they can now make plans from one month to the next. Maybe they can make plans for the future, like a family, how they're building a house, how they're building a future for themselves. I think this work, which is a very big job, and there is obviously always something to be done on this issue in every country, but we have managed to influence it in the right direction with the laws that we have adopted. At the same time, not only is Santa knocking on the windows this winter, but also reality. In fact, reality is more of a knocker, even though Santa's just knocking. Because Europe has been in a crisis for a year and a half now, in an immigration crisis that requires honest speech from all politicians, the undressing of previous forms, the previous PC language. The representation of voters is very important in this regard. We can remember in Hungary a period of time when one of the parties, the Hungarian Socialist Party, was then facing its own electorate as a party of government. Even from the mid-1990s, the Socialist Party was inherited by Gyula Horn, and even everyone else can consider this warning that a party can never oppose its core base, always respect the will of its core base, its vote, its opinion, and it cannot take a policy contrary to it. This was also observed by the socialists for years and cycles, until in 2008 at the Social referendum Ferenc Gyurcsány, then the Socialist Prime Minister, turned against his own voting base. He did so because he may have been a prisoner of neoliberal ideas since 2004, because he was able to bring his former prime minister and government within the MSZP-SZDSZ government by having the support of SZDSZ, the coalition partner. [[9.40]] From this point forward, he probably lost in the mainstream of his own policy, even taking into account the socialist, left-wing values, and carrying only the interests represented by the neoliberal, SZDSZ. Thus, in 2008 he was able to campaign against what the opposition parties proposed at the time, and he took the view that there should be tuition fees, hospital daily allowances, a visit fee, which was obviously not liked by the left-wing voters, the voters of the MSZP, not to mention the supporters of the other parties, the voters of the other parties. Thus, the confrontation with its own voters caused the catastrophic, not even defeat, but collapse of the left in 2010. If a party has turned against its voting base in Hungary, if they have not respected their voters, then this fate has been waiting for them. And we may see something similar here, perhaps, in these months, when Jobbik is on the road to Gyurcsány, because he is voting against his own voters here in Parliament on one of the most important issues, the issue of immigration, the issue of compulsory resettlement quotas. Ference Gyurcsány is quoted by Jobbik in 2016, when the proposals on which their voters - among those 3 million 360,000 voters there were good voters - were not only authorised, but also ordered and instructed by their own representatives in Parliament. If a person does not respect his own voters, if he wants to replace his voters, if he looks down on his voters, he will not implement the mandate that people have declared with the most important instrument of direct democracy, the referendum. This is the respect that must be demanded not only by us from Brussels, but also by all parties to the electorate. The Fidesz-KDNP felt this enormous will to be binding in a single direction in the referendum, and has tabled several proposals here in Parliament. The most important of these was the amendment of the Fundamental Law. It is regrettable that not everyone has given the voters the respect, not everyone has taken the responsibility that the voters have given to us on 2 October and given us the mandate. I think it is good that politicians respect their own voters in the first place. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2016-12-06-18	Thank you very much for the Secretary of State's reply. Dear Parliament, Mr Richárd Hörcsik, Fidesz Group, also submitted a pre-meeting address:. European Public Prosecutor: Possibilities or Risks? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman. [[There's constant noise in the room.]]
u2016-12-06-19	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, [[The president's ringing the bell.]] The Parliament Committee on European Affairs discussed two issues at its meeting yesterday. On the one hand, we had an exchange of views with Commissioner Vera Jourová and, on the other hand, we adopted a resolution on the draft regulation on the European Public Prosecutor's Office in the context of a conciliation procedure. What linked the two items to the agenda is Commissioner Jourová herself, who is responsible for the proposal on the European Public Prosecutor's Office in Brussels, and who had no secret purpose to visit the parliaments of the Member States who adopted a reasoned opinion on the draft European Public Prosecutor's Office in autumn 2013, such as the Hungarian Parliament, and to convince us. Ladies and gentlemen, The draft regulation on the European Public Prosecutor's Office is an extremely important EU proposal that could affect Hungary's sovereignty; it can affect its public order and the functioning of criminal justice. I note that yesterday's visit by the Commissioner was not a coincidence, because in two days' time, on Thursday, it will be on the agenda of the Justice Council in Brussels. Moreover, we agree with the aim of the draft regulation, namely: to combat crimes affecting the European Union's financial interests. We don't have a fight about this. But, as we say, the devil hides in the details. For us, it is essential that the structure that will stand up or create offers Member States a chance and does not put the prosecution at risk. I would remind my fellow Members that in the autumn of 2013 we, together with 13 national parliaments, rejected the original proposal of the European Commission, i.e. we showed the Commission a yellow card in yellow paper. Ladies and gentlemen, The draft regulation on the European Public Prosecutor's Office is, by the way, an 80-page proposal of more than 150 pages, which is not even easy for professionals to read, and it is almost impossible for laymen to understand this complicated text, for example, that the so-called PIF directive defining the scope of offences falling within the exclusive competence of the European Public Prosecutor's Office could not in practice be understood, and this is stuck in the EU decision-making mechanism. Hungary and other Member States have many objections, a number of amendments to this draft regulation, the adoption of which also requires unanimity in the Council. In this situation, we would like to give the government's representative a crutch for Thursday's Justice Council meeting. To this end, at yesterday's meeting of our committee, after examining the government's negotiating position, after listening to the competent Secretary of State for Justice, we wanted to set out criteria for the government to negotiate further. The Parliament 87/2013. The principle of subsidiarity and proportionality is therefore a priority in the spirit of its decision. Secondly, Hungary's national identity and fundamental constitutional arrangement must be respected. Thirdly, the Member States' powers must be fully respected because at present we do not see a clear distinction between the competences of the European Public Prosecutor's Office and national authorities. As regards the scope of offences falling within the exclusive competence of the European Public Prosecutor's Office, I would like to point out, ladies and gentlemen, that the European Parliament strongly insists that cross-border VAT fraud falls within the scope of the so-called PIF draft directive. [[There's constant noise in the room.]] Ladies and gentlemen, In this connection, I remind you that only 5 percent of the general sales tax collected by the Member State goes to the EU budget, 95 percent goes to the budget of the Member States. I believe that we must act effectively against those who harm the EU's budget. However, in our view, taxation issues can only be resolved on the basis of a unanimous decision in the tax law files and accordingly. A directive to be adopted by a qualified majority is not an appropriate legal instrument. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Therefore, the government should follow these cornerstones in the course of further negotiations. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2016-12-06-20	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Mr Pál Völner wishes to respond. Before I give the floor, Mr Secretary of State, I respectfully ask my fellow Members to keep quiet, because it is almost impossible to hear the speaker. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2016-12-06-21	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, The draft regulation establishing the European Public Prosecutor's Office concerns not only the constitutional identity and criminal sovereignty of Hungary, but also the constitutional identity of Hungary in terms of its objectives and instruments, and it is therefore extremely important that the Hungarian Government takes the position that is best suited to the interests of both Hungary and pan-European countries in the decision-making process that requires unanimity of the Member States in the EU. We consider it important for the government to represent Hungarian interests with as much legitimacy as possible in relation to such an important draft EU legislation. That is why we welcome the fact that the Parliament has also put the issue on the agenda. In developing our position in the Council of the European Union, we will try to take the fullest possible account of Members' findings. As part of the presentation of the Government's position, I would first of all like to stress that we have always agreed on the fundamental objectives and aspirations behind the establishment of the European Public Prosecutor's Office. [[There's constant noise in the room.]] The Member States have a fundamental common interest in combating crimes affecting the European Union's financial interests. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] In this spirit, we have been taking part in the negotiations on the draft regulation, on the part of the government, with serious professional work, constructively. In addition to maintaining legal certainty, we have the objective of establishing a well-functioning and effective organisation in practice. In addition to other Member States, we have repeatedly drawn attention to the fact that, by setting up the European Public Prosecutor's Office, Member States have undertaken to limit their criminal sovereignty and one of the essential functions of the State, and this can only be done under appropriate conditions. [[9.50]] The Hungarian Government's position has been that such a regulation can only be adopted if it fully respects the constitutional arrangements of the Member States and fundamental principles of European Union law such as subsidiarity and proportionality. Despite all our efforts, however, it seems that the current draft cannot guarantee this, and it is also a question of whether the proposal would indeed be effective in protecting the financial interests of the Union within a professional and practical framework. One of the main reasons for this is that, on the basis of the current text, the permanent councils organised at the central level would play an excessive role. This is the case despite the fact that, in the absence of a single European criminal procedure, the procedure of the new organisation will essentially be determined by the national criminal law of the Member States. It is feared that, if these circumstances do not change, the new legislation could have an opposite effect, make procedures more burdensome, slower, and even hinder effective law enforcement. We also pay attention to the still pending question of what crimes the European Public Prosecutor's Office will act on. The Hungarian position, consistently represented from the outset, has always refused to include VAT fraud in the competence of the European Public Prosecutor's Office, given that tax policy is the competence of the Member States. VAT fraud causes damage primarily and decisively to the national budget, so their detection is primarily a national interest and a national authority's task. Finally, the fact that according to the Hungarian constitutional traditions, the structure, independence and prosecution monopoly of the prosecutor's office are laid down in the Fundamental Law should also not be ignored. Our accession to the European Public Prosecutor's Office would necessarily involve reconsidering these principles and even amending the Fundamental Law. However, we would only be able to support this if, with the establishment of the EU body, a truly more efficient system of real added value would be created, in view of the protection of Hungarian interests. The current draft does not, therefore, meet our basic expectations at the level of principle, such as full respect for the principle of subsidiarity and constitutional arrangements, organisational and procedural frameworks to ensure effective functioning, and added value at both EU and national level. On the basis of the concerns set out above and given the fact that, according to the Treaties, the creation of a European Public Prosecutor's Office is only an opportunity to combat the financial interests of the Union, we cannot support the draft in its current form. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-12-06-22	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches before the agenda. We will now continue our work with decisions. I would ask my fellow Members to take their seats and please check that their cards have been placed in the voting machine. Dear Parliament, There follows the T/12913 on the announcement of the Air Transport Agreement between the Government of Hungary and the Government of the State of Qatar. Final vote of bill No 1. Since no amendments have been tabled to the proposal, we are now deciding on the text of the bill submitted. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether T/12913. Bill No. 1. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the bill by 156 votes in favour, no votes against, with four abstentions. Following is the T/12917 on the announcement of the Air Transport Agreement between the Government of Hungary and the Government of the Arab Republic of Egypt. Final vote of bill No 1. Since no amendments have been tabled to the proposal, we are now deciding on the text of the bill submitted. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether T/12917 will accept it. Bill No. 1. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the bill with 160 votes in favour, no votes against and four abstentions. The T/12915 Agreement between the Government of Hungary and the High Command for Allied Transformation and the European Supreme Command for Allied Forces on the granting of national support for NATO operations, exercises and similar military activities Final vote of bill No 1. Since no amendments have been tabled to the proposal, we are now deciding on the text of the bill submitted. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether T/12915. Bill No. 1. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the bill with 168 votes in favour, no votes against and no abstentions. Next up is T/12916 on the announcement of the Minamata Convention on Mercury. Final vote of bill No 1. The rapporteur was Mr T/12916/2. No 2 submitted an adjustment to correct spelling and translation errors, which are available on the network. Since no amendment has been proposed to summarise the proposal, we are now deciding on an adapted text of the proposed legislation. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/12916. Act No. 1 along with the adjustment. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the adjusted bill with 170 unanimous votes in favour. The 2003 LXXX on legal aid follows. T/1271 on the amendment of Act T/1271 on procedural issues and certain laws Decision on the proposal for an amendment before the final vote and the final vote. In view of the fact that the Parliament decided to postpone the final vote at the meeting on 22 November, the national T/12719/11. A proposal for an amendment to the final vote was tabled. The legislative committee's proposal for amendment before the final vote T/12719/12. and T/12719/13, before the final vote. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Now it's time for the decisions. The house rules are 55. On the basis of paragraph 1 of Section 1 of the Rules of Procedure, the Parliament shall decide on a proposal for amendment before the final vote by a single vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/127191/12. The amendment tabled before the final vote. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted 114 amendments before the final vote, 27 votes against and 29 abstentions. After the Parliament has adopted the amendment before the final vote, we will decide on the amended single proposal in the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts the amended, 12719/9. A single proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the single amended proposal by 114 yes, 27 votes against and 30 abstentions. The 2015 XLII on the service relationship of the professional staff of law enforcement bodies follows. T/12878 on the amendment of the Act Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/12878/7. T/12878/8. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/12878/7. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] [[10.00]] The Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 171 unanimous votes in favour. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/12878/9. A single proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the single proposal with 171 unanimous votes in favour. The 2004 II on motion picture follows a series of steps. T/12925. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/12925/6. T/12925/7. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I would like to inform you that the house rule is 48. § 4 of the Jobbik Group proposed that amendments No 2 and 3 be maintained. That's what we're gonna decide first. Amendment 2 is proposed by Dóra Dúró. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not accept the amendment by 27 votes in favour, 140 votes against and 4 abstentions. Amendment 3 is proposed by Dóra Dúró. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 29 votes in favour, 138 votes against and 4 abstentions. As the Parliament has not maintained an amendment, we are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/12925/6. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 115 votes in favour, 52 votes against and 4 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/12925/8. A single proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the single proposal by 113 votes to 54, with four abstentions. It follows from the 2007 Annex XVII on certain aspects of the procedure relating to agricultural, agricultural and rural development and fisheries aid and other measures. Act CXXII of 2013 on the marketing of agricultural and forestry land CCXII of 2013 on certain provisions and transitional arrangements related to the Law. T/12127. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/12727/6. T/12727/7. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/12727/6. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the summary amendment with 139 votes in favour, no votes against, with 32 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/12727/8. A single proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the single proposal by 135 votes in favour, 2 votes against and 34 abstentions. It follows from the 2015 CXLIII on public procurement. Act T/12738 amending Act T/12738 and certain related laws Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/12738/17. T/12738/18. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I would like to inform you that the house rule is 48. Pursuant to paragraphs 4 and 4 of Section 4, the group of the LMP proposed the continuation of amendments Nos 5, 6 and 7, the group of the MSZP Group Nos 3 and Jobbik Group Nos 8, 10 and 12. That's what we're gonna decide first. Amendment 5 is proposed by Ákos Hadházy. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 28 votes in favour, 141 votes against and 2 abstentions. In Amendment 6, Ákos Hadházy and György Szilágyi and István Apáti proposed the same content in Amendment 8. The factions have initiated the continuation of both motions, so we will decide on them with one decision. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 57 votes in favour, 113 votes against and no abstentions. Amendment 7 is proposed by Ákos Hadházy. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 28 votes in favour, 113 votes against and 30 abstentions. Amendment 3 was tabled by Csaba Tóth. The adoption of this proposal excludes Amendment 12. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 30 votes in favour, 113 votes against and 28 abstentions. Amendment 12 is proposed by György Szilágyi and István Apáti. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 26 votes in favour, 141 votes against and 4 abstentions. Amendment No 10 is proposed by György Szilágyi and István Apáti. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 26 votes in favour, 140 votes against and 4 abstentions. As the Parliament has not maintained an amendment, we are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/12738/17. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 112 votes in favour, 59 votes against and one abstention. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/12738/22. A single proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the single proposal by 112 votes in favour, 59 votes against and no abstentions. [[10.10]] Next up is T/12914 on the Hungarian Corvin Chain Board. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/12914/5. and the summary report by T/12914/6. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee will accept T/12914/5. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 134 votes in favour, 33 against and 4 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/12914/7. A single proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the single proposal by 135 votes in favour, 33 against and 4 abstentions. Next up is T/12924 on official statistics. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/12924/6. T/12924/7. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I would like to inform you that the house rule is 48. Pursuant to paragraph 4 of Section 4, Jobbik's group proposed the continuation of Amendment 2. That's what we'll decide first. Amendment 2 is proposed by Zsolt Egyed. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 27 votes in favour, 115 against and 30 abstentions. As the Parliament has not maintained an amendment, we are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I would like to inform you that the house rule is 48. Pursuant to paragraph 2 of Section T/12924/6 of the Fidesz and MSZP Group. A separate vote was initiated on point 19 of the summary amendment proposal. First, we will decide on this and then we will decide on further points in the summary amendment proposal. In point 19 of the summary amendment proposal, the committee is the 52nd bill. It proposes adding new paragraphs 2 and 3. At the request of the Fidesz and the MSZP Group, we will decide separately. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts point 19 of the summarised amendment. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not accept the amendment point by 49 votes in favour, 113 against and nine abstentions. We are now deciding on further points in the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/12924/6. The additional points of the proposed amendment are set out in the table below. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted further points of the summary amendment by 113 votes in favour, 36 against and 23 abstentions. Dear Parliament, In view of the fact that Parliament has not just adopted all the points of the summarised amendment proposal, in the final vote we will decide on the text of the bill, as amended by the agreed points of the summarised amendment. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether T/12924. Changed bill No. 1. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the amended bill by 113 votes in favour, 51 against and 7 abstentions. Following is the T/12233 on the general administrative statute. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/1223/16. T/12233/17. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I would like to inform you that the house rule is 48. § 4 of the LMP Group proposed the continuation of amendments Nos 10 and 11 and Jobbik Group Nos 5, 6 and 8. That's what we're gonna decide first. Amendment No 10 is proposed by Mr Benedek and Mr Hadházy. The adoption of this includes Amendment 8. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 59 votes in favour, 113 against and without abstentions. Amendment 8 was proposed by Gábor Staudt and Csaba Gyüre. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 58 votes in favour, 113 against and without abstentions. Amendment 11 is proposed by Sallai R. Benedek and Ákos Hadházy. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 61 votes in favour, 111 against and without abstention. Amendment 5 was proposed by Gábor Staudt and Csaba Gyüre. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 54 votes to 114, with four abstentions. Amendment 6 was tabled by Gábor Staudt and Csaba Gyüre. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 21 votes in favour, 143 against and 7 abstentions. As the Parliament has not maintained an amendment, we are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee will accept T/12233/16. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 113 votes to 32, with 27 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/1223/20. A single proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the single proposal by 114 votes in favour, 34 against and 24 abstentions. Following is the T/12234. on the Administrative Rules. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/12234/12. T/12234/13. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I would like to inform you that the house rule is 48. § 4 of the LMP Group proposed the continuation of amendments Nos 6 and 7 and Jobbik Group Nos 3, 4 and 5. That's what we're gonna decide first. [[10.20]] The LMP Group proposed to maintain amendments Nos 6 and 7 and Jobbik's groups Nos 3, 4 and 5. That's what we're gonna decide first.(10.20) Amendment 6 is proposed by Ákos Hadházy. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 37 votes in favour, 112 against and 23 abstentions. Amendment 7 is proposed by Ákos Hadházy. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 58 votes in favour, 114 against and without abstentions. Amendment 3 was tabled by Gábor Staudt and Csaba Gyüre. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 52 votes in favour, 114 against and six abstentions. Amendment No 4 was tabled by Gábor Staudt and Csaba Gyüre. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 51 votes in favour, 113 against and 7 abstentions. Amendment 5 was proposed by Gábor Staudt and Csaba Gyüre. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] As the Parliament has not maintained an amendment, we are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee will accept T/12234/12. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 115 votes in favour, 35 against and 22 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/12234/16. A single proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the single proposal by 115 votes in favour, 36 against and 21 abstentions. The 1996 LVII on the prohibition of unfair market behaviour and restrictions on competition follows. Act XLVII of 2008 on the prohibition of unfair commercial practices against consumers T/12718 amending Act No. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/12718/5. T/12718/6. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee will accept T/12718/5. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 135 votes in favour, 32 against and 5 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/12718/7. A single proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the single proposal by 135 votes in favour, 32 against and 5 abstentions. Following up is T/12733 on the amendment of certain laws relating to electronic communications and consumer protection. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. The legislative committee's proposal for a summary amendment T/1273/8. and a summary report by T/127339. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I would like to inform you that the house rule is 48. According to paragraph 2 of Section T/12733/8 of the Fidesz Group, A separate vote was initiated on point 1 of the summary amendment proposal. First, we will decide on this and then we will decide on further points in the summary amendment proposal. In point 1 of the summary amendment proposal, the committee shall draw up a legislative proposal. The Commission proposes to amend paragraph 1 of Section 1. At the request of the Fidesz Group, we will decide separately. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts point 1 of the summarised amendment. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the amendment point by 142 votes in favour, 2 against and 28 abstentions. We are now deciding on further points in the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/1273/8. The additional points of the proposed amendment are set out in the table below. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted further points of the summary amendment by 164 votes to four, with four abstentions. Dear Parliament, I declare that the rapporteur has initiated in writing to postpone the final vote. I will ask the rapporteur if he wishes to explain the reasons for his initiative within a five-minute time frame. [[Dr. János Fónagy: Thank you very much, no.]] The rapporteur indicated that he did not wish to justify it. Dear Parliament, House rules are 51. Pursuant to paragraph 2 of Section 2 of the Act, Parliament decides to postpone the final vote without debate. I ask you, on the basis of your initiative, will T/12733 be postponed? Final vote of bill No 1. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] Parliament shall decide to postpone the final vote on the basis of paragraph 1 of this Article without debate. I ask you, on the basis of your initiative, will T/12733 be postponed? Final vote of bill No 1. Please vote now. (Vote.) The final vote was postponed by 117 votes in favour, no votes against, with 54 abstentions. It follows that T/12742 on the amendment of certain transport-related laws will follow. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/12742/9. T/12742/10. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I would like to inform you that the house rule is 48. Pursuant to paragraph 4 of Article 5, the LMP Group proposed the continuation of amendments No 5, and the MSZP Group proposed amendments No 2, 3 and 4. That's what we're gonna decide first. Amendment 5 is proposed by Erzsébet Schmuck. The adoption of this proposal includes Amendment 4. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 57 votes in favour, 113 against and 1 abstention. Amendment 4 is proposed by Bertalan Tóth and his fellow Members. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 57 votes in favour, 113 against and without abstentions. Amendment 2 is proposed by Bertalan Tóth and his fellow Members. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 57 votes in favour, 114 against and without abstentions. [[10.30]] Amendment 3 is proposed by Bertalan Tóth and his fellow Members. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 58 votes in favour, 115 against and without abstentions. As the Parliament has not maintained an amendment, we are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee will accept T/12742/9. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 111 votes to 54, with 6 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/12742/13. A single proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the single proposal by 113 votes to 56, with two abstentions. Next up is T/12743. on the amendment of energy laws. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/12743/9. T/12743/10. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I would like to inform you that the house rule is 48. § 4 (4) of the LMP Group proposed the continuation of amendments No 4 and 5 of the MSZP Group and Amendment No 2 of the MSZP Group. That's what we're gonna decide first. Amendment 4 is proposed by Bernadett Szél. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 36 votes in favour, 113 against and 22 abstentions. Amendment 5 is proposed by Bernadett Szél. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 35 votes in favour, 114 against and 22 abstentions. Amendment 2 is proposed by Anita Heringes. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 55 votes in favour, 112 against and four abstentions. As the Parliament has not maintained an amendment, we are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee will accept T/12743/9. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 140 votes to five, with 26 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/12743/11. A single proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the single proposal by 137 votes to six, with 27 abstentions. Next up is the T/12737 on National Tourism Development. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/12737/5. T/12737/6. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/12737/5. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 134 votes in favour, 35 against and 2 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/127377. A single proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the single proposal by 133 votes in favour, 35 against and 3 abstentions. Next up is T/12732 on the amendment of certain employment laws. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/1273/13. and a summary report by T/12732/14. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I would like to inform you that the house rule is 48. Pursuant to paragraph 4 of Section 4, the group of the LMP proposed the continuation of amendments No 7 and 8, the group of the MSZP Group No 9 and Jobbik Group No 4. That's what we're gonna decide first. Amendment 7 is proposed by Bernadett Szél. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 59 votes in favour, 112 against and 1 abstention. Amendment 8 is proposed by Erzsébet Schmuck. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 6 votes in favour, 135 against and 31 abstentions. Amendment 9 is proposed by Nándor Gúr. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 36 votes in favour, 135 against and 2 abstentions. Amendment 4 is proposed by Balázs Ander and Tamás Pintér. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 53 votes in favour, 116 against and four abstentions. As the Parliament has not maintained an amendment, we are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/1273/13. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 134 votes in favour, 33 against and 6 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/12732.15. A single proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the single proposal by 135 votes in favour, 7 against and 31 abstentions. The 2011 CXCV on public finances follows. T/12736 on the amendment of Act T/1273 and certain related laws. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/12736/6. T/12736/7. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/12736/6. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 116 votes in favour, 52 against and 5 abstentions. [[10.40]] It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/12736/8. A single proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the single proposal by 116 votes in favour, 52 against and 5 abstentions. Next up is the 2016 XC on Hungary's central budget for 2017. T/12240 on the entry into force of Act T/1274 on the entry into force of a different text. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. Draft amending proposal of the Committee on Budgets T/12740/7. T/12740/8. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I would like to inform you that the house rule is 48. Pursuant to paragraph 4 of Section 4 of the Act, the Group of the LMP proposed the continuation of Amendment 3. That's what we'll decide first. Amendment 3 is proposed by Ákos Hadházy. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 58 votes to 108, without abstentions. As the Parliament has not maintained an amendment, we are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Committee on Budgets will accept T/12740/7. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 113 votes in favour, 56 against and 4 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/12740/9. A single proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the single proposal by 115 votes in favour, 56 against and without abstentions. It follows that T/12739 on the amendment of certain laws in connection with the introduction of an annuity for dance arts will follow. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/12739/9. T/12739/10. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I would like to inform you that the house rule is 48. § 4 of the MSZP Group proposed the continuation of Amendment 3. That's what we'll decide first. Amendment 3 was tabled by Ágnes Kunhalmi and Lajos Korózs. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 34 votes to 114, with 24 abstentions. As the Parliament has not maintained an amendment, we are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/12739/9. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament unanimously adopted the summary amendment by 172 votes in favour. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/12739/11. A single proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament unanimously adopted the single proposal by 171 votes in favour. The T/12899 on the amendment of the laws relating to certain school cooperatives follows. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/12899/9. T/12899/10. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I would like to inform you that the house rule is 48. Pursuant to paragraph 4 of Section 4, the MSZP Group proposed the continuation of amendment No 5 by Group No 3, Jobbik. That's what we're gonna decide first. Amendment 5 is proposed by Gergely Farkas. The adoption of this includes Amendment 3. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains a proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 57 votes in favour, 115 against and without abstentions. Amendment 3 is proposed by Nándor Gúr and Anita Heringes. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 57 votes in favour, 115 against and without abstentions. As the Parliament has not maintained an amendment, we are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee will accept T/12899/9. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 139 votes in favour, 28 against and 6 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/12899/13. A single proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the single proposal by 114 votes to 56, with three abstentions. It follows that T/12919 on the amendment of certain laws relating to the transfer of vocational training and adult training tasks will follow. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/12919/9. T/12919/10. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/12919/9. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 135 votes in favour, 34 against and 4 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/12919/11. A single proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the single proposal by 134 votes in favour, 33 against and 5 abstentions. It follows from the 1997 CXL on museum institutions, public library provision and public education. T/12922 amending Act No. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/12922/8. T/12922/9. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I would like to inform you that the house rule is 48. Under paragraph 4 of Section 4, Jobbik's group proposed to maintain Amendment 4. That's what we'll decide first. Amendment 4 is proposed by Mrs Loránt Hegedűs. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 21 votes in favour, 115 against and 37 abstentions. [[10.50]] As the Parliament has not maintained an amendment, we are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/12922/8. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 115 votes in favour, 56 against, with two abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/12922/11. A single proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the single proposal by 115 votes in favour, 57 against and 1 abstention. Next up is the T/12927 on the protection of certain health and self-help services. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/12927/7. T/12927/8. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I would like to inform you that the house rule is 48. Pursuant to paragraph 4 of Section 4 of the Act, the Group of the LMP proposed the continuation of Amendment 3. That's what we'll decide first. Amendment 3 is proposed by Erzsébet Schmuck. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 26 votes in favour, 115 against and 31 abstentions. As the Parliament has not maintained an amendment, we are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/12927/7. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The National Assembly adopted the summary amendment by 143 votes in favour, no votes against, with 30 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/12927/10. A single proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the single proposal by 143 votes to four, with 26 abstentions. Dear Parliament, We now decide on the inclusion of a series of proposals. I would like to remind you that yesterday, the Parliament has already held a hearing on these matters. I ask you whether you will be included in a series of articles by Bertalan Tóth, MSZP, and its fellow Members, in order to reduce the price of basic food, the 2007 CXXVII on general sales tax. T/12574. a proposal for a regulation tabled by the Court of Justice of the European Union. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not include the bill with 62 votes in favour, 109 against and no abstentions. I ask you whether you will be included in a series of articles entitled H/12997. A proposal for a decision has been submitted. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not include the motion for a resolution with 58 votes in favour, 113 against and no abstentions. I ask you whether you will be included in a series of articles entitled H/12857 by György Lukács, Jobbik and colleagues on the declaration of the Year of Careers of 2017 by György László Lukács, Jobbik and colleagues. A proposal for a decision has been submitted. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not include the proposal for a resolution with 54 votes in favour, 113 against and 2 abstentions. I ask you whether you will be included in a series of articles entitled H/11047 by Bernadett Wind, LMP and its fellow Members on the condemnation of the Armenian genocide. A proposal for a decision has been submitted. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not include the proposal for a resolution with 32 votes in favour, 110 against and three abstentions. I ask you whether you will be included in a series of articles entitled T/12069 by Ákos Hadházy and Ikotity István, LMP, to amend certain laws in order to protect public money and public wealth more effectively. a proposal for a regulation tabled by the Court of Justice of the European Union. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not include the bill with 57 votes in favour, 111 against and no abstentions. Dear Parliament, We've reached the end of the decisions. Thank you for your cooperation. I'm ordering a two-minute technical break. [[It's a short break.]] Dear Parliament, We'll get back to work. I would ask my fellow Members to take their seats. [[11.00]] Dear Parliament, Once again, I ask with respect my fellow Members, if they wish to continue their work, to stay if they wish to work elsewhere because of an urgent public task, they should do so quietly. Thank you for your understanding. Dear Parliament, Next up is the 35/2013 Hungarian Defence Office, which has a detailed breakdown. Discussion of the Commission's report on the amendment of the Decision. The government referral is H/12926. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. Dear Parliament, I would like to ask the rapporteur, Mr Tamás Vargha, whether he wishes to speak as rapporteur at this stage of the debate. [[Tamás Vargha: In the end.]] Mr State Secretary points out that he intends to speak at a later stage in the debate. I would like to inform the Secretary of State that ten minutes will be available. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Vas Imre, rapporteur for the designated Defence and Police Committee. Congressman, you have the floor.
u2016-12-06-23	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, The Homeland Security and Police Committee is the house rules 44-45. It held a detailed debate on the proposal for a decision on the basis of Article 4 of the Rules of Procedure. The committee examined the proposal for a decision and concluded that it complied with the House Rule 44. The requirements of paragraph 1 of paragraph 1 of this Article shall apply. No amendments were tabled to the proposal for a decision and no amendments were accepted by the Committee. The committee closed the detailed discussion of the proposal for a decision on 29 November 2016. Ladies and gentlemen, The proposal for a decision submitted by the Minister of Defence would increase the upper limit of the number of posts that can be organised by defence organisations from 29 700 to 31 080. This amendment is justified by a number of changes: in line with the challenges posed by the migration situation, the development of defence organisations and the task system provided by military organisations have been modified. In addition, the new tasks to be carried out in the terrorist threat situation have been added to the defence's task system. These amendments are also necessary because the terrorist threat of Europe, including Hungary, has increased significantly, and in order to manage illegal migration, soldiers, in cooperation with the police, control and defend Hungary's borders. Thus, the stock has new tasks. Thank you for your attention and for your vote in favour of the adoption of the proposal for a resolution. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-12-06-24	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, It is now up to the Members to speak within the time-frame on the agenda. There is no possibility of a two-minute comment during the debate. Péter Kónya, an independent Member, applied in advance in writing, but he is not in the room. So I am now giving the floor to Members who have applied for a speech in the normal time frame. Statement will be made by Mrs Márta Demeter, MSZP Group. Here you go.
u2016-12-06-25	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, As Mr Vas Imre said, there was no amendment to this proposal for a decision. The reason for this is that, for the sake of numbers, the number of defences will rise only on paper, and otherwise we will have no more soldiers, and there will be no real recruitment in the Hungarian Defence Service, the stockboard will not change, I think that doesn't make any sense. In this way, it's just a substitute act, a scam we don't want to support. We have repeatedly submitted a proposal for a resolution for the real upload of the Hungarian Defence Forces, since according to the Chief of Staff's own declaration, 5500 people are now understaffed. By the way, most of the crew executive staff are missing, which is a specific problem. According to some expert estimates, the shortage of the Hungarian Defence Forces is much higher. With the government now raising the allowed number by a little more than 1,300, neither the stockboard will change nor we will have more soldiers. And the reason for this increase, I think, is that the majority of the pro-government will vote for this in Parliament, the setting up of the new types of territorial protection units, the reserve units, which we also believe is necessary to fill the professional population of the Hungarian Defence Forces in the first place, it is necessary to develop their tools. I would not mention further how much modernisation is needed now, and I think that everyone is aware of the current, very sad and tragic situation in this regard. So it is primarily necessary to spend on professional forces, to solve the problems here, there is a voluntary reserve system in Hungary, as it is. I think that there should be a lot of changes to this, all kinds of motivational elements could be incorporated into this, which could make it more attractive for young people. But in no way do I think it would be necessary to create a huge, very fragmented, 197-walk system in addition. If the establishment of such a one takes away resources from the development of the Hungarian Defence Forces, from the real uploading of the number, I think that it can define it again for years or even decades, but it can tell us that once again there will be no more serious developments in the Hungarian Defence Office. We have submitted several times, as I have said, a proposal for real uploading, this is what we will ask for the Parliament to support, if the government and my fellow Members are serious about actually improving the functioning of the defence and improving the professional force. I think that this is what can be technically justified, to support this proposal for a decision. The essence of this is that the number of crews will exceed 7100 on 31 January 2018 and the number of students educated in both officer training and minor training from the 2017-18 academic year will need to be increased. Of course, there is a greater lack of training as a petty officer. So I will ask that, if we are looking for a real solution and I hope so, this proposal will be supported. That, by the way, on paper, the tickle-tickle-tickle-tickle-tickle-tickle is not eligible for us. Thank you.
u2016-12-06-26	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. I'm asking if anyone else would like to speak on our agenda. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. The debate is closed and I give the floor to Mr Tamás Vargha, State Secretary. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2016-12-06-27	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and We're having an old debate here, before the National Assembly. The voluntary territorial reserve system is now not part of this proposal. But we have also said many times in the debate that the development of the voluntary reserve system is necessary because there are young people who would like to do reserve service and swear to defend the country. This is, of course, another proposal, this is about the staff base. This is a framework increase, which allows the Hungarian Defence Corps to face the challenges that, due to the change in our security environment, require formations that have not yet been established. This frame increase will allow this to happen. The resolution proposal that you have submitted has not been accepted by the Defence and Police Committee because it is contrary to the Basic Law to force the Hungarian Defence Office to upload its staff. This is not the way we chose, but the way to raise salaries, and the salary of soldiers will rise by another 5 percent from 1 January. Just last Friday, Minister, you signed the agreement with the trade unions on the system of benefits other than salaries. [[11.10]] This will help to increase the number of staff. This is, therefore, a framework increase that allows the number of stock categories that are included here to increase, and I ask the Parliament to vote in favour of our presentation. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[Attila Móring József takes his place as notary.]]
u2016-12-06-28	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Decisions shall take place at our later meeting. Dear Parliament, The Commission's reports on the amendment of individual laws in relation to defence issues and the discussion of the summarised amendment will follow. The government referral T/12695. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. Dear Parliament, The debate will be the first to present the position of the Legislative Committee within a 15-minute time frame. I give the floor to Congressman Vas Imre, rapporteur of the committee.
u2016-12-06-29	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, I would like to inform the Parliament that on 24 November the Legislative Committee discussed the T/12695. The Committee submitted a proposal for amendment and a summary report with 30 votes in favour, 1 against and no abstentions. The summarised amendment contained a proposal from the Defence and Police Committee, which contains on the one hand language-placed and codification clarifications and, on the other hand, a substantive amendment. In the substantial part, the 1994 XLV on war care. Act 5. §2 of the Act amends, which defines precisely the concept of the status of war widow in order to avoid future misunderstandings. Ladies and gentlemen, War care has a long tradition, which we intend to continue this year, based on the state's social care and moral duty. Although we have not created a new circle of entitlement to claims, by adopting the proposal we are raising the benefits currently in existence, so it is essential to correct the existing rules in order to avoid discrimination in the future. That is why I ask you to support the bill before us. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-12-06-30	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I will ask the rapporteur, Mr Tamás Vargha, if he wishes to speak now. [[For signal:]] Mr State Secretary points out that he intends to speak at a later stage in the debate. The speeches will now be followed by the representatives, which will not allow for a two-minute comment. I'm asking if anyone wants to tell me. [[No one's reporting.]] No. The debate is closed. I'll ask the Secretary of State if you'd like to speak. [[For signal:]] Mr. Secretary of State has indicated that he does not wish to speak. Dear Parliament, Decisions shall take place at our later meeting. Dear Parliament, The 2011 CXCIX on public service officials follows. Act LXXIII of 2016 on Foreign Representations and Permanent External Service The Commission's reports on the amendment of the Act and the debate on the draft amendment. The government referral T/12699. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. The debate will be the first to present the position of the Legislative Committee within a 15-minute time frame. I give the floor to Congressman Vas Imre, rapporteur of the committee.
u2016-12-06-31	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, I would like to inform you that the Legislative Committee has discussed the 2011 CXCIX on Public Service Officers. Act LXXIII of 2016 on Foreign Representations and Permanent External Service T/12699 on the amendment of the Act Bill No. 1. The summary amendment and the summary report were adopted by 29 votes in favour, no votes against and 7 abstentions. The summarised amendment includes the amendments proposed by the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the legislative committee's own amendment, which includes technical and linguistic amendments. Furthermore, it has been noted that government officials and government administrators in the external service are to be given free time or financial benefits for unjustified overwork, so it is not considered to be extraordinary work if they participate in receptions, events, conferences and cultural events. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask that, if you agree to address the problems arising from the day-to-day operation that have arisen over the past period, please support the adoption of the bill. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-12-06-32	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I will ask Mr László Szabó, as rapporteur, whether he wishes to speak at this stage of the debate. [[For signal:]] Mr Secretary of State has indicated that he does not wish to speak. Dear Parliament, I declare that the designated Committee on Foreign Affairs has not presented a rapporteur. If my fellow Members wish to speak, this is now possible. I give the floor to Mr Nándor Gúr, MSZP Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-12-06-33	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Mr. Secretary. Actually, I'd like to ask you three more questions here towards the end of the trial of the bill. One is the issue of the Public Service Officers Act itself with regard to administrators. It is quite clear to everyone that it is clear that a man with no criminal record as an administrator can only be employed, but there are other points in this regard, which provides for the issue of at least secondary vocational training. In this draft law, the fact that, in line with the draft law on public service officials, why a change should be made and whose benefit this change will provide an opportunity to be deployed as a government administrator with a secondary education which is not qualified as a professional qualification. I don't understand why, and I don't really understand the target area for whom it's for. The exemption from compliance with the qualification requirements still exists for the entire duration of the time interval for the external service. In English, if a person does not have this degree today, then there is not even the fact that they would say that this qualification must be obtained and replaced within a closed deadline, but if this legal relationship lasts for a year, three years, five years, no matter how long it takes, then the exemption is granted in these cases. Therefore, in Hungarian, it is not necessary to comply with the passage of the Act on Public Service Officers, which would be accompanied by the question of the fulfilment of at least secondary qualifications, in addition to a criminal record and capacity to act. Nonsense. Nonsense, since we know very well that there are, let us say, countless people in Hungary today in relation to such external service activities, who, by the way, would be able to meet the minimum marginal conditions for which you are now granting exemptions to some within the framework of this bill, and, as I said, by ensuring that the requirement is met until the end of the external service. And there is one other issue that I think is important, coupled with the employment of the spouses in administrative, technical and other types of work. [[11.20]] I understand that, and it is clear to all of us that, if and if such a situation exists, this priority line is ahead of, say, the provision of employment among nationals of that country. I also think that this is okay and appropriate, but what we do not understand is why, let's say, in the appointment of the senior consul, the number of colleagues and staff providing these administrative or technical backgrounds in employment should be included - to be taken into account. In relation to consular appointments, I believe that the number of people operating under the background should not be decisive. In fact, these three issues are still here before the decision is taken, in which it would be good to see clearly. One is, therefore, the nature of the qualifications required, the way in which the exemption is granted, why and to whom. The second is the how and why of the question relating to the employment of members of the technical and administrative activities of the spouse, which is closely linked to the appointment of a consul. The third is that, if and if these qualifications are not available, returning to the first question, then why should it be infinite to grant an exemption for a reasonable period of time to those who should have at least the secondary qualification under the marginal conditions provided for in the Public Service Act. On this subject, it would be good, Mr Secretary, to make a fair, fair confirmation before we reach the decision. Mr. President, thank you very much.
u2016-12-06-34	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I ask my fellow Members if they wish to speak. [[For signal:]] I give the floor to Congressman Csaba Hende. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-12-06-35	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, I would like to emphasise my support for this proposal, and my fellow Member, Mr Nándor Gúr, launched a brief response. You don't understand why. I understand. I think that, behind these regulations, we should look for measures that have not been taken in recent decades, the circumstances leading to inequality of opportunity, which in many cases have cemented layers of workers in certain external service positions whose employment would not have been justified a long time ago, but on the other hand have excluded those who are brilliantly able to serve the country because of various administrative constraints. So the resolution of these will in any event lead to the country's interest and to an increase in the efficiency of the foreign representation work, in my view. So I support the proposal. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-12-06-36	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Congressman Nándor Gúr, MSZP. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-12-06-37	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My fellow Member, Csaba Hende, we are talking about the reverse. So it is precisely the reverse of what you are talking about, because why and how it is formulated is because it is not necessary to provide, on the basis of this draft law, for those professional qualifications, at least with a secondary qualification, which, by the way, is evidence on the basis of the draft law on public service officials in 2011, a minimum condition. This bill gives me immunity from it. I'm telling you, the 2011 Act on Public Service Officers provides for an exemption, so once again, that you must have at least a secondary qualification. That's not necessary today. So it's about the reverse of what you're talking about. The other, which is linked to this, I repeat once again that it should be absolutely clear and understandable that it should not continue to be nonsense that they create a situation where those who do not have this minimum requirement today are practically exempt from fulfilling the qualification requirements throughout the entire period of their external service, i.e. until their external service is terminated or terminated. These two things are exactly the opposite of what you are talking about, my fellow Member. It's exactly the reverse of what you're talking about. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2016-12-06-38	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I'm asking if anyone else wants to speak. [[No signal.]] I don't see any contact. The debate is closed. I will ask the Secretary of State if he wishes to respond to what has been said in the debate. [[For signal:]] Yeah. I give you the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2016-12-06-39	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Council, I feel that there is no contradiction in the issues that Mr Gúr has mentioned. The aim is to make the operation of external services as practical and cost-effective as possible. By allowing spouses to contribute to the functioning of foreign representations in a recognised legal relationship now, it also means that we will be able to carry out more technical and administrative tasks, with practically less investment. Obviously, within a family, extra costs, housing, education costs remain. By giving the leaders of foreign representations a freer hand to deal with spouses, for example - so I would like to turn to the next challenge - we can give additional opportunities to people who would otherwise not meet the minimum conditions, but are capable of carrying out the tasks, of course, by the head of foreign representation. If this lady or gentleman is capable of carrying out a particular task, it would be completely unnecessary to create additional conditions during foreign service. 'Cause if it wasn't, would we send you home and find another man for that job? It doesn't really make any sense. We're trying to make a practical approach to this set of problems. I feel that the draft law that we have tabled here to amend is precisely for this purpose, so it gives practical, more and better powers to Heads of Mission and will be more practical and cost-effective for foreign representations to do their job. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-12-06-40	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Decisions shall take place at our later meeting. Dear Parliament, The Commission's reports on the amendment and acceleration of procedures relating to the registration of civil society organisations and companies and the discussion of the summarised amendment proposal follow up. The government referral is T/12722. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. Dear Parliament, The debate will be the first to present the position of the Legislative Committee within a 15-minute time frame. I give the floor to Congressman Vas Imre, rapporteur of the committee. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-12-06-41	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, I would like to inform the National Assembly that the Legislative Committee discussed on 1 December 2016 the T/12722 on the modification and acceleration of procedures relating to the registration of civil society organisations and companies. The Committee presented a proposal for amendment and a summary report with 19 votes in favour, 6 against and 3 abstentions. The summarised amendment included a motion to close a 12-point detailed debate by the Judicial Committee. I highlight the following from the content of the adopted ones. One amending provision aims at further simplifying registration and registration procedures. On the one hand, it makes it clear that it is free to name the bodies of the association, i.e. it is not obliged to follow the names used in the Ptk., and on the other hand it settles the question that members' data need not be enforced in the single structure of the instrument of establishment. [[11.30]] It also makes it clear that, in the case of all organisations for which the association acts under the rules of registration, the court... - has no place for full re-examination of the instrument of incorporation. Furthermore, the summarised amendment simplifies the rule of the mandatory powers of the General Assembly in order to allow associations to develop their organisation more flexibly. The election, recall, acceptance of the annual accounts are typically the powers of the decision-making body, but it is unnecessary for the law to decide these powers instead of the association on this issue. Each association is free to establish, with a few exceptions, the powers of its bodies when it adopts its statutes. It is important to point out that the proposal does not affect the provision listing the tasks of the management, but not because there is no derogation from it - it is therefore possible to derogate - and therefore it does not amend the provision, even if the statutes do not specify the powers of the general meeting, there should also be a rule of competence for the functioning of the associations, since all matters which are not listed in the management's competence fall, mutatis mutandis, within the competence of the general meeting. Finally, I would like to draw the attention of my fellow Members to the fact that the amending proposal leaves the mandatory requirement for the annual assembly, but, for reasons of guarantee, the general meeting must be held every four years. As can be seen from the provisions of the summary amendment, the legislator seeks to make the day-to-day operation of the associations as much easier as possible. I hope that simplifications and rationalisations in the bill will not only make life easier for civil society organisations and organisations that are already alive, but also to be registered. I need your support for this. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-12-06-42	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I will ask the Secretary of State Mariann Water East whether she wishes to speak as rapporteur at this stage of the debate or at a later stage of the debate. [[Dr. Mariann Water East: Thank you very much, not now.]] Yes, Mrs Secretary of State has indicated that she would like to speak at a later stage in the debate. Dear Parliament, No rapporteur was presented by the designated Judicial Committee. We now have a two-minute speech from the Members, because the hearing is on a time-frame, and there is no possibility. I give the floor to Member István Ikotity, LMP Group. Here you go.
u2016-12-06-43	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, The LMP has repeatedly drawn attention to the practical means of registering civil society organisations and reporting change between the walls of this House, which is usually cumbersome, slow and has a number of problems, this system, which does not work as smoothly as possible. It was particularly painful to see, however, that a few weeks ago, the government, by partially reviving the form of public foundation, which had proved to be a dead end and concealing a serious risk of corruption, created the possibility of establishing government foundations as a new legal institution and immediately provided significant procedural facilitations for this special form of foundation compared to normal procedure. It is positive from this basic position that the majority of governments are trying to speed up the registration and change reporting process of non-privileged civil society organisations, because the foundation is not only for Otto Habsburg's legacy, but thousands of other civil society organisations in the country are still trying to cope, and believe me, this is not easy in today's reality. However, we think it is a rather petty solution that the amendments that LMP has put in place and submitted to the proposal, and we now see one of them in the summary amendment, were not able to support it in the detailed debates, but rejected it from guts, as it is an opposition amendment and is obviously not possible to support it in the national cooperation system, and now some of them are found in the text intended for the final vote. Ladies and gentlemen of the Government, You are making a mockery of parliamentarianism, but I think that, nevertheless, it is a result that civil society organisations may be somewhat easier to contribute to. Thank you for your attention.
u2016-12-06-44	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Béla Turi-Kovács, Fidesz Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-12-06-45	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ever since the change of regime took place, but before that, I've been walking the path of civil society organisations myself, and I think it's really been a rough road for a long time. In the beginning, we were trying to figure out the forms and opportunities between which a civil society organisation could operate, and it could work in a way that was both useful and effective. Then came the times when it was felt - and this did not start with the current government - that there was a kind of limitation or limitation of opportunities, but not necessarily because the current government wanted to narrow down or limit the operation of the civil society organisation, but simply for administrative reasons that became self-propelled. This is where the situations where each change was a trauma in a civil society organisation, because the change regularly resulted in the fact that the current examiner who assessed it proved his existence, the existence of why he was there at all, and why this assessment had to be carried out, and the steps that were made in unnecessary and continuous calls. I think that this current proposal is a significant step in the direction that these abusive anomalies, I must say, should be removed. It is in the interest of society as a whole that these civil society organisations can and can function well. Naturally, maintaining and supervising legality is clearly a continuous task of the state. However, this task must be as tactful as possible, because if this is not the case, the self-control of civil society organisations will not work, but it will be without interruption that everyone will look for the possibility of avoiding it when they start making any changes at all. Consequently, I believe that this process, which has now been properly launched, can be pursued in the right direction by the government, and that good proposals and appropriate proposals will have to be adopted and enforced. In the coming time, I think it is particularly important, among the changes, that it is unnecessary, especially for smaller organisations, but even for large organisations like ours, where thousands of people are moved, there is no need to order general meetings that otherwise have no content. Rather, these organisations should be allowed, for example, to settle matters that are to be resolved by territorial units, and it may not always have to be resolved at national level. This is all the more the case, because these organisations have a specific budget that is self-sustaining as much as possible, and in the case of self-sustaining organisations, there is far from a civil society organisation that operates as well as civil society organisations that may benefit from certain subsidies, but which operate where all these things need to be done with the greatest savings. I think that in this respect there will be room for tact and, in this respect, for further amendment in the coming time. For our part - I am speaking for the small farmers - we support this motion and, once again, we support it by hoping that this will not stop at one point, but will continue to explore the opportunities that can make our lives easier next. Thank you very much.
u2016-12-06-46	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I wonder if any of my fellow Members would like to speak. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. The debate is closed. I give the floor to Secretary of State Mariann Water East. Here you go, Madam Secretary.
u2016-12-06-47	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would like to thank the Members present, the two Members who spoke, in particular, for these constructive proposals and, at the same time, for their support for the bill tabled. Thank you very much.
u2016-12-06-48	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary. Dear Parliament, Decisions shall take place at our later meeting. Dear Parliament, The Commission's reports on the modification of certain laws and the discussion of the summary amendment proposal on the withdrawal of properties registered as closed gardens follow up. T/12929 submitted by the representatives of Font Sándor, László Salacz and János Pócs, Fidesz The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. [[11.40]] Dear Parliament, The debate will be the first to present the position of the Legislative Committee within a 15-minute time frame. I give the floor to Mr László Salacz, rapporteur of the committee. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-12-06-49	Mr President, Dear House, I would like to inform you that, at its meeting on 1 December 2016, the Legislative Committee discussed the T/12929 on the modification of certain laws concerning the withdrawal of properties registered as closed gardens. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in Article 46 of the House Rules Act. It adopted it by 25 votes in favour, no votes against and 3 abstentions. During the committee meeting, the members discussed the proposal for an amendment to the Agriculture Committee, which was set out in the background, which was supported. I would add that no new amending intention has been adopted. Ladies and gentlemen, I am very pleased that it was said at the committee meeting from the Jobbik and the MSZP groups that my fellow Members welcomed the bill and agreed on the importance of the proposal. Please support the adoption of the bill. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2016-12-06-50	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I will ask the author if he wishes to speak. [[For signal:]] President Font does not wish to speak as rapporteur at this stage of the debate. Of course, the timeframe will be ten minutes later. Dear Parliament, I ask you, on the part of the government, do you wish to speak to the Secretary of State? [[For signal:]] He says he doesn't want to. No rapporteur was presented by the designated Agriculture Committee. It is now time for the speeches by its representatives. I ask if any of my fellow Members wish to speak. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. I will ask Mr Font, as rapporteur, if he wishes to speak. [[For signal:]] He doesn't want to speak. The debate is closed. Dear Parliament, Decisions shall take place at our later meeting. Dear Parliament, The 2013 CXXII on the marketing of agricultural and forestry land for the production of vine propagating material follows a series of steps. CCXII of 2013 on certain provisions and transitional arrangements related to the Law. Commission reports submitted for the submission of the Act amending the Act and discussion of the summarised amendment proposal. T/12930 submitted by representatives of Lajos Kósa, Sándor Font, Balázs Győrffy, László Salacz, János Pócs Fidesz. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. Dear Parliament, The debate will be the first to present the position of the Legislative Committee within a 15-minute time frame. I give the floor to Mr László Salacz, rapporteur of the committee. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-12-06-51	Mr President, Dear House, I hereby inform the Parliament that, at its meeting on 1 December 2016, the House Rule 46. According to §2 of the Acting Committee, CXXII of 2013 on the marketing of agricultural and forestry land for the production of vine propagating material was discussed. CCXII of 2013 on certain provisions and transitional arrangements related to the Law. T/12930. and the committee submitted a proposal for amendment and a summary report with 30 votes in favour, i.e. unanimously. The summarised amendment only contains the three-point text of the Committee on Agriculture closing a detailed debate. I would like to draw the attention of my fellow Members, in addition to the clarification of codification and linguistic location, to the fact that the proposal is fundamental and that opposition votes are also necessary. Based on the support rate of the summarised amendment proposal, this initiative is not hopeless. In the interests of Hungarian agriculture, I would like to ask you to support the proposal in order to facilitate the cultivation of grapes and to promote the quality of wine production. Thank you for listening. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2016-12-06-52	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I would like to ask if one of the fellow Members present wishes to speak. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. Does the Secretary of State wish to speak on behalf of the Government? Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2016-12-06-53	The government supports the proposal.
u2016-12-06-54	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, The Committee on Agriculture did not draft a rapporteur. I ask my fellow Members if anyone wishes to speak. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. The debate is closed. Dear Parliament, Decisions shall take place at our later meeting. Dear Parliament, The 1997 LXXVIII on the shaping and protection of the built environment for the extension of the scope of the simple notification and further reduction of bureaucracy in the field of construction follows. The Commission's reports on the amendment of the Act and the debate on the draft amendment. Government referral T/12723. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. The debate will be the first to present the position of the Legislative Committee within a 15-minute time frame. I give the floor to Congressman Sándor Hadházy, rapporteur of the committee. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-12-06-55	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, I hereby inform the Parliament that T/12723 was negotiated by the Legislative Committee on 24 November 2016. The bill on the development of the built environment for the extension of the scope of the simple notification and further reduction of red tape in the field of construction, and in this context the House Rule 46. It adopted a report with 23 votes in favour, 7 against and 1 abstention and a summary amendment proposal. The approved summary amendment includes the four-point proposal of the Economic Committee and the ruling party's own amendment number 1 of the Legislative Committee, which contains the following. In addition to the grammatical and legal clarifications, the summarised amendment states that in every case the Government Office of Hajdú-Bihar County shall act as administrative authority in the first instance procedure for the construction of shops and shopping centres. The amendment also contains the Commission's proposal to close the detailed debate in order to clarify the powers of the Budapest and Pest County Chamber of Engineers to notify and fine energy certificates. Ladies and gentlemen, I request your support. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2016-12-06-56	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I will ask Mr Nándor Csepreghy, Minister of State, as rapporteur, whether he wishes to speak at this stage of the debate. [[For signal:]] Secretary of State says no. Dear Parliament, No rapporteur was drawn up by the designated Economic Committee. It is now up to the Members to speak if they have the will to speak to my fellow Members. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. The debate is closed. I'm asking the Secretary of State if you'd like to make a closing statement. [[For signal:]] He does not wish to speak. Dear Parliament, Decisions shall take place at our later meeting. [[11.50]] Dear Parliament, The 2014 LXXVI on scientific research, development and innovation follows. The Commission's reports on the amendment of the Act and the debate on the draft amendment. Government referral T/12928. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. Dear Parliament, The debate will be the first to present the position of the Legislative Committee within a 15-minute time frame. I give the floor to Congresswoman Mónika Dunai, rapporteur of the committee. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2016-12-06-57	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that the Legislative Committee discussed the 2014 LXXVI on scientific research, development and innovation at its meeting on 1 December 2016. T/12928 amending Act No. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in Parliament's resolution on certain house rules 46. pursuant to Rule 29 of the Rules of Procedure, adopted by 29 votes to five, with no abstentions. At the committee meeting, we discussed the amendment proposed by the Economic Committee, which was supported by the Committee. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask the Parliament to continue to support the competitiveness of the Hungarian economy, the implementation of the R &amp; D and innovation policy programme, which effectively contributes to sustainable economic and social development, by adopting the proposal. To do this, I would ask you to support the bill that has been tabled. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2016-12-06-58	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, I will ask Mr Nándor Csepreghy, as rapporteur, whether he wishes to speak. [[Nándor Csepreghy says no.]] The Secretary of State indicates that he does not wish to speak at this stage of the debate. I would like to inform the Honourable Parliament that the designated Economic Committee has not presented a rapporteur. It is now possible for the Members to speak. I ask my fellow Members if they wish to speak. [[There's no such signal.]] I don't see any contact. The debate is closed. Since the Secretary of State indicates that he does not wish to speak, I would like to inform the Honourable Parliament that the decisions will take place at our later meeting. Dear Parliament, The debate on the Commission's report on the declaration of Social Work Day as a public holiday will follow. Zoltán Balog, János Lázár and Sándor Kovács, Fidesz, representatives submitted T/12921. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. Dear Parliament, I will ask my fellow Members, who are present, if they wish to speak at this stage of the debate. [[For signal:]] My fellow Members indicate that they do not wish to speak at this stage of the debate. Dear Parliament, I'll ask if the government has any intention of speaking. [[Charles Czibere says no.]] The Secretary of State says he doesn't. Mr Sebestyén Csító presented the minority opinion of the designated Committee on Welfare, since he is not present, I think he cannot do it. Dear Parliament, It is now possible for the Members to speak. I'm asking if anyone wants to take this opportunity. [[There's no such signal.]] I don't see any contact. The debate is closed. Dear Parliament, Decisions shall take place at our later meeting. Dear Parliament, The Commission's reports on the amendment of certain social and child protection laws and the summary amendment proposal follow up. Government referral T/12220. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. Dear Parliament, The debate will be the first to present the position of the Legislative Committee within a 15-minute time frame. I give the floor to Congresswoman Gabriella Selmeczi, rapporteur of the committee. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2016-12-06-59	Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, I hereby inform you that the Legislative Committee on 24 November 2016 is the House Rule 46. T/12120 on the amendment of certain social and child protection laws The Committee presented a proposal for amendment and a summary report in addition to 22 yeses, 8 nos and no abstentions. The summarised amendment contains the Commission's proposal for an amendment closing a detailed debate on the Committee on Welfare, which, on the one hand, provides clarification in the bill for linguistic and legislative purposes. On the other hand, the amendment will also allow the family and child welfare centre to continue to be able to maintain, in association with the authorities responsible for the task, the security of the operation of the well-performing service systems. This is, of course, in order to strengthen the safety of children, in order to ensure the predictability of the operation of the family and child welfare centres. The bill will make the supply system more transparent and effective in social and child welfare services. I want your support for this, too. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2016-12-06-60	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, I would like to ask you, on behalf of the rapporteur, whether the Secretary of State would like to speak. [[Charles Czibere says no.]] The Secretary of State indicates that he does not wish to speak at this stage of the debate. I ask whether Mr Sebestyén Vágó wishes to present the minority opinion of the designated Welfare Committee. [[Editor Sebastian: No.]] The Member indicates that he does not wish to speak. It is therefore possible for the Members to speak. I'm asking if anyone wants to take this opportunity. [[There's no such signal.]] I don't see any contact. The debate is closed. I would like to inform the Honourable Parliament that the decisions will take place at our later meeting. Dear Parliament, The Commission's reports on the amendment of certain child protection and health laws to enhance the safety and protection of children and the discussion of the summarised amendment will follow. The submission submitted by Gabriella Selmeczi and his fellow Members T/12477. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. Dear Parliament, The debate will be the first to present the position of the Legislative Committee within a 15-minute time frame. I give the floor to Mrs Gabriella Selmeczi, rapporteur of the committee; and now I thank you kindly for your cooperation and for the chair of the meeting to Vice-President János Latorcai. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2016-12-06-61	Mr. President. Thank you so much for your work. Dear President of Latorca, Dear Secretary of State, Dear fellow Members, I hereby inform the Parliament that the Legislative Committee discussed on 24 November 2016 the T/12477 amending certain laws on child protection and health in order to enhance the safety and protection of children. The Committee presented a proposal for amendment and a summary report with 22 votes in favour, 1 against and 5 abstentions. The summarised amendment only contains the one-point text of the Welfare Committee. [[Dr. János Latorcai, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]] Originally, the Commission's amendment to the LMP initiative clarifies that it is not considered to be a refusal of GP and GP if the care is not territorially competent, but is used by the chosen GP or GP. There's a choice here. Overall, the bill seeks to enforce the right to the protection of children guaranteed by the Fundamental Law, strengthening the duties and responsibilities of guardianship and child protection signalling systems, and the functioning of the child protection signalling system. I need your support for this. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause in the benches of the governing parties.]] [[12.00]]
u2016-12-06-62	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. I will ask Mr László Horváth, as rapporteur, if he wishes to make use of the opportunity to speak. [[For signal:]] It's a ten-minute window, but what Congressman doesn't use can be used for closing. I welcome my fellow Members and give the floor to Mr László Horváth.
u2016-12-06-63	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. First of all, I would like to thank my fellow Members for their participation in the debate. At the beginning of the general debate, we were hoping, together with my fellow authors, that these tragic child murders, which we have been presented with, could force us out of my fellow Members and from each political party some restraint on the subject. We call temperament humility. Unfortunately, at this final stage of the debate, I have to say that we have been disappointed in our illusions, because there have been political parties on the opposition side that have not been able to control themselves. I would like to thank you for the amendments made by the opposition, which came from both preparedness and sensitivity, and in particular I would like to thank Mrs Bernadett Szél for the amendment, which has been improved by the authors as a motion from the Committee on Welfare. I must also note, however, that my fellow Members have also found that part of this debate has been placed outside Parliament, and this has been born with a well-thought-out, conscious misinterpretation and fear-promotion, claiming that our amendment is attacking the safety of families, and that the entry into force of the amendment gives the offices an opportunity to work on the separation of families by the insensitive, insensitive, merciless offices and officials. This position is false because the political force, the Hungarian Socialist Party, which stimulated this so-called civil society initiative, did not even support the inclusion of this proposal. The amendment tabled was not made in the context of the proposal. In the reasoning for the amendment tabled, however, the applicants themselves reveal themselves, as it turns out that the amendment was at some point in its own motion, only because the individual motion did not receive support in the committee responsible and was therefore tabled as an amendment to our proposal. It does not concern the substance of our proposal, and then, with this civil fear and desinforming, it comes to a position which is unfair to colleagues working in child protection as well. On the one hand, colleagues working in child protection always draw attention to the plight of their lives, seem to stand up for those working in child protection, on the other hand, and on the other hand, colleagues working in child protection claim - indirectly, suggesting - that they are insensitive, they are not being thorough enough, and I must say that we must ask for this kind of negative, stealthy, partly sneaky public opinion influence on behalf of those working in child protection. Our proposal - I would like to reiterate once again - was made by asking for the opinion of practitioners working in child protection, by drafting these opinions in the proposal, and I would also like to underline once again that it includes all the relevant findings and proposals of the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights in the summer of the child murder in Gyöngyös. And with the intentions that would never stop talking about child tragedy, namely, children's home affairs, we cannot do anything about them. We have openly undertaken this task, and we have only undertaken the task of limiting the possibility of the future occurrence of child tragedy over the past period, and we are firmly in the position that the right of children to life, the obligation to protect child life, is paramount. The parent's right to self-determination cannot, in our view, prevent the child's right to life. From this point of view, I think we should not allow an inch. And with the ratings that sounded on the opposition's part that this proposal only deals with a small slice, it was called - because it was also said literally by Zsuzsa Szelényi - small stories, he said, these three tragic deaths of children were just a small story... - not for us. For us, the life of each child is important, the life of every child who is killed by violence is a terrible tragedy, and I think that if we can save only one child's life in the future with our proposal, then my fellow Members and I have not sat in vain in this Parliament. To sum up, I would also like to say that it is also obvious that a solution to child protection matters cannot be made by force, nor can it be made out of lungs, nor can it be achieved by anger towards the government. Thank you for your support to those Members whose intention was to protect the child's life, whose intention was to clarify and strengthen the scope of parental responsibility, to make the intervention capacity of the child protection system more effective and faster. I thank them and those who have failed, who have missed the house, whose intentions were not aimed at protecting the child's life, and I can tell them that I am sorry that they missed the opportunity. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-12-06-64	Thank you very much. I thank László Horváth for his speech as rapporteur. I'd like to inform you that you have a one minute 35 seconds time frame to say the closing word. I am now going to ask Mr Károly Czibere, State Secretary, if he wishes to make use of the opportunity to speak. [[For signal:]] Here you go, Secretary of State. Your time frame is ten minutes.
u2016-12-06-65	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear House, Firstly, I would like to thank the authors for this proposal. We believe that this will indeed bring us closer to ensuring that no danger, neglect, or abuse remains a secret, but that these families will indeed receive substantial assistance in time through child welfare services and centres. We believe that this proposal will help us to strengthen parents' duty to cooperate and those responsible in the signalling system to really take responsibility for their task. Thank you again. I would also like to respond to one moment of fear that sounds in the media that failure to attend a parent's meeting constitutes a refusal of this type of cooperation and parental cooperation. This is a very serious misinterpretation of the text. If someone takes the trouble to read exactly the proposal submitted, this is what the Child Protection Act 130/A sounds like. Paragraph 3 of the Act, which is now entered into the law, is considered as a serious risk to the child, even in the absence of any other indication, if the parent who is caring for the child refuses to cooperate with the school regarding the care of the child. In terms of caring for the child - not educating or educating - that is the big difference. It was written there - as the Member mentioned, the proposal was made with the help of prepared professionals - and this narrowing interpretation is directly here, making false and untrue all the scares and alarms that relate to the fact that there is a problem of cooperation in the event of a parent's failure, and that we are removing the child from the family. [[12.10]] If the parent caring for the child refuses to cooperate with the school regarding the care of the child, it will be considered as a serious risk in the absence of any other indication. In terms of caring for the child - not educating or educating - that is the big difference. It was written there - as the Member mentioned, the proposal was made with the help of prepared professionals - and this narrowing interpretation is directly here, making false and untrue all the scares and alarms that relate to the fact that there is a problem of cooperation in the event of a parent's failure, and that we are removing the child from the family.(12.10) So it is important to use the power of the public here to tell the Hungarian families that there is no such thing. The point is to cooperate with regard to care for the child. This means that the educator must recognize if the child is neglected, if his clothing is not malnourished, and the rest, and in this case try to draw attention to the need to help the family. It's not about the highlight, it's about the help. Again, there is this rule, not in terms of education and education, but in terms of care. All kinds of rumors that are contrary to that are completely unfounded. Thank you very much for the floor. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-12-06-66	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform my fellow Members that the designated People's Welfare Committee has not put forward a rapporteur, so now we have the Members' speeches, within the time frame on the agenda. First, I give the floor to Mr Sebestyén, who is a member of the Jobbik Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-12-06-67	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, Mr. Secretary of State! This is the only bill in recent times on social and child protection that the Jobbik faction can support with a calm and clear conscience before the Parliament. Fortunately, this bill has not been smuggled into the ordinary order of things that make it unsatisfying and unsupportable, so we can wholeheartedly support it. Partly joining the speakers before me, I would also like to say that I have also been outraged by the excessive manifestations of the liberal opposition in relation to the bill. I have always said that as a father with three children, I think that if I, as a father or a parent, have to cooperate with the educational institution or even with the healthcare system, it is not disenfranchised for me. For me, as a normal parent, I hope, it is natural for me to keep in touch with the children's institutions or the health care system for the health and healthy development of my children. What was already discussed in connection with the bill yesterday at the Minister's hearing in front of the People's Welfare Committee, I say that this proposal is good, but I would go further. I will propose it, and in the days I will present a legislative amendment proposal, to which I will also look forward to the support of the pro-government representatives, and this would be about not only building a system of obligations in the protection of children, whether in the social or health law, but also setting up a sanction system. I know that there is a system of sanctions at the moment, but according to the current order, the social security authorities have the possibility to use the Btk. to press charges for reckless endangerment of employment. My proposal will include the fact that, as a separate Btk.-dot, you have failed the signal as an official member of the signalling system, and therefore you no longer have to take these steps to the guardian's office, but if any citizen or any authority experiences a failure to do so, you can either initiate the procedure or file a complaint in accordance with the Btk.-dot. These may seem serious, but unfortunately, the tragic events of the last period have proved that it was not the employees of the child protection system, but the other members of the child protection warning system who committed serious failures. An unviable situation is that when a protective woman does her job properly and visits the families, she should not notice such child abuse, or if the pediatrician meets the child, it is unacceptable that she does not notice. If he does not notice, it is also unacceptable if he shows up and does not take the necessary steps, and that is even more unacceptable, and in many cases, unfortunately, also applies to educational institutions. In this connection, I would like to say that, as far as school social work is concerned, I think that it can be an important part of the child protection signalling system, as well as the child protection system. I have always said that, by the way, I may have heard encouraging sentences from Minister yesterday that the current role of child protection professionals is an experimental phase. I hope that the outcome of this will be that each educational institution will be a self-employed social worker, a school social worker, continue to strengthen the system of child protection, maintain regular contact with children, parents, constantly have an insight into the social movements within the school, even the other lives of children, and that it can help the child to develop mental, moral and other developments in the educational institution as well as help him discover and then eliminate them with the help of the child protection system. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2016-12-06-68	Thank you very much, Congressman. I will ask my fellow Members if anyone else wishes to speak in the debate. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. The debate is closed. I would like to ask if one of the authors wishes to respond to what has been said in the debate. [[There's no candidate.]] He doesn't want to. I would like to inform my fellow Members that decisions will be taken at our later meeting. Next up is the 1997 LXXXI on social security pensions. Discussion of the Commission's reports and summary amendment proposal for a proposal to amend law and other laws. Government referral T/12728. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available to all of them on the Parliament's IT network. First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. I call on Mrs Gabriella Selmeczi, rapporteur for the committee, to present the opinion of the committee. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2016-12-06-69	Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I hereby inform the Parliament that on 24 November 2016 the Legislative Committee is the House Rule 46. In accordance with Article 4 of the Act on Social Insurance Pensions, LXXXI of 1997 discussed: T/12728 amending law and other laws The Committee submitted a proposal for amendment and a summary report by 22 votes in favour against 8 negatives. The summarised amendment includes, on the one hand, the proposal to close a detailed debate on the Committee on Welfare and the legislative committee's own proposal, which is also aimed at legal clarification. The general objective of the bill is to facilitate effective, customer-friendly application of law, including day care, day care for children, social security pensions, based on feedback from the bodies implementing the laws concerned by the amendment, as well as from citizens and stakeholder organisations. Practical experience will be integrated for smoother administration. I'd like your support for this, please. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-12-06-70	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. I am now asking Mrs Katalin Veresné Novák, State Secretary, if she wishes to speak as rapporteur. [[For signal:]] Yes, please, Madam Secretary. You have ten minutes; what you're going to use in ten minutes is that much less time to close. Here you go. [[12.20]]
u2016-12-06-71	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear fellow Members, I would only add to what has already been said in the previous stages of the debate that the Committee on Welfare has received an amendment to this bill, which was supported by the government and which we welcome. This is now part of the bill amendment proposal. This is about the fact that when you apply to the nursery, when you look at who is applying, and if you have a lack of space, you can't take in all the children, then you have the advantage of different families in the nursery entrance. Families benefiting from this advantage are families benefiting from regular child protection benefits, now large family members under the law, and then children in protection, and also parents who raise their children alone, can place their children in the nursery in a preferential or preferred manner if they have work activities or if they do work alone by parents raising their children. We would also like to help those who bear the parental burden alone and work simultaneously, or engage in employment activities, to get to work within 30 days, so that they can place their children as many as possible in the nursery. I would like to add this to what was said earlier in the debate. I hope that, thanks to this legislative amendment proposal, we can take steps, both in the area of nursery care and adoption and in the area of pension rules, to reduce the burden of simplifying administration and to which more and more beneficiaries will benefit. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-12-06-72	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary. I'll inform you that you'll have 8 minutes and 10 seconds in time for closing. Since the minority opinion of the People's Welfare Committee cannot be said, because Parliament's speech is subject to the presence of the rapporteur and the rapporteur is not in the Chamber at the moment, I cannot give the floor to Mr Korózs accordingly. It is now time for the speeches by its representatives. I ask my fellow Members who would like to speak in the debate. [[There's no candidate.]] No opposition has been made by the Member present, and the debate is closed. I will ask the Secretary of State whether she wishes to close, not to respond to what was said in the debate, but to say a closing word. [[Katalin Veresné Novák: No, thank you.]] Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Decisions shall take place at our later meeting. The debate on the Commission's report on the condemnation of the persecution and genocide in the Middle East and Africa and on the support of those persecuted will follow. The submission submitted by Zoltán Balog and his fellow Members is H/12700. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available to all of them on the Parliament's IT network. I would like to ask Mr Vas Imre if he would like to speak on behalf of the authors. [[Dr. Vas Imre: No.]] You do not wish to do so now, so you will have 10 minutes of time left for Congressman Vas Imre to close. I will ask Mr Bence Rétvári, Secretary of State, if he wishes to speak on behalf of the government now. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: I don't wish to see you now.]] He doesn't want to. The representatives will be taking part in the speeches. A two-minute comment is not possible in accordance with house rules. I will ask my fellow Members who wishes to speak in the debate. [[There's no candidate.]] I do not see an application; the debate is closed. I am now asking the author, Imre Vas, if you would like to make a closing statement. [[Dr. Vas Imre: Yes.]] Yeah, he wants to say it. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2016-12-06-73	Thank you very much. I would ask you to vote in favour of the adoption of the proposal for a decision.
u2016-12-06-74	Thank you very much, Congressman. I would like to inform my fellow Members that decisions will take place at our later meeting. LXXV of 2015 on the free ownership of certain state-owned assets for the purpose of performing the tasks of county libraries and county-wide urban museums. The Commission's reports on the amendment of the Act and the debate on the draft amendment. T/12910 submitted by our colleagues from Sándor Hadházy, László B. Nagy, János Bencsik, Csaba Hende Fideszes and Sándor Szabó MSZP. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available to all of them on the Parliament's IT network. First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. The time frame is 15 minutes. I give the floor to Congressman László B. Nagy, rapporteur of the committee. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-12-06-75	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr President, Dear House, I hereby inform the Parliament that the Legislative Committee on 1 December 2016 is the House Rule 46. LXXV of 2015 on the transfer of certain state-owned assets to free municipal property for the purpose of performing the tasks of county libraries and county-wide urban museums. T/12910 on the amendment of the Act and the committee submitted a proposal for amendment and a summary report with 30 votes in favour, no votes against, so unanimously. The summarised amendment only contains the text of the Committee on Culture, which concludes a detailed debate on minor technical clarification. In view of the fact that it is a bill that is superior to parties and, if you like, by consensus, I trust the support of my fellow Members, which will enable the municipalities to fulfil their cultural public service even more widely. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of Fidesz.]]
u2016-12-06-76	Thank you very much, fellow Member. I will ask my fellow Member whether he wishes to speak as a rapporteur or if he just needs the closing. [[László B. Nagy: Not now.]] He doesn't want to say anything right now. Then you'll have a 10-minute window for closing. I will ask Mr. Peter Hoppál, Secretary of State, if he wishes to speak now. [[Dr. Peter Hoppál: Yes.]] Yes, he does. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2016-12-06-77	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, The Government, as in the original motion, is now in favour of the motion supplemented by a summary amendment. [[Applause in the ranks of Fidesz.]]
u2016-12-06-78	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I would like to inform this House that the designated Committee on Culture does not present a rapporteur. It is now time for the speeches by its representatives. There is no possibility of a two-minute comment during the debate. I will ask if anyone wishes to speak in the debate. [[There's no candidate.]] I do not see an applicant; the debate is closed. I will ask Mr László B. Nagy if he wishes to make a closing statement. [[László B. Nagy: Yes.]] Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2016-12-06-79	Thank you. All I would like to add is that the county libraries and museums' legislation provided for the transfer of movable property to the property and management of municipalities. Therefore, this bill, this amendment in this context, helps to bring property to local government bodies, where they ensure operation and manage asset assets, so that the municipalities can perform their tasks even more effectively. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of Fidesz.]]
u2016-12-06-80	Thank you very much, Congressman. I would like to inform my fellow Members that decisions will take place at our later meeting. I'm taking a 14-hour break now. [[Pause: 12.29 14.02President: Lezsák SándorJournalists: Attila Gelencsér and Nándor Gúr]]
u2016-12-06-81	Dear Parliament, The 2015 report by the President of the National Court Office and the joint general debate on the proposal for a decision on its adoption will follow. Report submitted by the President of the National Court Office B/1208. and the proposal for a decision submitted by the Judicial Committee, H/12933. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. Dear Parliament, First, I give the floor to Mrs Tünde Hando, President of the National Court Office, author of the report, within a 30-minute time frame. You have the floor, Madam President.
u2016-12-06-82	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, Dear Parliament, The only person who knows how far we went, who saw where we started. I saw a brick laid on a brick, followed by a trace; I saw the grove when it was planted, the street when it was measured. And I am not forsaken by the hope of going forward. Mór Jókai wrote these lines in his novel "The Earth" and still moves. And indeed, especially standing in this room, the history of the courts, which is also related to our thousand years of statehood, can be compared to the history of a romantic novel. I myself have been standing here for the fourth time since the 2012 judicial reforms and I will account for the operation of the National Court Office and the courts. At the mid-term of my presidential term, I think it is worth looking back for a moment, along with the snapshot from last year, to consider where we started and where we came from. The 2015 report, which is available and readable to everyone on the central website of the courts, details the data on more than 250 pages, divided into 15 persons, of which I would like to highlight only a few. As President of the OBH, my first strategic objective since its beginning is to ensure that the courts fulfil their constitutional obligations, that independent judges have a high standard and timely judgment. While the number of judges and judicial staff remained almost the same between 2011 and 2015, in 2015 there were around 11 thousand, of which 2,900 judges served in Hungary, the number of cases arriving at the courts increased by more than a quarter. This means that almost one and a half million cases are now being brought to the courts every year. It is an excellent result that more cases can be completed every year than they arrive at the courts. We're losing our backlog and we're getting a lot faster. In particular, these figures are remarkable when I say that we are also at the forefront of European comparison. On the annual Justice Scoreboard published by the European Commission in 2015, and since then, according to the 2016 summary, we are at the forefront of the EU Member States. Overall, I dare say here that the judicial system is one of the most successful sectors of state organisation. Year after year, we have tangiblely improved results, supported by measurable data. To achieve these outstanding results, but to maintain them is also an extraordinary achievement, especially since there are always situations in life, legislative amendments that are an extraordinary challenge for us beyond the normal course of action. I would like to give you an example: the crisis caused by mass immigration and the resulting business dumping, case arrivals, which have reached the Szeged District Court in the first place. First, it was necessary to ensure that there were at all a sufficient number of judges in this court and a sufficient number of judicial employees. Judges, law enforcement staff worked conscientiously, often 10-12 hours a day, on weekends, making sure that the rights brought before the court are fully respected, the guarantees provided by the law. Behind the dry statistical data, you always have to see people, people who do their job in court. We owe thanks, I personally owe to colleagues working in the court organisation, who are trying to make the courts work to the satisfaction of society and operate in such a way as to gain people's trust. For example, we have done a great deal to ensure that those who are victims of crime do not have to go to court for years as part of a judicial process. Today, much of the criminal proceedings in Hungary will be completed in a very short time. Within a year, more than half of it will be completed within six months, and almost a third and 30 percent of it will be completed in a simplified procedure within 30 days. Obviously, there will always be cases that can be completed over a longer period of time. But think of it: when, according to the prosecution, 72 defendants stand before the court, up to 150 witnesses, dozens of experts, thousands, tens of thousands of pages of investigative documents, hundreds of pages of indictment, in these cases, it would be physically impossible to pass judgment within six months. Yes, there are cases in which the court has to hold a series of proceedings lasting between 200 and 300 days. At the same time, both the National Court Office and the courts understand the expectations that require more effective administration from the courts in the latter cases. One of the key results of the 2012 reform is the fact that a very significant reduction in the length of cases over two years has been achieved. I will give you an example: in the criminal case, there were 4225 cases in the district courts in 2011, at the end of 2015, there were only 2 thousand cases in the first half of 2016, over two years. In addition to trying to create working conditions for court workers, the National Court of Justice Office seeks to formulate operational proposals for legislative amendments, but we also publish specific programmes within the organisation of work. This was in 2015 the program for the service court, or this year's programme for sustainable development. [[14.10]] In the last four years, the number of cases over two years in the district court case has not been so low. By the way, if there are fewer cases in progress, it means that judges are able to take greater care and listen to more labour-intensive cases. We hope that the new Code of Criminal Procedure and the new Code of Civil Procedure will introduce changes that will further simplify and make procedures more transparent, so these results will be even more sustainable in 2018. One of the results of the 2012 judicial reform was the creation of the autonomy of public administration. In 2013, administrative and labour courts and administrative and labour regional colleges were set up. After the first time he was given independence after 49, the administrative court case, which resulted in a lot of results. In fact, it is a success story, and if we step out of the country's borders, we can see here that the European Commission's Justice Scoreboard brings out the administrative case as our leading case, because the second lowest backlog in the administrative case in Hungary is the EU Member States, and administrative litigation ends in our country in the sixth shortest time from the EU countries. Thanks to the functioning of administrative and labour regional colleges, professional dialogue and the legal unit are much stronger than before. Journals and commentaries that regularly analyse administrative judicial practice also stress the timely high quality of domestic administrative justice, measured by European standards, and this is a case law that pays particular attention to international and constitutional obligations, followed up these guidelines by the judges acting in the case. Of course, timeliness and speed must not be at the expense of quality. I quote a poet, János Pilinszky, who, in a publicist's paper, expressed the fact that "real action is always of quality, its quantity - if not negligible - plays a subordinate role, and we also do so that our judgment is sound and qualitative. Of course, it is important to know that the content of the judgments, the unity of the caselaw, does not fall within the jurisdiction of the National Court of Justice, because according to our Fundamental Law, the Curia is responsible. Yet, we administrative leaders can do much to ensure that the quality of judgment is of the right quality, so that judicial practice is more predictable. The first step was to ensure that the burden of the case in each court was proportionate, as it is very important for access to the court that a client in Budapest or a client in Pécsaba should be able to enter the courtroom within the same period of time, so there should be no differences. At the Metropolitan Tribunal - and now it seems that we have solved a 100-year problem throughout the central region - because the workload of judges is now at the same level as the national average or below the national average. In 2011 there were 85 central training events in the court organisation, in 2015 we organised 300 central training courses. In 2011, 50 people travelled abroad from the court organisation, 200 already attended various conferences and study trips in 2015. We also highlighted in the report the new management methods that have been known only in the competition sector, namely: we have issued applications in several areas, introduced a tendering system, launched various working groups, pilot programmes, workshops, consultations and networks for judges or judicial staff in various fields. Just like quantity, quality can be measured. One indicator of the quality of judicial decisions is, of course, influenced by many other factors, the extent to which clients appeal decisions and the nature of the appeal decisions. It can be concluded that these indicators have also improved since 2011. In 2015, 73 percent of the criminal convictions went up in the first instance and a fraction of the appeals, only 7.4 percent, proved unfounded, were repealed in these cases. On civilist matters, it seems almost unbelievable, but in 2015, more than 90 percent of the lawsuits rose at first instance. Among the main tasks of 2015 I must highlight the possibility of creating and preparing for electronic communication. In 2011, such procedures were still limited, and lawyers may know that the electronic procedure has been in operation for a long time in a court-martial procedure. Well, the scope of these procedures was extended in 2015 and we were prepared for a very wide expansion for 2016. Legal conditions and IT conditions had to be created, education had to be organised, information to customers, we had to organise the handling of incoming requests. The figures show that the number of submissions received electronically in civilist proceedings has increased dramatically; in 2013, when this was only possible, 300 submissions were received, in 2015 already 1600 and in the second half of 2016 we were over 70,000 electronic submissions. These data indicate that this type of development in the court organisation is very important. That's when we'll really be XXI. It is a 100th-century state organization, if we are able to ensure independent contact within the court organisation, and in this we are able to set a good example as part of the state organisation. This is why it is very important that, when it comes to the development of the State Organisation, EU proposals, the courts, are not forgotten, because this plane has already taken off, it cannot stop in the air, but we need support for this. It is therefore very important that we have the right material conditions and resources for the right quality of work. To make it very simple: I compare the three branches of power in Montesquieu to a three-legged chair, because this chair can be stable if the relationship between the legislator, the executive and the judicial authority is sufficiently uniform, so as not to upset this particular chair. It is essential that these pillars are stable, and the weakening of any leg leads to this chair being overturned. [[14.20]] It is therefore important that the powers of the state, including legislation, recognise the importance of this balance. Whether one is successful or the other is unsuccessful, each affects the overall perception of Hungarian statehood. As Andor Juhász, former President of the Curia, said, "The law is not an isolated official function, but the most important manifestation of state life with the general development of culture. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. In recent years, the National Court of Justice and the courts have conducted an optimal, attentive management of their physical and human resources. I highlight one example: in 2015 the Hungarian National Property Management Ltd. awarded to us by the trustee of the year, an honorary fee. Last year we handed over the completely renovated building of the District Court in Cegléd, the building of the District Court in Debrecen, and the reconstruction of the Egri Tribunal. But there is no court building in Hungary where there is no such thing as entrances, which are renewed, which is beautiful, which helps customers. With regard to human resources, a holistic, comprehensive approach is also very important when deciding where to fill posts or where to assign organizational resources. It is important to know that not only judges work in this organization, but also judicial employees. We have been trying to create a kind of staff management, the essence of which is that judges can really only do meaningful work and focus on important, high-priority cases in their daily work. To do so, however, we also need to ensure that there are sufficient staff to assist them, who, of course, also help customers. Nor would the finest judgments be worth anything if it weren't for someone to write them down, to post those who would accept appeals where appropriate. We cannot exist without judicial agents, which is why it is important to have a stable, predictable career, a retention force, because the courts here make decisions in which the fate of billionaire fortunes is decided, or it is necessary to decide on years of deprivation of liberty. It is therefore very important to appreciate this work, the responsibility for this decision. I quote Andor Juhász here too:. The more based on social weight and material independence is the judicial and prosecutorial career, the more facilitated it is for the members of these bodies to exercise their difficult profession and to safeguard judicial authority. A well-built court of justice attracts outsiders, which once again facilitates the care of succession and careful selection. Well, we've done a lot within the organization to that end. After all, the 2015 work also resulted in the introduction in 2015 of a job supplement for authors and secretaries, and this work may have been the result of a salary increase in the court body from October this year or January 2017. Although it should be noted that the public-sector stipending arrangements that we are seeing now draw attention to our difficulties again, as today not only the places filling goods, jobs are a challenge for the judicial staff, but also, where appropriate, the various public-sector offices can be such an attraction for our thorough, diligent employees. I very much hope and trust that, as has been the case so far, we can still count on the support of the Ministry of Justice in the next few days, because if we are not able to include the best in the initial judicial staff, in the course of the essays, of which the judges will be chosen, it could indeed jeopardise the rule of law. The issue must therefore also be addressed at the legislative level. I trust that what Prime Minister said to us on the day of the prosecutors' day can also be considered a vow, since he himself said that we should strive to make the wage system worthy and fair. It is fair, which means that it must be proportionate to the work carried out, and on the other hand it must be worthy, i.e. the intellectual capital and power that has been mobilised, acquired, recognised, and high social prestige in Hungary during their long study. What, though, is the case in Hungary? First of all - and here is the responsibility of legislation - legislation. The courts, judges, are not legislators, they are enforcers of law, they must interpret the standards imposed by the legislator on paper and make it a living right. As we read in the editorial commenting on the First Court Law of 1868: . If the word of the law is clear, the judge can't make a mistake. What does that mean? It means that the starting point for any kind of application of the law is the legislation that should be applied. This is what can basically determine the nature of a judgment and its echo. That is why it is important for the law-abiding lawyer to take due account of the opinion of the courts, since we, practicing lawyers, can know and help the legislator with comments to establish truly functional, meaningful rules. In recent years, this has happened in many cases, whether by the Parliament or by the various ministries. Thank you for this, and I am proud of the fact that these proposals have largely endured the test of the years. Such a proposal was, among other things, our dozens of proposals on the register of civil society organisations. We ourselves perceive the difficulty of a court organisation in such a simple, important matter for many, but unfortunately, these difficulties do not necessarily depend on judges and court secretaries who deal in cases. We were pleased to see the inclusion of civil society organisations in the legislative programme. I hope that this will remedy the complaints and problems that we, of course, are experiencing. What still affects judgment, I would like to highlight one important issue, namely how the branches of power, the legal professions, are related to each other. As I have mentioned several times, cooperation between these organisations is very important. Of course, there is always room for competition, but competition cannot mean that these branches of power or vocations do not respect one another sufficiently. Minister László Trócsányi said that judicial independence is the standing star of the rule of law. In a slightly simpler example, I would like to compare judicial independence to air: as long as there is, we take it for granted when it is not, then we can be desperate for this air. It is also very important that this independence is respected in itself, that justice itself has a minimum authority, to which the representatives of the powers always pay attention. [[14.30]] This year's commemorations should make us all realize the value of judicial independence and the integrity of the judge. Judicial responsibility and respect and respect for justice are also a pledge of stability, order and security throughout the state. Thank you so much for listening.
u2016-12-06-83	Thank you very much, Madam President. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Vas Imre, rapporteur for the Judicial Committee, author of the motion for a decision. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2016-12-06-84	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. On 15 November 2016, the Judicial Committee heard the President of the National Court Office and its report. The Judicial Committee proposes the report to the Parliament for adoption and submitted it accordingly to the H/12933. A proposal for a decision. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2016-12-06-85	Thank you very much, Congressman. I'll ask if you'd like to speak on behalf of the government. [[Dr. Pál Völner: No.]] Not now. Dear Parliament, The speeches will now take place in a 30-30-minute time frame by group of representatives. The first round of these will be the speech of the lead speaker. First, I give the floor to Member Robert Répássy, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2016-12-06-86	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Madam President, Ladies and gentlemen, The Group of the Fidesz-Hungarian Civic Association supports the adoption of the report on the activities of the President of the National Court of Justice in 2015. Dear House, I would like to point out from the report by the President of the National Court Office what the President of the OBH himself considers to be the main results for 2015. A further improvement in national timeliness data; a continuation of the burden relief of the central judicial region; 87 percent of the litigation, i.e. the decisive majority, will continue to be completed within one year of arriving at the relevant case-law level; a more detailed statistical data collection has been made possible thanks to the extension of the registration data circles, which will further help to make informed decisions; all cases except court-martial enforcement cases have exceeded the number of cases. So once again, with the exception of court enforcement cases at district court level - a small slice of court cases - the number of cases completed in each case group exceeds the number of cases received. The Metropolitan Tribunal and the Budapest Surrounding Tribunal have further improved the timeliness indicators; and, with the exception of the Curia, the backlog of the case has decreased at all levels of the case. Therefore, these results are considered by the National Court of Justice to be the most important achievement in 2015. Well, this House, as the President began, the President of the National Court of Justice reports his work before the Parliament for the fourth time, and that means that the President of the National Court Office has been at the head of the Office for more than four years, and that decision was made more than four years ago, in 2011, but on 1 January 2012 our parliamentary decision has entered into force, which separated the administration of the judiciary from the National Court Office and its President, as well as the work of the Curia exercising professional control. It is therefore very important to say that, in front of us, judicial administration or, as they say, external management is the subject of our current debate. It is therefore not the duty, not the responsibility of the judicial administration, but rather the case-law, as the case-law, its management - of course its management by constitutional means - will be held accountable to the President of the Curia rather than to the President of the Court's administration. What can be counted on the President of the National Court Office? The President of the Court's report also contains the points on which we must judge his work. In addition to judicial independence and respect for the independence of the courts, it is up to us to measure the effectiveness of the case, to strengthen the nature of the service provider of the courts, and to ensure the openness of the courts. So once again: judicial independence, efficiency, service character and openness. In these four objectives, it is therefore worth examining how the activities of the President of the National Court Office and the Court of Justice have evolved. Judge independence, independence of the court organisation. I would like to point out that, above all, the legislation itself has been criticised in recent years, at the moment of its birth. Therefore, the laws which you are obliged to implement cannot be called into account on the President of the National Court of Justice. Laws must be accounted for in law enforcement. However, at the same time, I claim that the four-year activity of the President of the National Court of Justice has demonstrated that the accusations have not been substantiated, that there is nothing to support the accusations made in connection with the establishment of the National Court Office and the power of its President. Thus, the National Court of Justice and the Court's external administration do not exert any pressure on judicial judgment, in any way interfere with judicial independence, on the contrary, they carry out activities which assist and support judicial independence. Just think of the proposals made by the Court of Justice in the course of the legislative process, or even of the fact that the President of the National Court Office is submitting it, more precisely he is drawing up the budget proposal of the courts, and the Government is obliged to submit it to Parliament without change. So the President of the National Court of Justice cannot exert any pressure on the activities of the courts through the budget, and even if I look at the budget, the budget support of the court chapter was about HUF 70 billion in 2010, which increased by more than 50 percent in six years, so now it is more than HUF 100 billion in the budget support of the courts. Obviously, their duties have also increased, but it must be stated that this is a continuous increase, continuing budgetary support from the Parliament, of course, on the proposal of the President of the OBH. So the president of the OBH proposes a budget for the courts. So much for respect for judicial independence and the independence of the judiciary. Effectiveness, efficiency of the judiciary, the effectiveness of the case-law can be well demonstrated in the data that Mrs President has just presented. It is therefore very important that the so-called central judicial region, which is the most overwhelmed, is very simply the courts whose seat is in Budapest, these courts struggled with a multi-annual absence before the laws of the courts which entered into force on 1 January 2012, have been constantly processed by the organization, and I must say now that in many cases some indicators of the central judicial region are better than even the rural courts, or at least as good indicators can be shown by the central region, despite the fact that, of course, cases continue to arrive in the central judicial region in the highest number. The nature of the court's service provider is the next objective of the President of the OBH. [[14.40]] The court is basically not a service organization, we all know that. But voters, or they should be called taxpayers, rightly expect any public organisation to carry out activities in their interest. In the sense that justice is provided by the court, but the nature of the service provider can be confirmed by the court by making it easier for clients to access, for example, judicial data. This is obviously ensured by a number of electronic data access and data processing, and customers can now access this key information in a number of ways. Of course, in a particular case, in a given procedure, informing and accessing information is a legal issue, so it is primarily a question of lawmaking how they can access it. I think that the court organisation is as much a provider as it is a public authority. Thus, compared to an organisation with a very strong public authority, the court has indeed become a more service provider. Another objective that stood before the president of the OBH is the openness of the courts. It is extremely important that citizens seeking justice see through the functioning of justice; it is extremely important. Obviously, they can start to learn this at the youngest age, learn from citizens what the court is doing, how the judge works. We also have plenty of examples of this in the organisation of the Court's Office. But perhaps even more important, the solutions by which one of the actors of the court organisation tries to explain why the judgments are born will help the courts to be open. This is at least as important, because if the clients do not understand or the broad public does not understand the judicial decision, then they see the courts as if they are operating in an ivory tower. The National Court Office has changed this a lot, and it must change that, obviously, even in the future. It is not primarily the responsibility of the OBH, and it can also be said with regard to the President of the Curia that the public should be given an explanation of why judgments that are in direct conflict with each other are sometimes born at first and second instance. Obviously, lawyers know that this is part of the judicial operation, but the reasons for this, this mechanism, must be explained to the public in order not to disturb the minds, if court decisions are so diverse, so dissociative. In any case, the four objectives set by the president of the OBH, namely judicial independence, efficiency, service character and openness, have been achieved during the reporting period. Dear House, Madam President, I consider that, and this opinion is shared by our group, that the President of the National Court of Justice has legally and at a high level provided for the external administration of the courts. There is nothing more to account for the President of the OBH than to work legally, to fully comply with the laws we have created by the legislative power. Obviously, you can't even account for the fact that you're exercising your legal rights. The reason why the President of the OBH has legal discretion is because the legislator wanted it that way, it can only be called into account by the legislator, the President's legitimate use of all these powers, and the report proves the high standards I have said. Madam President, It's true that your activities are halfway through now. It is therefore appropriate to note, and I have already pointed out that, as there were no legal charges against you, there was no evidence of any accusations against you. In recent years, many criticisms have been given to your integrity, your personal independence, but they cannot refer to any evidence of this, which has always been only a statement of preconceptions and various conspiracy theories. So the President, halfway through her term of office, fully demonstrated that it was a good decision from the Parliament to elect the President of the OBH's Hando Fairy. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2016-12-06-87	Thank you very much, Congressman Répássy Róbert. I now give the floor to Mr Gergely Bárándy, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2016-12-06-88	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Madam President, Allow me, Madam President, as a Member - and I feel obliged to do so - to express a personal criticism; it is either your fault or not, but please pay attention to this in the future. Ten years ago, I don't remember having to suspend Parliament's work because of a reportable absence, especially for an hour and a half. If this is your fault, then you should consider, if not, please make sure that this does not happen in the future, because I believe that an official elected by Parliament must, in particular, guard the authority of the Parliament and take this into account. As far as merit is concerned, on behalf of myself and my faction when negotiating the court report, I would like to thank the nearly 3,000 judges, as well as the thousands of law enforcement employees who have helped them in their work, for doing outstanding work for the unworthy little salary. It is at least as important that, despite all attempts at external influence, they have maintained their independence, which is particularly remarkable today. I regard this not as the result of the OBH, honourable Members, as Mr Répássy indicated in his previous speech, but as the merit of the 3,000 judges who retained it. I don't think it has much to do with OBH and his activities. The main reason I highlight this is that today it is perhaps the only supposedly independent centre of power within the Hungarian state order, which is practically that. Since, of course, the report by the president of the OBH is the subject of our agenda today, I would like to focus on this in particular. I will also have a number of negative, critical comments, but I would also like to highlight some positive ones. I would also like to point out as positive what Madam President has, and I always say, about two-thirds of her time, three-quarters of her speech, and with which Congressman Répássy began to place a serious emphasis on the timeliness and retention of it. This is undoubtedly a result of the OBH, which has certainly succeeded. I also note that, without debating the importance of maintaining timeliness, I cannot, in many cases, feel that I have a very statistical attitude represented by the President. I have said this many times, and I have to say it now; though in this, I can honestly say that I see a slight shift. Perhaps I have seen a certain shift in the past few days. At the meeting of the Judicial Committee, the President also said a sentence that hit my ears very hard, and I also pointed out that the judges could now focus on the quality of the case by getting rid of the backlogs. I think I'm quoting it correctly. I find this sentence extremely unfortunate, because I believe that a judge, regardless of the amount of the burden of the case, must focus primarily on qualitative judgement and then take into account the aspects of timeliness. The best I can say is that both at the same time, but at the expense of quality, the pursuit of timeliness cannot be done, that is for sure. That is what this sentence, which the President said there, means. However, and I have underlined this somewhere in my notes, I am very pleased that Madam President seems to have moved on this opinion, because when she presented her report, she said that timeliness should not be at the expense of quality. Well, I fully agree with the President on this, and I hope that this was not just a quoted sentence, but indeed, if you will, also reflect a certain kind of change of attitude with you. [[14.50]] To be honest, both should be taken into account and one should not be at the expense of the other, especially at the expense of quality, to maintain timeliness. The other thing I would like to highlight as a positive is the opinion of legislation. Here, too, I think that the work of the OBH is very, very positive, and that it pays attention to making serious and professional proposals on the table, and I am experiencing this at the committee meeting, especially at the meeting of the Judicial Committee. I hope that the President and the OBH will be able to continue this work in a similar way. I am also pleased if it was only at the level of reference, but now also at the Parliament and therefore also at the opposition groups, as I understand it correctly, that the President thanked her for her contribution, because here at the committee meeting it was only towards the government, because not only the pro-government but also the opposition factions really pay attention to supporting the proposals of either the Curia or the OBH, even if the government does not support it. More than once, we have put forward proposals for a single OBH as our own proposal, with which we have otherwise agreed. I would also like to point out as a positive point to the position of the OBH in relation to administrative courts, although, let me say, rather a kind of disagreement with ours, I feel that neither one of us says that administrative courts, as an independent form of organisation, can have no right to exist, but we also said and say that the OBH does not say that in the form that the government intended it to do so. Obviously, I can speak more forcefully; we do not want a Fidesz party court, we do not want people who are not judges, but who come from the administration, and who fill this task in a quick change. We do not think this is good, we do not consider it acceptable, and we are pleased that the OBH is in this same position. On the subject of renovations and other improvements, I must say, Madam President, and here we are on the verge of being positive and negative, that there is nothing special about this, so that is the job of the OBH, which is its natural task. It can't be the 19th. To maintain centuries-old relations, if the building is crumbling, it must be renewed, and this was renewed by the organization when the OIT was operating, it was the same when the courts were operating in the way that the Minister of Justice was ordered to do, and it is still happening, so I would not account for this as a strange result, and I consider this to be a natural thing. However, I would like to turn to the concerns and the problems, some of which are for you, Madam President, and some of which are for the government through your report. There are serious concerns, Madam President, about your appointment practice; this is not a recent criticism; it is unfortunately necessary to repeat it every year. I believe that we can consider this to be wrong and even incompatible with the rule of law, i.e. the right of the President of the OBH to declare judicial and judicial management applications ineffective. That is where Congressman Répássy referred to why I am at the expense of the President, because this is a legislative option. Yes, honourable Member, it is indeed an opportunity, and the existence of a legislative option is certainly not the fault of the President, but as we have talked so many times about it in various public and non-public forums, it is possible to use it, but it is not mandatory. We asked the President not to live with this, and the President often not only lives, but, in my view, is already taking advantage of this opportunity, because it is a trend that, in cases where you do not have an appropriate or desirable candidate as a winner in one of the top management positions, you will declare this proposal ineffective, moreover, without justification, and instead on the basis of a mandate, you will appoint someone who pleases you more. You know, Madam President, that this problem is considered by the opposition parties, at least the MSZP and Jobbik fractions, which represent 90 percent of it, to be such a serious problem that any two-thirds support for this amendment will be made in the judicial field. The President once told me that he could not resolve the call for proposals in such a way that he would display and impose the relevant conditionality. I understand and even accept this argument, which is why we have recommended so many times, most recently at the Justice Committee of the past few days, to the President, myself, several times in person, in order to change the regulation as a way of making the possibility of declaring inefficiencies much more freely at the time of the announcement. So far, every time I suggested it, you've never given me a meaningful answer, maybe now. So, this is what we have to offer, and we would guarantee two thirds, and I think that the President would be able to convince the Fidesz without any problems to support it. I'm asking you to be a partner in this matter. Speaking of appointing practice and the 2015 report, this was discussed at the meeting of the Judicial Committee, because this is only the nature of Parliament's logic that we are discussing similar issues here. In 2015, you appointed a judge with only three years of judicial experience to the President of the Gyula Tribunal, or a county judge. We haven't had a reasonable explanation for this since, as far as we know, he was closely connected to the OBH during his short career. Is that enough? I'm not discussing the powers of the appointed judge, but let's face it, Madam President, this appointment requires an explanation, which I didn't get at the committee meeting, so I'd like to see you now, if I may. Because if the judge, let's say, had only been a judge for three years, a serious prosecutor, a lawyer, maybe a scientific career, I'd understand that decision. The fact is, however, that this President of the Forensics got out of the university, became a writer, a secretary after having passed the exam, then a judge appointed for a limited period of three years, and when he was appointed for an indefinite period, even the ink did not dry, he immediately became a forensic president; he was not a court-martial, but a court-martial president. I don't think there could have been any more suitable candidates in the entire county of Peace, but I'll tell you again, I'll be waiting for the President's reasons why she is. I would note here that precisely because of such cases, it would be appropriate to meet the need for judges, but especially the careers of court leaders, to be made available on the OBH website. If the Curia could solve this, i.e. they didn't see any legal obstacles, then maybe the OBH wouldn't see it either. For example, you can see what extraordinary career, apart from its close relationship with the OBH, justified the appointment of a judge in the first half of his 30s to the head of a county court. Let's just stick to the promotion exercise for a little while, and then we'll switch to, let's just say, dirty money. That's the rumor, and I told you this at the committee meeting, but unfortunately I didn't get an answer, that if an OBH secretary is applying for a job, it's hardly worth applying for it. The thing is not that the secretary is applying directly from the OBH, but before it goes to a district court or tribunal for two or three months, and formally starts as their candidate, so it doesn't reflect badly on the OBH, even though he worked 90-95 percent of his secretary's career, let's say. So there's a little trick in the process, a little twist, of course, if that's true. I ask whether that's true, I hear that from everywhere, because if it's true, it's worse than that, because then we're dealing with a premeditated mechanism, not just plain, quote, protectionism. Then what you hear from almost every judge when you talk to them, that they've grown tremendously and their administrative burdens grow year after year. However, I do not think that this alone will help the quality of judgment, because, of course, education, participation in a working group can bring such positive results, but the criticism is that statistics, data sheets, training, working groups, working groups, even the energies of judge judges are tied down, so even the energies of non-administration, but also the energies of professional leaders, that there is significantly less time for judgment work than would be ideal, as would be the right one. [[15.00]] There's almost no judge who won't complain about it, at least that's all I've ever met, let me put it this way. The other is such a serious problem, and I would like to turn a little bit to the sentences addressed to the government - of course I would like to do the same with the President - this is the right salary for judges. The President said in her report that stable careers, respect for justice employees and judges are extremely important, even quoted Andor Juhász. Seems to have gotten to a lot of us, obviously through the press, that's the goods-filling example. If it's a better alternative for a forensic employee to be a customer in Tesco or any other chain of stores, then there's a huge problem in the system. The right salary for judges, for example, for constitutional judges, is not just an income issue, everyone is speaking about it as an element of judicial independence, and this is an evidence, honourable Members, that I believe I do not have to explain or prove in this round. The fact is, there hasn't been a salary increase in this sector since 2003. And now they want three times five percent salary increase, extended for several years, and then they want to spot the eyes of judges and law enforcement employees. Amazing and shameful, fellow Members. And I am now addressing this mainly to the Secretary of State and through him to the government. [[Dr. Pál Völner: There's an OBH report, just a heads up, Congressman.]] Dear Secretary of State, I think that the OBH's report involves the salary of the judges quite organically, let's leave it at that. So organically, Mr Secretary of State, that Madam President has also spoken about it for quite a long time, so I think she considers this important in her own report, too. Of course, everyone knows that Viktor Orbán hates the judiciary. It's okay - it's not okay, it's okay, it's okay, we all know that. This may be the only sector where it has no influence on decisions today, and I hope it will not be in the future, and it will be difficult to bear it. But I believe that it is Madam President's responsibility to make the Prime Minister understand better. He hates it, he hates it, but I believe that the independence of justice, at least you obviously value it. I ask Madam President to have a little more influence on the Prime Minister to change that position. Everyone knows it's not up to the Minister of Justice, it's up to the Prime Minister. This is not a budget line, honourable Members. Every day, every week, the various interests of Lőrinc Mészáros and Antal Rogán will receive more. How much is that a year? A HUF 5-10 billion is about it. And that would mean a very significant raise. This is a matter of will, honourable Members, not an option. Five percent equals zero in this case. After thirteen years when a penny, one percent salary increase was not granted to the judiciary and the judicial staff, it is not possible to raise 5%. I would like to stress that this is not only about the salaries of judges, but also of those who have a salary linked to the salaries of judges. I'm talking practically about the law enforcement staff. Is it normal for anyone in this country to think that the judges - that is to say, people who, in good times, become judges in three or four years, have graduated from law school - will have to carve something on their salary because if they were to receive only 40 percent of the initial judicial salary, as the law says today, it would not be the minimum wage? Mr. Secretary, don't you find this shameful? Do you consider it reasonable that the salary of a court writer under today's rules would not reach the minimum wage set by you if you did not correct it? And you think it's normal - and I'll come back here again - for a forensic employee - who, by the way, the President said exactly well and correctly what responsible work they do - to be a loader, an auxiliary worker, because there she makes more money than she does as a judicial employee? That is precisely so, Mr State Secretary, this is a concrete example that Madam President has spoken about. There's a reason we're talking about uploading, because six people left at once, and a whole sector is empty. And it can also be approached from the point of view of whether it is a normal judicial salary, a honourable Parliament, where 40 percent of a judicial salary is below the minimum wage. Is that a judge's salary? Is that really a guarantee of independence? Is this one of the pillars of the judicial independence that Madam President has been talking about? What was your reaction to that, the first? Secretary of State Mr Völner, not as a member of the government, but as a representative, submitted a motion that would have practically separated the wages of the judicial staff from the judges, so it would not have been defined as a percentage of it, but would have been linked to other public sector employees' wages. That's amazing for two reasons, as far as I'm concerned. One is that court civil servants are far from making as much money as other civil servants working in the public administration. On the other hand, a serious percentage of a judicial salary is so small that it does not otherwise reach the wages of even physical employees in the public sector. Wherever you look at it, honourable Secretary of State, in the European Union, Hungarian judicial salaries are in the last place. If you were to carry out a 40 percent wage increase, which would make this sector, the judiciary and perhaps the employees relatively satisfied - shame that we are here, but would be relatively satisfied - then we would reach happy Romania, they would earn as much as the Romanian judges would. That's where we'd get with a 40-percent raise. In other words, today they make 40 percent worse than their Romanian colleagues. And to add to the trouble, Mr. Secretary of State, at least your proposal, despite all our concerns in principle, would have been good to prevent as a fire extinguisher, let's say, as of 1 January, the mass exodus of judicial staff, because that is about the atmosphere in the courts today. And what happens? On the basis of a proposal from my fellow Member Vas, we have removed his hearing from the agenda in the Committee on Justice. I'd like to ask you how this will be resolved by January 1st. For example, Imre Vas promised - and I would very much like it, Mr Congressman, if you would tell us here, in the framework of the report, how you thought this would be settled, because you promised me at the committee meeting that this would happen. Because if I count correctly, the Justice Committee will meet next week at the latest, and next Monday is the last day of Parliament where we vote. The Legislative Committee cannot go through with this proposal. In other words, it's not gonna work out. And tell me, where is the other one that directs it? ! 'Cause I don't see that coming either. If that is not in progress, then we will not vote on it on the 12th. If we do not vote on this on the 12th, Parliament will be able to vote on anything at the earliest in mid-February. How will this be settled by January, Congressman? Tell me! Let's move on briefly to the situation of the secretaries. Madam President, I think that this is once again a shared responsibility for you and the legislator. [[15.10]] The fact that, by the way, an institution designed to be filled for a period of one, two, maximum three years when it was introduced is already the office of secretary, which is now held for 6-8 years by a secretary in many cases, and this is now a practice. You see and know that we need more judges than more secretaries. Nothing shows this better than the transfer of judicial powers from time to time by the legislator into secretary powers, otherwise with your consent. And here we have huge warranty issues. This may save some money, because the secretary's salary, I understand, is 60 percent for the judge, even though it can be saved by some additions, as Madam President said, to the various positions of secretary, but far from enjoying the independence of the judicial staff as an appointed judge. Judicial independence does not apply to him, but not to his decision-making activity, but no longer to his status. It can be moved just as well, it can be treated by a secretary as well as any law enforcement officer. I think that judges should be appointed, that should be the case and that should be the case - of course, if Madam President is proactive in this, we will support this, even in the budget - and not the secretaries. It's gonna be a problem, a problem, and not because of the ability of the secretaries, but because of the status of the secretaries. Or we could create a subjugation status. That's what I suggested. This is not a semantic difference, that I now call him secretary or subjugator, because the vicejudge is a regulated office in the Bsi., while the office regulated in the Lasz. is the secretary. So it's the judge and his independence that he owns, not the law of law enforcement. I see that as a huge problem, too. And finally, ladies and gentlemen, because of the shortness of time, the court system that Mr Répássy mentioned - and this is an interesting situation because we are talking about one, Member. In the OBH report, I also think that today we should not talk about the system of court organisations. Not because it wouldn't be debatable, because I think it is. I think this is not a good system, I think it should be different, but this is a legislative issue. But from time to time, Madam President agrees to praise the new court system. I understand that this is your personal creation and many of your personal creations, Madam President. I think it's terrible, but that doesn't make it appropriate. This is a criticism of an administrative activity, a criticism of Parliament, if you like it, and not an assessment of a structure, a legal structure. But speaking of which, I think it's good, on the one hand. I think that the unbelievable dissatisfaction in the courts is the least of the judges who do not like this system. Seeing the many vacant management posts, the use and existence of the potential for inefficiencies, the unchanged salary for 13 years, the vacant judicial staff status, the decreasing number of applicants for the author, the fluctuations in the OBH, and I might add, it does not convince me that this would be such a good system, apart from all my constitutional reservations about this system. Although it should also be noted that, thanks to God, I consider one or two minor elements to be a constitutional solution, just because about 80 percent of the previous or initial plans were forced by the government to reconstruct this system, it has now become relatively acceptable. And what I can tell you is that everything I've classified is part of the system's fault, part of the administration's fault, together. One more comment in this circle. My fellow Member, Mr Répássy, administration and judgment cannot be separated from each other in a clear way, and I think they have an impact on each other. Very different things, very different things, but very different things. As far as the budget is concerned, I think that we do not need to be hypocritical, we always have been, we have been, we are, we are not, the president of the OBH is not making up a number and he is presenting it, but this is always - formally true, from the time of OIT to today - it works with the government that the president of the OBH or the president of the OIT has previously agreed on this. That's the way it is, so I wouldn't appreciate it the way Congressman Répássy did. Ladies and gentlemen, Madam President, Respected and acknowledged on the basis of the criticisms we have just made, by the way [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] the results of the OBH, the MSZP Group, will not support the report at the time of the vote. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2016-12-06-89	Thank you very much, Congressman Bárándy. I now give the floor to Congressman Csaba Gyüre, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group.
u2016-12-06-90	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Fellow Members! Madam President, First of all, I would like to thank you for the sacrifice that the courts are doing in Hungary, taking into account the judges working there, the secretaries, the authors, the judicial administrators and the officials working there, all of them, because we must commend them all for the sacrifice they are doing. What's the most important thing? What is the most important thing for everyone if we mention the courts? As has already been mentioned by all previous speakers, this is the independence of judges and the guarantee of judicial independence. That is right, my fellow Member Répássy spoke of the fact that, yes, the opposition feared for judicial independence. Indeed, he feared for it, for the government has repeatedly launched a very serious attack in the last six years, six and a half years, in order to eradicate judicial independence. We are very pleased that so far this has not been fundamentally destroyed, and obviously in all areas of power, in executive power, the current government is able to enforce its position. It is very important and the last bastion of the rule of law is indeed the independence of the court and the courts, which, thanks to God, the government has not yet been able to subdue. We considered it very important to preserve independence, and we will keep it in the future. I remember that my fellow Member Gaudi and I made very serious arguments in the previous term in order to do so, and we already stated in the debate on the Fundamental Law that it would be very important to have an independent court at the level of the basic law, i.e. to set the budget for the court at the level of the Fundamental Law. It should not, however, be possible for the government to influence the work of the courts in any form, either in the form of budgetary austerity or, where appropriate, in the form of a budget promise or an increase promise. We wanted to eliminate this at the basic level of the law, but this kind of proposal was on deaf ears at the time. However, we are very pleased that the experiments that have taken place in the last six and a half years have not yet resulted, and obviously the opposition for its part will do everything in its power to keep them from achieving results in Hungary. I would like to say a few words about the President's report, which she has spoken here. He drew our attention to the great results of the decline in cases over two years. He called it very significant. If I remember correctly, this also meant that the number of cases over two years in Hungary was halved. This is indeed very important, and the Movement for Jobbik Hungary also considers the speed of the case, its effectiveness and its rapid completion to be very important, but it does not matter at what cost this conclusion will take place. And what we have here is the fear that in this case, quality is at the expense of quantity, i.e. speed is at the expense of quality. This was usually the case for a period of socialism when quantity was practically much more important than quality. We very much hope that this principle will not prevail in court. Today, the system is that where the case becomes over two years, a monthly report has to be made to the judge, it has to be kept in statistics, it has to be reported. He's got more administrative work than he can practically finish this. The system itself, this system forces the judge to finish it as soon as possible, get it over with, and statistics will show that there is no case beyond two years, and then the second degree organ will solve it. [[15.20]] This is why, in many cases, the evidence is not going to take place in the first instance, the one that should take place because the judge is passing it on, is trying to get rid of it, and since there is also guidance that the second-degree court should not, as far as possible, repeal the case and not reopen it, especially in a case over two years, so that further evidence of the case will be ordered or the evidence will be carried out there. And since there is a two-degree procedural system, a person who will not be right will not be able to appeal, so in this case he or she will, in effect, miss the possibility of redress, and it is true that, in practice, judgment will be two-degree, but still one-degree. I think that in this case it will be a bit at the expense of quality, and with this belief in the rule of law in the injured party will obviously leave a memory and a negative view of the rule of law in Hungary. I therefore think that it is very important here to find a balance in terms of what is more important, the quality of justice, or the absence of cases beyond two years. Madam President has also mentioned the effectiveness of administrative courts. This is another very important area we need to talk about. I am very pleased about that, and thank you, Madam President, and also to the OBH, for the report that we received - I must say, I did not believe at first - on the basis of a proposal to reform the system of administrative courts, and we did not receive it, just the Ministry of Justice. This opinion, drawn up by the National Court Office, was very thorough and very critical in relation to the reform of the system of administrative jurisdiction. In fact, one can only understand it at a later stage, and on the basis of Mrs President's report, I came up with one thing: what we see from the report. We can see from Madam President's report that the new system of administrative justice has worked very well. This is shown by the fact that, as Madam President said, in administrative courts, we are in the second place in Europe to work backlogs, and in terms of effectiveness, we are in the sixth place. I think they're both classy. Therefore, I do not understand, and I ask the government why, if this works so well, that Hungary is at the forefront at European level, then why do we need to transform the administrative court structure, why do we need to touch something that works well? I ask the question: if this is what the government wants to destroy, is this what it wants to change, which, according to the President's report, works excellently in Hungary? I think that this is clearly a criticism of the government, and that when the OBH prepared its critical remarks on the new plan, it was primarily designed to protect these judicial achievements, to protect what the courts have achieved. There were very serious critical remarks, which included the fact that whoever invented the idea of this new system is not aware of the current structure, system and functioning of administrative courts. And if someone prepares a proposal without being aware of this system, it will not lead to results, it will not improve the Hungarian justice system. It is no coincidence that opposition parties defended themselves to the point of building a new administrative court system, and that we also hesitated to do so, and all of us rejected it. Fortunately, that's another two-thirds of the law that the majority of the government can't pass right now. We have considered this bill - which has not come before us in the end - only at proposal level and at five-party negotiations in this regard - an attack on the rule of law and the destruction of judicial independence. We are very pleased that this has not been included to this day, and we hope that this bill will not come before us in the future. Madam President, you mentioned in your report the proportion of appeals, how good this is in Hungary. We're very happy for you. From the statistics obtained, we see that in Hungary 79.5 percent is the proportion of judgments not appealed when the judgment of the first instance becomes final. I think it's a very good song. What does this show us? First of all, it shows that people trust the courts, trust the professionalism, competence, conscience of the courts. Here, too, it is worth looking at the statement and statistics that we received in the report. It is very interesting that there is confidence in rural courts in the first place, while there is no confidence in the metropolitan courts, since the rate of judgments rising at the first instance in the capital courts is only 70 percent and by far 80 percent in the countryside, almost 90 percent in many places. This shows, on the one hand, that they trust the courts and, on the other hand, that they have the respect for the courts that they have failed to destroy in any form over the past period. I think it's a recognition in any way. I would quote Madam President literally in the following thought. If we don't record the best, it's a threat to the rule of law. I took a sentence here; obviously, Madam President, she thought that if one of those who graduated from law school and wanted to be judges, we would not take on the best ones, it would jeopardise the rule of law. I fully agree with this, and I have repeatedly pointed out this when discussing previous reports and the budget law, that if we do not take on the best in Hungary, it will indeed raise very serious problems. It will not raise it in the short term, but in the medium and long term, because if we do not put the best lawyers in independent judges' chairs, we will see that the professional level of Hungarian justice will deteriorate significantly in the near and distant future. I think it is very important to take this warning into account for everyone. It is very important to reduce the file backlog. There were serious results in this. What we see is that the courts, the judges, and the people working in the courts are doing everything they can to reduce the backlog, so that the cases in Hungary are completed quickly, professionally and fairly. If they are doing everything they can and they are expected to keep reducing backlogs, if the closing time is accelerating, they will finish the cases sooner, then this should also be estimated on the other side. My fellow Member Bárándy devoted a large part of his speech to this, and I was also planning to talk about it in my speech. Every time we listen to Madam President, I say this, and I say it in budgetary negotiations, but not only do we say it, but we also put the foot next to it, which is very important in the budget, namely that there is a need for a comprehensive and very urgent wage arrangement in the area of justice. This applies both to courts and prosecutors, but not only to judges and prosecutors, but also to secretaries, authors, administrators, administrators, officials and everyone who works in the area of justice. When the minimum wage is announced in Hungary, and we know that the minimum wage will increase by 15 percent, which will amount to around HUF 127 thousand from 1 January 2017 - which is very good that it will rise like this, there is no problem - but this is the problem with the fact that many court employees who work in the courts with secondary education will unfortunately be close to the minimum wage. Anyone who has worked in the courthouse for 15 to 20 years has done a very serious and responsible job, and it is a shame that he will bring home a minimum wage or a wage close to the minimum wage. Indeed, it will happen that they will go to a loader and go somewhere else. [[15.30]] When an administrator, an administrator, has such a responsibility that if he makes a mistake, then someone who is not free or in prison will be released, but should not, it is true that in a few days they will find out; so they have a responsibility in such matters, doing very, very responsible work. I think that they should not be underestimated, but that they should be valued, and that would be the most material. The same applies to judges. What we see is that we have been saying for more than a decade now that Hungarian judges have been attacking the European Union in terms of wages. At the time that Jobbik Movement for Hungary has submitted its proposal several times during the negotiations of the Budget Act, we proposed a one-off and immediate 30% wage development, which will soon be scarce, because the lag is increasing. We also explained every time we submitted the budget for the relevant year, which concerned the courts, that the 30 per cent wage development was also very minimal. It's very minimal because in this case, we're not moving away from the rallying place, but we're just going to go to a dead race. With Bulgaria and, if I remember correctly, Hungary will be competing with one of the Baltic states, perhaps Lithuania, but it will still remain the last place in terms of wages. Yeah, we heard what the nurses and the rest of them were gonna say. They also had wage development, in many sectors there was wage development. I don't know why justice is an area where there's no wage development. I mean, there's five percent that they got on November 1st, and it's gonna happen in two more steps, maybe five percent, which, I think, is ridiculously small. And I think that if we want to maintain the professional standard that citizens are used to here in Hungary, the professional standard that we expect from the courts, if we expect the independence of judges, when we expect a judge not to take any second job because he is incompatible with his profession, he cannot participate in a lot of things, because his judicial profession prevents him from doing so, and he cannot have any other income except for practically one or two special exceptions, and he only has to live on this salary, then I think we need to appreciate him even more. Indeed, this would ensure what Madam President said about getting the best in here. Yes, let there be a judicial career model that provides the opportunity to predict, in the long term, the judges, the future judges, the graduates of the law university, to calculate what will be there, what will be done in his case, and not to talk about whether they are the hosts in the European Union, and indeed, as has been said, even the Romanian judges make much, much more than they do. So I think it's a cardinal question that needs to be changed. Training. Madam President, she also spoke about training, stressing that the number of training courses has increased steadily from 2012 onwards and that there has been a significant increase. It is clear that statistical data have shown this, although, as I have seen in the report, there is a certain setback in 2015 compared to 2014, so the number of training courses has decreased according to the reports. Also, the quality of training is questionable about the level of these trainings when, in many cases, we talk about self-training courses in court. It may not be wrong, it may not be critical, but if it does not have the right standards, it may even be critical, if it is self-training training, so it is self-educated by a court group, then there may also be a problem. The number of judges is as follows. What we see in the statistical statement is that the number of judges has increased by 0.8 percent over three years. I think that is not much at all, so if so many judges can carry out that activity, then today's number of judges is basically well defined. The problem here is that it is clear from the report that the number of cases has increased by 23 per cent during the same period, so this also means that a judge has to carry out more work by 23 per cent, i.e. almost a quarter. And if the number of cases has increased so much in three years, so much has the work to be done, then what I was talking about just now is that there should be a place to put the wages aside. If we want the same level of professionalism, then obviously this must also be shown in wages. Madam President, you mentioned that there is scope for electronic administration in more and more areas in the court. I think it is very important, and I think that the requirements of the age require this, and I think that the court is also trying to keep up with this set of requirements and is constantly expanding the possibility that there is room for electronic communication and electronic administration in as many areas as possible. It's quite obvious that this is where the future lies. However, I would also like to express some criticism here, which is internal criticism. I hear on many fronts that we do not have the right system in court, when the basic purpose of electronic administration is to speed up administration, to make it faster and simpler. Very often they complain about managers, administrators, judges, secretaries, authors that electronic administration is explicitly slowing down this process. They have very, very many problems with the system, the system administrator, the operation of computers themselves. In many cases, there is a lack of adequate electronic means for judges. Although I have read how many new laptops have been purchased, somewhere they are not distributed properly, but there are also problems. What is most important, however, is that in many cases it is slowing down the possibility of administration. I think that Madam President may need to look into how this works at national level and see what problems there are in electronic administration at local level and what they are. Because in that case, I think that we could improve this electronic administration and avoid the problems that unfortunately arise on a series of occasions. And I hear a lot about these problems, which I don't think will make it to Madam President. It would be nice to look at them, take them into account, and, if possible, to change them. I have also read an interesting statistic in the report, which I am not sure is flattering with regard to the work of the courts, and this is the number and proportion of cases that reach the European Court of Human Rights. His number is not even a very problem, but the ratio in which the European Court of Human Rights gives the citizen, the client, the truth of the courts. The indicator is extremely poor, since there were 44 cases in 2015, 42 of which stopped against the courts, which means 95 percent censure. In general, it was a breach of reasonable procedural time. Yeah, well, these are probably the lingering old cases that have surfaced here. And I was just the one who criticized the speeding up of cases, that it only makes sense if it doesn't go at the expense of quality. Well, we need to find a balance here that I think is not easy to find, but we should do it anyway. As a critic, the Jobbik Movement for Hungary always says what has already been said today, and this is the question of declaring judicial applications ineffective. This is always the case against Madam President, although it is not Madam President's fault, but, as my fellow Member Répássy has already said, this law has been created by the Parliament, the Parliament has made this opportunity, and Madam President is either taking it or not living it. We've seen you take advantage of this opportunity. We, the Movement for Jobbik Hungary, are often referred to as criticism in all cases. In this context, there are also statistics that relate primarily to judicial management applications. [[15.40]] This is where we feel that there is the greatest opportunity for Madam President to live or, if he has the opportunity, to abuse this right. I have not examined these applications, but there have been, statistically, 19 management proposals of which eight have been declared ineffective by the President. The question may then arise as to whether the judges would be so unfit for this position. I think that this is not the case, so there are obviously some doubts, questions, and that is what doesn't make us insecure, but it does push us to the point that there is a place for criticisms that we have to put on this every time. Another criticism mentioned by my fellow Member, Bárándy, who was before me, and said that there is virtually no judge or court worker who would not make that criticism. I also confirm it, and it was also in my notes, namely the increase in administration, the increase in administrative tasks, which in many cases is at the expense of judicial work, so much this administrative work. This, I think, if we go back to the past, even ten years ago, this is a multiplication of the time a judge or an administrator has to devote to this task, and many feel that this is indeed taking time away from actual judicial work, it will make this less effective. I practically didn't meet a judge, a court worker, who wouldn't have said that as a criticism, and wouldn't say that they didn't find it right, and that shouldn't be changed. That is why I propose to Madam President that it is indeed good that we get a great deal of statistics, and it is indeed good that we see into these matters, but somewhere here, too, we need to find the right balance so that this does not go to the detriment of the effectiveness of judicial work; and that judges do not feel that this is an additional burden that seriously hinders their work in many cases. I'd like to talk to you about one more thing, the National Council of Judges, the control of this over presidential activity. This would have some control tasks under the legislation. We have already made serious criticisms at the time when the law was passed, who will be included and how the selection process takes place in the National Judicial Council. We absolutely disagreed with this, and we felt that, in practice, the person who was being controlled had a serious influence on who should be placed in this control power. We did not agree with this, but this is again a failure of the law, and here the majority will can obviously prevail, and therefore the will of Fidesz-KDNP was able to do so, and I cannot blame it in this respect. This is clearly a legislative problem, not an enforcement area. But how right we were, I think it is possible to prove with the numbers, because in 2015 Mrs President's ten recommendations and six instructions were submitted to the OBT, and in all cases when that happened, I understand that OBT agreed with all of them. So he did not express any criticism or opposition, and this is once again inclined to the fact that we were right on this issue, and that we also need to amend legislation. To sum up, I see that there are progress in the judicial area, especially in order to speed up cases. I also believe that judicial independence has been preserved, and I very much hope that this will remain so. I would consider the career model to be very important, and it is also important that the Judicial Life Career Expert Board is in place, which wants to solve these issues. But if he doesn't have government intentions, he won't have the majority of Parliament, if we can get this on our table, we can make it happen, then it's really not gonna be worth anything. On this basis, I think that the Jobbik Movement for Hungary will refrain from adopting this report. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2016-12-06-91	Thank you, Congressman Csaba Gyure. Dear Parliament, Since the other political groups did not have a keynote speaker, we have reached the end of the speaker's speeches. Independent congressman hasn't applied for a statement. We have a two-minute speech. I give the floor to Mr Nándor Gúr, Member, MSZP.
u2016-12-06-92	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Madam President, I'd like to ask you a question and a statement of opinion. Actually, my question is that... although it may not be a question, let's translate the sentence with a point and an exclamation mark at the end. Maybe I shouldn't ask you, but urge you to stand up for the judges, stand up for all the people who work for justice, for their wages, salaries, career model reinforcements. We really do see, we see, we see, and if we do a little research, we find ourselves here in Europe, regardless of whether we are looking at the V4s, but my fellow Member Gergely Bárándy, lead speaker, also said that the catch-up on Romania is already a big task for Hungary in this respect. It is likely that you should be able to take a relatively moderate step in this. The Prime Minister's inhibitions and barriers to this respect should be lifted. I urge you, Madam President, to do what needs to be done in this respect and to achieve what needs to be achieved in order for justice to stand on even stronger piles. Secondly, I would like to mention - and I would rather ask - what is your opinion in this regard, if you are talking about the fact that they are generally improving, processing and judgment decisions are accelerating, that if, let's say, a simple case, it doesn't matter whether there is a 15-20 trial or any other case, they are unable to decide within the framework of a 5- to 6-year-long process. How do you see that? Is that okay? Shouldn't there be some kind of guidance in this regard? Thank you very much. I'm looking forward to your reply.
u2016-12-06-93	Thank you very much, Congressman, notary. Dear Parliament, We now have further speeches from our representatives. First, I give the floor to Congressman Csaba Gyure, Jobbik.
u2016-12-06-94	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. What did not fit into the speech of the speaker, I would like to mention two things, one question being for Madam President. From the report, which I have read quite carefully, I have found an area in which the backlog has increased, and this is the number of first instance enforcement cases, in relation to which Mrs President has a plan on how this will be worked out. That would be the question. Actually, another area I didn't talk about, that's what I wanted to talk about, and that's an opinion of the legislation. My colleague Bárándy praised the work of the OBH in this regard, to which I would like to join. However, I would like to make a criticism of this, but I think that Madam President knows this, and I think that it is not the responsibility of the OBH or its problem; that is that when these opinions are circulated around the country and the courts to the competent judges and colleges, they have very little time to give an opinion. Such was, for example, the request for an opinion on administrative courts, when they arrived at the courts on a three-day deadline of four days during the case-break. Thus, during this period, especially during the judicial break, judges who are fully burdened in their own territory cannot give a serious professional opinion because they do not have the time. But I think that here, when you get it, there's so little time for you to give your opinion on this, not in one of your desk drawers, let's say, for two weeks. I do not think so, I think that there is so little time, but, if possible, this should be changed to give more time to express the professional opinion in these cases. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2016-12-06-95	Thank you very much, Congressman. The next speaker is Mr Gergely Bárándy, MSZP. [[15.50]]
u2016-12-06-96	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, We often encourage the representative of the government to join the debate rather than give an opinion in the closing section. I know this new custom of the government not to speak in such cases, but, ladies and gentlemen, I think that Mr Secretary of State is not here as an honor, but has reason to believe that you have a role in this debate and should speak. Mr. Secretary, speak up, please. I understand you're getting into your phone right now, and that's what you've been doing all along in the debate, and I'm sure it's very interesting what you're reading on it. [[Dr. Pál Völner nods.]] He's nodding, I'm glad it's interesting, but it can be postponed a little later. Believe me, Secretary of State, I do not want to provoke you. I would like to ask you to reflect on the issues that are specifically related to the OBH report, but do not concern the President of the OBH, but the Government. For example, let us first reflect on what will happen with the increase in the wages of the judicial staff, that the proposal you put forward as an individual representative, and, by the way, you and your colleague, your colleague, State Secretary - because you were sitting in a hat in the bench, and instead of you, the Secretary of State was sitting there in your seat - he explained that this is necessary because you want to resolve this problem very quickly. Compared to this, Congressman Vas Imre has removed it from the agenda of the Judicial Committee, and we still do not know what is going on with this proposal, so, Mr Secretary, please respond in this debate to what is going on with your individual MEP's motion. I am asking you this because I once again stress that we have two parliamentary days in total in this session; no, three, sorry, tomorrow's two, where there are only debates, so there is no vote and nothing else that can happen but that we are having this debate on the agendas voted on Monday, and here is not your individual MEP's motion, and we have a parliamentary day on Monday when we are going to vote, but we can only vote on a law that has been negotiated in Parliament. Your proposal did not go through with Parliament's discussion, so we will certainly not be able to vote on this on Monday, but correct me, Mr State Secretary, if I am wrong. And this proposal would have ensured that, by the way, as of 1 January, the salaries of judicial staff would be changed and that they could receive a raise. Congressman Vas Imre, I would like to address you, too, to press a button, and to explain in some way what you did at the Justice Committee meeting, when we asked you why we are taking you off the table, why you are asking me to remove this law from the agenda, and then you said once again that I said the same thing on the bench that you wanted to do differently, but it will be settled until 1 January. What? May one of you please tell me which bill before us is the one in which you intend to settle the wages of the judicial staff from 1 January, which is one of my requests. I would very much ask you to answer that, which is why you are here in this Chamber, and obviously you are not speaking in the air. It affects thousands of people, affects thousands of people, and thousands of people are waiting for what we decide here today or the next few days. You do not believe, fellow Members, you know, you have stopped the parliamentary mediation, but there have been courts - I say this in a little brackets, also critical of the state of development of the IT system - where there were two suitable computers on which you could watch the parliamentary mediation, and they organised a group of groups almost to look at it when it came to your bill. Believe me, these people are extremely interested in whether or not their wages will actually be settled as of 1 January, so I think you can expect so much of an answer to that. The other thing I think is that it is not Madam President who has to answer in the closing words, but for you, and for the judges to expect a normal salary increase. Is it expected that the salaries of the judicial staff will be readjusted to the judges because it will be worth adapting again, or is it really the three times five percent wage increase that you, say, plan for the end of your parliamentary term, in this sphere? It was also in the context of the report that it was intended to provide a source of additional judicial status. I am asking because not only from me, but also from other political parties, as I understand it, but from a very large number of people in the profession, what I have said is critical, I think, if I remember correctly, maybe last year, that the secretaries are doing jobs that should be done by judges, where judicial independence would be a condition in a normal rule of law; the secretaries who are otherwise carrying out quasi-jurisdiction can finally do the same tasks as judges after 6-8 years. Again, this is not an OBH-organization issue, but the responsibility of the government, and that is why I am asking the Secretary of State whether they are planning to increase the number of judges, because these issues, these problems, these criticisms, if you like, can be annihilated, these problems can be solved if they create a judicial status, of course, by creating a budgetary side, so if they give the right money. So, if nothing else, I would ask you to answer these questions from the government side. Thank you very much. [[Nándor Gúr applauds.]]
u2016-12-06-97	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Congressman Robert Répássy, Fidesz.
u2016-12-06-98	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Madam President, I would like to comment on a subject, let us say, on the subject of wages. First of all, for the sake of historical facts or historical - let us be modest - I would like to state, for the sake of historical facts, that the budget proposal of the President of the National Court of Justice contained about 27 percent and more than 27 percent salary increases. So it was the Parliament's decision to change the budget proposal of the President of the National Court of Justice, after all, in three steps, the Parliament decided to increase the salary of three times five percent, but it was not for the president of the OBH to be called into account to fight more for the increase in the wages of the judges, because, as I said, their proposal contained a much bigger step. I would add that I did not agree with the method itself, and I disagreed on behalf of my faction, because there it would have been linked to an increase in average earnings in the national economy, to an automatic salary increase for judges, but this raises a number of problems, at least that it is a matter governed by a fundamental law, but I stress that the OBH's proposal would have included a higher wage increase for judges. As regards the wage increase for judicial staff, and as regards the proposal tabled by my fellow Member, Mr Pál Völner, Secretary of State, I would like to draw the attention of my fellow Members that the salary of judicial staff is rising from 1 January, because the projection fund is rising, as the salaries of judges are rising. The Member, Mr Secretary of State's proposal tried to remedy the problem of the law referring to another law, namely, the public service relationship under which compensation should be paid to judicial staff whose income or salary would remain below public service salaries. [[16.00]] Now, I've made the problem very simple, but that's the point, it's about a pay supplement or a compensation. So it is not that no one in the judicial staff will increase their salary in the future, or even that everyone will increase their salary, but it is about how much their salary will increase compared to those in the public service. So the question here is how much the salary of the judicial staff increases. And, of course, such compensation can be paid afterwards if the Parliament decides to do so later, but I just wanted to state that for the sake of the facts. And a third question is whether, in the last 15 years or so... - Congressman Barándy has marked 2003 when it comes to the fact that the judges have increased their income. [[President Tamás Sneider, Vice-President of the National Assembly.]] First of all, let's go over the generously that you have governed until 2003-2010, so you could have raised the salaries of the judges, but since 2010 there is a significant real wage increase in the salaries of the judges, because the tax deduction has decreased significantly. You know that the salary of the judges, more precisely part of them, belonged to the top key that the government that took office in 2010, so that real wage growth was not only because of this, but also because of the tax relief for children. Obviously, real wages are harder to show than nominal wages, but real wages have increased. It is true that this has happened to everyone, but it cannot be said that there has been no movement of judges. It was the last time the National Assembly decided in 2012, if I remember correctly, that the judicial salary was HUF 391 thousand, and this will be HUF 431 thousand from next year. So that's five percent, and that's what you're gonna find out. Dear House, The issue of wage increases is not as black and white as you claim, and I think it is especially not the President of the OBH that the Parliament has decided to increase the salary of court workers in small steps, but to increase the salary of court workers, so that the country can move forward in all areas, not only in terms of public service workers, but also in respect of court workers. Thank you very much for the floor. [[Applause in the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2016-12-06-99	Welcome, fellow Members. I now give the floor to Congressman Csaba Gyüre.
u2016-12-06-100	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. I would like to respond to my colleague Répássy. I think that the opposition parties are very well aware that we do not need to see the person responsible in the President, for whom wage development does not go through in the way we want it to be done in the courts. We know very well that it is not up to him, because I remember that in all his accounts, when he stood here, he always said that a serious wage development would be needed both for judges and for other court employees, but we do not see the person responsible in him, but we clearly see him in the government, and we see him in the parliamentary majority. I myself have tabled that amendment, I believe, over the last three years, I am sure that it was covered by all the budget laws in which I proposed or suggested 30% with my fellow Member Staudt or before that with my fellow Member Gaudi for the workers. On the other hand, I believe that this was supported by all opposition parties. It is clear that in the period 2010-2014, the two-thirds majority did not want it, and today, fortunately, the Fidesz-KDNP majority did not want this kind of wage development. As regards real wage growth, I read not in the President's current report, but in last year she also specifically mentioned the issue of real wages in the courts. I read the statistics that say that there's almost a 50 percent decrease in real wages for judges. And even if we deduct from this the difference that Mr Répássy mentioned, which we take into account because of the reduced rate of tax, we should also see that there is a minimum of 30 percent real wage reduction for judges over the last 10-15 years, which, I think, is a very serious number, if not 47-48 percent, but 30 percent. I would also like to say that it is very good, that the Jobbik Movement for Hungary supports all kinds of child benefits, tax benefits, which apply to children, and we fully agree that this has been introduced in Hungary, but we also need to see, in this report we have also seen the Korph as well. We see that today, in the case of women, I remember that the average age is between 45 and 50 years old, and if I remember correctly, about 69 percent of the judges are women, and only 31 percent are men, or maybe less than that; 45 to 50 years of age is no longer a child discount. So the majority of judges, we have to see, can no longer avail themselves of this child benefit. So I think that it should not be taken into account, as Mr Répássy himself said, that this kind of discount applies in other areas. And the judges didn't have wage development, and we don't want to iron it on the President, but we want to iron it on the government first, and we said that today we will take every opportunity to say so. Today we have a court, an OBH debate, and we are going to say it here, and obviously this is not about the President, but it is primarily about the government. I'd like to remember two more things. I also saw in the report the extra education. A lot of judges have extra education, so two degrees, three degrees, or more degrees, if any. A lot of people went to different law schools, and we see that in the statement. This is very welcome, because if a judge acquires a higher education degree in other fields, it will certainly increase his professionalism, professional experience and professional competence, so this is certainly good and commendable, but the question is behind him whether this is appreciated, so whether this applies also in the wage. I've heard the opposite news about different parts of the country. There are counties where this is taken into account, some counties where this is not taken into account. I think that either this extra education or language extra education should be taken into account everywhere. I have said this before, years ago, and I think there is an improvement in this, because it has been introduced in many places, but I understand that it is not everywhere. It would be good to manage this in a uniform way and to provide these additional benefits everywhere, which can be given in relation to extra education. I would like to draw attention to one more problem, which, I think, is not primarily addressed to the President, but to the legislator, and that is the question of tenders and tenders. The judges are very often critical of the stated aspects of the applications, namely that if a court secretary does the work that they trust in the courts with a sacrifice, then unfortunately, there will be no time for him to do scientific work, to have publications, to appear in a series of journals. What you need to see is that if you work your 8-10 hours in court, you don't have time, you have the energy to deal with them. At a time when this will be an advantage when assessing a proposal, compared to someone who may work 8-10 hours a day, who adds his professionalism and all his knowledge to it, and who will not be the judge, it is questionable whether professional competence or other aspects will decide on the applications. The same is true when one judge would ask for a transfer to another place, because something happened to him that he got married, got married, moved to another place, family problems, then, I think that the one who was already appointed for an indefinite period should enjoy an advantage, rather than be classified in the same way, and who, in the case of a publication, will enjoy an advantage over someone who has a serious professional past of up to 10 to 20 years. [[16.10]] This should be changed, but I think it is once again a matter of legislative intent, and this should be changed by the Parliament. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2016-12-06-101	Thank you. I now give the floor to Congressman Gergely Bárándy as a normal comment.
u2016-12-06-102	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to respond to Mr Répássy's speech. I fully agree with him; the fact that judges do not receive a normal, evaluable salary increase is not the responsibility of the President, but the personal responsibility of Viktor Orbán, who does not allow a wage increase because he expressly hates the judiciary. It's the truth. All I said to Madam President was that I asked her to be given many criticisms when you were appointed, Madam President, that you had an extremely good relationship with the Prime Minister. That's why I thought, and I think now, that I think that a person should have been appointed the number one head of the court who doesn't have such a connection to the head of the executive power. That's how it was. Your appointment, your election has been made. But if that's the case, if that's the case, then I've asked you so much, and in that respect I'm only asking you to use your good relationship now, and at least that's for the benefit of the judiciary, that you have such a trust and relationship, that you try to get the Prime Minister to understand the matter of pay. That's why I came to you. I see your responsibility in this circle. Obviously, you're being supported by the judiciary, the judiciary, so you're behind it, that's for sure. That is all I have asked of you; but as far as responsibility is concerned, I fully share Mr Répássy's position as the Prime Minister's sole responsibility. I can be very brief with regard to the real wage reduction, because my fellow Member, Gyure, has said what I would have liked. It is true that this has happened and that this is in measure and measure that the OBH can demonstrate. We do not need to produce any independent statistics or reasoning in this regard, but we simply have to rely on what the judiciary itself has established. And if that is the case, then I believe that at least the 2003 level should bring the real wages of judges up to the government with the current increase in salaries. I note that in 2003 too, such a wage increase was necessary because the salary of the judges was so low in comparison with the circumstances at that time, which was shameful. Then we managed to bring it up to a normal level. It would have been good indeed if the next governments had systematically implemented this increase, whether it was a socialist or a fidesz government. I note that this 2003 wage increase was also implemented by the Medgyessy government. But after 13 years, three times five percent is raised, that's amazing. I cannot simply say otherwise in my speech. I don't know what to say, and I don't have much to say, Mr Secretary, that you're still not willing to get into this debate, that you're not saying anything, that you don't have a word for the people we're discussing here. That's nearly 10,000 people. One of the most important tasks of the Justice Department, if you will, is this sector. I do not think it is right that the Minister of Justice, the Minister of Justice, should not give an opinion on this debate. I also say, Mr. Secretary of State, and believe me, in this respect, that you do not misunderstand me about your person, I respect you as a professional, as my colleague, but the minister should sit here. The minister should answer these questions in person now, because he is the number one decision maker in this, except for the Prime Minister. He should be responsible for the discussions he has had with the Prime Minister on these matters. So, ladies and gentlemen, I think that the criticisms relating to wage increases, even if some of them have been able to show a real wage increase, I will note to Mr Répássy once again, just like anywhere else and in any other sector, where, by the way, I say that several times a year, or in the last 13 years, they have received a nominal wage increase, regardless of the value of the judges' salary compared to the level of 2003. I would like to say that not only the judges here, I cannot find a good word for it, because if I said that it was a high salary, it would seem that this is a high salary, it is a high salary compared to the others in the justice sector, but also the wages of employees who receive a certain percentage, a fraction of the judicial salary. So we are not only talking about the judge who receives the salary fund that Congressman Répássy was talking about, but we are also talking about the court author who receives 40 percent of the person who receives it, and we are talking about the descriptive or physical employee who receives an even more modest percentage of the judicial salary. On the basis of this, I think it's obvious and you can see how amazingly bad the problem is. Believe me, this isn't an opposition rubber bone we're thinking about right now, but in every state in the West, they've recognized that the balanced functioning of justice is a state interest that can't be a question of money. In every state, in Hungary, this represents a tiny part of the budget, the overall budget. If I compare this, let's say, whether it's extremely important, don't get the wrong idea, health, police workers' wages or anything else, which is a big system, we'll see that it's tiny, almost nothing in the budget. The numbers, the amounts that we now hold accountable to the government are not visible in the budget with a magnifying glass, but their significance is greater. The balanced functioning of justice, that there should not be fluctuations between people working in justice, but stability, that there should be a career model; that if there is a descriptive person, who is actually a judicial employee, an aide to a judge, who makes a mistake, my fellow Member Gyure has given a good example of this, then someone may be held in prison for another three days without having to or longer if a judicial employee makes a mistake. These people are working with enormous responsibility for an incredible amount of money. I believe the state has a dog's duty to honor this work, and what's more, I have to say, it's worth it. It is also worth honoring this work because I do not want to go to the point of saying, in connection with a judgment in Strasbourg, how much money is to be paid if this work is inadequate, but the mood of society, the sense of security, is fundamentally determined by, say, the litigation between them, how they deal with the course of a criminal case, whether people can trust the courts, whether the courts are otherwise doing good quality work, whether they are doing timely. They are of unheard of importance to the state. There are few areas where such a small investment can achieve such a good result. We are now asking the government for this small investment in order to make the result good, so that those otherwise tried and experienced employees of justice who are now thinking about leaving, stay there, make them stay. It's not gonna be the judges. The judges will stay there. There's gonna be a very small outflow from the courts. There will be a much greater problem with the exodus of judicial staff. And you know what, Mr Secretary, what Madam President said, my fellow Member Gyure has confirmed and you are absolutely right. [[16.20]] Hiring high-quality people into our courts is a fundamental interest. If anything, it will determine the level of justice in the very long term. 'Cause if a graduate student, a college graduate, tells me today that I'm thinking about where I'm supposed to be, you'll see that maybe, maybe if the compensation goes well for you, then the minimum wage will be paid for three years as a court writer. If you look at this, and the same student, say, speaks languages, has already enrolled in a PhD course, has done an Erasmus scholarship, you know what is abroad, and has completed the university with summa cum laude results, then he says that please, I will go to a large international office and I will make an incredible amount of money. There are some students - I know, because I've just finished so recently, although I can now say that I do - who are dedicated to the court and would like to go to court if there is only one way. The public sector will, of course, not be able to offer such a salary as a multi, but decent salary. However, if you see that there is a judicial career that you can go through, and if, say, you reach the level of being President of the Forensic Council, you will receive a decent salary, which in Hungary, even in the public sector, is a high salary, you may prefer to choose this career; because this is a professional challenge for you, and you say that I can support even my family. So, these are the questions that we can answer now, and we can solve very easily if we want to. With this, we can determine the quality of justice for many years and decades. We can determine who will be judges, good quality, smart, well-prepared, talented people, or, if you will, the rest. The other thing I wanted to say and, in this respect, my fellow Member, Mr Gyure, moved me to press a button: he is absolutely right that the system of extra points should be considered. Madam President, I know this is important to you. You know what? Me, too. Because I believe that for a judge in Curia, for example, having a PhD or a habilitation or even an MTA doctor is extremely important. Because there's a judge working on the boundaries of practice and science. In my view, taking a decision on a legal unit is more of a scientific work than a judicial practice, and we agree. But that's not true in a court of law. And there, it's more of an exercise that has to be decisive. Therefore, I say that I can even accept that he should learn what was there, and after a two-year judicial exercise, someone should be appointed to the Curia for a legal unit council with a judge for two years, but otherwise a university professor and one of the most respected in the profession. 'Cause that's the kind of work you have to do there. There, it's incredibly valuable that you have scientific work or publications. I also note that it will be maximized, if I remember correctly, in two publications, so even if there are more than two publications, a judge will receive the same number of points, if I remember correctly or correctly. Again, I say it's silly, because two publications aren't so difficult to arrange. If someone has a little affinity for it, they'll write it quickly. But creating a serious scientific background, let's say, with dozens of publications, foreign language, foreign journals, that's different. It already reflects a scientific career, a scientific orientation; it is not that someone gathered it this way, because they had two acquaintances in different scientific journals. I know it's the way it is. I can see it. This system of criteria and this system of points, I think, should be reviewed. And while it is possible to attach significantly less importance to such a aspect in district courts or tribunals, whether it is a foreign lecture of a scientific or a different nature, or something like that, as we go up in the hierarchy in the courts, to attach increasing importance to it. This is worth considering, and I say it in this debate and not in another, because I believe that it is not worth amending to the legislator without consulting and agreeing with the OBH. In this, I think it would be necessary to consult, and indeed there would be a need for changes, even if, by the way, I can fundamentally agree with the fact that these aspects have come into the system. Thank you very much.
u2016-12-06-103	Thank you. I ask my fellow Members if anyone else would like to comment on the item on the agenda. [[No one's reporting.]] I don't see a candidate. The joint general debate is therefore closed. I will ask President Tünde Hando if she wishes to respond to what has been said. [[Dr. Fae Hando: Yes.]] It says yes. You have the floor.
u2016-12-06-104	Dear Parliament, Mr. Vice President, Thank you very much for your attention, and thank you very much for the recognition that court workers and judges have received from you. Believe me, the people working in the court organization want to do their job as responsibly as possible, in accordance with their vows. As far as concrete points are concerned, these have been raised several times, in several places, as a question from Members of Parliament. The answers to many things are in this 250 - page account, by the way. We will find the opportunity to answer every single question that has been formulated as a question. I would like to highlight some of these, which may be recurring questions. One of them is the application system, the questions concerning management applications, and one of the Members here also pointed out that there were eight unsuccessful applications. It was one for which there was no candidate, and in the case of four applications, the judicial opinion body did not support applicants in the appropriate proportion. I would like to add the other Member's point of view as to how it is possible to have leaders in the court's organization with less judicial practice. Well, because it's about a leader who needs to manage, including building maintenance, economic and financial issues, and a completely different kind of skills and competences in a position like a judge, where we really need multi-annual practice. So, with a chief of staff, a head of college, there are very different expectations or abilities in today's world than they were five or ten years ago, because we have so many demands not only from the Members, but also from the society around us, the media, the competition sphere, the complexity of the cases themselves, that we do need leaders who, as a small manager, can solve the operation of the system at all. I fully agree with the fact that I could do nothing other than 20 years of judicial practice, ten years of presidential practice, and stand by the breast width in order to reduce administrative burdens. But someone has to gather the legislative opinions, sum them up, the checks that ensure timeliness, quality, be done, the trainings have to be organised. Unfortunately, it means that today's leaders have to do much more than they did five years ago, especially ten years ago. Someone's got to do this job. That is why it is important that judicial staff, judges, and executives, in particular, as well as in the private sector or in the public sphere, are respected. So let's have the opportunity not to have one or two candidates apply for a leadership position. This is not just about the 130 top-level leaders, it is about the 600 behind them, because it is important to know that there are 750 leaders in this organization, from the President of the Council to the President of the Court. It is important that as many people apply to these places as possible, and there will always be people who will not win the tender. [[16.30]] I fully agree with the fact that we need resources and help to prepare for leadership, methods, possible leaders, and in the same way that this has started in the public sector, or I could even mention the Ministry of the Interior, where a very systematic system has been established for the preparation of non-leaders, and we need resources and help to have such systems; just as we need these statistics not to be produced manually in a stone era, but to have electronic applications in the courts so that everything is done electronically, so that we have to bring in a data once and then in a variety of arrangements for anyone who has the right, a president, an OBH, but on request, even parliamentary representatives, we can produce it. We are in this direction, which is why I referred to the plane, that if we have already taken off and the Hungarian justice system is on its way up, then we must keep this direction. So we certainly need support from all areas in order to solve these problems, or to be able to work better and better, and to make workers more satisfied inside and to see the future. As has been repeatedly referred to, needs and expectations are of a nature that can extinguish each other, if they are realised, or, as has been said, the right balance must be found. This is the case with regard to the timing, quality, which is why we announced as a strategic goal in 2012 that "efficient justice": timeliness and quality. They must go hand in hand, and we are aware of that, and we are trying to ensure that this balance is achieved in the court body in respect of these two values. Similarly, it is important to maintain a balance with regard to the competence of judges, and we ourselves have been in constant consultation with the Ministry of Justice for two years or perhaps more, in order to modify the point system, namely, to give much greater recognition to the time of case law, but also to ensure that the openness of the course remains, so that time spent in court is not only taken into account. If we really want them to be good judges and not just privileged people to enter the Curia, then we need to create a sufficient number of opportunities for judges to speak languages in lower-level courts and tribunals who have a second degree, whether they have a PhD or a second degree. So we also need to ensure with leadership support that we give court secretaries, the judges, a chance to show themselves in other competitions, such as judgmental activity itself. If I may say, it is true that in the case of judicial applications, I have declared a judicial tender to be ineffective because I have seen that this equal opportunity has not been granted to a secretary within the court organisation, where appropriate. So there were people who could comment on legislation because they could work close to the head of the college, and someone else who, I wouldn't say the name of the small town where he worked as a court secretary, didn't have such opportunities. If he has the opportunity, but he doesn't perform well, of course, there are consequences; but if he doesn't have the option, then the burden of that can't be passed on to the court secretary. With regard to the number of judges, I think it is also important to say in this place, because, of course, this is also the case in the court organisation, and who were members of the National Judicial Council at the time, you may have heard that the greatest struggle was to have more judges in one court. But I apologize, let's go see Denmark. 5 million people with 350 judges, 10 million of us with 3,000 judges. Of course, there are many different types of cases in our courtroom, but hold on. Do we really want a judge to take care of everything? Now I'm going to give you a health example: do you really have to give all the injections to the professor? Not necessarily. So the important thing is that we have gone in this direction, because we can be so effective because the judge has to do the hard work, the hard work, and if there are substantial helpers or people who can handle less complicated matters, they can and are willing to do it. We, too, would support the establishment of the Vice-President's institution, because the disstintion should be maintained. For the time being, we still have one basic law obligation, since the Fundamental Law only names court secretaries. Of course, because of the changed procedural rules, it would also be worth creating different job names and other statuses in the court organisation, which is what we are working on. And it must be remembered that the court alone has a minimum age. So the young person gets out of the university at the age of 23 and then has to spend at least seven years to submit his application at all, because in 30 years there can be no competition. There is a very short life in front of a judge, after which he will have to give a fixed-term test to see if he is fit for this position in order to receive the lifelong appointment. It's hard to keep and bring these young people into the organization, because that's exactly the age of 27-33 when you have to start a family. I myself know rural court secretaries who have spent ten years in the organization, who have the knowledge to represent the entire court organisation in serious legislative amendment negotiations, and I do not mention the maximum recognition of the representatives of such great professional orders, that they could at any time be a judge, even a court leader, because we rely on them, not only me, but others, but also, there are opportunities, job vacancies that do not allow them to move forward as judges, but they should be created in a different way, I agree. However, I would warn against putting a judge next to each case, because that would be an extraordinary waste, and even more so, we would have little opportunity to finally raise a larger proportion of the court's wages, because the more people we are, the more scarce those resources could be. Thank you very much for the suggestions, we will be able to answer the specific questions as well. I ask the Members of this House, of course, to take seriously what we ask, what we ask, and to trust us, we are for you. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-12-06-105	Thank you. I will ask Congressman Vas Imre if he wishes to comment. [[On Dr. Vas Imre's signal:]] It says yes. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2016-12-06-106	Thank you very much for the floor. My colleague Bárándy must have missed T/13159. Bill No. 1; for better identification: tomorrow at 15:00, the Legislative Committee will discuss it with a derogation from house rules. If the bill is 51. Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr [[16.40]] We do not want to stop at this bill, we will put forward another bill. Of course, I understand the problem of my fellow Member, Barándy, because they were the ones who, let's say, if we had already moved on to judicial salaries, charged around half of the judicial salaries with 36 percent personal income tax, and when, if I remember correctly, we stopped the two-key personal income tax from 1 January 2012, it was you who opposed it, because it was the public sector, so it also significantly affected the salaries of judges, because I say that about half of their salary fell into the 36 percent personal income tax rate, and now it falls into a 15 percent personal income tax rate. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: Yet they were satisfied then, and now they are not!]] When they were on the government, they didn't do anything to raise the judges' salary, and I get it, he's trying to do something about it now, so I think it's very false. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: Oh, Imre! Let's not do this. It's a shame to argue with you.]] Thank you very much to those who support the adoption of the proposal for a decision; and those who have now declared that they do not will have time to consider before the final vote that this proposal for a decision should be supported. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of Fidesz.]]
u2016-12-06-107	Thank you. The proposal for a decision may be submitted by 16 a.m. on Thursday. Ladies and gentlemen, We have reached the end of the discussion of today's agenda. We will now have one post-scheduled speech during this day. Notary Nándor Gúr has indicated his intention to speak with the title of Water Issues. You have the floor.
u2016-12-06-108	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'd like to split up what I have to say. One relates to the issue of water workers themselves and the other to the processes that take place within the framework of water utility companies. But they both have identities. One is usually the lack of numbers in terms of identity, and the other is the issue of unfairly low salaries, in addition to the shortage of numbers and migrations, which obviously do not arise at random, as a result of emigration and work elsewhere. These salaries are humiliatingly low. It is not random that there are conditions near the strike, there are strike preparation processes also taking place from the National Sectoral Association of Water Trade Unions. It is not random, because if the past period of seven years is now under review, then there are virtually five large companies of the water utility companies, so the range of companies operated by the State was not enriched in the goods either, perhaps in 2014, there was a 2.5 percent wage development, but the lags in wage developments on normal, other similar surfaces resulted in delays of about 25-30 percent. In terms of water, it's about four thousand people who employed me. For two cycles, like I said, their wages froze. Today, it is said that people with secondary education work at the minimum wage level or at the maximum guaranteed minimum wage level, almost without exception. While the monthly gross average in Hungary is roughly 270 thousand, while I now give a good example, not a North-East-Hungarian example, but a good example, which is a North-Transdanubian example, there is 189 thousand gross. Think about what would happen if I gave an example in northeast Hungary. In today's situation, 52 percent of workers in the North-Transdanubian water sector, in this case, have a minimum wage. What's next year? Pretty much, I'm telling you, 70 percent of them are going to work for minimum wage, regardless of their secondary education. Ten years ago, the fluctuations were 1-2 percent, and now we have to face 15-20 percent fluctuations. There have been negotiations on a career model, but they've drowned. The Minister of the Interior said that there is no money for 2017; it can be arranged so easily. I think that we need more responsibility than that, not enough for a multitude of defence equipment, where appropriate for its modernness, they also need to be operated, they need people, they need to be valued. With regard to water utility providers, I would also like to mention one aspect of the current situation. There are 41 such operators, five state-owned companies, and the rest are run by municipalities. In particular, where local authorities operate these services, there is absolutely no financial cover for it, not even for wage financing, but for other things. The biggest problem can be due to the fact that a public utility tax has been imposed and think about it, for example, in a complexly disadvantaged area, where the service of a formidable number of small settlements and few consumers is being served, how much worse the position is than, say, here in Budapest, where the nature of the service has been concentrated. In practice, these companies are not able to generate profits, but are not able to pay supervisory fees or fees resulting from various audits. It is worth considering the type of assistance the government is providing here. Let's say, those that would represent a net minimum wage of at least 100,000 forints in terms of wages, and, if we were talking about water, for example, would include water in the basic food category in the context of VAT reductions. And my final point, Mr President, is that it is worth taking into account everything that trade unions that make up and send messages on current platforms always say after a day in their process. Mr. President. Thank you very much.
u2016-12-06-109	Thank you. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches after the agenda. Thank you for your work. Parliament will resume its session at 9 a.m. Meeting day's closed. [[Meeting ended at 4:48 p.m.]] Attila Gelencsér s.k. Nándor Gúr s.k.notaryIstván s.k.
