u2016-02-29-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] Ladies and gentlemen, The 4th day of the Spring Session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that you will be able to assist me in the chair of this meeting, Mr Lajos Szűcs and Mr Dezső Szűcs. Welcome to our guests and to all those who monitor our work. Dear Parliament, Speaking in advance of the agenda, András Schiffer, Head of the LMP Group, asked for the title of the Year of Civilisation. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-02-29-1	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Here in this room two weeks ago, the Prime Minister said that the government's great goal of 2016 would be to build a civil arrangement. This sentence was, perhaps, or we can be, the Prime Minister's sentence of what he said in the same Chamber in 2010, when he said that he was declaring a fight against cynicism and nihilism, or what we heard yesterday that Fidesz saved education and health. All I can say is that it is likely that we will have the task of saving education and health from Fidesz. Dear Parliament, The situation is that Viktor Orbán may have been right in what he said in 2009:. Don't look at what I say, but look at what I do. Let's see in a row how the building blocks of this civil arrangement are being built. Over the past few weeks, there have already been scenes of a fidesz press conference, whether we are thinking of a press conference by Mr. Group Leader or Mr. Mayor, when they asked about the Prime Minister's mysterious advisor. Mr. Mayor has given a very clever definition of who this man is, he said that everyone who is not weak can know that in our political community - I mean in Fidesz-KDNP - everyone knows Árpád Habony. The question is, if there is such a mysterious person who obviously has access to all sorts of mysterious information, beyond the fact that we've seen a great video of the party atmosphere in Ibiza, why didn't his national security screening happen? And it may also be a question of how the civil style, Minister, is compatible with the fact that such a mysterious man, whom everyone knows in your political community, can enter the Museum of Fine Arts and bring home paintings for potom money, and that L. Simon and his associates will even change the law for his own sake. Is this part of the bourgeois style, just like Andy Vajna's offshore companies? Minister, does it belong to the bourgeois style, the building blocks of civilization, that the Fidesz youth organization is organizing a wellness pig slaughter, where people from your replacement are beating each other to the brain? Is it possible that the building block of civilization is also when you launch someone in a municipal election, that you are presumably qualified for an "A" in concrete production, and that you will be elected public security councillor of a given county-righted city? Perhaps, Minister, one of the building blocks of civil organisation is that you stand at the institution of the referendum with only one rule: Fidesz; if anyone else goes to the referendum initiative, you will be played with devious tricks, if you do not learn from it, then there will be thugs there. You wouldn't want us to believe that what we saw last Tuesday was shameful, would you, that Fidesz had nothing to do with it? You don't really think anyone's gonna buy the gibberish that the Habony works tried to put together a little late so that the socialists might have wanted to beat themselves up at the Constitutional Street? Let's be clear. The fact that the largest government party has connections to underground elements, thugs, is a high-level national security risk. If something needs to be discussed today, the National Security Committee will explore the relations between the largest governing party and various underworld groups. You want to build a civil arrangement with the people we saw on the Constitution Street, who defended an old woman in a single group of hooligans? Minister, also answer whether the bill tabled today, in which the central bank law is being amended, is part of the civil arrangement. The fact that they create a law that will raise György Matolcsy's salary, where they will make invisible the hundreds of billion-dollar empire that the central bank's foundations have made over the last few years, and in the meantime they have cut through the currency loan victims. There was not enough money to compensate those who have suffered foreign exchange credit - you have argued this as a faction leader - there is no money to raise the wages of educational assistants, social workers, but they are submitting a bill to increase György Matolcsy's salary. Is that what you mean by civil arrangements? They made a clear statement at the Justice Committee meeting today, our anti-corruption package, which would, for example, carry the offshore knights out of the country. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] It's the third time he's been voted off. Thank you very much.
u2016-02-29-2	I give the floor to Minister Antal Rogán. Here you go.
u2016-02-29-3	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Chief of Staff, First, let me express my joy. [[Sallai R. Benedict: Salgótarján.]] that instead of capitalism, the problems of global capitalism, and the world conspiracy that he usually deals with here in this House, he has now dealt with the more tangible subject of civil set-up, although in all likelihood we mean something quite different from what you have in mind. Let me tell you what we think when we talk about this, because I think it's important. By civil setting up, we mean creating and creating a country that is otherwise able to stand economically on its own feet, capable of not being on the IMF's lifeline, on its ventilator, as it was in 2010. This has been the first three years that we have managed to achieve that Hungary has been able to repay its IMF loans, that we have managed to achieve that Hungary has moderated its debt ratio over the past five years so that Hungary's debt ratio has fallen best across the European Union by 8 percent, that, while the Hungarian debt ratio was above the European average, since then the European average has gone up, the Hungarian average has gone down, and thanks to this today the Hungarian debt ratio is below the European average by 11 percent, and only in Hungary has all the countries of the European Union achieved this result, or at least from countries outside the euro area. Ladies and gentlemen, I think that this was the first step in an economically independent country capable of enforcing its own will, which can then turn to strengthening its citizens, by the way. That is why we have always taken the position against your opinion, and we believe that this is also the point of the civil arrangement, that if there is economic growth, we must give back a significant part of the resources to people, and therefore the reduction of personal income tax and the introduction and increase of tax incentives for children. That is why we did this: while 36 percent of the highest personal income tax rate in Hungary five years ago, today it has decreased to 15 percent; I note to you that the EU average is 39 percent. This shows that the citizens of Hungary have been able to keep a good portion of the money they have produced in recent years, when economic growth started, through a reduction in tax rates. That is what we have done in the previous year's budget and in the current budget, and I think that is what we want to do in the future. Strengthening and supporting families is also part of the civil setting. You also argued with this when we did this, because you said that the tax relief for children is not right. We believe that not only is it good, but it has fulfilled its expectations since then, it has remained 1300 billion forints in five years with Hungarian families. We are now talking about the fact that we also made it possible for the lowest wage earners in 2014 to take the tax allowance for children, not even from the tax, but also from the contributions they paid, and we have made it possible for the two children - most of them - to start their tax relief from this year, which we will double in four years, which I think is also a significant result, and will contribute to the strengthening of Hungarian families, and that is what we believe is the essence of the civil set-up. [[13.20]] It is also part of the civil arrangement that, together with employees and employers, we will make Hungary's lowest wage rise. I would like to say with respect to the House that, by the way, the lowest wage in Hungary has increased by one and a half times in five years, which is one of the most serious results in Europe as a whole, honourable Members. This is the essence of the civil arrangement, as is the point of the civil arrangement, that when we took over the steering column, there were 3 million 600 thousand people working in the country, and today there are 4 million 200 thousand people working in the country. [[Intercoms from the LMP benches.]] And I also think that the essence of the civil arrangement is that the 4 million 200 000 workers also contribute to public affairs by paying taxes and thus can enforce their will, because I think that is one of the most important things, my fellow Members. And, finally, it may not be an issue either, and it also belongs to the civil arrangement, that we said that even against multinational companies, who you do not like, we validated the interests of the Hungarian people when we broke down the overhead costs and reduced the rent by 25 percent. We believe that this is a civil arrangement, Mr Honourable Group Leader, and that is what we will always stand for in this House, because that is what we consider important. Thank you very much for your kind attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-02-29-4	A member of the Jobbik Group, Mr Zoltán Magyar, has also applied for a speech before the agenda. The congressman has the floor.
u2016-02-29-5	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Fellow Members! In addition to last week's conflicted referendum initiative, there was another one that should be discussed here in the House. Although the National Election Committee rejected it in the first round, the Curia decided to make sure that the collection of signatures could begin and that there could be a referendum on the privatisation of state lands. But they did everything they could to make sure that one of our last national assets could be sold quietly and under the radar. After all, during the summer holidays the subject was thrown in, and even pretended to have been asked by the farmers themselves, while the Magos members and leaders sitting in your benches put these requests in their mouths. In fact, the Chamber of Agriculture was also mentioned as a real shaper of demand, while its president is also sitting in your ranks, and the entire Joint Chiefs are connected to the Fidesz with a thousand threads. In fact, they went to the point that 10 million Hungarians were not asked the Parliament about their common property, but they did not even allow the commission to negotiate it. However, I think that only the owners of the property of the Hungarian people can decide whether to remain state-owned or to be privatised. Now we have good luck, and we may have a chance, a chance for the people, to make a decision on this matter. That is how the question is, do you agree that the Parliament should legislate on the prohibition of the sale of state-owned land? The Curia, we believe, rightly said: the issue of the Hungarian land is not primarily a budgetary issue. This has created a clearer situation than before. Jobbik strongly believes that under these circumstances, they can no longer continue the auctions. As far as I know, no land leases or land sales contracts have been signed, so we are at the moment after the last, but they can still suspend the process at least until the decision is made, the decision of those whose property this land belongs to. I know this is hard for you to accept, but believe me, this land is not the land of the government, it is not the land of the Fidesz, but it is not even the land of the Ripper family, it is the common property of all of us. We believe that the sale of this property can only be asked by the owners. A valid and effective referendum can not only protect Hungarian national property from your greed, but it can even override your historical crime, because let's face it, the past six months have proved that Jobbik was right in all its fears. What we said six months ago: there is a fear that public lands will be acquired by those with a political background. There was also a lot to hear about: two ministers, four state ministers, a dozen Fidesz representatives and their families were involved, making a lot of money on state land sales. In fact, most of them did not reveal how they bought hundreds of millions of forints worth of land. I know, of course, there's always a friendly loan as an excuse, it's a shame that the local family farmers who took these lands didn't have such friends. It was feared that the capital would acquire these areas. You are constantly communicating that small ones will be supported against the big ones, yet let the facts speak: under your governance, large capital has increased its holdings by 78.8 percent. I'm just talking about the seven biggest interests. In the area of agricultural subsidies, their subsidies increased by 50.6 percent. Is this a policy for small and medium-sized farmers? Mr. Secretary. This is an outrageous situation, and now, with the decision of the Hungarian people, there is a chance to stop it; everyone, not only us, better people, not only the Hungarian people, but also the facts show that this privatisation must be stopped at least until the referendum decision. Or do you think it's normal that, for example, 80 percent of the bidders and winners in Fejér County are not living locally, that in a rural county, the people of Budapest have won the highest number of lands? Or is it normal for land over 300 hectares to account for 43% of the total land sold? We are talking about hundreds of millions of forints worth of land, Mr. Secretary of State. There's no way that honest, locally-living family farmers can buy this. We've heard a lot about foreigners. Prime Minister said that in Hungary foreigners cannot buy a single hectare of agricultural land until he becomes Prime Minister. Let me just give you one example: Manuel Rappo wanted to buy 100 hectares from Somogy County in 2014. At Jobbik's signal, the National Land Fund Management Organization, quite rightly, bought it for the Hungarian State, exercised its pre-emptive right, and now, a year and a half later, the same Italian entrepreneur bought the state land at a cost of HUF 60 million. All in all, Mr State Secretary, I think there is nothing you can do but stop privatisation, and the referendum will be issued one day with the quota referendum to ensure that it is effective. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] And let's save the taxpayers a few hundred million forints. I look forward to your substantive answer. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2016-02-29-6	I give the floor to Secretary of State István Nagy. Here you go.
u2016-02-29-7	Mr President, Dear Parliament, My dear fellow Member, What you have raised and described here has been mixed with a lot of real things and untruths. We need to clear up all the questions you've raised here. I would like to say in advance that if, of course, the Curia decides to hold a referendum on this issue, then this government will, of course, be ahead of it and we will bear its results without further delay. I would like to say to you - and if you had been in the farmers' circles, you would have seen that the more than 100,000 farmers, almost every member of them, agree with this question of land auction. [[Intercoms in the LMP benches.]] That's because they want to get to the ground so they can continue their farming. It is an infinitely false thing to argue and dress a professional question as a political issue, and to give it the mood to get the opinions of those who are not interested in buying the land. [[Noise.]] This is very difficult and can lead to very false results. I must say to you: instead of renting farming, ownership farming is infinitely necessary. And about everything you've listed, let me give you some of the numbers that I need to clarify, because you've announced a lot of false results: 200 496 hectares have been announced, 121 170 hectares, or 60 percent of this has been sold. The number of land sold was 5927 units, the number of customers was 2931. What's the consequence? And I would very much like you to listen, my dear fellow Member. The average number of hectares purchased is 41 hectares per person. Former tenants [[Intercoms in Jobbik's benches.]] 17 percent, about 1735 people became auction winners, and there is still a very important aspect and a very important result: 38 percent of the sales areas, i.e. 38 percent of the sales areas, were successfully bid by farmers under 40 years of age. Therefore, a total of 9700 auctions have taken place, and I would like to tell you that 2365 contracts have been signed by the parties until the end of February 2016, and nearly 4 thousand contracts are expected to be signed to date, so that a large part of the bidding areas will be signed in the coming period. [[13.30]] You say that the Hungarian land is not a budgetary issue. He is right, for the earth is a special creature, the treatment of which is an infinitely important thing. You can't waste it, you can't treat it irresponsiblely. Every time we want to make tenants owners and farmers, that's exactly the responsibility we can justify. In addition, the money received from it, the funds received from it, can again be used to purchase protected areas, to buy land that can increase national wealth. He charged me with taking the land with a political backwind. I think the statistics I've presented will put this thing in a proper place. You are making a very big mistake, and I would like to stress this: you said that when the capital acquired the land, it was based on only two large interests, and that the number of them increased. My dear fellow Member, Hungarian agriculture, the Hungarian land, is not only two interests, but many, many more interests. And we have said that many times from here and from this place, and I would very much like to reiterate it in the interests of Hungarian agriculture: farmers cannot be turned against each other. Just as large farmers, small farmers, growing medium-sized economies are infinitely needed, because with them we can go competitively, it must be the waist. And I think you're the one who needs to know that this is the government that took on a number of conflicts in order to cut back the support of the great estate system and turn the grant rate from 80:20 to 20:80. I believe that this must be taken into account when making different accusations. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-02-29-8	It is now up to the head of the group of the MSZP, Mr József Tóbias, to address current affairs. Here you go.
u2016-02-29-9	Mr. President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The real Hungary decided yesterday: it won the socialist candidate in Salgótarján with a huge advantage. But not simply Zsolt Fekete won, but the Democrats won, in cooperation with the Taryan people. Because every poll is more talkative than what the voters themselves do on a given day. It's called a choice. The results of the election can no longer be taken away. In the last year and a half, the Hungarian Socialist Party and its allies have won a major victory in two interim parliamentary elections and now in a decisive mayor election. These victories, ladies and gentlemen, bear the hope and belief that everyone who wants to replace the Orbán government in Hungary today can see that neither intimidation nor blackmail nor purchase can deter people if they are free to choose their own fate. [[Németh Szilárd István: Let's see the budget!]] I want to thank you for every vote in Taryan. Thank you, because the size of your participation in this proportion indicates, unlike you, that people know exactly what a year's evaluation should have been about, people know exactly what you are doing at the head of the KLIK, and they know exactly what the laws you're submitting are mostly about not their fate, but the concreteization of your power. I am very pleased that so many people have gone to vote, but I call on all the leaders of Fidesz-KDNP to respect the framework of the Fundamental Law and the municipal law. Don't act like you're in the old world giving party orders to mayors and councils from one moment to the next. Admit you've lost. The Salgótaryans have decided and want them to build. They expect the government to expect Zsolt Becsó to help the city in everything. If you are unable to do so, you will be looking for a candidate who will represent the city's interests in 2018. [[The sound system's shutting down.]] I believe that you have all participated in the year-end evaluation, honourable Members. [[Dr. István Nagy's name appears on the display.]] Please, Mr. Secretary, don't tell me what happened yesterday.
u2016-02-29-10	Please turn on the microphone. [[It's happening.]]
u2016-02-29-11	Thank you very much, Mr. President. As we have seen, you attended the Prime Minister's annual speech yesterday and applauded a great deal. It's a shame they didn't talk about it before. You could have told your Prime Minister that, Prime Minister, this is not the Hungary we live in; that you are lost, Prime Minister. He is lost because he is not talking about Hungarian reality, because between Hungarian reality and his speech there was a gap in size. CHAPTER XXI The Prime Minister talks about health in the first century, while everyone knows that health in Hungary is in ruins. Education has collapsed, the administration that you should be managing has been disillusioned. Ladies and gentlemen, Allow me at least one piece of data. There are 276 regions in Europe and four out of the worst 20 are in Hungary. For TV viewers only: we have seven such regions, and four of them are among the 20 poorest regions in Europe. That's what you want to be proud of. Ladies and gentlemen, That's what the Prime Minister was supposed to be talking about. Millions of people were supposed to talk about their everyday life crisis. The Prime Minister, on the other hand, had a historically confusing assessment followed by an even more confusing European evaluation. The Prime Minister became undetected, but the voice of Russia became Hungarian. The Russians, if you hadn't noticed, although they are sometimes very proud of this, have not been our direct ally since 1990, because our direct allies are in Europe, regardless of the content of a Prime Minister's speech, Hungary is still a member of the European Union, and Hungary's security is guaranteed by NATO, the Euroatlantic Alliance.
u2016-02-29-12	Congressman, I'm sorry, you have 30 seconds because the clock was set up when you got your voice back.
u2016-02-29-13	Thank you. Then the last thing I want to say is that the Prime Minister's speech cannot be discussed so long. [[István Szilárd Németh: Pity! The Rules of the House do not allow that.]] It's too bad, let's not discuss this now - you brought the House Rule. Ladies and gentlemen, Because of Fidesz's policy, cooperation in Hungarian society has been infinitely weakened, but I hope that today we all believe that we can experience as a joint success what Saul's son has achieved in the world as a result and success. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] The Oscar Prize - Mr Speaker of the House, I think that's enough - the Oscar Prize is not only a work, but Hungary's success, so I would like to ask that all my fellow Members get to know the film and that all young people in primary school have the opportunity to learn about European successes and international works. Thank you very much.
u2016-02-29-14	I give the floor to Minister Antal Rogán.
u2016-02-29-15	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Chief of Staff, I'm sure we can agree on two things. First of all, in the last part of his statement: on behalf of the government, the Prime Minister congratulated Saul's son on his success in the morning. I think this is indeed the success of everyone, the success of Hungary, and also the success of a new film support system, which you have not supported so much in this House. Let us not forget this, fellow Members. [[An uproar in the ranks of the opposition.]] Because this is a film support system that allows good creators to prevail and, if necessary, to succeed even in Hollywood. The other thing we agree, my honourable fellow Member, is that every election is extremely important, both in 2010 and in 2014; that is why you are in the opposition. And, of course, interim and municipal elections are also important. Salgótarján's citizens, who took part in the parliamentary elections, and I personally thank the government for having complied with his obligation or right, in a sense, from democratic standards, how anyone interprets it, and went to the elections. I think the Socialist Party has been able to keep what it has won in the 2014 municipal elections that were otherwise lost. There's nothing surprising about that in itself. On the other hand, Mr Group Leader, I do not want the citizens of Salgótarján to be in the same position that the country was in with Ferenc Gyurcsány in 2006. 'Cause it's kind of the same thing. In 2006, you tried from the country's budget - how shall I put it? - until we got to the end of the election. [[13.40]] Now we see you're trying to keep an extremely deep silence from a city's budget. Not only did all the municipalities submit their budgets, but they had already accepted their budgets, this was not done by Salgótarján and the Salgótarján representative body alone. It is reported that the government has supported the city of Salgótarján, which was supported by a debt transfer of more than HUF 3 billion between 2010 and 14 and which, by the way, you took over with a positive surplus in 2014, is now said to have a deficit exceeding HUF 1 billion in the budget, and then, I think, the citizens of Salgótarján should also be confronted with this. We should also tell you where the money has gone, Mr. Head of the Group. [[Interviews from the ranks of the MSZP: You did that.]] I think that this will become a very important issue in Salgótarján in the coming months. It is certain that the situation cannot be maintained that you, even in violation of the laws, will not submit the budget in order to prevent voters from being informed of the financial situation of the city you are actually running. We are all curious about this truth, and if that is the case, then I think that the necessary investigations must be carried out, as well as the State Court of Auditors. [[Zoltán Grimlock: Are you threatening me?]] It's like the government office, by the way. [[Big noise, constant interruptions in the ranks of the MSZP.]] Honourable Congressman, This is only so if there is a deficit in the budget.
u2016-02-29-16	Mr. Team Leader!
u2016-02-29-17	If there is no shortage, then there is no problem, then you have spoken the truth to the voters in Salgótarján. This will soon be revealed that the case of Ferenc Gyurcsány exists or something quite different. Then, with which we do not agree at all, Mr Group Leader, I think that the Prime Minister's assessment of his year assessment has been given. I have the conviction, as I said to Mr Schiffer, that the results that the country has achieved in reducing the debt ratio may not be tangible for Hungarian citizens, but an important issue for the country. [[There's always a lot of noise in the lines of the MSZP.]] Because then you won't have to expect it, like at the end of your administration, when you took a month's wage from teachers, a month's pension from pensioners. Ladies and gentlemen, I think it doesn't matter to people that there's a low personal income tax rate, and there's a tax allowance for children that you canceled when you were governed. And it was certainly also important for people to consider the reduction of the rent, and since they saw that you were not a great supporter of this, this is certainly why they did not receive the support of the electorate in 2014. Because they said exactly the same thing they said today, and then an entire country gave an opinion on your words and your judgment. Dear fellow Member, I also think that we do not agree on what was one of the Prime Minister's most important messages about the need for concrete and decisive action in the immigration threat to Hungary. I can see that your party has never been supportive of this in the last year. First, the threat was underestimated and then the government's concrete measures were attacked and drilled here both at home and abroad. I ask you not to underestimate this threat at least in 2016 and not to follow a pro-immigration position, but to look at the interests of the Hungarian people. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-02-29-18	I would like to ask Mr Tobias, Mr. Group leader, because I think that, acting fairly, I have given you half a minute of your time, and I have allowed him to say what he has to say, given that the microphone has been interrupted, so he could not have known exactly how much time there was left; so if the Speaker is able to act fairly, then let me ask you, in exchange for at least as much fairness as possible, that when you are given an answer, you should listen quietly. Just like we're listening to you quietly. But, believe me, that's no small achievement. [[Deterioration in the pro-government benches. Interviews from the ranks of the MSZP.]] So, please, there are two other speakers before the agenda - I won't give you the floor, no matter what you're doing around your microphone. [[Tobias József intervenes.]] - I would like to ask you to maintain order among the Members of the Group behind it. You and your fellow Members would like to listen quietly to what you are being answered while you have been listened to in silence. [[József Tobias: I wouldn't say that.]] But I'd tell you. Listen to her, listen to her and look at her. The thing is, you guys are the only ones who do the scandal in this House all the time, every single time. It's your faction. That's right. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]] And if the faction needs medication, I'd be happy to take care of it. [[There's a lot of noise in the MSZP faction.]] On behalf of Mr Péter Harrach, Head of the KDNP, he applied for a pre-meeting speech.
u2016-02-29-19	Mr President, Dear House, In recent days, public life has been loud with two referendum initiatives. One of them belonged to the government on the mandatory resettlement quota and the other to the MSZP on the free Sunday issue. Let me start with this one. [[Zoltán Lukács: You can use that.]] I agree with the MSZP on two issues, but I agree with the MSZP on the third. So let's start with what we have in common. The law on referendums must be amended, in particular on procedural matters, so that there is no such unworthy situation as we have had in the last few days. We also agree because we are on the same political playing field, and we know these rules of the game, how a political party must find a topic that if it raises it will meet with the support of part of society. That's okay so far. What is it that we disagree on? Asking questions. I was going to ask you if you would agree that we should take away from nearly 200,000 people working in retail for a single day of rest. In other words, we would approach the issue from the employee's side and not from the employer's side, thus strengthening solidarity in society. [[Constant loud noise, interruptions in the lines of the MSZP.]] Not the individual and comfort aspects. There is a country in Europe, not far from where left-wing trade unions joined forces with the Constitutional Court against the initiative of multinational trading companies. After all, this is primarily a social democratic request. Undoubtedly, in the absence of a social democratic party, the Christian social party can do the same. What were the opponents of this question initially alarmed about? Dismissed. On the other hand, the representative of the greatest chain stated that he would not dismiss any man. [[Zoltán Lukács: But he doesn't pay.]] Traffic loss. There was a more than 5% increase in turnover. [[Zoltán Lukács: What is their salary?]] Once again, I would like to mention that we are calling for solidarity when we support this issue. Allow me a few sentences on the government's referendum initiative against a compulsory resettlement quota. This is a very serious question, much more serious than the previous one. It's unfair to take in people we didn't invite in. [[Interventions from the lines of the MSZP: Solidarity, however.]] By the way, they're mostly victims. They need help at home. But why is the West helpless? I'd like to point out two reasons. One of the ideological reasons. By denying traditional European values, one of the most important distinctions between good and bad is lost. Instead, we have the respect for all sorts of different things. Because the other person should be respected, it's obvious. But you don't have to respect all the other man's actions. And the actions of immigrant masses are things that do not deserve respect. The other is the employment and demographic deficit. You have to admit, these masses can't replace any of them. When we call for a referendum as an instrument, we would like to give the government an opportunity, the most democratic institution, to give weight to national aspirations in Europe. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]] [[13.50]]
u2016-02-29-20	Once again, Minister Antal Rogán has the floor.
u2016-02-29-21	Thank you very much. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, let me begin by saying that, in contrast to opposition statements, there have been four issues in the last year that have been launched in the referendum of your political community, namely the left-wing political community, in which, by the way, a full collection of signatures has been carried out, all unsuccessfully. I think that's how you see it. [[Nándor Gúr: The Constitutional Court abolished...]] That your intentions may not always be met by the will of the voters. The other thing I would like to say, ladies and gentlemen, is that neither I nor anyone else is pleased that when the MSZP starts to submit a referendum question to the Election Office, there seems to be always a problem. That's what happened last time, and that's what happened right now. [[An uproar in the ranks of the MSZP. Dr. Tamás Bellozó: Shame on you! Why don't you come over next time?]] Why is that a good question, of course? [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: Bachelors...]] but I think there is one thing that he certainly points out: the referendum law which makes this possible and which is the joint work of this House, I think, in this form, is not an overly successful referendum law. The government's position is that the referendum law must be amended. [[Dr. Tamás Bellozó: Who passed this law?]] However, the government does not wish to do so itself, but we have asked the president of the National Election Committee that the National Election Committee [[Dr. Tamás Harangozó: Kecskemér kale!]] state your proposal on how to change the referendum law, by the way. [[Zoltán Lukács: Last year he wrote it, Toni! The paper's been here since last year!]] The National Election Committee is also an elected body, the delegates of the parties, and I think there is an opportunity for interparty consultation to take place within the framework of the National Election Committee. I sincerely hope that this proposal will be made, and then I would like to ask the opposition parties to support the forthcoming proposal of the National Election Committee. [[Dr. Tamás Harangozó: Don't dictate here, you've failed!]] And I think we're gonna do that job together. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] to amend the referendum law where necessary. As far as the government's referendum initiative is concerned, I would like to inform the House that Prime Minister Viktor Orbán has made this public, that the Government has made the decision at its last meeting to exercise its constitutional right and to initiate a referendum. This referendum initiative is, of course, on the same path as any other proposal, so it will go through the appeal forums and then it will be here, before the Honourable Parliament, where Parliament, my fellow Members here, will take the final decision on the referendum initiative. I would like to inform you why the government, for its part, considers this referendum initiative important. Because we believe that one of the greatest threats for Hungary, and indeed for Europe as a whole, is the compulsory relocation of migrants that have already flowed into Europe and are constantly entering Europe. This is one of the biggest threats for both Hungary and Europe, which I think is that our future, basically our lives and our culture, our religion, can rewrite everything in every form in the European Union and even in Hungary. We believe that there is no other decision to make on such a matter of particular gravity, but only the people, because we are also talking about the lives of future generations. Let us not forget that mass inclusion of migrants is a practice in some countries of Europe, but unfortunately, the diseases of this have also been revealed at the same time. It turned out that where migrants were admitted in bulk, integration was very often unsuccessful, parallel societies were formed, there are no-go in European countries, where the law of the country does not apply, and even European law does not apply in any way. What we consider important in Europe, for example, equality between women and men, respect for women, honourable Members, do not prevail in these no-go zones. We think that the Hungarian people must decide whether they ask for it or not, and unfortunately today in Europe, European leaders do not consider it a democracy issue. Europe's leaders believe that this decision can be made over the heads of people; that it can be forced to distribute millions of people in Europe over the next five to six years, without otherwise being able to give an opinion on it. We do not think so, which is why we think that the mandatory distribution mechanism that starts at the European Union summit at the beginning of March must be decided by the people in Hungary, because it is only the decision of the people to take one position or the other. That is why I ask you to support the referendum initiative when it comes before the Parliament. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-02-29-22	The final word for our speeches before today's agenda will be Mr Lajos Kósa's group leader: "Let's protect Europe! It's an address. Here you go.
u2016-02-29-23	Mr. President. Dear House, First of all, I would like to congratulate László Nemes Jeles and his fellow artists on behalf of Fidesz. [[Applause in the ranks of the governing parties and the MSZP.]] In addition to congratulations, let me express the joy that we are very, very happy that the National Film Fund has wisely supported this film and has contributed as its biggest sponsor to the completion of this film for the benefit of the Hungarian film industry and art. Mr. President. Dear House, Secondly, I would like to congratulate the new socialist mayor elected in the Salgótarján interim election. I wish you every success in your work. I would like to thank all the voters who supported the Fidesz candidate and, of course, look forward to answering the questions that we asked in the interim election. In 2014, the new government started a clean slate with socialist leadership, as Salgótarján's total debt, about HUF 3 billion 200 million, was drawn up by the government in connection with the decision of Parliament and the government, and as all county-owned towns, the socialist-led Salgótarján started with a clean slate without debt. The fact is that there is a budget deficit of HUF 1.2 billion in Salgótarján, this is the responsibility of socialist city management, and we look forward to hearing how they answer the question that we have asked. How could they bring together so much debt in such a short period of time, while other county-righted cities have put forward zero budgets in the current budget debate? We hope that the new socialist leadership will answer these questions and not simply answer that local taxes will be brutally raised. [[Nándor Gúr: Don't finance the mandatory tasks costs!]] Mr. President. Dear House, In the end of the week, a number of interpretations have come to light that do not correspond in any way to the facts and to the legal situation. In this regard, we will again and again state the following: we think that the person who confuses refugees, illegal border crossings, the people who refuse to cooperate with the minimum level of cooperation with the Hungarian and European authorities on the confirmation of identity in connection with registration, but who deliberately confuses them with lies, does nothing but act as an agent of a sly, basically pro-immigration and migrant policy on which we have expressed our views on many occasions, and we are repeating this. It is not the illegal border crossings in themselves, but the politicians who deliberately, knowingly confuse people with different legal status and prevent them from seeing clearly either by the Hungarian electorate or the Europeans. Mr President, Dear fellow Members, Hungary is an open country, it has not closed its borders to the applicants for asylum, and Hungary therefore strictly and consistently adheres to the United Nations Conventions on Asylum. And when someone says how false Fidesz's position is, because he already has 500 refugee rights in Hungary, he simply consciously confuses illegal border crossings with those with refugee status Which, by the way, is completely unfair and lies against them. The situation of illegal border crossings is quite different: they are not cooperating and do not comply with the Dublin conventions which apply to them; however, Hungary consistently respects international law in relation to them in the context of the Dublin Conventions and the Asylum Conventions. And last but not least, it is quite obvious that the question is whether it is possible to take away from Hungary and the Hungarian people, directly and indirectly, to make an opinion about the fact that others want to force people outside the country into Hungary with their mass. [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] We believe that this cannot be taken away, and that is the issue that is to be clarified in the referendum. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[14.00]]
u2016-02-29-24	Dear House, Allow me, on behalf of all of us, to welcome Mr Ryszard Terlecki, vice-president and escort of the Polish seym, who are staying on an official visit to Hungary to be present at the adoption of the decision on the year of Hungarian-Polish solidarity in 2016. The resolution was already adopted by the Polish Senate on 19 February. I wish Mr Vice-President and his delegation successful negotiations and a pleasant stay on behalf of all of us, and thank you for coming. I now give the floor to Minister Antal Rogán.
u2016-02-29-25	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Chief of Staff, He gave the title of Mr Fraction Manager's contribution to protect Europe. If you will allow me, I would also like to respond to what Mr Group Leader has said in this context. Firstly, indeed, immigration, I think that in 2015 it became a real threat that now employs everyone in Europe, every family at European tables, anywhere from Central Europe to Western Europe. This is an unavoidable topic, people feel that a new situation has emerged as a result of modern migration, which could even recreate Europe's image. Last year it was the official data and estimated one and a half million people who practically entered the European Union illegally, of which more than one million people are in Germany today. In Hungary 391 thousand people passed through this period. The Hungarian authorities have been trying to enforce the law and European legislation all along, but this has not always been possible, not all the time, since we have met with explicit resistance when we wanted to enforce these laws. Ladies and gentlemen, The immigration threat has not passed since then, the new year has only been the first two months, but practically 200,000 people have already entered the European Union via the Croatian-Slovenian route, and as spring arrives, it is expected that further pressure will be placed on the southern borders of Hungary and Europe. I would like to add to you that, while this House is in session, some press reports say that the Macedonian-Greece border has actually developed new, almost clashlike phenomena, and that illegal immigrants have practically broken the Greek-Macedonian border; it follows that the danger we are talking about seems to be increasing and increasing. For this reason, the Hungarian Government also made decisive decisions at its last meeting, which Prime Minister informed the public about at his year-end evaluation. First of all, we have strengthened the protection of our southern borders, by which we mean the Serbian and Croatian border sections. On the other hand, the Hungarian government will make preparations in order to continue building the fence at the Romanian-Hungarian border if necessary. Of course, the Minister of the Interior will inform his Romanian colleague about this and will discuss with him what timetable and how we imagine this in the next period. Ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to inform you that the Hungarian Government has made its decision on the referendum initiative because we would like to make it clear that we see that the threat from the south, i.e. the protection of borders, hundreds of thousands of new and new illegal immigrants, and millions of newer illegal immigrants, is now in danger that, from one side, the mandatory redistribution of nearly 1.5 million people into Europe in the minds of European leaders seems to be the only possible solution, and even a particular danger is that Europe's leaders seem to have made a kind of deal with Turkey that hundreds of thousands of people, even half a million, will be accepted annually - and, otherwise, mandatory distribution - among the Member States of the European Union. We believe that this would fundamentally change the image of Europe. It should be added that quota is such a stealthy thing, because for the first time we met a voluntary quota for 40,000 people, of which, as a volunteer, Hungary did not, of course, take part. Then we met a quota of 120 000, now binding, which the European Union's decision-making bodies practically tried to legislate and enforce by circumventing the Lisbon Treaty. This quota has been attacked by the Hungarian government in the relevant European court forums, and Slovakia has practically joined this, and we trust that this illegal procedure will be subsequently annulled in European court forums. On the other hand, however, there is a third step ahead of us: the real mandatory resettlement quota, which is a permanent mechanism for all, which we believe no one else can decide in Europe but the people alone. Because they need to be asked whether they would otherwise like to live with the masses of people of other religions and other cultures; whether they see it as a real danger that in Central Europe, where they are not, there will also be a no-go balcony, and that they may not respect fundamental European values, such as equality between women and men or respect for women. This is why the Hungarian Government has exercised the right to referee, and we hope that the referendum will go there to achieve it in Hungary. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2016-02-29-26	Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches before the agenda. I would like to ask Mr Dezső Liberty to present the speakers who are not on the agenda.
u2016-02-29-27	Dear Parliament, Sándor Bodó, Fidesz; R. Benedek Sallai, LMP; Zoltán Kész, independent; Előd Novák, Jobbik; Mrs Loránt Hegedűs, Jobbik; Sebestyén Vágó, Jobbik; Balázs Ander, Jobbik. On Tuesday's day, the following representatives applied for a speech before the agenda: Mr R. Benedek, Mr LMP; Mr László Lukács, Mr Jobbik; Mr István Hiller, Mr MSZP; Mr Rózsa Hoffmann, Mr KDNP; Mr István Németh, Mr Fidesz. Erzsébet Schmuck, LMP; R. Benedek Sallai, LMP; Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, MSZP; Mihály Witzmann, Fidesz; Nándor Gúr, MSZP. On Wednesday, they applied for a speech after the agenda by President Novák, Jobbik; Zoltán Magyar, Jobbik; Dániel Z. Kárpát, Jobbik.
u2016-02-29-28	Dear House, I would like to inform you that you have received a motion for immunity from two Members of Parliament. Bertalan Tóth, MEP of MSZP, has received a private complaint concerning the immunity of Budapest II. Annex II to Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 is amended in accordance with Annex II to this Regulation. A private complaint was also received from the same district court in the case of immunity by independent Member Lajos Oláh. I've issued these to the immunity committee for examination. The agenda for our meeting starting today is coming up. We shall decide on the agenda, the duration of the meeting, the speaking time limits on the basis of a proposal put forward by the President. Parliamentary resolution on certain house rules 37. Pursuant to Article 1 (1) of the Rules of Procedure, the Parliament shall decide on the time-frame for the negotiation of certain items on the agenda on a proposal from the House Committee. On this basis, the House Committee proposes that the State of Public Education (V/9122). The Parliament will discuss the number 1 proposal in a four-hour time frame. The agenda recommendation shall include a time frame allocation. At the request of the Group of the Fidesz, MSZP, KDNP, Jobbik and LMP, the resolution on individual house rules is 37 Paragraph 4 states that the time frame available to the political group will be doubled in the event of the adoption of a time-frame negotiation. I would like to ask Mr Lajos Szűcs to present the motion to split the time frame.
u2016-02-29-29	Dear Parliament, The proposed four-hour timeframe is divided by the following: 82 minutes for the Fidesz Group, with a doubling of which in total 164 minutes; 46 minutes for the MSZP Group, with a doubling of which it initiated, i.e. a total of 92 minutes; 41 minutes for the Jobbik Group, a total of 82 minutes; 38 minutes for the KDNP Group, a total of 76 minutes; 24 minutes for the LMP Group, a total of 48 minutes; and 9 minutes for independent Members. The time limits provided for the factions include the 15-15 minutes lead speakers.
u2016-02-29-30	Dear Parliament, Now it's time for the decision. I therefore ask the House whether it agrees that the presentation will be discussed within the time frame presented by the notary and modified on the basis of the request of all the political groups. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The proposal was adopted by 138 votes to 27, with one abstention. [[14.10]] Dear House, Now we're going to decide on house rules. The House Committee, in its derogation from the house rules, initiates Parliament to declare the year of Hungarian-Polish solidarity in 2016: H/9366. In the course of the negotiation of the series of proposals, move away from the house rules in such a way that the final vote can take place today. The proposal for a derogation from house rules was made by H/9366/1. You can get to know him on the website. Dear Parliament, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that in order to derogate from the house rules, four-fifths of the Members present need a vote in favour. So I ask my fellow Members whether they will contribute to the departure from the house rules. Please vote. [[Vote.]] By 170 votes in favour, the House unanimously agreed to a derogation from the house rules. Dear Parliament, At today's meeting of the House Committee, in derogation from the house rule, the National Assembly initiates that the 2013 CLXXVII on transitional and empowering provisions relating to the entry into force of Act V of 2013 on the Civil Code. T/9379. In the course of the negotiation of the No.3 proposal, move away from the house rules in such a way that the final vote can take place on tomorrow's day. T/9379/2 proposed a derogation from the house rules. You can know it on the website. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it agrees to derogate from the house rules. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The House agreed to derogate from the house rules by 170 votes in favour and one vote against. Dear Parliament, The Fidesz Group suggested that T/9379. The final item on the agenda for today's sitting is the consolidated debate on this series of proposals. Anyone who agrees with that, please vote by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] Thank you. I find that the visible majority of this House has accepted the proposal. I would like to inform the House that T/9279. The Commission has withdrawn the number 1 submission in the light of our previous decision. Dear Parliament, Erik Bánki Fideszes, by submitting the necessary number of supporting signatures, initiated an extraordinary procedure for the CXXXIX of 2013 on the National Bank of Hungary. T/9380. Submitted by the European Parliament and the Council pursuant to Article 1 (2) of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011. The Member has initiated the possibility of submitting amendments today until the third day following the decision on the exceptional procedure, the consolidated debate and the decision on the summary amendment proposal and the final vote will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Rule 62 of the House Rules Pursuant to Article 1 (1) of the Act, the Parliament shall decide on the hearing in exceptional proceedings without debate. I would like to draw your attention to the need for a vote in favour of more than half of the Members, that is to say, 100 Members. Now it's time for decision-making. I'm asking you if T/9380 is accepted. Submitted in exceptional proceedings pursuant to the national motion. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The House accepted the hearing of the proposal in exceptional proceedings by 118 votes in favour, 56 against and without abstention. [[Dr. András Schiffer: Shame, shame!]] Dear Parliament, The Fidesz Group suggested that T/9380. The joint debate on the series of proposals will take place as the first item on tomorrow's agenda, and the decisions should start at no earlier than 12:30 a.m. Anyone who agrees with that, please indicate by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] Thank you. I find that the visible majority of this House has accepted the proposal. We are now deciding on a proposal on the agenda put forward by the President. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts the recommendation on the agenda with the amendments adopted above. Please vote by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] Thank you. I declare that the visible majority of Parliament has adopted the agenda. Dear Parliament, The general debate on the presentation of 2016 on the declaration of the year of Hungarian-Polish solidarity. Lászlóné Csúcs is a Polish minority speaker, László Kövér, Lajos Kósa fideszes, József Tóbias MSZP, Gábor Vona Jobbikos, Péter Harrach KDNP, András Schiffer LMP representatives submitted H/9366. Number 2 is available on the Parliament's IT network. I would like to inform you that according to the House Rules adopted, a total of 10 minutes for opening and closing statements, 10 minutes for a statement by the representative of the government, and 10 minutes for speaking by the political groups - I mean by each group - are available. It is not possible to submit an amendment to the proposal and a Commission report. I would like to inform you that the proposal is being discussed as a minority item by the Parliament. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mrs Lászlón Csúcs, Polish minority speaker, the rapporteur of the item on the agenda. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that a total period of 10 minutes is available for your speech in the debate and for the presentation of the possible closing phrase.
u2016-02-29-31	Wysoka Izbo, Szanowni Państwo, Panie Posłanki i Panowie Posłowie! Szanowni Polscy Przyjaciele! Kilka dni temu byliśmy w Warszawie, w Sejmie i w Senacie. I - chociaż nie ma w tym nic zaskakującego - przeżyliśmy nadzwyczaj podnosłe chwile - Panie Posłanki i Panowie Posłowie, nie zważając na przynależność do różnych ugrupowań polytycznych, jednogłośnie przegłosowali uchwałę o ustanowieniu roku 2016 Rakiem Solidarności Polsko - Węgierskiej. A uczynili to powstając zości - cym podkreślili ważność i szczególność tego uroczystego actu. Było to bardzo podnosłe, dziękujemy! Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, Dear Polish Friends! A few days ago, we were in Warsaw, my seymour, and the Senate, and although not surprising, we had an uplifting experience. It has happened that the ladies and gentlemen of the House - they have voted unanimously on the decision on the Polish-Hungarian solidarity year over their daily problems and their party standing aside. Moreover, to highlight the gravity of the decision and the solemnity of the act, they did so with dignity. Well done, thank you. Reasons. The centuries old Hungarian-Polish fate community and friendship XX. It was a centuries-old manifestation of the collective struggle between the two nations against communist dictatorships. The Hungarians and Poles, who were vulnerable to the Soviet Union, humiliated in their national feelings, economically deprived and politically oppressed by the international world order that emerged after the Second World War, opened the way with their actions and sacrifices in 1956, which led to the fall of the communist regime in Central and Eastern Europe by 1989-90 and strengthened the faith of the nations of this region in a fairer international order. In their fight against communism, Hungarians and Poles could only count on their own strength and support. The Poznańi worker uprising, which broke out on 28 June 1956, was closely followed by the Hungarian intellectuals, university youth and the Hungarian labour force demanding reforms. On 23 October 1956 the Hungarian university students left Budapest for the demonstration of solidarity with the Poles, which became a revolution due to the opposition of the communist power and then a war of freedom against the Soviet invaders. [[14.20]] The power of armed popular resistance throughout the world has exposed the lying and repressive communist system that liberates itself. On 24 October 1956, the Polish press kept me informed about the events of the Hungarian Revolution. Tens of thousands of people in Poland volunteered to give blood to the Hungarian wounded, and then they delivered pharmaceuticals and building materials to Budapest. In the difficult situation, Poland provided the most valuable assistance to Hungary in the fight. 1956 opened a new chapter in the history of Hungarian-Polish friendship. The solidarity between the two nations is an exceptional and forward-looking value, so it is justified to declare the 60th anniversary year and 2016 the year of Hungarian-Polish solidarity. I believe that the justification given is convincing with the fact that the historical facts have been drawn up. Perhaps we could say that our millennia of inheritance, many times envied by others, is only being strengthened again. However, if we look around, we can see why we should not see what is happening in our region and in the world. I believe that this declaration of intent on coexistence is a promise or rather a guarantee that we will not give up on the test of time; if necessary, we will also defend it together. And if we do so, we will cultivate a rich, truly worthy friendship and, as I hope, a tradition for our offspring. With these confidence, I ask and propose that the Parliament of my second country vote unanimously in favour of the adoption of the resolution that has been tabled. Thank you for your attention.
u2016-02-29-32	I would like to inform the speaker that she will have 4 minutes to close; she has spent 6 minutes of the time frame. Dear House, I now give the floor to Minister for Foreign Affairs Péter Szijjártó, who wishes to speak on behalf of the government, also within a maximum timeframe of 10 minutes. Here you go.
u2016-02-29-33	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, The Government of Hungary welcomes the submission of a parliamentary resolution proposal declaring the year of Hungarian-Polish solidarity in 2016, and of course supports and even asks for its adoption. Ladies and gentlemen, The friendship between Hungary and Poland, the Hungarian and Polish peoples across several historical ages, is a uniquely strong friendship in European comparison. The two peoples have already provided mutual support for each other in the 18th century. and the 19th. During the wars and revolutions of the century, they mutually accepted and sheltered each other's rebels when the great power overcame the desire for freedom. Ladies and gentlemen, The centuries-old Hungarian-Polish fate community and friendship are truly XX. It was a century-old manifestation of the heroic and joint struggle between the two peoples against the communist dictatorship, the communist dictatorships. With their heroic struggle, the peoples of Hungary and Poland opened the way in 1956, which finally led to the fall of communist regimes and communist dictatorships in Central Europe at the end of the eighties, in the early nineties. We Hungarians will never forget that tens of thousands of Polish people gave blood in the autumn of 1956 in order to help the Hungarian wounded of the revolution, and we will never forget that they contributed supplies of pharmaceutical and building materials to the success of the fight against the repressive dictatorship to help the Hungarians fight. Thanks to the tens of thousands of Polish blood taxes, the shipments of pharmaceuticals, the shipments of building materials, Poland has provided the most valuable assistance to Hungary in the struggle in this difficult situation. Ladies and gentlemen, 1956 opened a new chapter in the friendship of Hungary and Poland, the Hungarian and Polish people. And this friendship is not only strong at political level, it exists not only among politicians, but also among the broad sections of society, Hungarian and Polish people. And this year's celebration of the anti-communist uprising in Poznań in June 1956 and the 60th anniversary of our 1956 revolution is of particular importance. The events in Poznań clearly inspired Hungarian freedom fighters; in Poland, they created a broad social cooperation and a broad social movement to help Hungary. Ladies and gentlemen, Today, 60 years later, Hungarian-Polish friendship and Hungarian-Polish solidarity are exactly as current as ever in our common history. Today, Europe, the European Union, and the Hungarian and Polish people, are facing the most serious challenge in the history of the European Union. And so, like so many times in the most difficult periods of our common history, it is essential that we can strengthen our unity and alliance. The Hungarian and Polish are two peoples in which there is a strong need to preserve traditional European values, such as Christian traditions, national identity, mother tongue and the protection of family values. It is therefore obviously not a coincidence that the governments of Hungary and Poland will judge the situation in the same way when the answers to the most important and most serious challenge in the history of the European Union are on the table. Ladies and gentlemen, At this point, thanks must come again, because without Poland's help Hungary would not have been able to stop the flood of modern-day migration at its southern borders. We owe thanks to Poland and, of course, to the Czech Republic and Slovakia for helping us. [[Applause from the benches of the governing parties.]] Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, On this basis, of course, it is not a coincidence, and it is not a coincidence, but it is also justified that our cooperation with Poland and the continuous strengthening of cooperation in Visegrád remain in the focus of the current Hungarian foreign policy. Because that is how we Central Europeans are strong, and more precisely: so, together, we are much stronger than fighting today's challenges separately. In this way, we are constantly developing our economic cooperation, resulting in our trade turnover exceeding EUR 7 billion. In this way we prepare the Hungarian cultural season in Poland. And in this spirit, every year, in the presence of the presidents, we remember the day of Hungarian-Polish friendship. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, We are working to ensure that bilateral, regional and European political cooperation between Hungary and Poland is even more dynamic and more effective. [[14.30]] In Poland, the Senate and Seym decided unanimously to declare 2016 a year of Hungarian-Polish solidarity. I therefore propose, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the Government, that the Parliament adopt a resolution confirming Hungarian-Polish solidarity, which transcends historical times and political trends. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-02-29-34	Thank you, Minister, for your speech. We now have the speeches from our representatives. First, I give the floor to Mr Szilárd Németh, member of the Fidesz faction.
u2016-02-29-35	Thank you very much. Mr. Speaker, Dear Vice President Ryszard Terlecki, Dear Secretary of State Piotr Naimski, Dear, dear Polish Guests! Ladies and gentlemen, The fortress of communism built on oppression and suffering was eventually crushed to dust in 1956. The Hungarian revolution made it clear that communism was doomed to defeat sooner or later, even if it seemed for a long time that this day would never come. However, the Poles, as has been so many times since then, were still ahead of the Hungarians. To the anti-Communist uprising in Poznań in June, the Bolshevik repressive machine responded with the same inhuman brutality as it did just a few months later to the Hungarian revolution. The communists even wanted to exterminate the memory of heroes, the name of Romek Strzałkowski, who was murdered at the age of 13, became a symbol of resistance, was not to be said in Poland as much as in Hungary Péter Mansfeld. The 1956 Revolution was a world historical event that won the recognition of international public opinion, but also established the terror of Communist oppressors. The Polish people did the most for the Hungarian War of Independence, who first sent their relief supplies to Hungary. As a sign of solidarity, they delivered food, clothing and medicine to the Hungarian soil. The inhabitants of Szczecin set a particularly fine example, gave blood, provided relief to the Hungarian patriots. When the reprisals were announced on 10 December 1956, a demonstration of solidarity was held in favour of the Hungarian Revolution and the building of the local Soviet consulate was destroyed that day. It was the only Soviet foreign representation in the entire eastern bloc, which was then trodden and occupied. At the time, in 1956, Szczecin and Csepel were twin cities, even a stamp was issued in the Polish city, with two interwoven hands and the. Szczecin. Later, however, all of this was forgotten, for many of the besiegers were condemned, imprisoned, observed, harassed, intimidated. The Polish and Hungarian comrades listened to us, forged our common history, eliminated the solidarity and fraternity of the two peoples, the two cities from the history book. This was not a coincidence, since 10 December was the first milestone on the path that the fighting Solidarity pursued to win independent Poland in the 1970s and 1980s. Therefore, when we remember the heroes this autumn, on the 60th anniversary of the Revolutionary of 56 we will also think of those who were murdered in Poznań and those who were convicted in Szczecin. Dear Polish Guests! Dear Parliament, The Hungarian and Polish people have never tolerated the prison. If we look at our history a little dark, it's the history of occupations. Annex XVIII to Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 is amended as follows: At the end of the 20th century, a third of Poland and two thirds of Poland were first captured by the great powers, until they finally concluded that the whole of Poland should be removed from the map. Hungary was occupied first by the Turks, then by the Habsburgs, later by the Nazis and finally by the Soviets. The biggest historical crime of Hungarians and Poles was that our countries were in the wrong place. If we look back a little more optimisticly over the last thousand years, and I would suggest this myself, then it is the story of our people's desire for freedom. The Polish state will be 1050 years old in a month and a half, and as far as we Hungarians are concerned, we have been here for some time, and according to the most careful calculations, it will be 1120 years this year, and even though we have been invaded countless times, we have always won. In 1991, 25 years ago, as a historical rhyme for the Visegrád King's meeting in 1335 Hungary and Poland, together with the Czech Republic and Slovakia, co-operated to go shoulder to shoulder towards EU membership. Since then, we have become members of NATO and the EU, and today this region, the area of the Visegrád Four, is the engine of European economic growth. If we do not have economic growth, there is nowhere else in Europe. Therefore, it is no exaggeration to say that the success of the entire European Union in the coming years depends on the success of Central Europe. Polish-Hungarian relations are regarded as a historical alliance, which is a rare treasure, so we treasure it. Our friendship has been for centuries, and we consider one another not only as comrades but also as brothers. Hungary and Poland have two eternal oaks, which have grown a separate strain, but their roots run far underground, are connected, and are invisiblely interlinked, so the existence and strength of one is a condition of the life and health of another. by Stanisław Worcell, comrade and friend of Lajos Kossuth in 1849. So we also understand that we are dependent on each other. For us Hungarians, it is essential that cooperation in Central Europe be as strong as possible, and this cooperation is successful. Poland is helping us today to protect the Schengen border, and we are sharing it with Poland, although it is a huge burden for Poland than it is for us to accept refugees from Ukraine. Poland can count on us, and we know we can count on the Poles. It is not two weeks since the Visegrád Four's joint action has helped to protect the principle that free employment will continue to apply to all its citizens throughout the European Union. We also achieved this together with Poland. Our stand for each other, however, feeds not only on our friendship, but at least on our deep-rooted desire for freedom, our responsibility for the future of Europe. We both believe in a Europe of nations, that Europe can only be strong if it is made up of strong nation states. Not everyone agrees with us on this, especially those whose interests are violated. Four years ago, the Poles believed that through the elected representatives of the Hungarian people, you can decide what values are important to him. As many times in history, the Polish people have expressed their solidarity with the Hungarian people and stood up for the self-determination of the Hungarians, so we now again express our thanks. Those who then attacked Hungary, who then attacked us, now put Poland in the crosshairs. It is important to note that, just as we could count on the Poles four years ago, now the Poles can count on us. Then they're on our side, and now we're on their side. Poland can count on Hungary's solidarity against all double standards, against all injustices. From the beginning, a thousand years of Polish-Hungarian friendship has always been built on solidarity between the two nations. It is not based not only on traditions, it is not only about the glorious past, but we must always fill it with current content, and we must always set our common goals for the future. Our cooperation has always gone beyond itself and has always created great achievements for all of Europe. Europeans are made up of friendships, regional identities, nations, their cooperation. Central European peoples must act together in the development of a vision of Europe, and Polish-Hungarian cooperation is the strongest pillar of this regional cooperation and solidarity. Dear Vice President Ryszard Terlecki, Dear Secretary of State Piotr Naimski, The historic community of Polish people with Hungarians could not be more expressive than the fact that the Sejm passed the resolution before us with a public cry on Friday. Our rules don't allow that, but trust me, if we could, we would do the same. Finally, allow me to interpret Hungarian-Polish friendship in a transcendental framework. [[14.40]] The two peoples, the two nations, are the only people in the world in terms of their view of their homeland as the kingdom of the Virgin Mary. Even our founding King Saint Stephen offered Mary his country, while the Poles believed that their country was governed by the Virgin Mary. So our belongings were made not only on earth but also in heaven. God save the faith and friendship of our nations, God bless the Polish and Hungarian people! Thank you for listening. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2016-02-29-36	Thank you. I now give the floor to the representative of the MSZP, Mr László Kiss. Here you go.
u2016-02-29-37	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Polish Guests, Polish Friends! With regard to national political proposals, we have become accustomed to the fact that we most often have proposals where we can only see the opinion of a party. A very rare moment is the time when all the parties in this House will make joint proposals. It's a moment like this. For this moment, it is certainly good to be a representative. I have to say that all the MEPs and political forces sitting here agree with the content, the aims that are included in the proposal for a resolution, and these are indeed the consensual moments of Hungarian democracy when it can be said that it is a good thing to be a Hungarian parliamentary representative. Too bad there are no more moments like this. It is very good that we have proposals in front of us that make the ethnic minorities living in Hungary more prominently in our legislative activities, increasing the political weight of this country, as this proposal was also made with the Hungarian Polish community behind it. It has to be said that it is a big word that not only Hungarian-Polish relations can be heard in the Hungarian Parliament, but also the Polish people living here! I would like to thank the spokeswoman very much for her excellent service and opportunity in her activities. The friendship between the Polish and the Hungarian people, as many have said, is not a hundred or a thousand years old: since these two countries have existed, since these two peoples are state-makers in history, this friendship has existed. The friendship between the Árpáds and the Piasts was legendary, and if we went through history over the last thousand years, we could see that we could find a moment almost every moment when a Hungarian politician or Hungarian king was given asylum in Poland, in Polish territories, or when the Hungarians could expect to receive them with their mass. There are also many times in history when our Polish friends, our Polish brothers and sisters came here to help us, we can see that Polish arms have increased the strength of our armies in the revolution and freedom struggle of 48-49. These two peoples are intertwined in their fates, joys, sorrows, everyday life. I live in a district - I do not say that I have a constituency, because it has a gap of about 50 meters - where there is also the memorial park of the martyrs of Katyń, where the district regularly commemorates what happened in Katyń. I think it is right that there are such places in Hungary, it is right that we are faced with the mergers and tragedies of our history in this way. If we look back over the past decades, we can see that the Polish people have a key role to play in the most important Hungarian historical events. On 23 October 1956 it began with solidarity with the Polish people. It began with the fact that the Hungarian people could no longer tolerate the treatment of our Polish brothers, the response to the Polish fermentation in 56 and the Polish political processes. This was the reason why demonstrations started in Hungary, and finally the revolution and the fight for freedom itself began. This is also a good indicator of the merger between the two peoples. We cannot thank our Polish friends, our Polish brothers and sisters, the Polish people enough for their help in supporting us during the revolution and the fight for freedom. Imre Pozsgay wrote after 1956 that he was stealing, sneaking close to 1956. I do not agree with Imre Pozsgay; I claim that the foundation of 1956 was, among other things, the collusion and joint operation of the Hungarian-Polish people. The Polish people always knew that the West should be chosen between East and West. He always knew that freedom and servitude should be chosen. He always knew that oppression could be painful, it could take a long time, but it will never be forever, so he must wear it with a straight waist, courage, and faith. The Polish people have always taught us strength, faith and courage. That is why we support the proposal. Thank you for listening.
u2016-02-29-38	Thank you. Now I'm going to give the floor to Jobbik's representatives with the comment that, according to the preliminary application, three will use the time frame. Adam Mirkóczki first. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-02-29-39	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Polish Guests! A lot of people have spoken a lot and a lot of different ways, and we have remembered the greatness and depth of Polish-Hungarian relations. Therefore, in these few minutes, I would like to focus more on the actualities. What and how we should perhaps do so in 2016, in line with today's challenges, in the year of solidarity. I am very pleased that, in the second half of his speech, Minister for Foreign Affairs, he was concerned with the problems and opportunities that are important to both peoples, both countries and even our region, and which, unfortunately, are closely linked to the amazing wave of immigration. Perhaps immigration has given us an excellent example of this, and for the first time, as a result of immigration, we can say for the real purpose and real possibilities of the V4 how and how such a challenge, such a problem, could unite us. Within the V4 the Hungarian and Polish parties may be the flagship of all the values, all the visions we would like to preserve, which I would like to provide to future generations, which have been given at least today. However, it is also visible, and perhaps our responsibility, that it is the responsibility of the current government or governments, if I naturally include the Polish party, not to allow this relationship to be broken. It is clear that some of the leaders of Western Europe, whether in Brussels or in Berlin, are working specifically to take Poland out of the V4 cooperation first, first, to break the Polish-Hungarian axis along which this defence and this close-up, which I believe to be the last immune system of Europe in our region, should definitely weaken this. I am asking both the Hungarian and the Polish parties here and in this way not to give in to any scheming coming from Western Europe, as this is a potential threat. If we cannot cooperate in the future, then, I believe, this is our mission and our minimum goal to protect this region will fail. Therefore, I would like to ask the Hungarian Government, or rather, as an opportunity, that, as the Hungarian and Slovenian governments held a joint government meeting in Slovenia recently, we should try to hold a Polish-Hungarian joint government meeting either in Budapest or in Warsaw. This is what I propose to the Minister of Foreign Affairs and to the members of the government present, because here the indestructible future foundations for this cooperation can be laid, and, of course, not least, economic, commercial, cultural and other further cooperation can be established. But what is a potential threat, and I think we all agree on that, unfortunately, is that those powers of Western Europe, those leaders who view immigration differently, who see the future in a man with a beard dressed like a woman, who, if I may say, want to make a joke, should not give in to their schemings, and we should be prepared in advance for what is expected in this region if we do not succeed in saving this lasting cooperation for the future. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]] [[14.50]]
u2016-02-29-40	Now it's Gregory Wolf's turn. Here you go.
u2016-02-29-41	Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Polish Friends! Allow me to begin by quoting Bálint Homan:. The community of the life fate, geographical position and decisive political problems of the Hungarian and Polish nations necessarily led to the friendly interaction of the two nations and to the analog development of their story. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. This friendship, also mentioned by Bálint Homan, is shown in the proposal for a resolution that we are about to adopt, which, as a matter of fact, we are very happy to support, and we are very pleased that, contrary to the initial plans, this came before the House as an initiative signed by all factions leaders, thus preventing various party political battles and expressing that this declaration really reflects the unity of the Hungarian nation, the unity of parliamentary parties, the unity of factions and the will of the Hungarian nation. I also considered today's speech important because all the friendship that has been shown between the Hungarian and Polish people, a few months ago, I have had the manyth time in person to experience it, and it is really an uplifting feeling when you know not only at word level, you know not only in your thoughts that there is such a bond between the two nations, but you can experience it personally. I wish for everyone to be part of this, because indeed, I myself am under the influence when I think about how unforgettable a few days I spent in Warsaw a few months ago. What I think is important in relation to the relationship between the two nations is that this is not just an economic and political alliance between the Hungarian and the Polish people, we can look at many of our other allies, but here also a spiritual and emotional bond connects the two nations, and this raises the relationship between the Polish and the Hungarian people to a higher level. We are talking about two peoples whose freedom and independence are an important point of reference, an important concept, and looking at the history of the two nations, we can see a number of examples of this, and it is precisely because of this that there is a sense of solidarity at a time when the friendly Polish or the Hungarian nation is in a similar situation when they have to fight for their freedom and independence. I would like to point out that solidarity here is not a passive sentimentalistic sympathy, but an act of compassion. Only XX. Several of the 20th century mentioned the openness of Hungarians to the inclusion of Poles in the Second World War, and the mutual solidarity in connection with the 56th century, so this kind of solidarity was manifested in a number of factual things, and the thing that exists between the two nations. What I would also like to mention in the context of the proposal for a resolution is that I am confident that, in addition to the adoption of such important documents, as many practical factors will strengthen the friendship of the two peoples, the more personal relationships, the more cooperation, the more active political cooperation that we can now see on Europe, the crisis on Europe and the dangers. I wish that this friendship would be strengthened and that it could show itself in as many practical ways as possible. Thank you so much for listening. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik. A rare applause in the ranks of Fidesz.]]
u2016-02-29-42	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr. Tibor Bana, who has two minutes and 50 seconds left. Here you go.
u2016-02-29-43	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Polish Friends! Ladies and gentlemen, I am pleased to be able to comment on this proposal for a resolution, as I have always considered the issue of Polish-Hungarian friendship to be my concern, and I also welcome, like my fellow political groups before me, the fact that this proposal came before the Parliament as an all-party proposal. I can only trust that each political group will support this initiative, and I will even go on, and I very much hope that each Member of Parliament will vote in favour of this proposal, as has been done in my seym. It is important to remember the anniversaries, which, on the one hand, represent the Polish side on 28 June 1956, the anti-Communist workers' uprising in Poznań and, on the other hand, the revolution and the fight for freedom started on 23 October. Even then, the two peoples expressed their solidarity with each other, and it is very important that we do so today, even in 2016. Recently, at the end of January, at the beginning of February, I was at a conference in Warsaw, in a V4 meeting, between the committees dealing with EU affairs, and it was a joy to experience the friendly welcome that surrounded us from the Polish side. In addition, it was very good to see that when I spoke about either the issue of immigration or the reform of the European Union, there was an attitude not only from the Polish side, but also from the Czech and Slovak side, which clearly supported the efforts that we have outlined. It is therefore important to strengthen cooperation between the four Visegrád countries, but I believe that this must be complemented by other countries, particularly Croatia, but at Central European level, I believe that we can find partners either on migration or on the renewal of the European Union, on the agricultural land issue, and we can find many other links if we sit at a negotiating table and consider what our common interests are. I am convinced that together we can act much stronger at EU level, and that if this cooperation is added to the Baltic States, we will also be able to produce meaningful results. I think it is important to note the need to stand up for Poland. The Jobbik Youth Group had an action in this case, and our party also expressed its clear opinion: our Polish friends are being attacked by gender, and we believe that in the same way that we stood by each other 60 years ago, this is still our moral duty. For our part, therefore, we are doing our best in this matter, and you can count on Jobbik's support for further meaningful cooperation, as, of course, in the case of the proposal for a decision on Polish-Hungarian solidarity before us. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik. A rare applause in the ranks of Fidesz.]]
u2016-02-29-44	Thank you very much. Now, on behalf of the LMP Group, I would like to ask Mr István Ikotity to keep his contribution. Here you go.
u2016-02-29-45	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Guests, As Polish revolutionist Stanisław Worcell so movingly and tactfully described in 1849: "Hungary and Poland are two eternal oaks that have grown a separate strain, but their roots run far underground, connected and invisibly interlinked. Therefore, the existence and strength of one is a condition of another's life and health. This eternal friendship in Europe is uniquely recorded in 1997 by the parliament of the two countries, and we commemorate it every year on 23 March. The close Hungarian-Polish relations go back to the Middle Ages, the two royal houses were already connected by a dynastic relationship in the Árpád era. Annex XIV is replaced by the following: In the 18th century, during the reign of King Louis the Great of Anjou, a Persian union gathered the two countries together, and King Louis the Great became his younger daughter and Saint Hedvig became the patron saint of Poland. The Poles still count the Transylvanian prince István Báthory among their greatest rulers, who sat on the Polish throne between 1575 and 1586. ANNEX II Prince Ferenc Rákóczi returned from Polish soil and launched his war of freedom. The Polish freedom hero József Bem was the outstanding general of the Hungarian freedom fight in 1848-49. During the storms of the last century, Hungary helped the Poles against the attacking Soviet-Russian Red Army with 22 million bullets produced in the Weiss Manfred Works in Csepel in 1920, and when Germany in Hitler attacked Poland in 1939, Hungary hosted thousands of Polish refugees. The uprising in Poznań in Poland in 1956, solidarity with the Polish struggle for freedom, played an important role in the ageing of the Hungarian revolution. On 23 October 1956 the assembly was held at the Bem statue in Budapest. The heroic move of the Hungarians and Poles was a demonstration of our protest against the imprisonment of the entire region by our eternal desire for freedom and the violent division of Europe after World War II. The mutual solidarity and assistance shown by our nations in 1956 constitute a special value that we have a duty to remember together. During the regime change, the Polish Solidarity movement served as a model for the Hungarian opposition forces. The two Central European countries became members of NATO and the European Union at the same time, and Warsaw took over the Presidency of the EU in the second half of the year after Hungary in 2011. [[15.00]] But let us also say a few words about the values and challenges of the present. The organisation of the Visegrád Four as a political integration for Central European countries is the most important XX. It's a century legacy. During this decade, our region has once again appreciated, on the one hand, as the eastern border of the EU - we only need to think about the Russian-Ukrainian conflict - and, on the other hand, as the southern eastern border of the EU, which has become the focus of attention in the context of Balkan and migration turbulences. The V4's most important result so far was and remains to alleviate the escalation of the Russian-Ukrainian war. We cannot close our eyes to the fact that the EU Commission has recently launched a rule of law inquiry on the redesign of the Polish Constitutional Court and public media. Unfortunately, we see that public media in our country has now become a loyal server of the party state, quoting the early period of the Kádár era. That is why it is important to raise our voice in time to defend the rule of law of our Polish friends. Finally, let me quote the words of Baron József Eötvös: One lives on memories, and memory lives from the past. Who doesn't have a past, can't have a present or a future. In this spirit, I would like to welcome the year of Hungarian-Polish solidarity on behalf of the LMP. Thank you for your attention.
u2016-02-29-46	Thank you. I now give the floor to Vice-President János Latorcai, representing the Group of the Christian Democratic People's Party.
u2016-02-29-47	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Marshal Ryszard Terlecki, Dear Mr. Piotr Naimski, Dear Polish Guests! Ambassador Lords! Dear fellow Members, The historical pair of stars on the skies of Europe, which, through St. Adalbert in St. Kinga, St. Hedvigen, István Báthory, characterizes the historical history, friendship, and friendship of the Polish and Hungarian peoples to our day. The sacrifice of the Hungarian-Polish Persian Union, the Abbot Bem, Dembinszky and others for Hungarian freedom, the Hungarian help to the Poles after the First World War, the history of the Polish refugees accepted during the Second World War and the Hungarian refugees accepted after the fall of the 1956 revolution is an eternal link in the lives of the two nations. In this friendship, we can hold on to each other in the most difficult times, just like the two oak trees that are intertwined with their roots, roots, and canopy crowns. The soil from which this tree grew is the land of Central Europe, the part of Europe soaked with blood and sweat. In this land we cling to our shared Christian values and national traditions. From here, every day our friendship, based on historical fate and mutual appreciation, has received strength and nourishment, which has developed into a strong oak tree that is constantly generating new drives, resistant to storms of time and history. The fruit of this friendship is also today's proposal for a resolution, which was adopted solemnly and unanimously by the Polish Parliament on Friday. It is fateful that all of this took place between the Memorial Day of the victims of communism in Hungary and the Day of Tomorrow's Condemned Soldiers in Poland. But what is solidarity, my fellow Members, to which today's resolution refers? The sociological definition is that solidarity is a conscious resignation, limiting individual or group interest in order to express compassion within the community or for other communities due to social interdependence. This solidarity is rooted in our past for over a thousand years, and it is shaping the fate of our countries to this day. In our shared history, both the Poles and the Hungarians have repeatedly put the interests of their sibling nation before their own, often spilling their blood for each other. One of the most beautiful XX. The anti-communist uprising in Poznań in June 1956 and the Hungarian Revolution and War of Independence in October and November 1956 are examples of the century. The 100,000 movement in Poznań, the blood-smothering series fire, whose victims we do not know yet, but are made for at least a hundred people, has awakened solidarity with the Poles in our country. During the debates in universities, youth organisations, the Petőfi Circle, this spark ignited the ember of social discontent, which, burning up the repressive communist system, brought about the short but unforgettable 13 days of freedom. But our solidarity, honourable fellow Members, can be grasped not only in an extraordinary event in history, but also in the simplest everyday reality: prosperous cultural and twin city relations, ever closer economic cooperation, tourism brings Polish and Hungarian people closer each year, helping us to live together. The cooperation of the V4 from Polish-Hungarian friendship and solidarity has already become a major factor at European level. We realized that our problems and aspirations shared not only in the past but also in the present. Central European peoples, especially Hungarians and Poles, have paid a lot of blood for freedom, national independence, so that they can go their own way. This region still wants to go its own way today. We want to belong to Europe, a Europe that is proud of its Christian roots, which believes in the diversity of nations instead of the melting pot of multiculturalism; a Europe that is strong enough not to expect help from someone else to solve their own problems, but to be able to overcome them. We Hungarians and Poles have never expected others to act for us in the grip of great powers throughout history. If the revolutionaries of Poznań and Budapest 60 years ago had not thought so, they would return to their homes after the demonstration, and now perhaps no one will remember them. But they dared to trust each other, because they took strength from each other to act. Perhaps this is also the most important message of the year of solidarity: trusting in one another, dare to act with strength from one another. Taking this moment, I thank our Polish friends from here for the initiative and the dignified, unanimous decision by which the year 2016 was declared the year of Polish-Hungarian solidarity, with a special tribute to the events of sixty years ago. Ladies and gentlemen, Our efforts have failed for 60 years, but their spirit has finally triumphed: the Soviet Union has broken down, communism has failed in Europe, but we Hungarians and Poles have stayed here, we have stayed here, we live here in our blood-soaked land, and we go day by day together with strength from the sacrifice of our heroes. God bless Polish-Hungarian friendship, God bless Polish-Hungarian solidarity!
u2016-02-29-48	I now return the floor to Mrs. Lászlón Csúcs, who wishes to give some brief comments on behalf of the authors. Here you go. [[15.10]]
u2016-02-29-49	Mr. Prime Minister, Mr President, Honourable Members, Polish Guests! I am grateful, as a representative of Poland and as a representative of the Polish nationality, for these speeches of unity and friendship. I ask that our unity, our common values, our friendship, and our desires are not to be destroyed, but to be strengthened regardless of party political affiliation. So help us God, and let the proverb be eternal: Polish, Hungarian, two good friends, fight and drink their wine together. Thank you very much.
u2016-02-29-50	Dear Parliament, We are now continuing our work with the decisions on the agenda. Please take your seats and check that your card has been placed in the voting machine. H/9366 on the declaration of the year of Hungarian-Polish solidarity in 2016. Final vote on the proposal for a decision. I would like to remind you that, according to our decision today, the motion was discussed by the Parliament with a derogation from the house rules. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether H/9366 accepts it. A proposal for a decision. Please vote now. [[Vote. The congressmen stand up. Long-lasting, big round of applause.]] I note that, along with the Prime Minister's vote, who indicated that his machine did not work, the House unanimously adopted the proposal for a resolution by 166 votes in favour. [[Zoltán Grumpy and Ágnes Kunhalmi indicate that his machine didn't work.]] By two more votes, so by 168 votes in favour, the House unanimously adopted the proposal for a resolution. Dear Parliament, B/9168/2 put forward by the President B/9168 on the operation of the organisations exercising ownership rights on behalf of the State in 2014, on the evolution of the stock of state assets, on the processes of government wealth management. The negotiating committee shall be invited to take its decision. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the designated Economic Committee is invited by B/9168. for a decision to be taken on this proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I note that the proposal was adopted by 114 votes to 54, with no abstentions. Dear Parliament, In view of the fact that the factions have not proposed exchanges of members from the Commission, no personal decisions will be taken today. There will be a discussion and decision on the immunity of Mr Zoltán Gőgös MSZP representative. The immunity committee is the Budapest II. Annex II to Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 is amended in accordance with Annex II to this Regulation. Court of Justice 11 Bpk.1734/2015/5. H/9393. Mr Zoltán Gőgös presented a proposal for a resolution on his immunity. The Parliament shall decide on this without debate. I will give the floor to Imre Vejkey, Chairman of the Committee on immunity, who intends to justify the committee's proposal orally, within a five-minute time frame.
u2016-02-29-51	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The Budapest II. Annex II to Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 is amended in accordance with Annex II to this Regulation. Court of Justice 11 Bpk.1734/2015/5. In his transcript No. 13, Zoltán Gőgös made a motion to suspend the immunity of the MP on the basis of the complaint by Tamás Sneider. According to Tamás Sneider's report, Zoltán Gőgös made accusations of defamation and defamation on 19 March 2015 in News TV Hungary live. Zoltán Gőgös also stated at his immunity committee meeting on 29 February 2016 that he had never formulated these allegations or slanders before any forum. Following this, the immunity committee discussed the matter at its meeting on 29 February 2016. In the absence of any powers, the immunity committee has not dealt with the criminal evaluation of the act; the practice of maintaining immunity unbroken in private cases seeks to ensure the objective of immunity, the smooth working of Parliament and Members. With 4 yes and 2 non-voting votes, the Committee recommends that the parliamentary representative Zoltán Gőgös should not suspend his immunity in the case in question. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2016-02-29-52	Dear Parliament, Now it's time for the decision. I would like to remind you that the committee has taken a position that the MP's immunity will not be suspended by the Parliament. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the suspension of immunity requires a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it suspends the immunity of Zoltán Gőgös, Member of Parliament. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The House did not suspend the immunity of the Member by 22 votes in favour, 129 against, with one abstention. We now move on to interpellation and immediate questions at 3:16 p.m. Dear Parliament, Tamás Harangozó, a representative of the MSZP, submitted an interpellation to the Prime Minister:. What is your personal responsibility for evacuating and embarrassing the constitutional institution of the referendum? It's an address. On behalf of the Prime Minister, Antal Rogán, the Minister in charge of the Cabinet Office of the Prime Minister, who is responsible and competent according to the subject, responds to the interpellation. Congressman's got the floor.
u2016-02-29-53	Thank you for the floor. Dear Parliament, In March 2007, even as a opposition representative, Viktor Orbán praised the constitutional institution of the referendum as follows:. In a democracy, it is not possible for a government to declare its own programme the only possible way. There's always another way in a democracy when people decide. We will be stronger if the citizens of Hungary are not exposed to the will of power. We expect a joint decision, so that the people can finally decide on the most important issues. In addition, he explained that it is not worth being cunning to public authorities, and it is easier to allow a free flow of referendums, the will of the people. At the time, when Viktor Orbán said these sentences, the Republic of Hungary was a genuine democracy, where it was possible for people to express their views in a referendum. On the contrary, we are living today a world where hired thugs prevent the exercise of the right to a referendum. And to do that, the state agencies are assisting. Does Viktor Orbán still consider himself a Democrat? If so, explain how, after their more than five years of government, Hungary could get there after the adoption of a new constitution by their fellow parties, with a huge majority in Parliament, to stop the Hungarian people from exercising their most fundamental political rights by force. [[Sándor Lezsák, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] You think that's okay. Mr. Secretary? Is this the future you imagined for Hungary? We would like to know what is personally the personal responsibility of Viktor Orbán, as Prime Minister and the leader of the largest governing party, Fidesz, for what happened on 23 February, for evacuating and discrediting the constitutional institution of the referendum. [[15.20]] That is why I am asking you: did Viktor Orbán give an order to physically prevent the submission of the referendum initiative and to deploy thugs? If he did not give such an order, I ask him as party president and Prime Minister: will he investigate the role of Gábor Kubatov, Vice President of Fidesz, Head of Fradi? Why didn't the police do anything, and why didn't the state agencies do anything about the obvious violations? Finally, why has it not been initiated to amend the apparently wrong referendum rules in the last year? Why didn't the government do anything after even the National Election Office indicated the untenable nature of the current system more than six months ago? I'm waiting for your answer.
u2016-02-29-54	Thank you, Congressman. I'll give the floor to Secretary Bence Tuzson.
u2016-02-29-55	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. I listened carefully to his interpellation and the written material. However, I would like to draw your attention to a very important issue, which is, after all, the essence of this interpellation. Here he refers to a date in March 2007, in which he says how great democracy was in Hungary. We are talking about March 2007, six months after people were beaten on 23 October, people were shot out of their eyes and destroyed people's lives. [[An uproar in the pro-government benches. Interviews from the ranks of the MSZP, including Dr. Gergely Bárándy: It was better than what is now.]] It was this great democracy, it was your democracy. To put it mildly, it's strange and rather cynical that you're trying to teach us about democracy. [[What about the bald ones?]] However, our position on this and on the specific issue is very strong. We believe that the culture of respect - and we have been representing it for a long time in Hungary [[Defiance and interrogations from the ranks of the MSZP: Where?]] - The culture of respect must prevail, and that must be supported by everyone. There must be rules in Hungary where everyone is able to enforce their democratic rights and rules where this can be achieved. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: Talk about Hungary, not abroad!]] Accordingly, when such a situation arises, and when, on a number of occasions, although with your participation, there is some kind of trouble surrounding such a case, we must look - so that we can all be satisfied - at what we legislators, we Members of Parliament can do in order to restore order in this respect and to have rules where everyone can enforce their rights fairly. [[Interview from the lines of the MSZP: Examine!]] Accordingly, it is no coincidence that the Prime Minister also initiated the Election Committee's decision on this matter, and that the Election Committee also asked the Parliament to initiate legislation, to give its opinion, and to tell the political parties what their opinion is, and to have legislation in Hungary, which, on the basis of a proposal from the Election Committee, makes rules on the basis of the Parliament's unanimous decision, on the basis of which anyone can enforce their rights. [[Calls from the lines of the MSZP: Why did you have to trust the kopas? Zoltán Grimlock: What about Cubatov? Talk about that.]] Dignity should be mentioned here, and this should be highlighted separately, because when we talk about it, we also need to remember whether, when there are such scenes in the history of democracy, these scenes can be in whose interest. [[Zoltán Haughty interrupts.]] I can safely say, my fellow Members, that it is certainly not for us. [[Defiance in the ranks of the MSZP.]] We are not those who, by the way, take steps that would forge certain things, such as the case of the video of Baja. [[Noise, interruptions in the ranks of the MSZP, including Zoltán Gőgös: Oh, my God!]] It doesn't relate to us how interesting the similarities between the cases are, it doesn't relate to us either. [[Zoltán Grimlock: What about Cubatov?]] Keep that in mind, too. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the age party. Zoltán Grimlock: There's more on the dog!]]
u2016-02-29-56	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. I ask the congressman if he will accept the Secretary of State's answer.
u2016-02-29-57	Thank you very much for the floor. First of all, my first sentence is that Viktor Orbán's cowardice or involvement indicates that he did not dare to answer in person today. [[An uproar in the pro-government benches.]] And you had to listen to this super production by Hungary. By the way, it is understandable, as Viktor Orbán said at the end of the week that 4.8 million of Hungarians no longer have direct experience with the previous system, so now they are giving them such experience. They give them the thugs, give them the police and the authorities to assist, give them the cynical, lying Justice Department, who, by the way, and you, as Fidesz, have done nothing to change this case. And you still have the nerve to tell us things like that here. You are in the lead here, my honourable fellow Member, this is not civil Hungary - I don't know if you were watching on Sunday - what you are doing here. This is not it, fellow Members. This is the introduction of a cowardly, corrupt, authoritarian system. [[Noise and riot in the pro-government benches.]] The Hungarian people - I think they have seen the previous moments here - will not tolerate this. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] At least they could learn from this. Your answer is unacceptable and shameful. Thank you very much.
u2016-02-29-58	Thank you very much. The answer was not accepted by the congressman. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts the Secretary of State's answer. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 98 votes to 45, without abstention. [[Interviews from the ranks of the MSZP: This is an outrage! Congratulations!]] Dear Parliament, Lajos Rig, representative of Jobbik, has submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Human Resources: It's an address. It is for Congressman Lajos Rig.
u2016-02-29-59	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, I would like to have an answer to a question that has raised concerns in hospital directors, since so far they have not received answers to their questions at the appropriate forum. Our country's health system is dying, so it is clear that radical changes are needed. However, the new draft to be presented in March does not seem to be a good solution. Based on this, the government would outsource chronic and nursing beds and place patients in nursing homes. The outsourcing of care classes into the social system is completely understandable, as it carries its function in its name, but the outsourcing of chronic classes is a mistake. Patients on chronic beds need specialist supervision. The majority of hospital directors are opposed to the elimination of chronic sickbeds. If the financing of chronic beds is taken away from hospitals, the active departments of hospitals will be destroyed because they cannot compensate for the shortage they produce. Think about it: it wasn't long ago that the infirmary at Tapolca hospital ceased to exist, despite the protests of the population. Now, not only does the hospital not get back the promised active medical beds, but they'd even take the chronic beds for a change of structure. If you do this restructuring, the function-shifting small hospitals, including Tapolca and Zirc, are doomed to death. Do you think that's normal? After that, we have every right to say that these institutions are no longer hospitals. You're not doing health reform, you're doing hospital destruction. They perform the same thing as their ancestors, Ágnes Horváth and Lajos Molnár. Yes, there is a need for chronic sickbeds, since often the patient's health needs complex hospital care that a nursing home cannot provide. There is a need for change, Mr State Secretary, but such transfers do not solve the problems of Hungarian health care, since they are essentially due to underfunding. So I ask Mr Secretary of State: why does the government want to take measures that make hospitals impossible? Did the government agree on the issue with the relevant health actors? If so, why are you ignoring their views? I'm looking forward to your reply. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-02-29-60	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2016-02-29-61	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Dear House, I find it very strange that you began your speech by saying that the hospital directors had not received an answer. If you had looked more closely at this news that you read and encouraged you to write this interpellation, you would have read in the original news exactly that it was based on the fact that the State Secretary for Health called the hospital directors together and held a meeting with them, where you also suggested how chronic beds could be transferred from the hospital system to the social sector in part, given certain elements. So the hospital directors themselves had the first opportunity to give a professional opinion on this plan. Instead of not listening to them, let alone not being able to tell them, they were the first to hear from the wider public about this proposal by the Secretary of State for Health, precisely so that they could make the first feedback directly. [[15.30]] What we are starting from is, of course, in the interest of patients in this case, because here, before any kind of legislation started, any draft legislation would have been removed from the Ministry or even completed, we thought before we had to implement a system based on the real expectations of society or an amendment. Because there are chronic beds that do not belong to the basic function of the hospital, not the most closely taken hospital tasks, you obviously know such parts of the hospital, we do not claim that all chronic beds are such, but a good part of them is no longer so intensive medical care. On the other hand, it removes hospital doctors from those parts of the hospital where real medical care is needed, and therefore this direction of modification would help to focus health care on its own territory, while at the same time social care should be better displayed where social care is really needed. And even though a department, a department, a few wards, is inside a hospital, but there's actually people in need of social services lying down, and they're covered, it's obviously more justified that they're part of the social services system. This system-wide profile cleaning is therefore important, which strengthens the concentration of healthcare professionals and institutions on patient care, which is also beneficial from the direction of their sector. If you look at the number of hospital beds, whether in general or in relation to chronic beds, what the internal structure is and what it is in Hungary in other OECD countries, then you can see that if you look at the number of hospital beds in a thousand Hungarians, the fifth is in the OECD countries. And in the number of chronic beds we are even further ahead, there are the fourth most chronic beds in Hungary per thousand inhabitants. This means that, given the total number of beds in the hospital, the number of beds in Hungary is twice as large for thousands of people, and for chronic beds the ratio is even higher. So in other countries, there is a much lower rate of chronic beds to patients. It is also important to say that, as a result of the methodological development of recent years, solutions have been described in several chronic diseases and conditions that allow patients to be cared for and cared for in the home environment with the involvement of the participants in primary care and specialised care. This will allow patients to be given chronic care, not away from their families, but in the vicinity of their homes or homes. These patients are exempted from all the inconvenience and patient safety risks associated with long-term hospitalisation. I therefore ask you, Congressman, to approach this, not on the basis of political logic, but on the basis of professional logic, and what is beneficial to hospitals and those who have received it, to support it, and then to present it in a legal form. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2016-02-29-62	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. I'm asking Congressman if he'll accept the Secretary of State's answer.
u2016-02-29-63	Thank you very much. Mr State Secretary, your reply clearly indicated that both hospital destruction and the maximum reduction in bed numbers in health care will be carried out in the same way. Indeed, the hospital directors were convening at regional level, but his request to the convenes was not to ask a question, because they would not get an answer. I've been consulting with hospital directors in my district for the last few weeks, and they all said the same answer that it's harmful to outsource chronic beds. I'm asking you, which one of you is the hospital director who voluntarily agrees to cut his funding, plus take the job away from him. There's no such thing as a hospital director. Over the last few days, government members have received a call from the Independent Health Union to go into health care facilities, see what it's like on the inside. But you're right, don't go, because you're not only bad for staff, you're bad for visitors in a medical facility. [[Delight, applause in the ranks of Jobbik.]] I can't accept your answer.
u2016-02-29-64	Thank you very much, Congressman. Congressman, you didn't accept the answer. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts the Secretary of State's answer. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 105 votes to 38, with no abstentions. Dear Parliament, Mrs Bernadett Szél, representative of LMP, submitted an interpellation to the Prime Minister's Office: We are buying a fapados nuclear power plant from Russia? It's an address. Congresswoman Bernadett Wind has the floor.
u2016-02-29-65	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I also thank the Fidesz Members for their support from the background. Dear Minister, The numerous vargabets of the planned Paks expansion, such as the disruption of the Russian economy, and the fact that the Fidesz seems to be moving advertising money towards its own background country, seem to me to be becoming less and less able to maintain the impression that nuclear safety is being given even to some extent in this country. But beyond that, there are a number of disturbing questions that have actually not yet been answered with certainty. We know that the Fennovoima consortium in Finland, which was cited by the Orbán Cabinet as an example of order - which should be known to buy in principle from Rosatom and the same type of nuclear reactors as Fidesz would like to buy from Rosatom - has purchased additional safety equipment from Rosatom over the past year due to experience in Fukushima and new security requirements in Western Europe, and the basic construction has been supplemented with items that increase nuclear safety. I have European Commission materials that miss the same thing from the Hungarian government, so it seems that you have forgotten to include these additional security equipment in the EPC contracts, the implementation agreements. You have not taken advantage of this opportunity that the Finns, for example, have taken. Now, maybe we can agree on one thing, even if we're gonna argue about a lot of things, that if someone wants to build a nuclear power plant, nuclear safety is the most important thing they need to think about. Because nuclear energy is not a secure source of energy, it is a very dangerous source of energy, planet Earth and many nations have experienced very serious nuclear disasters, and I find it very problematic that you, when concluding contracts with the Russians, clearly did not do everything you could to sign up for a safe, modern nuclear power plant. So, Minister, please answer five questions, first of all, whether these various equipments have been ordered in the meantime. For example, I am thinking of accident management systems and equipment for testing passive safety systems. I would also like to ask why they were not included in the EPC contracts. Here the choir asked me in the background, "How do I know if he was involved?" Everything is indeed secret, but the Commission's documents clearly pointed out in autumn 2015 as an excuse that you did not include these security-enhancing items in the original treaties, so I would like to ask whether the contracts were revised in this way. I would also like to know how much this will cost Hungarian taxpayers if they have done so, because in Finland - according to my information - I find it outrageous that a Hungarian representative knows more about the Finnish project than about the Hungarian project - 10 percent of the value of the investment can be affected by this amendment. I mean, Minister, you have already spoken to him about Paks II so much that I can accept his reply if he provides credible proof, i.e. the documentation from which all Hungarian citizens and the opposition can be convinced that you have actually ordered these nuclear safety-enhancing equipment from the investor. I await your reply.
u2016-02-29-66	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the Minister of the Prime Minister's Office of János Lázár.
u2016-02-29-67	Thank you very much. Your Honour, Mr. President. My dear fellow Member, I must thank you for many times now for your thorough and prudent question, partly because you amaze me with your education, the image of a Renaissance lady unfolds in front of all of us. [[Defiance from the ranks of the ruling parties.]] Who can represent every case through a wide spectrum of nuclear energy and even ask questions that, frankly, exceed my humble abilities. Therefore, if you could do it for me, Congresswoman, to detail what passive security systems mean for a nuclear power plant, and if you could do what the development of an independent first-round decompression means specifically, as well as the separation of the control centre and the facility, based on your technical education, would make it easier for me to answer the question. Above all, however, I would like to strongly reject your claim that the Paks Nuclear Power Plant would pose any security risk, whether now or in the future. Dear Congresswoman, There are thousands of people working in this power plant today to make retail electricity cheap in Hungary and to have a power source for the country that fully complies with all domestic and international safety standards. [[15.40]] When you question the performance of the Hungarian nuclear industry, the performance of the Hungarian nuclear power plant, you question the expertise of thousands of people. Remember, Congresswoman, in the last thirty years, our nuclear power plant has been operated by Hungarians with Russian technology and Russian technical assistance, and you question the work of these people. On the other hand, I would like to note that the Paks Nuclear Power Plant, which we will maintain capacity in the same way, meets the highest international security requirements. Today, Hungary has a nuclear power plant with Russian technology, which is one of the safest nuclear power plants. You are questioning this, trying to create panic by challenging these people's activities, their work and their preparedness. As regards the future contract and the nuclear power plant, I would like to say to you that there are two very important cornerstones of the treaty that you seem to know better, here the above technical concepts prove well. One of these is that we're buying a turnkey nuclear power plant, which means that the Russian party has to comply with all guarantee rules. In practice, this means that the most important requirement for a nuclear power plant to be set up is that, first, all domestic, all European Union and all international standards for all nuclear power plants in the world are fully complied with. Without this, of course, we will not operate the nuclear power plant; we will not take over the turnkey nuclear power plant from the contractor or the investor. So I would like to make it clear to you that all safety requirements will be fully met by the nuclear power plant. On the other hand, I would also like to point out that no decision has been taken, to my knowledge, to support your question, given that the Russian partner will then announce a tender in which the solutions and solutions of the various technologies will be competitive. I would particularly like to draw the attention of my fellow Members to one thing, the latest statistics on electricity prices in 2015. In 2015, the electricity fee in Germany was HUF 24 per kilowatt hour, in Hungary 15.50. In 2015, all German households were subject to all kilowatt hours by HUF 19; the different network charges, taxes, concessions, renewable support, coupled support resulted in a fee of HUF 90 per kilowatt in Germany last year, and HUF 36 per 50 in Hungary. That's your decision, Congresswoman, to pay 90 forints of electricity or 36.50. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-02-29-68	Thank you very much, Minister. I'll ask Congresswoman if she'll accept the Minister's answer.
u2016-02-29-69	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister, Unfortunately, I can't accept your answer, and at first I didn't understand why you were so upset. Well, now I see why you're upset. I was asking about nuclear safety, and you started answering with electricity prices. So the thing is, you didn't buy these security equipment from the Russian side. The European Commission's position, then, a few months ago, asked the Hungarian Government to extend their current order with this arrangement, is very valid, but unfortunately, the answer I have received from you is that, in this context, you have not yet changed your contract. This is a problem, because what we do not have a contract is not accountable, and according to our modest calculations, the stakes here are HUF 300 billion in lower voice, but the stakes here are much higher: the nuclear safety of the entire region is at stake here for Hungarian citizens. You know, Minister, the thing is, if you want to build a nuclear power plant so badly, you have to do it safely; you obviously don't even pay attention to it. [[Sallai R. Benedek applauds.]]
u2016-02-29-70	Thank you very much. Congresswoman did not accept the answer. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts the Minister's answer. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the ministerial response by 106 votes in favour, 13 votes against and 22 abstentions. Dear Parliament, János Pócs, representative of Fidesz, has submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Agriculture:. Does the opposition want a land tax? It's an address. Mr János Pócs has the floor.
u2016-02-29-71	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Recently, a forum was convened by LMP's agricultural politician, our fellow Member, Sallai R. Benedek. The eloquent title of the forum was "Life after Fidesz" and gave an insight into LMP's rural policy. Let's get a picture, too. Of course, the starting point for the opposition in rural policy could not have been anything other than a system of measures taken by the current government, whose strong criticism could not have failed. In order to create the necessary atmosphere for the participants in the forum, the Member painted a very dark picture: emigration, depopulation, demographic disaster, disproportionately distributed subsidies. However, there has not been much mention of a stable increase in the performance of agriculture, effective government assistance for individual sectors, difficult EU support for rural development or a family support system to improve rural people's potential. On the other hand, as a hit theme, there was an opposition presentation of the results of the programme for farmers, where Congressman Sallai R. Benedek reiterated his statement that one third of the last 130,000 hectares that had been auctioned had been sold to Fidesz. Dear Secretary of State, We do not know of an auction where, depending on the party's sympathy, farmers would have raised reels of different colours, such as orange, red or green, and thus could have determined how much land the supporters of each party had won. However, we have noticed that the opposition protests announced at the auction site have largely failed, certainly because everyone wanted to participate in them, regardless of party standing, in an incontrovertible manner. However, the most educational part of the forum for us can be how the opposition intends to solve the rather subjective rural problems. The new opposition rural policy is based on the introduction of land and property tax, which would be levied on land ownership of 100 hectares or residential property over 100 square metres. I do not know how such a measure could influence the situation of those living in the countryside in the right direction. Dear Secretary of State, How do you see it and what measures the government intends to take to help the situation in the Hungarian countryside? What are the results of the programme for the farmers? How does the Ministry assess the opposition's idea of introducing land and property taxes? I'm looking forward to your reply. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-02-29-72	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Secretary of State Bitay Márton Örs.
u2016-02-29-73	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear House, Mr President, Honourable Congressman, You have highlighted a very important question in your interpellation, but if you will allow me, I would like to step back for a moment on why the farmers actually have this Earth programme, and what we would like to achieve with it. If I see European agricultural competition correctly, there are about two grounds for the success of the agricultural economy. One is land ownership and the other is resources. It must be created that Hungarian family farms are as competitive as possible in this competition. That is why I think it is particularly right that in the previous government cycle the programme for the farmers has been launched, which has provided nearly 290 thousand hectares of public land for rent, and I think it is right that we have started to sell state-owned arable land on which family farms can buy in a public auction. So, on the one hand, there is property, which is very important for competitiveness, on the other hand, there are resources. Here we are typically talking about European Union funds and domestic resources, but this is the specialty of another wallet. We stand on the sure idea that family farms should be given land for their competitiveness. What does the opposition offer? We are constantly hearing that this property is not good, and it would be much better if the state did not sell or even sold it, according to the opposition's promises, they would even want to take it back. I'd like to ask you who that's good for. It is certainly not good for family farms, or for the Hungarian agricultural economy, that if I constantly increase the wealth of the state field, especially at the expense of assets that we have already owned. It would also be very interesting to think about giving a lease to family farms. I say that there are opportunities for this, there are areas in which there is, say, no justification and no law allowing it to become private, but there is no social or agricultural reason for this in the field. [[15.50]] And I would be very curious to know which goal would be achieved by introducing a land tax. Who would benefit from what the opposition would like, or at least, if I have heard correctly, from the LMP's desire to introduce some kind of land tax? How does this help farmers, how does it help family economies, how does it help their competitiveness? Another interesting question is why in 100 hectares. So what is the professional idea that you would like to return to, to draw such tax introduction ideas and madness at any level? Why would I think that, let's say, in a field of corn production, especially in a land with a heavier capacity than 100 hectares, anyone should have any taxes, plus land taxes? This goes completely against any kind of ownership or agricultural logic, and this would not mean any progress, at least I do not think, in any way, for family farms. It is very interesting that when they apply, when they are trying to obtain land use - with the interests of the lucky winner of this Member, too, in the programme for farmers - this issue does not come up to any taxes or taxes on land. I'd also like to mention what the statistics say... that a third of the Fidesz won or didn't win. Jobbik has a completely different number, the LMP has a completely different number, and I would also like to say a number: more than 8,000 family farmers have bought in the land sale program, and average purchases are around 30 hectares that have been purchased. In Hungary, the land programme is good, and in the name of the government, I would like to reject all opposition ideas [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] which would like to introduce a land tax. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-02-29-74	Thank you, Secretary Bitay. I ask Congressman Pócs if he will accept the Secretary of State's answer.
u2016-02-29-75	Thank you very much. Secretary of State, your answer is accepted. We can also see from the subject what would happen if the opposition, including the LMP government, shoveled hay, covered manure on asphalt, taxed farmers, and we can see that there would be envy to something else. Agrarian would have two enemies, weather and LMP. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2016-02-29-76	Thank you, Congressman Puddle. Dear Parliament, István Tukacs, a representative of the MSZP, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of the Interior:. Who gave instructions for the collection of data on teachers? It's an address. Mr István Tukacs has the floor.
u2016-02-29-77	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, I'd like to ask you about an unprecedented case. I will also explain why I have only felt this case unparalleled to this day. From the two villages of Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg County, it was indicated that the police officer on duty before the ominous educating ceremony asked the head of the institution whether teachers were going and who they were. Mr Secretary, one case would be quite tragic, but I think that even these two are not in themselves, so it can be even more. In particular, however, I have two of them, so I would like to ask you about these two cases. My question is very simple: who gave the order, because, as I understand it, the police don't work on their own initiative, it's done on every order or order. I have to ask this question, Mr. Secretary of State, because I believe that everyone has the law to demonstrate where and when they want to do so, with a few exceptions, but these teachers, I do not have to say, did not do so at work, although if they had then, they would not have had anything to do with law enforcement. Dear Secretary of State, I also think that not only is the case interesting in itself, but the importance of it in the given villages, because that is what people are talking about, so it can also intimidate people to look at the future. Therefore, if you will answer my question, I ask you to do so honestly and in a way that is credible and realistic, because after the cases, all sorts of things have come up: they wanted to get traffic management information, they just wanted to help and so on, while it was very simply said that a policeman asked at a school whether teachers wanted to go to the demonstration. No one has the right to do that. Dear Secretary of State, I have one more request: don't tell me it didn't happen. It has happened, and the actors have made a statement, who dared to do so, so denying the case cannot be treated as a misunderstanding, because we are talking about an organization operating in a military order, in a hierarchy. Therefore, if you respond, you must also state the guarantee that such cases will not happen during the next period, because it cannot be taken away, taken away or otherwise prevented the right for everyone to go there and when they see fit to express their political opinions. I look forward to your reply, Mr. Secretary of State, very curiously. Thank you for your attention, Mr. President.
u2016-02-29-78	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Mr Károly Kontra, Secretary of State.
u2016-02-29-79	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, My answer to your specific question is this: no one has given orders to gather the information you provide, neither the National Police Headquarters, nor the local Police Headquarters, nor the head of any other police force in this regard, has given orders or instructions in this regard. The police act legally, respecting, under all circumstances, the right of citizens to assemble under the Fundamental Law. Mr President, the answer to the question raised by you is, therefore, that no such instruction has been given, and such data collection has not been carried out. Please accept my answer. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-02-29-80	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. I ask the congressman if he will accept the Secretary of State's answer.
u2016-02-29-81	Dear Secretary of State, Your answer is remarkable, because you do not dispute that these cases have taken place, merely saying that no one has given the order. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: Have you been held responsible for doing this on your own? Károly Kontrat: He asked who gave the order.]] Therefore, I must say that a police officer on duty must have been trying to ask me out of self-esteem about who's doing what I find unimaginable. Mr. Secretary, I can't imagine how it is when a known police officer, known by everyone, gets tired of the teacher, gets tired of the school principal, the mayor, and starts asking about who they want to go to and where they want to go. Therefore, Mr Secretary, I will not accept this answer because I can only be outraged. So to this day I thought it was unprecedented, today the propaganda minister named Antal Rogán threatened a city. That's what they want to make it look like, Mr. Secretary. in the century, in Hungary, in our country? ! Thank you, Mr. President.
u2016-02-29-82	Thank you very much. Congressman did not accept the Secretary of State's reply. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether they will accept the Secretary of State's answer. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 93 votes to 31, with no abstentions. Dear Parliament, President Novak, representative of Jobbik, has submitted an interpellation to the Prime Minister: "How long should the victims of communism continue in their graves? It's an address. At the request of Prime Minister Bence Tuzson, Minister of State, Head of the Cabinet Office of Prime Minister Antal Rogán, who is competent and competent on the subject, will respond to the interpellation. You have the floor, Mr. President Novak.
u2016-02-29-83	Thank you for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, According to Jobbik, it is not possible to commemorate with dignity the Memorial Day of the victims of communism until the past of state security has taken place, including the discovery of classified agent lists until 2060, the accountability and banning of communist leaders from public life, and the withdrawal of communist luxury pensions. The victims of communism do spin in their graves, so let's just think of the prosecutor asking for a death sentence for Péter Mansfeld, György Mátsik, who should not be afraid of accountability after our report has been rejected, but even he will receive the communist pension, just as Béla Biszku will be in his home of the Rosary. Unfortunately, in the last 24 years, there has been only a sludge of our anti-communist demands, which is a common shame between the MSZP and the Fidesz governments. However, Jobbik will implement these three most important anti-communist programme points immediately if it comes to government. The one-party National Remembrance Commission will only serve to delay further, and as part of the reduction of bureaucracy, it could have been quite calmly removed, but it is convenient for you to shift your responsibilities to them. [[16.00]] However, a simple government decision could make those magnetic tapes currently encrypted until 2060, which, if not complete, contain a significant part of the state security past undistorted. Of course, it is no wonder that they refuse to do so, as even the government can be a member of the former colleague of Péter Medgyessy, under the cover of D-209, László Tasnádi, also III/II, as a state secretary today. It is unacceptable that former Communist leaders can also be politicians in this supposedly new system, after you have voted against our proposal for a Lustration, as well as all our other fundamental legislative amendments during the constitutionalisation, while talking about the system of national cooperation. And they still have the nerve to celebrate the fifth anniversary of this, to celebrate the replacement of the cancerist constitution with a similarly one-party Fundamental Law, which they originally wanted to include their own names in. Several members of the Central Committee of the MSZMP, as well as the former censor, Ildikó Lendvai and KISZ KB Secretary Ferenc Gyurcsány, may have remained in the ranks of the MSZP due to the rejection of our basic legislative amendment proposal. If there had been a real change of regime, he wouldn't have been a Member of Parliament, but he couldn't have been a Prime Minister either. Jobbik would also remove party state leaders from the heads of state companies. Finally, the communist luxury pensions, which are the most outrageous. The withdrawal of a few thousand forints' bonus for communist medals is also a semi-solution, while the benefit of the most affected ones, such as Béla Biszku's, has not changed substantially, to date hundreds of thousands of forints per month. In order to change this, it would be necessary to adopt the comprehensive proposal for a revision of the pension law submitted by Jobbik in 2010, which, however, has been voted out on a number of occasions to the greatest pleasure of Béla Biszku, by bringing together the MSZP. I'd like to ask you why we have to wait for you with these anti-communist demands. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] The Betterman's government. Therefore, I look forward to your unspoken and sincere remorseful response. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik and MSZP.]]
u2016-02-29-84	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Tuzson.
u2016-02-29-85	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. This interpellation was a little eclectic, but first things first, and if this interpellation is about to happen now, it's okay to remember a little bit, because it was recently February 25th, which is a very important day, the day of national commemoration. It is no coincidence that the first Orbán government decided in 2000 that this would be a day to commemorate the victims of communism. However, February 25th is an important day in this regard, and it is important in this regard, since Béla Kovács was then dragged to the Soviet Union. [[Mr. Novak intervenes.]] To the Soviet Union, where a few years later another Béla Kovács started to study on his own initiative, so that he could learn some knowledge there besides the organizations of the party there. Some knowledge that could have helped him to move in the opposite direction [[There's a rush in Jobbik's benches.]] And he's going to Brussels with your help and your support, and then he's gonna have to take advantage of what he's gained and not put it in the service of his country. I think that when these facts arise and we see the events from this direction, we can see that there was a prominent Member of Parliament who sacrificed himself to make Hungary democracy, and then another Béla Kovács takes steps against Hungary. [[Intercoms from Jobbik's benches, including, "Say such a thing." Don't lie to me.]] Accordingly, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that when any of these questions are raised, they should first examine themselves. Take a real look at yourself and see who's sitting in your ranks. [[Interviews from Jobbik's benches: Who?]] How many of you are Béla Kovács we don't know about? Is there such a thing? Check it out. It is, after all, that the most important thing in Parliament is credibility. We can speak truthfully about these issues if, by the way, we can look the voters in the eye and say that otherwise there are no such people among us. Can you do that, fellow Members? They cannot do it, because you are still hiding these questions, and today you have not faced Béla Kovács or the past of Béla Kovács. How do you think that is, my fellow Members? I would therefore like to ask you once again that, if such questions are raised, those who have done so, in order to have the proper respect for these people, who, at the time, have actually sacrificed themselves in order to combat an authoritarian regime, are properly valued and held to be an important task, but when we do so, it is also important that those who speak up in order to take further steps in the cause can face themselves and not be among you people who are able to betray their country on the basis of certain interests. [[György Szilágyi: Specific? Specific?]] Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-02-29-86	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. I'll ask the congressman if he'll accept the Secretary of State's answer.
u2016-02-29-87	That argument was hard, Mr State Secretary, but unfortunately it is unacceptable, because the victims of communism do turn in their graves. They also roll when they hear this response as a result of a flood of complaints on the occasion of the Memorial Day of the victims of communism. We have not heard any response to the fact that they are willing to move at least a little on our most important anti-communist demands. Would you be willing to move on, for example, the issue of classified agent lists up to 2060? Would they be willing to declare and ban Communist leaders from public life? Would they be willing to withdraw Communist luxury pensions? You didn't say anything about that. Instead, he ran into a cheap forge, for which I do not know how much Árpád Habony has billed you, if any, to tell you this in answer to everything, and how much communication is this. However, I would like to clarify one thing: Zoltán Pokorni did not propose a memorial day for the victims of communism; he only proposed a memorial day for the victims of the Holocaust. It was Béla Horváth, a small farmer, who, by pointing out double standards, achieved with an amendment that we can finally remember the death of communism worldwide, [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] which, it seems, you do not want to remember, nor do you want to deal with anti-communist demands. I'm so sorry. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2016-02-29-88	Thank you, the congressman did not accept the answer. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts the Secretary of State's answer. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 103 votes in favour, 30 against and 1 abstention. Dear Parliament, István Hollik, a representative of the Christian Democratic People's Party, has submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Human Resources:, Where are we with the development of cradle benefits? It's an address. It is for Congressman István Hollik.
u2016-02-29-89	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, For us, the situation and future of families and children have always been particularly important. We are therefore particularly pleased to hear from the news of the past period that there is room for further substantial expansion in the area of nursery care. I would note here that according to the statistics of the Statistical Office, in 2014 the number of seats in crèches was over 38 thousand, while, for example, the year before the second Orbán government took office, this number did not even reach 27 thousand. In addition to the new seats, thousands of nursery schools have been renovated thanks to government support, and almost thousands of new jobs have also been created as a result of the process. Dear Secretary of State, We understand that not only this year's significant development is expected in this area, but also next year, when parents will be able to choose from new types of care, such as the family, the nursery at work. Moreover, by further expanding crèches, we can not only stimulate population growth, but also indirectly support the labour market. Let us also not forget that settlements, even in disadvantaged areas, can be an incentive for development in the life of a refurbished cradle. The increase in the number of seats, the benefits of care received here, the benefits of educating work all help the lives of truly poor families, so we can view it as an important form of social assistance. [[16.10]] Dear Secretary of State, I would like to ask you, in view of the steps and future developments that have been taken to improve the situation of families raising children, what specific measures the government is planning to take in relation to crèches by 2018, and what the cost of these will be. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-02-29-90	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2016-02-29-91	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, As you have already pointed out, there are two reasons why the government has started to change degrees either in nursery or in kindergarten development, and why the speed of daycare building is one and a half times the speed of daycare building and kindergarten building, as in the period before 2010. One of the reasons is that we are building a family-friendly country, and we believe that women should be given freedom in this area, families should be given the freedom to decide for themselves that if they want to stay home with the child for two or three years, and that the state should not decide that this can be a maximum of two years, but that we have extended it up to three years, at the same time, if someone wants to, they can go back to work with extra child after six months, and, in addition, the child can be supervised by different state bodies or crèches, so that the community can take care of the community as much freedom as possible for women. There is also a need for this, as women's employment has reached decades of records, and as many women have been employed in the past year as they have never been in the last decades. This has increased demand, as more and more children are born, with a higher birth rate than in previous years, and women's employment is also higher, so it is clear that more nurserys are needed. For this reason, both in terms of development resources and in terms of legal forms, we have sought to make the nursery care system more flexible, wider and more adapted to the needs of families. It was important to eliminate territorial inequalities, because there was no cradle in the smaller settlements, in the more difficult settlements: more flexible, multi-stage, more family-like, smaller numbers, and, where appropriate, closer to the workplace. That is why we have opened three new categories in addition to the existing ones: the minib, the family nursery, and the nursery at work. The mini-cradle has much easier operating conditions and it is easier to create them. The family nursery may also be more like the former family daycare center. In addition, a daycare center at work helps to ensure that if an employer undertakes to help his employees in the workplace, the state will also help them create such a nursery at work. Local governments can perform this task either individually, in association or under a supply contract, by means of an association agreement with a maintainer. Our aim is to increase the number of seats for children under the age of three until 2018, from 44,000 to 60,000 until the end of the cycle. This would mean an increase of 37 per cent and would mean that we could increase the number of seats within the 16 per cent population in 2014, to 22 per cent, which is an estimate already at EU level, I think. It is 100 billion forints from development funds by 2020 that are available for the development of nursery schools and nursery schools in this area, with a wide variety of titles. There are also resources in the competitive Central Hungary operational programme, but there are already EFOP resources, on 8 January 2016 there are two: one is the development of institutions and public services that help you to work, and the other is the improvement of employment and quality of life through the development of family-friendly, employment-friendly institutions and service providers. In total, they represent an additional HUF 53 billion for the expansion of kindergarten and kindergarten space. As the Member said, this is also an important part of economic development, because those who want it can go back to work more easily. For this reason, the operational programme for economic development and innovation will also have one billion HUF development resources available for a similar purpose. We hope that this will also be in the interest of children, it will also be in the interest of parents to balance work and private life, and it will also help disadvantaged children to become more involved in the provision of small children. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-02-29-92	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I ask the congressman if he will accept the Secretary of State's answer.
u2016-02-29-93	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, Thank you for your answer. We can see that the government is doing everything it can to achieve a sustainable demographic turnaround, and international research and studies show that this can only be done in countries where family policy is approached in a complex way and not only as direct financial support. We are pleased to see that the Hungarian government is taking the same path, as, in addition to direct financial support - I am thinking of tax relief, family home-building benefits - it pays attention to flexible forms of employment or to the development of nursery and kindergartens, as you said, it will spend HUF 53 billion on this. We hope that this will really reverse the demographic trend that has been characteristic of Hungary in the last 20 years, and that every year more children can be born. Thank you very much for the answer, I accept that. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-02-29-94	Thank you, Congressman István Hollik. Dear Parliament, Bernadett Wind and Benedek Sallai, representatives of LMP, have submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Agriculture:. The Fidesz government takes everything - the forests come after the earth? It's an address. Congressman Sallai Benedek has the floor.
u2016-02-29-95	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, For the Ministry of Agriculture, the 2009 XXXVII. on forest, forest protection and forestry. The document entitled "Revision and Amendment of Law" was published on the Internet, and obviously this document is what would rethink the concept of forest law. Obviously, this concept does not seem to be entirely professional at first sight, because although it acknowledges the diverse value of forests, which cannot be replaced by anything else, it would still provide an opportunity for rules of conservation or public welfare to be overwritten according to very narrow economic interests. It is obviously extremely regrettable in this situation that the wallet tries to confront two areas, nature conservation and forestry, although conflicts are not among them: a good forester is a friend of nature conservation and a wide-sighted nature conservationist is a friend of forestry. Accordingly, it is only now that they are trying to soften the regulation so that logging and its benefits can be maximized cheaply. Obviously, it is interesting that there are also proposals that violate democratic instruments that would limit the possibilities of local authorities to declare them locally protected, if it is a forest area, to define the forest management of the local protected area themselves, and raise it to the authority of the Ministry of Agriculture. Obviously, it is also surprising that this legislation concept provides for Natura 2000 areas, and it is obviously worrying that the Minister for Nature Protection is basically presenting a proposal or concept that is significantly detrimental to the interests of nature conservation. Dear Secretary of State, Now I'm just saying, just so we're clear. If you say that this concept is withdrawn and rethinked on the basis of a wide range of social consultation, I will accept your interpellation, because the question is clearly about whether or not the kind of ambition that can be seen from the efforts of government and government-to-government circles to rip off the abundance of natural resources will now be given new ground in relation to forestry. If you withdraw it, I will accept your answer. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Intercoms from the ruling parties.]]
u2016-02-29-96	Thank you very much. I will give the floor to the Secretary of State for the answer by asking if this was the case in the original interpellation text and if the Secretary of State will respond. Thank you.
u2016-02-29-97	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Honourable Congressman, Looks like we can't get past the fact that there's an interpellation that has a genre, and there's an immediate question, which is another genre. There's a significant difference between the two, but I'm trying to bridge this difference with some of my answers. If I understand correctly, you're asking me and you're saying that you'll accept my interpellation if we withdraw the concept of social debate, and the reason for that is to continue a social debate. But we put the concept on the website to continue our social debate. The point of the social debate is that everyone is able to express their views, and it is not very clear which request we should follow right now in this dissonant idea: to withdraw now or to have a social debate, because the two are hitting each other. We wanted to honour you and everyone who wishes to take part in this debate, to have a social debate on the concept, not to draw a text out of the drawer, not to say that this will be the new law and point, but to continue a social debate on the concept. [[16.20]] I'd like to discuss what's actually in this concept for a longer time, but if you'll allow me, I'd just like to show it to you. [[He's showing me a document.]] It's on the Ministry's website. Here we summarized the most important tasks in ten points. In this, it is emphasized - literally - that it contains the following sentence: "active nature conservation in the framework of sustainable forestry." You misunderstand this situation, honourable Member, we are not trying to confront it, but we are trying to resolve the conflict between forestry and nature conservation, where appropriate. But the fact that forests basically have a triple function is not to be taken into account: it has a defence function, it has a public welfare function, and it has an economic function. And all three have a very important role to play, and the balance between the three has to be found, which, by the way, does not appear in the law right now. Or the difference is that out of the two million hectares of forest in Hungary, there are one million hectares of private forest owners who want to make a profit, who want to use their own forest, they very much reward the welfare function and all the protection functions, but it is still their own property. In the current law, forests of different uses are not properly separated. The welfare forests are not separated from the forests of economic function, or, let's say, at the moment, we cannot really manage the forest area which is harvested in industrial size, with combine because we call it an energy plantation. After all, we need to find the difference between these, and we need to be able to describe exactly what we want to do in these forests. And I would also like to point out to you the fact that the bad spirit that was involved in the forest law currently in force... - I note, by the way, that you mentioned this, and we agree that the forest should not be protected from forestists, nor should it be protected from forest owners, because it is in his well-conceived interest to take care of it and make as much profit as possible. The foresters have developed this forest fry in centuries and thousands of years, which is now in Hungary. So in the new law, we are trying to find a balance between the three functions, and we are proposing this in a ten-point, ten-page concept that we have put forward for social debate. In parentheses I would also like to draw your attention to the fact that this material was expressed and supported by the National Chamber of Agricultural Economy, one of the developers of the National Forestry Association, which is the oldest Hungarian association, 150 years old. Supported by the National Association of Private Forest Owners and Farmers and supported by the National Association of Wood Farmers. We have also organised a conference on its concept, where very interesting debates have developed. And indeed, as you say, there are many more points of debate. I just want to ask you to take a little look at this, and take the time to read this material, because these functions are not rivalry with each other, but I want to help each other. And the social debate is about everyone being able to give their opinions. Thank you so much for listening. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2016-02-29-98	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. I'm asking Congressman if he'll accept the Secretary of State's answer.
u2016-02-29-99	Mr President, the Secretary of State doesn't want me to accept it, so he didn't do anything he wanted me to do. [[Dr. Márton Bitay: That's true.]] Secretary of State, after we're going to be here for a while, let me tell you that Rule 42 of the Rules of the House. §2 does not require me to say it literally. I can't tell you any new facts, nor have I told you any new facts in my interpellation. You'll get used to this genre, so that's what's necessary. The concept: it says what the concept is for. What I mean by my question is that this concept is not suitable for discussion and is not suitable for social debate. Now, obviously, again, as in the field privatisation, the agricultural chamber and the Magos themselves, their youth department discussed it, and that was the concept. This is unacceptable! Professional organisations are needed; professional organisations cannot... It did not say a word about the municipalities, why they were withdrawing their rights to the municipalities, which would create local protected areas. And after he says it's his own property: we know how to treat them as owners, but yet he doesn't give someone the right to cross the laws. From the three functions you mentioned, you consider the right to farming and profit maximization as the primary priority in this concept. That's what's unacceptable is that in nature conservation, ecology, social welfare functions, they only put an ornament on a completely inappropriate, bad proposal. That is why the concept must be withdrawn. Thank you very much. [[Dr. Márton Bitay: Interviews from Fidesz: Applause for someone! There's no Wind Bernadett!]]
u2016-02-29-100	Dear Parliament, The congressman didn't accept the answer. We followed the text, and there's a new element in it. I do not want to open a debate here, and I will check it, because exactly Mr State Secretary has followed the text, and indeed he has raised a new element, which was not originally in the text. [[Sallai R. Benedict: No!]] You are asked to reconsider, Congressman Sallai, the rules of the tied genre. Dear Parliament, Will you please accept the Secretary of State's answer? Please vote. [[Vote. Sallai R. Benedict: No! Deterioration in the pro-government benches. The president's ringing the bell.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the reply by 103 votes to 31, with no abstentions. Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, László Kucsák, a representative of Fidesz, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Human Resources:. Has the government heard the word of teachers? It's an address. Mr László Kucsák has the floor.
u2016-02-29-101	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, In recent weeks, educators have received more criticism of the state of public education. In view of the controversial issues that need to be resolved, Minister decided on a national consultation, in which he sought the opinion of the teachers, with forums per district, so that as a result of this consultation he could accurately map out the problems that were troubling the teachers and collect their comments and suggestions. Obviously, educators expect their comments not to be embezzled, give a reassuring answer to their suggestions, and they also show understandable intolerance. Therefore, there is a great deal of pressure on the round table of public education, on the standing working groups, and on the other hand, hasty solutions can cause errors. This is why the behaviour of the teachers' unions, which - and their leaders - know precisely that solutions can only be born at a negotiating table, and by leaving the round table with the intention of exerting pressure, they give up to show the perspectives of teachers. It is impossible not to think that they are also moved by considerations beyond professional grounds, especially if we recall that during socialist governance, when state aid for education by 2010 was not nominally reached the 2003 level, they were silent. With or without trade unions - this does not change the fact that teachers' ideas need to be dealt with in substance, and the wallet must come up with solutions that provide reassuring and professional answers to the situation. Dear Secretary of State, How many attended the preserved district forums, and what results did they have? Does the Ministry of Human Resources raise the points raised in the forums in the work of the Public Education Round Table? Is it expected, on the basis of the comments, to take substantive measures and decisions on the part of the government? If so, with what schedule can we expect changes? I look forward to your reply. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2016-02-29-102	Thank you very much, Congressman Kucsak. I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2016-02-29-103	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, During the public education consultations, a dialogue took place in Hungary within the system of public education, which has probably not been experienced since human memory, since all schools in Hungary's principals, a few teachers, parents in many places, students were invited to a dialogue by district leaders, in many cases there were the national leaders of the KLIK, Deputy State Secretarys, or on the first opening occasion Minister Zoltán Miskolc Balog, and there was a direct opportunity for every school principal in Hungary to express his opinion, to present his suggestions on what he considers to be the most important issue, the most important problem that should be solved in the system of public education. In total, 2207 school representatives attended this 198 district forum, and, as I said, there were two or three institutions, but there were institutions where 11-12-13 people came and expressed their views. Overall, the number of comments and proposals that have been made is 4538, and more than four and a half thousand proposals have been aggregated in the study districts, forwarded to KLIK. [[16.30]] At the first meeting of the Public Education Round Table, just three weeks ago, these proposals were presented, these summaries were on the round table, and everyone who attended the meeting could see what the teachers and school principals most, in the second most of the time, mentioned in groups, even in relation to content issues, about KLIK, about funding and other issues, what was most mentioned. On this basis, and based on the previous knowledge of the portfolio, and on the opinion of the organisations appearing on the public education round table, the Round Table has grouped into four groups the tasks to be performed. The first is the immediate tasks and then the first, second and third priorities, with different timings. Those to be dealt with immediately include the transformation of KLIK's procurement and procurement processes, the restructuring of the KLIK's budget, any loss of income - I add that these are not, of course, public employee income, because they have always been paid - the employment of pensioners by the end of the academic year, the simplification of supervisory self-assessment processes. The latter has been the case since a third of the administrative burden on teachers on certification has been reduced. The tasks listed in the first priority shall be resolved by 1 September 2016. This means that it must appear here in the spring legislative work and in the work of forming the government decree at the beginning of summer, so that it will enter into force already during the summer and be applied from 1 September. The most important of this is the transformation of the KLIK's operation, as this one centre is unlikely to serve efficient operation in the long term; the issues of financing, decentralisation, organisational flexibility, the transformation of different processes for management purposes, the reregulation of the competences between the KLIK and the school, the settlement of the issues of the operation between the KLIK and the municipalities in support of maintenance, this kind of dual responsibility, as we see from the feedback available in the press that this did not work well in many cases in the settlements of over 3 thousand people, and this needs to be made more coherent. It is important to address this and to review employment issues. Time is no longer available, but this is followed by the tasks that can be solved from 1 January 2017 and later in the longer term, on which a hundred experts work in the working groups overall. Please accept my answer. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-02-29-104	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I ask Congressman Kucsák if he will accept the Secretary of State's answer.
u2016-02-29-105	Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Thank you very much for what you said. Perhaps a lot of us here in Parliament's horseshoe agree that education is a priority national issue, and I hope that many of us also agree that this should be done in a calm and balanced institutional system so that children, young people, must be at the centre of the activity, constantly and in particular, and that they, children and young people, should become holders of competitive knowledge. I very much hope that these objectives can be achieved by means of measures based on calm negotiations. In this spirit, I thank you and accept your answer. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-02-29-106	Thank you very much, Congressman Kucsak. Dear Parliament, Nándor Gúr, a representative of the MSZP, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of National Economy:. Everything for Money? It's an address. Mr Nándor Gúr has the floor.
u2016-02-29-107	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Since 2013, about HUF 250 billion is the amount of money in respect of which settlement bonds have been sold. These settlement bonds obviously bring with them the fact that, as it happens through offshore companies, they take away a significant part of the profits, the return. Now we are talking about EUR 34,000 out of a EUR 300,000 settlement policy for offshore companies in connection with a settlement policy, plus an amount of EUR 40-60 thousand for administrative costs. In Hungarian, after a settlement policy, these offshore companies make around HUF 25 million in volume. We know that the Economic Commission has approved which companies are these companies, in their original state there were seven of them, now we are at three or four, and we know the Chairman of the Economic Commission, here we are also meeting him in the walls of Parliament, and he is now making propaganda - it is called Minister Rogán. My fundamental problem is that since 2003, six rejections have been made for these settlement bonds. About 3,000 settlement bonds have been sold, and next to them there are about 5,000 family members, so overall, about 8,000 people are involved in the story. I would like to point out that 713 people were granted asylum as an example in 2014 and in the first half of 2015. So, for money, everything, and everyone, go where the Fidesz people think - about this system works. But the crappy thing about the story is that besides all this, as I said, out of this 300 thousand euros, 34 thousand are directly taken by offshore companies, I don't know where, I don't know who they share or to whom they're giving back, but nobody in this country thinks it's all for their own good. In this sense, I can only say that what you are doing about it is unacceptable, even because it is a bond, and when it comes to a bond, you have to pay it back, and people are going to do it, even what offshore companies benefit from. Why do you need these brokerage companies? Why do they actually get the bonds at discount prices? Why is there a big brokerage profit? Does the State pay intermediary contributions? And where are the national security risks in this matter? How is the police investigation in a specific case concerning VolDan Ltd and S&Z Program Ltd? I would like to see these relatively clearly. Secretary of State, I hope you can give me the right information. Mr. President, thank you very much.
u2016-02-29-108	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to the Secretary of State, András Tállai.
u2016-02-29-109	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, I would first like to make a factual amendment. There are no offshore companies, and the reason why there are no offshore companies is because the tender has to reveal ownership, and everyone knows who owns it. The offshore company is where we don't know who the owner is. In this case, in each case, we know who the owner is. After asking six questions, if you'll allow me, I'll come to your specific questions. Why do we need intermediary companies? Mediation companies are needed, honourable Member, because the buyers of the settlement policy do not live in Hungary, but in one country, overseas, and obviously in the country in question, this possibility must be sold. In order to sell in a given country, you need to know the habits, culture, investment thinking of people living there, and you usually need an office, as well as a computer and program to provide this service in that office. If the State were to do so, it would obviously have to make a significant investment, so that outside firms do this, the State does not have to spend any extra investment or money on taxpayers' money. Why can intermediaries obtain settlement bonds at discount prices? Because if someone buys sovereign debt, it has some kind of cost on the part of the State: either we pay interest on sovereign debt or the other method is that it is sold at a discount price, and then the State essentially has to bear the difference as a cost. There is no such thing as giving money to the Hungarian State for years, and there is no cost on the part of the State. That is why the cost of the State, as for other sovereign debt, has been incurred here. Why can they profit from a busy broker? The state, the Hungarian state, has nothing to do with this. There is a business between the buyer of the securities, the individual buying the investment policy is not a Hungarian citizen and a sales company. Two of them agree on how much this business is worth to that foreign individual, how much it costs. I would also like to point out that there are opportunities in other countries, and the foreign national will clearly decide that if this is expensive in Hungary, he will buy another country's investment policy. [[16.40]] Does the State pay intermediary contributions to intermediary companies? I can answer that very simply, as you know: you don't pay. How do national security risks develop? National security risks are checked by the Constitutional Protection Office if they appear necessary and reported on them. By the way, he did this recently before the National Security Committee of the National Assembly, this issue was a separate agenda, and the Constitutional Protection Office reported on it. How's the police investigation going with these companies? I can tell you there's no investigation. There's been a report, and the police have called the reporters for additional charges. I would also like to tell you that what is in Hungary is not a unique example. There is an international example, and we have even studied it. Thus, in Austria, Cyprus, the United Kingdom, Greece and Malta, this method is also used in Portugal to facilitate establishment in that country. Thank you very much for your attention. Please accept my reply. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-02-29-110	Thank you very much, Secretary of State Tallai. I ask the congressman, Mr. notary, if he will accept the answer.
u2016-02-29-111	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, we couldn't answer everything, here with the approval of the companies, the withdrawal of licenses, the personal involvement of Antal Rogán, many others. [[András Tállai: There was no question.]] Mr. Secretary, you're in debt. But I didn't expect him to succeed in this. You know, about 80,000 million forints is the return benefit that some of us, together with these 3 thousand and the family members, gain on 5,000 residence permits and settlement bonds. I have to say, obviously, it's in people's minds that it's not different than when there's a theft-based government, then the fidesz executives of these processes are filling their pockets with a lot of money, while in the country about 8,000 people from countries outside the EU get a permit to settle for money. For money, you can do everything, especially for your friends. Taxpayers will pay you back, five years from now, all this stuff these companies are taking, and we don't know who everyone else is yet. Well, Mr President, therefore, that answer is far from acceptable. Thank you very much.
u2016-02-29-112	Thank you very much. Congressman, you didn't accept the answer. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts the Secretary of State's answer. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 105 votes in favour, 34 against and 1 abstention. Dear Parliament, Zoltán Magyar, representative of Jobbik, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Agriculture:. Fishing, fishermen, public opinion, do you know what the three of them share in common? The government cheated them badly! It's an address. Mr Zoltán Magyar has the floor.
u2016-02-29-113	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Fellow Members! At the end of 2015, in the absence of two thirds, they sought consensus with the opposition so that they could pass the amendments that could result in the management of natural waters through the Hungarian National Fishing Association. Many promises have been made, but let's look at what has become of reality: fishing areas without fish and farmers, fishing families without work and no future, and tricked people. This is the tangible result of your activities in natural waters. [[Dr. Lajos Szűcs in the notary seat will be replaced by Attila Gelencsér.]] But let's also see who is the winner of chaos and political background deals: the rapsic that exploits uncertainty, the invasive species that drive native fish out, and, of course, the Fidesz close associations, companies. From January onwards, the plundering of natural waters into no one's land began at a huge pace, with half-industrial methods they caught fish from their wintering sites, the band of robbers divided the river sections among themselves, destroyed the work of many years, decades, and protected fish and vulnerable populations. And let's not talk about the level of public water and fish protection, it's completely unnecessary, it's approaching zero. In fact, fishermen also have serious complaints, by the time the agreements are concluded in most areas, a whole fishing season will be canceled, since a number of species will soon be banned. The responsibility of the government and the Mohos is inevitable. Fishermen and fishermen, fish farmers and installers, elderly and young people, hobbies and conservationists were jumped to each other, while the real conflict was not between them. They also promised that traditional fishing, which does not exploit the waters, could remain within certain limits. Hundreds of affected families do not want to move to museums, not the last examples of an old, sorry lifestyle. Their activity is XXI. can be built in under the circumstances of the century. Who's going to fish selectively? Who will compete with invasive species? And perhaps, for most of us, how are we going to eat fish locally at a lake or riverside restaurant? What will become a fish-based gastro-fest? I know, I know, it's not a problem for you. We'll take it from abroad. On this basis, I would like to ask Mr Secretary of State why the transfer of natural waters did not take place in time, who is responsible for this. What will be the result? Who, and how, will compensate for the plundered waters? When will there be substantial fish control? What about the fishermen? Are you apologizing to the people involved? I look forward to your substantive answer. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-02-29-114	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary of State Bitay Márton Örs.
u2016-02-29-115	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Honourable Congressman, I am very sorry that this topic is being shifted to a political communication because we were able to understand earlier. In the last amendment, I think it was not by accident that Jobbik's faction voted to amend the law. And in the vote before that, with a cautious abstention, a few small questions, if I paid close attention to the debate we had at that time, but they supported that amendment, and now it gives a very strong political color. The first and most important thing I would like to point out is that there are a number of slippages or misunderstandings in what you have said. He says literally: They also promised that traditional fishing, which does not exploit the waters, could remain within certain limits. We have never promised that, dear Congressman, there is no such thing in the law. Only organic and small-wheeled recreational fishing is permitted by the law. No other fishing in natural waters is permitted by the law, and there was a consensus between us that we had come here. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, although this is indeed a problem for the 250 fishermen who have exercised the fishing rights of natural waters over the last decades, there are 350 000 fishermen and an ecological aspect on the other side of the pan. The ecological aspect is that, in these natural waters, that type of large-scale meat-producing fishery could no longer be maintained under Article XXI. In the century. I would also like to make it clear about your interpellation, which is also a slide that the state's fishing service is not working. State Fish Watch is operating, with a very serious budget. We have already increased this budget and, of course, we are doing everything we can to reduce rapsic activity as much as possible. But you can't seriously think that it can be done with human resources or financial backgrounds to put a fish guard on each rivermeter, either at the state level or at the association level, who is responsible for protecting this area. I would also like to draw your attention to the fact that these contracts have been concluded on more than 400 water surfaces, and more than 400 water surfaces have begun to be used for fishing purposes, precisely in order to avoid the problems that you would like to mention here in your interpellation. Overall, I would like to ask you, or would I suggest that we return to the professional communication that you have demonstrated in adopting the laws, and that we have been able to speak with Jobbik on this matter. Let's go back to the speech, the professional attitude about the fact that this type of large-scale fishing in natural waters cannot be maintained. We agreed together that we wanted to promote fishing exploitation. I would also like to ask you to support me, even in your interpellation, in order not to frighten me with such things, in a large-scale way to harvest the natural waters of rapsics, which you have told me here. This is also conceptually impossible at the moment, not only because the State Fisherman Service works, although there is no doubt that they may be able to play this out, but the methods that could be used to do so are regulated by the Criminal Code. And by the way, there's no record of that, no precedent. If you can do that, I'm asking you to specifically help us with our work. Of course, we'll do whatever it takes to get you to see something like this. So I would like to ask you to return to the consensus that we have already agreed on, the exploitation for fishing purposes and the exploitation where, in more than 400 cases, the right of exploitation has already been concluded on these water surfaces. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]] [[16.50]]
u2016-02-29-116	Thank you very much, Secretary of State Bitay. I'll ask the congressman if he'll accept the Secretary of State's answer.
u2016-02-29-117	The Secretary of State was very good at avoiding the issues I raised and focused only on those in which we agree, and there is still no debate between us. However, it was not for nothing that we voted in favour of this law, because in the context of a number of my amendments, which were just about fishing, they promised that they would treat it differently in various regulations and remain in the specific cases that you have listed. It doesn't work today either. There are ten state troopers, Mr. Secretary of State, and until you have handed over these areas, you have entrusted the entire country to these ten men. It is no coincidence that winged and wingless cormorants were able to do so much damage to the fish population, by the way. So I would have expected a meaningful response to these, and that the fishermen were promised that fishing could take place on all natural waters under orderly conditions from 1 January. Compared to that, according to your own admission, they're only at a fraction. So I can't accept your answer because of that. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2016-02-29-118	Thank you, Congressman. He didn't accept the answer. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether they will accept the Secretary of State's answer. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 109 votes in favour, 32 against and without abstentions. Dear Parliament, Erzsébet Schmuck and Benedek Sallai, representatives of the LMP, have submitted an interview to the Minister of National Economy:. It's an address. At the request of Minister for Justice László Trócsányi, who is responsible and competent on the subject, Parliamentary Secretary Pál Völner will respond to the interpellation on behalf of the Prime Minister. Congressman Sallai Benedek has the floor.
u2016-02-29-119	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, Dear Minister and everyone else who is here! Last week, the Court of Justice of the European Union considered the introduction of the Erzsébet voucher and the SZÉP card to be an act contrary to Community law. Thanks to Fidesz's will and dilettant legislation, the two main elements of the current cafeteria system have therefore been canceled. This event even more appreciates the cafeteria elements that are no longer affected by the decision. In our opinion, the cafeteria is an important element of pay, because it is in this way that the state can support benefits that it considers to be socially important, such as food, culture, rest, health and pension self-care. Especially the more subjective... [[Fidesz benches.]] This allowance is important for people with lower wages, since there the employer looks at every penny and makes maximum use of tax-free benefits, which is why low-wage workers with national sweats are hit by a number of Fidesz measures that have narrowed the cafeteria in recent years. In 2014, the employer may also grant a loan repayment allowance as a tax-free benefit, the 1995 CXVII on personal income tax. According to point 2.7 of Annex 1 to the Act, the benefit is not available to many. Many civil servants and civil servants have experienced that despite the possibility of principle, when establishing the annual cafeteria framework, they are not offered this option. The root of the problem may be that the law on public service officials is Article 71 of the SAY Act. It refers to §2 when it talks about cafeteria elements and ignores the elements set out in the Annex. [[Constant interruptions from the Fidesz benches.]] Thus, civil servants fall short of an otherwise tax-free form of benefit for families. There is also a problem that some years' benefits cannot be combined, that is, if someone makes a reimbursement, they cannot save or save. That should be changed, too. Dear Secretary of State, The European Court of Justice has decided that the cafeteria system should be reformed anyway. During this transformation, I would ask that the elements available to civil servants be expanded with the loan repayment support and allow the multi-annual use of the cafeteria frameworks for this purpose. I'm looking forward to your reply. Thank you, Mr President, for the floor.
u2016-02-29-120	Thank you very much. I give the floor to State Secretary Pál Völner.
u2016-02-29-121	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Honourable Congressman, Dear Parliament, The question of your interpellation is that the decision of the European Court of Justice requires that the cafeteria system be reformed. Its proposal is to extend the scope of the elements available to civil servants during the restructuring of the scheme with the loan repayment support and to allow for the multi-annual accumulation of cafeteria frameworks for loan repayment purposes. First, allow me to respond to the claim that the two main elements of the current cafeteria system have been canceled. The Hungarian Government remains determined to hold the Erzsébet programme and acknowledges and respects the decision of the European Court of Justice on the Hungarian cafeteria system. Our aim is to create a cafeteria system that meets the requirements of the Union, but, above all, respects the interests of the Hungarian people. It is a successful, well-functioning programme. In recent years, 48,000 employers and more than 2 million users have made use of the opportunities provided by the programme and 58,000 acceptance sites have been created. As a result, more than 600 thousand people, including 300,000 children, were allowed to enjoy social recreation and rest, unlike before, when it enriched private companies. Turning to the second part of your interpellation, I would like to point out that public service officials have the possibility of using debt repayment aid now, but not as cafeteria benefits. The Public Service Officers Act contains a list of cafeteria benefits for public service officials under which benefits other than those provided for in the Personal Income Tax Act may be granted as cafeteria benefits. Since it is not included in this list, it does not really provide an opportunity to use the tax-free non-refundable employer's allowance for the repayment of housing loans under the annual cafeteria framework as a cafeteria benefit. At the same time, it should not be overlooked that the Public Service Officers Act, however, provides government officials with certain additional social, welfare, cultural and health benefits that may be reimbursed or non-refundable outside the annual cafeteria framework and does not include a taxing list of these benefits. Therefore, it is possible to provide housing employer support on the basis of the decision of the heads of the official organisation, within the framework of the Personal Income Tax Act, outside the annual cafeteria framework, for each benefit, at the expense of the financial resources available to that institution. On this basis, it is also possible to grant tax-free, non-refundable employer support to public service officials in the legal environment in force. This aid is not even linked to the amount of the annual cafeteria, which may amount to more than that. The above can be seen for civil servants in the sense that the Public Employee Act does not provide for non-wage benefits for civil servants, nor does it prohibit them. The decision is therefore also in the hands of the institutional leaders in this case. If the budgetary body has sufficient free resources, there is no legal barrier to granting tax-free housing aid. And I would like to reiterate once again that the government is committed to continuing these programmes, and the kind of delay that you have mentioned in terms of restrictions on foreigners only. [[Applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2016-02-29-122	Thank you very much, Secretary of State Völner. I ask Congressman Sallai if he will accept the Secretary of State's answer.
u2016-02-29-123	Mr. President. Unfortunately, I cannot accept it, given that what the Secretary of State has said only creates opportunities and does not constitute legal obligations to help government officials or civil servants to take advantage of the opportunity that would make their income relations more favourable and better. As you know, not just under your government and under the previous Orbán government, but since the previous period there has been no meaningful wage arrangement in this sphere, and it would be necessary accordingly to improve the quality of life of employees in the service of the government with such benefits. Accordingly, it would be possible to accept what you have said if the legal obligations were maintained in order to maintain opportunities for cafeteria services, whether for repayment or for other purposes. Thank you very much.
u2016-02-29-124	Thank you, Congressman Sallai. So you didn't accept the answer. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether they will accept the Secretary of State's answer. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 108 votes in favour, 36 against and without abstentions. [[17.00]] Dear Parliament, László Kiss, a representative of the MSZP, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Human Resources: å When will they finally realize that the KLIK is inoperative? It's an address. Mr László Kiss has the floor.
u2016-02-29-125	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, I think everyone in this room agrees that the worst thing we can do is ruin our children's future, play with their future, destroy schools. In recent years, we have had a huge struggle to find out how much KLIK's debt is, but now I have to admit it self-critically, we admit that you too had to fight to find out, because you didn't know exactly. We just got 17 billion forints last time. That's a terrifying scale. However, they still have no idea how this system works and how much. It shows that there is no need to correct organisational, financing or operational frameworks in the system, but to eliminate the entire CLIC. What we need at last is to admit that they made a mistake, to apologize to teachers, parents, children. I don't know how they thought this was gonna work. However, the events of the last few months have shown that you do not understand or do not want to understand where you were wrong. The failure of the system, the centralization of the institutionkeeper to the extent that it lacks any norm, endangers the entire freedom of a generation. Fidesz's education managers did not develop the funding model at the level of the maintenance organisation in the relationship between the KLIK, the schools and the institutions. In this system - it is a top-running system, of course - there is no procedure, no established funding system between non-managing districts and political leadership. Moment-based budget planning is under way, only technical payments are made for farming, and it is also very poorly calculated. How could anyone think this would work, since neither the school district nor the schools are actually farming? The established system results in deteriorating results, national outrage. Desperate parents have gone so far as not to take their children to school. Today, we can see all the signs of this despair in many schools. Therefore, I ask the Secretary of State whether they do not think that we should listen to the voices and opinions. Don't you think it's necessary to give back the rights of the directors to make their own decisions? When are you gonna realize that the KLIK is out of order? When are they gonna give the school back to the children, the teachers? When will the inoperable KLIK be eliminated? When will the local authorities get their schools back? Thank you for listening. I'm waiting for your answer.
u2016-02-29-126	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2016-02-29-127	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, You said, honourable Member, that 17 billion forints of debt is frightening. How frightening it is then that the HUF 1300 billion - HUF 1300 billion - that was in 2010, is the debt of the institutional authorities, which social institutions, educational institutions [[Moore from the ranks of the MSZP. József Tobias: That's not what that is! Zoltán Gőgös: It's a bond, let's not mess around, Mr. Secretary.]] on account of the underfunded nature of health institutions, with bond issue, borrowing and borrowing [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: Who were the mayors?]] we have seen it in the municipalities, because that is how much the then government financed this education system and the other supply systems below the years preceding 2010. [[Zoltán Grimlock: Who wrote this down for you?]] , and it generated nearly HUF 1300 billion in debt. Compared to that, you're saying that 17 billion is scary. Well, then, your governance is a terrifyingly scary time for Hungary, in your words, because then it was a much greater debt that the municipalities - than the institutional supporters at the time - accumulated. This shows that the system that had worked before it went bankrupt, quite simply accumulated an increasing debt year after year in front of it, there was no way out, there was no perspective on what would happen in this system, only to see that what was in debt one year would be greater in the next, and even greater, and even greater, and even greater. This is why it was necessary for state institution maintenance to enter, and the State guarantees the operation and maintenance of the institutions in all places, since there were municipalities that could not obtain credit because they were not creditworthy, they did not have so much wealth, they did not have so much revenue. [[Bangóné Borbély Ildikó: You have been ruling for the sixth year!]] They chose to close the institution in 381 locations during your eight-year operation. This is why the Hungarian Socialist Party has also stated that, as an optional option from September 2010, state institution maintenance should also be introduced, but you were not the only ones to do so, as Jobbik's programme also said the same thing, which also provided for greater state unity. Fidesz-KDNP implemented the state-wide maintenance of schools through KLIK as an institution and therefore its stability. That's what brought the KLIK to life. When they say it's got to stop, they never say what's gonna happen next. Would you go back to the system, Mr honourable Member, when such debts arose and the municipalities could not maintain the schools, were they closed only on credit or in 381 places? Would you go back to closing down the last school in small towns again, so that the municipalities will be fully indebted, and someday a civilian government will reconstruct the municipalities? Would you enter this river again? That is not what we think, that is not what we want to do, but we want to improve the state reserve, the KLIK system. In this regard, everyone was invited to a very wide table, there were trade unions, institutions, parents, students, representatives of employers, representatives of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences and everyone else to discuss it together, and we have already participated in two round tables. Of course, there were organizations that demanded that this be created, because they wanted to interfere with the transformation of the KLIK's operation, and then when they received the invitation, they suddenly declared boycott not to participate. There are experts, honourable Member, who, in recent years, have received not one hundred thousand forints, not one million, but hundreds of millions to contribute to the development of the new system, these funds have been taken in, they themselves have contributed to the design of the system with their own work, and now they have a sharp word and criticism of the system they have built on all alternative round tables and platforms, which they have been involved in. [[In the notary seat, Dezső Believing is replaced by Loránt Hegedűs.]] You know, Congressman, it's like you trust an architect with the plans to make the house, build the house, and then the architect scolds you about what a nasty house you've built for yourself. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] while they were involved in this as experts. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-02-29-128	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I ask Congressman if he will accept the Secretary of State's answer.
u2016-02-29-129	I don't think we should talk about it, the KLIK is bad, and it needs to be stopped. What is more, we must not allow your mayor's bond poops to be put on the neck of education and educators, as if setting the cost of education and theirs. That's not true. [[Dr. Bence of Rétvári: What happens next? And then what?]] The position of the MSZP is what it was before. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: When earlier?]] The municipalities that want to maintain this can maintain the schools. We didn't say anything else before, no matter what anyone said about it. You guys keep fuzzing, lying. They believe that everyone is lost in this fog, but in fact, they have created a nebula in which only you can't see well, but everyone else can. We see what is real in education. Disperse this nebula, don't lie to us, not here, not to anyone, not to you, wipe out the KLIK. I can't accept your answer.
u2016-02-29-130	Thank you very much. The congressman didn't accept the answer. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether they will accept the State Secretary's answer. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 109 votes in favour, 36 votes against and no abstentions. Dear Parliament, István Szávay, representative of Jobbik, has submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Human Resources:. How long can the College of the Corvinus University of Budapest carry the communist name of László Rajk, the mass murderer who created the ÁVH? It's an address. Congressman István Szávay has the floor.
u2016-02-29-131	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, On the occasion of the Memorial Day of the victims of communism, I would like to draw attention to another government fidesz omission in connection with my fellow Member, Mr President, in connection with the interpellation of the communist past to face and demand a reckoning. [[17.10]] Since 1 January 2013, no public or public body may bear the name of a person who is a member of the European Economic and Social Committee. He was involved in the foundation, construction or maintenance of authoritarian political systems of the century. In this connection, the Hungarian Academy of Sciences published a summary, according to which László Rajk is a well-known obstacle to the process of democratisation in Hungary in 1945, an active contributor to conceptual litigation, ÁVO, and the supervisor of the ÁVH BM. At the time of the Minister of the Interior, the Hungarian civil society associations and organizations were eliminated, the B-listing started, and a multitude of conceptual lawsuits started. During the parliamentary elections on 31 August 1947, one of the leaders of electoral fraud - according to the resolution, therefore, it cannot be used to name a public area. Dear Secretary of State, The fact that Rajk eventually became the victim of the killing machine he created does not exempt him from the responsibility of his former horrors, however, to this day László Rajk still bears the name of one of the students of the Corvinus University of Budapest. This is also an example of Fidesz's commitment to dealing with the communist past when action takes place. Therefore, to this day, the former party functionaries can enjoy their luxury pensions undisturbed, instead of sitting in prison, so the operators of the previous system have not been banned from public life, so the agents are still not public. You are therefore not only not fulfilling legitimate social expectations in this matter, but also complying with the laws that you yourself have made. The name of László Rajk, which plays a decisive role in the construction of the Rákosi dictatorship and the communist terrorist state, is set out in Annex XXI. It should not be worn by any public institution in Hungary in the first century, and neither should the Communist police killer Endre of Ságvári. I am proud that we are proud that our personal performance has contributed to Ságvári's disappearance from Szeged today, and I just hope that this will happen to Rajk soon. On a previous written question, Mr Rétvári, State Secretary, gave an evasive response and directed me to the leaders of the institution and the student self-government, but we continue to believe that clarification of this issue is the responsibility of the government. Therefore, I ask you not to start smithing here again, but to answer in substance whether you agree that the name of the former Communist Minister of Interior, László Rajk, may still be worn by a higher education college in Hungary, and, if not, what steps you intend to take to eliminate this disgrace. I look forward to your substantive answer. Thank you. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-02-29-132	Thank you, Congressman Savay. I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2016-02-29-133	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, I wish I hadn't thought of that, Béla Kovács, but now, as you said, Congressman [[Defiance in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] On the one hand, the conscience works at Jobbik, I'm glad to see that. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] On the other hand, how fortunate it is that the Hungarian Academy of Sciences should ask for its opinion and not Béla Kovács, whether the name can be held or not in the case of persons holding a leading position in a communist dictatorship. For you know, Congressman, that we have passed a law here in the last term - you quoted it from it. [[István Szávay: Please apply this!]] - in 2012, in which, on the one hand, the names of companies and, on the other hand, the names of press products, thirdly the names of civil society organisations and, on the other hand, the names of public spaces and public institutions were prohibited from including the names of persons referred to in Article XX. He played a leading role in the foundation, construction or maintenance of authoritarian political systems of the century [[Adam Mirkóczki: Why does he continue to appear?]] either the name of an expression or of an organisation which is in accordance with Article XX; It is directly linked to the authoritarian political system of the century. And here, either in relation to the name of civil society organisations or in the name of public areas, or in public institutions, we have made the Hungarian Academy of Sciences an opportunity or an obligation to take a position on who can and does not belong to XX. The dictatorship of the century. Here, in this case, not only the remaining streets of Lenin or the Red Army disappeared from either Budapest or rural areas, it was half a page from Lenin Street, Marx Károly Street, Liberation, Red Star, Szamuely, Béla Kun, Ferenc Münnnnich, Ságvári [[Interview from the ranks of the MSZP: Retvári!]] , People's Army also, Council Republic, People's Front, Frankel Leo, Worker, November 7th, Engels and more, what different streets they were. For example, instead of an illegal communist, István Pataky may now bear the name of Pál Borics, the name of architect István Kiss, instead of a communist politician Sándor Fürst, instead of a public area, instead of a KMP activist Kató Hamán, General Szurmay, former Minister of Defence, or Imre Sallai, instead of a communist movement, the name of a pianist György Cziffra, or Gyula Kulich, instead of a communist youth movement, may now bear the name of Orbán Balázs Szeklerland writer and scientist. This was achieved by Fidesz-KDNP in the last government cycle, and for universities also to review their own names, their own internal organizational regulations in 87/2015. Government Decree No 68. Paragraph 6 of the Act was amended until 31 December 2015 to take action. In the case of a college, higher education institutions had to review and revise the name. In this, as you well know, Member, neither the government nor the ministry nor Parliament has direct influence or direct influence. We forbid the use of these names and expressions, whether linked to the Nazi dictatorship or the communist dictatorship, and it is the university itself who decides which names it uses either in its regulations or elsewhere. So I can continue to tell you that you need to contact the Rector and the student council if you want to change these names, because the 2012 Act, which I just quoted, makes it clear that such names cannot be used. But at the same time, we have taken a lot of other measures, as you know, honourable Member, contrary to what Jobbik has said today: in 142 cases, we have withdrawn the communist pension bonus from those who were pro-state leaders or CSI leaders or secret service leaders; in Btk. there is a denial of the crimes of communism; or at EU level we have introduced 23 August as a common XX. Day of commemoration of the victims of centuries of dictatorships. As far as the Rajk College is concerned, I can only quote our Fidesz fellow Member, Mária Wittner, who said here in Parliament that he, as a revolutionary of 56, would perhaps consider it the best option if he were to transfer this institution to the college of the victims of László Rajk, but only the university could decide on this. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-02-29-134	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I ask Congressman Savay if he will accept the Secretary of State's reply.
u2016-02-29-135	Mr. Secretary, I wanted to accept your answer so badly, I'm telling you, God see my soul, we've been talking to the others here, but I'm sorry, Mr. Secretary, so you're telling me here that you're making a law and that your enforcement responsibility is being pushed off? I'm sorry. This is amazing. Not to mention that you were the one who demanded that the Marx statue be cleaned out of the U.S. language as an I.K.S. leader and a KDNP representative, and now you're saying that what you were able to do as a Member of Parliament, you can't fight as a State Secretary. So anti-communism is very good in words, we heard Prime Minister this weekend. There would have been only one acceptable answer here, Mr Secretary of State, because, Mr honourable Member, thank you very much for bringing this to our attention, and we, as the Secretary of State responsible for education, will draw the institution's attention to the fact that this obvious violation of the law will no longer be maintained. My fellow Members, you can now press a button, you can put faith in civil Hungary, and you can put faith in how to face the past 40 years: do you agree with that? [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] To bear the name of László Rajk in Hungary or not? I can't accept the answer. Thank you, Mr. President. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-02-29-136	Thank you very much. Congressman Savay did not accept the answer. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts the Secretary of State's answer. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 112 votes in favour, 28 against and 1 abstention. Dear Parliament, We will move on to the agenda for immediate questions. Zsolt Legény, a representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: It's an address. Congressman Zsolt Legányi should take the floor.
u2016-02-29-137	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Mr. Prime Minister, Recently, a few days ago, a minister of your government, János Lázár, the Minister of the Prime Minister's Office, reported that he had hit the MVH, the Office for Agriculture and Rural Development, at a residential forum and then at the Government Info Centre. Unfortunately, his claims have a legal basis, but we must add this, among other things, as Minister said, let us say that the MVH is often referred to as the ÁVH, and farmers and farmers submit hundreds and thousands of complaints. Either you have mentioned, Minister, that many of the MVH's colleagues have been prosecuted and investigated, or one of the former Vice-Presidents has been taken in handcuffs. [[17.20]] As I have said, therefore, Minister Lazarus' statements unfortunately have a legal basis for the operation of the MVH. Then, a few days later, another minister of his government, Minister Sándor Fazekas, stood up for the MVH, I quote, in favour of his legally and honestly working colleagues against the inexplicable, baseless attack. Prime Minister, you are the Prime Minister, the ministers of your government are fighting. I think we could still sleep in peace, or the farmers, who are most concerned with the MVH's procedure and order of business. They would be able to sleep if two ministers didn't agree on something. However, I would like to ask the Prime Minister to make the position made clear to the public about what the government intends, what your intention is with the MVH. This organization will continue to function or will not work, what will the future of the MVH be? You are the head of this department, please respond to what will happen to the MVH. Thank you.
u2016-02-29-138	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Prime Minister Viktor Orbán.
u2016-02-29-139	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear fellow Member, The future of the MVH is currently under discussion. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2016-02-29-140	Thank you, Prime Minister. I give the floor to the congressman in return.
u2016-02-29-141	Thank you for the answer, Prime Minister, although I would add that it was a very short answer, and we did not really know anything about it. As I said, there is unfortunately a legal basis for the statements made by Minister Lazarus. Many of us also hear complaints about what is happening within the MVH, but this is the accredited organisation that also allows farmers to pay EU funds. That is why many of me have met farmers and farmers who were not afraid of a dispute between ministers, but just do not know what will happen next in the future and what will happen then. Once again, if the ministers were fighting, we wouldn't have a problem, but the fact that we don't know what's going to happen to the MVH is a problem. It is more a problem for farmers, for us, for Members, of course, but it is farmers who want to know what happens to the MVH, what will happen to this organisation, its future.
u2016-02-29-142	Thank you, Congressman. The rejoinder is also due to the Prime Minister.
u2016-02-29-143	Dear fellow Member, There's a lot of debate in the government. When members of the government disagree with each other, we view it not as a quarrel, but as a natural order to deal with things. Whatever the outcome of this debate, it will not affect farmers at all. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties. Dr. Gergely Bárándy: Corrupt or not is not an insignificant argument!]]
u2016-02-29-144	Thank you, Prime Minister. Dear Parliament, László György Lukács, representative of Jobbik, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question with the title of the conference on your situation. Mr László György Lukács has the floor.
u2016-02-29-145	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Prime Minister, You said in yesterday's high-end evaluation that in rural hospitals, 20th century circumstances prevail, XXI. There are centuries of circumstances. So it can be interpreted as meaning that in most of Hungarian health care, you believe that it is XXI. They work under centuries of conditions. Undoubtedly, some of the rural hospitals look good on the outside, but there is also no doubt that from the inside, these hospitals are not the 21st. One century, but many times the 20th century. They also reflect the century in its 50s and 60s. There have never been so few workers in Hungarian health care. Wages have never been so low and behind, let alone XXI. 100th-century wages are paid to the workers, but to the XX. The wages of the end of the century are barely reached. As a possibility, it has not yet caught up with the international average, nor with the neighbouring country average that we would like to give them. It can't even be XXI anymore. The fact that more people die from infection in hospitals in Hungary than in accidents on roads, but it is also facial toaster that it is not XXI. 100th century, the country's spending on health care. You could be the real leader of health care, a real governor, a helmsman, for health care to lead you out of the current ambush situation where you are at the moment. But it seems that you're not a guide in the health storm of the medical raft, but rather a clueless helmsman, an aimless wanderer. But now you have to answer the questions that will be answered by households in the real national consultation of Jobbik. For example, do you really think that this is the case? There are centuries of health conditions. When it is raised, Prime Minister, the workers are XX. Is it a century-old wage grabbing? Is it true not only the demands for wage increases, but also for infections? When will all of them finally really be XXI? 100th century conditions in Hungarian health care? Prime Minister, I look forward to your abundant and merciless response. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches. Dr. István Józsa: Lack of numbers!]]
u2016-02-29-146	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Prime Minister Viktor Orbán.
u2016-02-29-147	Dear fellow Member, In short, let me tell you what we've been able to do so far. We provide 40% more money for basic health care compared to 2010. [[Dr. István Józsa: It's not true!]] You can say that's not enough, but I think you'll find a few of those five years when that happens. The waiting lists have been halved. We spent more than 500 billion forints on developing our hospitals. There are few institutions in the country where there has not been or would not be any development at the moment. Recently 300 hospitals and clinics have been renewed from EU and domestic sources. [[Dr. István Józsa: There is no doctor!]] And indeed, in the vast majority of rural hospitals it is already XXI. The patients are greeted by centuries of conditions. [[Bangóné Borbély Ildikó: Not true, not even a doctor!]] At the same time, there is a problem in Budapest, and the government considers it an important task to improve the quality of supply in Budapest as well. For this reason, a new large health centre in Budapest will be built in the future. [[Dr. István Józsa:]] In addition to the new hospital, further hospital development will take place in Budapest. There will be a modern emergency center in three or four places in the capital. That's all we could do in the years behind us. [[Dr. István Józsa: Will you be a doctor?]] Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2016-02-29-148	Thank you, Prime Minister. I give the floor to the congressman in return.
u2016-02-29-149	Thank you very much. Mr. Prime Minister, The reason I thought it would be necessary to consult on you is because it seems to me that you either do not see it or do not hear it or you do not understand the problem. But it's okay. You can take part in the real national consultation of Jobbik and read those questions [[Noise from the pro-government benches.]] which we will put up and deliver to households on the basis of the opinion of the population. In this, the public will indicate to you that they would prefer to see more resources in health care and not, for example, in building your media empire, they would prefer to see resources in health care and not, for example, in building stadiums linked to your hobby, and would prefer to see health [[Lajos Kósa: How many doctors have you sold abroad?]] A salary increase for employees, like some of the funds allocated to MNB presidents or other people close to you. Mr. Prime Minister, I think the consult wasn't successful, but the diagnosis is that you probably don't hear or see it, but you don't seem to understand this problem. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2016-02-29-150	Thank you. The Prime Minister shall have a rejoinder.
u2016-02-29-151	Like God, let your teeth be like that. Dear fellow Member, Your business carries doctors abroad on a business basis. [[Big noise, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, ……]] While we are being attacked by a shortage of doctors, Jobbik, in your person, has entrusted his health policy to a man who doesn't work to be better at home, but to deliver doctors abroad. Let us speak straight: you receive money, you make a profit by taking Hungarian doctors abroad. [[Continuous noise in the benches of the governing parties. Crying in the same place, among them: Shame! Shame on you.]] I am not questioning the legality of this, but since you personally have a financial interest in doctors leaving Hungary, Jobbik We must consider the proposals of Hungarian health programmes to be eye-searching and unspoken. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: You're making things worse!]] Thank you for your attention. [[A big round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2016-02-29-152	Thank you very much. I would like to point out to the Member of the Council on the order of business that he will be given the floor at the end of the agenda. Dear Parliament, Mr András Schiffer, representative of the LMP, Mr. Group Leader, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question:. Hungary capitulates? It's an address. Mr. András Schiffer's group leader.
u2016-02-29-153	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Mr. Prime Minister, Last July, in Tusnádfürdő, you were quite right to say about American wiretaps that, after it has been revealed, the sky will not fall, we Europeans will act as if nothing had happened, and we will continue free trade negotiations with the party who knows our position before ourselves. You were right. The question is why we are still continuing these negotiations. [[17 .30]] A few months go by, US Ambassador Colleen Bell commends you and your foreign minister as a great supporter of transatlantic negotiations in January this year. Prime Minister, you know perfectly well that there is a so-called unorthodox free trade negotiation going on; they are no longer trying to break down tariff barriers, but the rules that protect us, people, the natural environment, the future generation, food self-determination. Hungary also wishes to assist as a Member State of the European Union. If it is a matter of primary sovereignty, then it is not possible to have an international convention restricting the issue of democratic governments and parliaments, such as water supply, energy system, education and health. There will be between 600 and 700 000 fewer jobs in Europe; this is a slow-motion coup against democratic governments by global capital. The intention of the Biotech Lobby is very clear: they also want to destroy European GMO regulation so as not to discriminate against them. Prime Minister, we are talking about negotiations that have been sealed for 30 years as well as the documents of the Paks Pact with the Russians. 600 lobbyists will escort the US Government to Brussels for each round of negotiations. The Századvég study you provided is very clear: in the case of the most important export products for Hungary there will be unequal competition, Hungarian farmers and Hungarian exporters will lose in this store. My question is: how long will the Fidesz-MSZP-DK Grand Coalition, which is opposed to the Hungarian national interests, last in addition to the Free Trade Agreement? Thank you very much.
u2016-02-29-154	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. I give the floor to Prime Minister Viktor Orbán.
u2016-02-29-155	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear fellow Member, I consider the decision of the Hungarian Government to participate as a member of the European Union in the negotiations between the European Union and the United States to be natural. Therefore, I cannot accept your proposal that we do not participate there. As regards the possible outcome of the negotiations, I can tell you that in the case of the free trade agreement between the United States of America and the European Union, more commonly known as TTIP, the Hungarian Government continues to maintain its position that only an agreement should be signed that serves the interests of the country and does not prejudice our vital national interests. Who he praises in international politics, and I recommend reading the relevant literary works, especially those relating to Dirty Fred. [[Defiance.]] Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-02-29-156	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. Mr. Schiffer is entitled to a rejoinder.
u2016-02-29-157	Thank you, Mr. President. Prime Minister, the fact is that there is not a single possible outcome of this series of negotiations that would benefit Hungarian national interests. That's exactly what the end of the century study you ordered shows. There is no sector where Hungary would benefit unless we took the pen trade here. The fact is that you always refer to the fact that 80% of Hungarian GDP is produced by export. The question is how long we will keep Hungary in a vulnerable export-dependent situation. The advantage that may arise is 0.3-0.5 per cent of GDP, it will come down to multinationals, and it will come out of this country. Prime Minister, if you are talking about competitiveness, Hungarian workers may start to fear because in your translation - you are a good thatcherist neoliberal - this means that: [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] He wants to compete with wages downhill. My question, Prime Minister, is whether you are planning a referendum on the ratification of this shameful trade agreement. Thank you very much.
u2016-02-29-158	Thank you, Mr. Group Leader. The rejoinder is also due to the Prime Minister.
u2016-02-29-159	In my memory of constitutional law, such international treaties will have to be discussed and decided by Parliament. Then we can decide if you feel that we need a broader mandate. As to the essence of what you have to say, I must admit that I am neither as brave nor as far ahead as you are. So the claim that there is no outcome of a diplomatic trial, in this case, that which could not be good for us, I dare not risk it. Maybe there's an outcome, maybe there isn't. I suggest we work for now, listen, negotiate, and we'll see in the end. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-02-29-160	Thank you, Prime Minister. Dear Parliament, Kristóf Szatmáry, a representative of Fidesz, wants to ask the Minister of National Economy an immediate question: å How did retail sales increase by nearly 6% in 2015? It's an address. The Minister has appointed Mr Péter Cseresnyés State Secretary for his response to an urgent public task. I would like to ask the Member if he accepts the person who is responding. [[For signal:]] It says yes. You have the floor, Congressman Kristóf Szatmáry.
u2016-02-29-161	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, The second estimate of KSH on 23 February confirmed that, together with the 5 per cent increase in December, retail sales exceeded a total of 5.6 per cent in 2015. The number of retail sales also shows how the work of the government and the performance of the Hungarian economy have come to fruition in this area. We can say that every month since July 2013, or thirty months now, domestic trade has been steadily increasing, which in this respect is one of the longest periods of the last 25 years, and it is certainly very welcome. In particular, there is a 3.4 percent increase in mixed food and food trade and a 7.6 percent increase in non-food last year. Two very positive trends lie behind this. On the one hand, this is very beneficial for domestic businesses, because we know that domestic small and medium-sized enterprises are predominantly living in the internal market, so the expansion of the internal market is always an income for domestic businesses, which is nothing more visible than the continuous increase in business tax revenues. The other very welcome news in this regard is that there is more money than people, i.e. the government's rise in real wages, and the expansion of employment, all in this form. I ask the honourable Secretary of State how the government is counting in 2016, whether we can continue this positive trend. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-02-29-162	Thank you, Congressman Satmary. I give the floor to State Secretary Péter Cseresnyés.
u2016-02-29-163	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Honourable Congressman, As you said, retail is an extremely good performance in 2015. In an international comparison, the growth in the volume of Hungarian retail sales in December was the fifth fastest in the European Union on an annual basis. Retail traffic data confirm that the appetite for purchasing households has returned, as they see their income prospects as much more positive. This is also supported by the fact that consumer confidence continued to improve and thus reached almost a two-year peak in January. On the one hand, low inflation, rising earnings and rising employment support the purchasing power of the population. Hungarian consumers consider their personal financial situation, job prospects and their own willingness to buy much more favourable than they did a year ago. A further increase in retail turnover is expected in 2016, supported by further rising real income, record employment and measures such as raising family tax incentives for two children, reducing or abolishing certain public services charges and certain levies, and a reduction in personal income tax by one percentage point, in addition to the settlement of foreign currency loans. In short, the answer to your question is that in 2016 retail growth could continue. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-02-29-164	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. I give the floor to the congressman in return.
u2016-02-29-165	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr State Secretary, this is also a good news in the light of the fact that a year ago, in connection with the introduction of Sunday's day of rest, some people warned the Hungarian public that the introduction of this day of rest in the retail trade could cause a decline, a fall in employment and other problems. [[17.40]] I hope we can now say from the perspective of a year that there was no basis for this. At the same time, this data is interesting and welcome because we see that the Hungarian trade chains are doing well. And that is why the attempt by Brussels to keep trying to free the international chains from Hungarian public burdens is quite incomprehensible. We have seen an example of this last time in Brussels, when they tried to make the previous legislation impossible for a loss-making undertaking to operate. I trust that the data will encourage the government to maintain the increased involvement of international companies in public burdens. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2016-02-29-166	Thank you very much. You have a one-minute rejoinder, Mr. Secretary.
u2016-02-29-167	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Honourable Congressman, I would like to say one number: in the last year, the number of people employed in retail has increased by nearly two thousand or more, so the concern that many people spoke before the introduction of Sunday's rest day has not been true, has not been achieved. By the way, we are interested in making sure that no one makes a living out of it, especially in the business world. We want everyone to take their share of public burdens in a straight line, and this is also true of trade workers, as it is hard to believe that large companies can operate loss-making with increasing traffic, with increasing numbers. So it is in our interest that these companies function profitably, and they have the interest of admitting this in their books in addition to expanding trade. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2016-02-29-168	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Mr. József Tóbias, representative of the MSZP, Head of the Group, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question with the title "The Will of the People." Mr Tobias József has the floor.
u2016-02-29-169	Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Mr President, The people's will must prevail, that's what was said yesterday in your speech, and nearly 70 percent of the people in Hungary want to give their opinion on Sunday's closed hours in the form of popular will in the framework of a referendum. So far, it has not been very successful, although I know that it takes a struggle to achieve success, even if you have done everything you can to make the way of the referendum difficult, and this has also been laid down in the Fundamental Law. However, there is a moment that I would like Prime Minister to address within the walls of this House. This was last Tuesday in front of the National Election Office building and its building, an event which experts today claim to have committed a crime. This has not been the case in Hungary for 26 years. [[Dr. Zsolt Semjén: We have to press charges!]] And yes, say you, some of my fellow Members have filed a complaint, but one question remains open: what is the government doing a week ago? A week ago, the D.A.'s office, the police, what did they do in an ex officio manner? I would like to ask Prime Minister whether, a week ago, they expect the people to press charges, or to prevent them from exercising their right to citizenship, so to speak, if it is in your government's order, or if it can be arranged with the simple sentence that anyone who has a problem should turn to the appropriate authority. I am warning you, Prime Minister, that there is a lot of debate between the walls of this House, and one thing you do not like is cynicism. If we get that answer, it's cynicism. Thank you very much.
u2016-02-29-170	Thank you, Mr. Group Leader. I give the floor to Prime Minister Viktor Orbán.
u2016-02-29-171	Thank you very much, Mr. President. We're probably not watching the same thing in the public eye. I read that the MSZP submitted your question. And they took it in. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties. Interviews from the ranks of the MSZP. Dr. András Schiffer intervenes.]]
u2016-02-29-172	Thank you, Prime Minister. Mr. József Tobias is entitled to a rejoinder.
u2016-02-29-173	The truth is, you can see exactly what's going on here, Prime Minister. What you've just told me is exactly what's happening. What is going to happen today in the National Election Committee is illegal in itself, although it is in favour of us, only to cover up a crime. Prime Minister, I did not ask if I had the right and whether the MSZP initiative had been received. The N.T.A. will decide that, the Curia will decide that, that's the order of the matter. What I'm talking about is last Tuesday. The fact that what happened there means for the government whether it's okay, or whether it means that the government and the state clarify their relationship with the prisoners, the Vice President of Fidesz or the D.A.'s office and the police. That's the question. That is all there is on the table itself, because the electorate would like to know, Prime Minister, that if he has any dispute with power, that is what he should expect, or that he can exercise his right to have the right to express his opinion in Hungary today. That's the question. Thank you very much.
u2016-02-29-174	Thank you. The Prime Minister shall also have a rejoinder.
u2016-02-29-175	On this side of the political horseshoe, the encouragement is to clarify our relationship with ourselves, it doesn't seem to make sense, because it's clarified. I understand there's an identity crisis on the other side of the horseshoe, but this has nothing to do with us. After all, the essence of the matter is that a referendum can be initiated in Hungary, it can be submitted if there is a debate, it will be decided by the qualified constitutional bodies. And if you're suggesting that situations and conditions are going to be unfair, as they have been, I don't think that's acceptable. Consequently, the government did what it had to do, after political parties, such as you, represented themselves in the National Election Committee, asked them to submit a legislative amendment proposal that would change the rules leading to the development of clearly poorly regulated situations such as these, and we will calmly, after a proper debate, take decisions that reassured us to regulate the details of this legal institution. That's what the government did because it was his job. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2016-02-29-176	Thank you, Prime Minister. Dear Parliament, Gábor Vona, representative of Jobbik, group leader, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: "Let's spread out the cards." What makes the Prime Minister's environment rich? It's called the 2nd. Mr Gábor Vona, Head of the Group, has the floor.
u2016-02-29-177	Mr. Prime Minister, At the end of last year, a debate between us remained open. Then I made, in my opinion, a chivalrous, clear offer to settle our disputes, but then you turned it down a little passionately. Let's face it at the end of the year, but since it's a new year, new opportunities, I would like to suggest again that we consider setting up the two committees of inquiry that I proposed at the end of last year. One committee of inquiry would look at the relationship between Jobbik and Russia, which you have repeatedly advocated, because many times your representatives talk about it. In this, we do not agree, you say that Jobbik receives money from Russia, we say that is not true. I don't know if there's been anyone in the last 26 years asking for a committee of inquiry, but it's come. Now I'm asking you to set up a committee of inquiry and examine Jobbik's connections in this direction. In fact, in order to make the offer gallant, you should lead by yourself, Prime Minister, and we will face the questions and see what is known about this issue. The other committee of inquiry, which I also suggested at the same time, would examine your environment and its richness. We would like to lead this, and I trust that you will face the questions of this committee of inquiry, and in particular the triumvirate, Árpád Habony, Lőrinc Mészáros and Andy Vajna, that you say you have achieved with your honour and diligence, we say that this is not necessarily the case. So, Prime Minister, I am asking you to clarify this society, Hungarian society, which is of fundamental interest to us. We, too, stand before the Committee of Inquiry for Russian Money, which you are constantly raising, with a clear conscience, any questions you feel free to ask. We will be there, and we will answer the questions, and you will come to this committee of inquiry, and in the first instance support this establishment, and you will come and answer our questions, and then Hungarian society will finally see these two exciting issues clearly. Prime Minister, I ask you not to run from this challenge. I think it's a chivalrous, gallant offer, please accept it. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2016-02-29-178	Thank you, Mr. Group Leader. I give the floor to Prime Minister Viktor Orbán.
u2016-02-29-179	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr President, You ask me several times and several times, there's always only one thing that connects your questions, that's money. I've already realized that you're not interested in politics, you're interested in money. [[Defiance from Jobbik's ranks.]] And politics is all that has to do with money. I've seen enough politicians here in the last 26 years whose libido was only touched by money, just like yours. [[17.50]] I understand. I understand, young man, young couple, they obviously need the money, but it's not right to fall on the other side of the horse. For example, there is a congressman among you who paid his campaign money to his own mother's company. You also make money taking doctors abroad, and as you say, let's put out the cards, because strange things happen around your house. For example, a car rental company receives orders from you for studying for HUF 18 million, a car repair company writes studies for HUF 6 million for you, an IT company for 8, but the most beautiful thing is that a transport company also writes studies for Jobbik for HUF 4.4 million on topics such as radical trends in Europe and crisis management in Iceland. [[Defiance in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] I'm not gonna tell you any more. It's not the horse. It's the mammoth's leg sticking out of these cases. Shouldn't we sweep a good taste around their own house before we're slandered? Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-02-29-180	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. I'll give the floor to the leader of the group for the rejoinder.
u2016-02-29-181	I'm sorry, Prime Minister, that you seem to be running away from this opportunity. [[Defiance in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] Last time he said that the criminal party is Jobbik, well, the pendulum is moving towards you. I do not want to bid here, but it is not our representative who organized a gang of crimes with Viagra forgery; it was not our representative who went to Dunaújváros to kill the body and pour it into concrete; it was not our deputy mayor, who almost beat the musician to death after the birthday party; it was not our youth organization where the violence of the swinetor, and the pig-cut or pig-slaughter party ends up in a crowd fight; it was not our Roma municipal people who could not account for 1.6 billion forints, and it was not our people who went to the National Election Office to prevent the initiative in the referendum. [[Moore, interruptions from the Fidesz ranks.]] Prime Minister, it is possible to bid, and I agree with you, let everyone sweep around your house, there is a lot to sweep around your house, and I ask that you do not run away on the two issues that I have raised, and that you face the two questions, let us examine both of them. Be brave, this way, please. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-02-29-182	Thank you, Mr. Group Leader. The rejoinder is due to the Prime Minister.
u2016-02-29-183	I don't want to go through your pockets because it's a nasty habit, but I'd be happy to help if you haven't answered any of the cases I've just mentioned. I suggest you see if the money in the fictitious accounts at Béla Kovács was Jobbik's money. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-02-29-184	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. Dear Parliament, László Földi, representative of KDNP, wants to ask the Minister of Agriculture an immediate question:. How did the price of pork in shops change after VAT reduction? It's an address. The Minister has appointed Mr.István Nagy State Secretary to respond to his urgent public mission. I'm asking you if you'll accept the response.
u2016-02-29-185	Yeah.
u2016-02-29-186	It says yes. It is for Congressman László Földi to take the floor.
u2016-02-29-187	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, From 1 January, the VAT on pigmeat fell from 27 percent to 5 percent. The legislation sets out precisely which types of meat are subject to VAT reductions, so the tax on domestic pigmeat has become lower, including the thighs, shoulders, shoulders, hooves, ribs and fat ones, in this category. According to a study by the National Trade Association, traders are interested in obtaining the benefits of reducing VAT. In the food market, there is significant competition between shops and trade chains, in which case it is of fundamental business interest for traders to have a price advantage available by reducing the VAT rate. In addition to the above, the economy is expected to be clean, as besides the 5% VAT, it is no longer worth selling capital meat black to producers. In the period prior to January 2016, certain surveys show that sales without an invoice reached 30 per cent. Dear Secretary of State, By reducing the VAT on pigmeat, both producers and consumers benefit. I respectfully ask you, what has been achieved from the above assumptions in a month and a half after the VAT reduction. Is it possible that the successful VAT reduction action could be followed by other similar measures? I'm looking forward to your reply. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-02-29-188	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary of State István Nagy.
u2016-02-29-189	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, My dear fellow Member, The saying is that thick pennies are better than rare forints, and in fact, the essence of my answer to you is that all of our experience confirms that the VAT reduction has gone into trade. The difference in VAT reductions was placed on the customer's table, left at the customer's table. If I want to translate this for you in HUF, it means that we are leaving some HUF 25 billion at the consumer table now. This 25 billion, if we continue to divide this, is 10-12 thousand forints per year for a family of four. This means that you can buy 10-12 kilograms of pork, 12-15 kilograms of poultry meat, and you can further increase this with fish products, plus this 5 percent VAT reduction I must say to you that when the government decided to reduce the VAT on pigmeat, it did so because it was not ensured that producers and traders would put the products on the counter on equal terms. A lot of goods from around 30 percent of the black trade were affected in this area. The 5 per cent VAT means that everyone has the same chance of putting it on the counter, and this is very visible now, because we are talking about a growing pig population, we are talking about increasing consumption, and we can see that this measure has led to an increase in consumption that has underpinned all this measure. However, I must also indicate to you that it is only possible to introduce it gradually, and that is why we are looking at different monitoring to see whether trade will comply with the VAT reduction, because the economy will receive so much money for the electorate. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] To consumers, which the economy needs to replace, it is therefore only possible to go gradually. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-02-29-190	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. You have a one-minute rejoinder for the congressman.
u2016-02-29-191	Thank you for your answer, Mr. Secretary of State. As a regular marketer and customer, I see the importance of VAT reductions among people in the pig market, but we also hope that this will also be reflected in the food supply, and that our children will receive better quality food through this VAT reduction. I also hope, as a man living in the countryside, that the pig sector will release more and more pigs and supply the Hungarian population with high quality meat. And we are also waiting, as a market person myself, for what further VAT cuts will allow, of course, depending on the budget. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-02-29-192	Thank you, Congressman. A one-minute rejoinder for the Secretary of State.
u2016-02-29-193	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear fellow Member, I would like to make it clear to you that VAT reductions are always possible depending on the performance of the economy. VAT can only be reduced if the large whole budget is not threatened. Because the farm is doing well, it is in an increasing branch, so it was possible to reduce the pig's VAT from 27 percent to 5 percent. This allows consumers to buy between 10 and 15 kilograms of extra meat, which can also be added to the table. I must say to you that this was a very important measure to improve the quality of food, health and protein content of nutrition. Depending on the further growth of the economy, in order to clean up the black economy, further measures need to be monitored and examined to ensure that this VAT reduction can be extended to other basic foods. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-02-29-194	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Erzsébet Schmuck and Benedek Sallai, the representatives of the LMP, want to ask the Minister of the Interior an immediate question: It's an address. The Minister has appointed Mr Károly Kontra as Secretary of State to respond to his urgent public mission. I ask the Member whether he accepts the person who is responding or insists on the Minister.
u2016-02-29-195	With all due respect, we'd like to wait for the Minister. Thank you very much.
u2016-02-29-196	Thank you very much. Minister must answer at the hour of the second immediate question. [[18.00]] Dear Parliament, István Ikotity, a representative of the LMP, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question, "When will Florian Farkas be fired?" It's an address. Mr István Ikotity has the floor.
u2016-02-29-197	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, Mr. Prime Minister, You replied to my question here in Parliament last December, that, as long as Florian Farkas is not said to be wrong in some procedure, we will always protect him, which means he will not replace him until then, and will continue to employ him as Prime Minister Commissioner for HUF 1 million a month. [[István Jakab, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] I have news for you, Prime Minister. The error has been proven. The Ministry of Human Resources will force the National Roma Municipality to pay back the HUF 1.2 billion of the Bridge to the world of work. But according to the news, there are already dozens of investigations into the National Roma Municipality and billions of forints will be affected by the repayment obligation. These huge sums will bring down the National Roma Municipality; of course, the present is not a damage at all. We are talking about programmes that started when Flórián Farkas was well-president of the National Roma Municipality, and he is also responsible for these projects as a leader and Commissioner for Roma Affairs. But, Prime Minister, how reliable is a man who doesn't even know where he got his degree when he actually got one? But he won't even tell me where he graduated when it came up that he might not even have a high school diploma. Are you surrounded by such reliable people in any other way? Why do you accept Flórian Farkas' advice? What is Florian Farkas even doing? Do you do any meaningful work? Why are you still bothering him? Why do you let the issue of Roma catch-up be undermined by personal responsibility? Mr. Prime Minister, When are you gonna fire Florian Wolf? I'm waiting for your answer.
u2016-02-29-198	Thank you very much, Congressman. Welcome, fellow Members. Dear Parliament, Prime Minister Viktor Orbán will answer the question. I give you the floor, Prime Minister.
u2016-02-29-199	The question of when I'm firing Florian Wolf is that I have no intention of firing him. I also see that you're traveling to Flórian Farkas, and it's strengthening his positions. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Defiance and applause on the pro-government side. Dr. István Józsa: That was not an answer!]]
u2016-02-29-200	I thank the Prime Minister for his reply and give the floor to Mr István Ikotity in return.
u2016-02-29-201	Thank you, Mr. President. It seems to be the Prime Minister's grace. Prime Minister, I would like to disperse a myth, a myth that has surrounded you for nearly 20 years. This myth is the myth of a good leader and an evil counselor, which is about how a good leader is good at all his purposes, but the counselors who surround him always take it the wrong way, and always get something wrong out of him, steal, cheat, lie. By the way, polls also show that your popularity is significantly higher, and people believe in Viktor Orbán much more than in Fidesz. This myth was set up by prominent people in their profession, from Imre Makovecz to Tamás Cseh, to others who, unfortunately, are no longer among us, and can no longer override it. This myth is not true, Prime Minister. This is also apparent from the fact that you are holding Florian Wolf and others like him in position at the moment.
u2016-02-29-202	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Prime Minister Viktor Orbán in return.
u2016-02-29-203	Dear fellow Member, First of all, I cannot accept the argument that Flórian Farkas is taking me on the wrong path. Secondly, if I understand what you're saying correctly, you're not really dealing with Flórian Farkas, you're dealing with me. [[Dr. István Józsa: Is! Dóra Dúró: Sallai R. Benedek: Is!]] I understand that now. What I can tell you is that it is hard to say when you are supported, especially if you have been a Member of Parliament for 26 years - four of us in this House - I can only say that I have done the last years of the Kádár system with this country and the Hungarian people, and I have done it together, since then I have been sitting here, working and doing everything I can to make it better for them. Maybe that's why they're supporting me? Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-02-29-204	Thank you, Prime Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Tamás Bellozó, representative of the MSZP, wants to ask the Attorney General an immediate question. [[Noise in the ranks of the MSZP. József Tobias: It can't be! Intercoms, the president's ringing.]] That's what a quick change means, Honourable Parliament. Dear Parliament, Congressman Péter Ágh, representative of Fidesz, wishes to ask the Minister of the Interior an immediate question: It's an address. Minister Károly Kontra has appointed Secretary of State to respond to his urgent public mission. I ask the Member whether he accepts the person of the response or asks the Minister himself for an answer.
u2016-02-29-205	Yeah, I'll take it.
u2016-02-29-206	You have the floor.
u2016-02-29-207	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, Dear House, He's come to a new chapter in the recent era of migration. Since the construction of the fence and the joint action of the police and the defence, the number of illegal offenders has reached a new record compared to the last period. On 21 February 237 tried to enter Hungary illegally, while 311 tried to enter Hungary this weekend. It is important to stress that the reason for the increase is that measures are being taken to tighten up the number of countries on the route in which they enter to filter out those who come from non-war-torn countries. Thus, those who are not allowed to enter Europe on the still open transit routes will now return to Hungary. It is clear from the data that the now illegally trying people are not all Syrians, Afghans or Iraqis, but, for example, Pakistani, Moroccans, that they are not fleeing the war, they have only made an economic decision to leave their country. Dear Secretary of State, First of all, let us thank everyone who has taken part in securing our borders, because over the course of a year, we can see that we have taken the right steps. In view of this, I respectfully ask the Secretary of State what new measures are being planned to address the growing migratory pressure. Thank you and I look forward to your reply. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-02-29-208	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary Károly Kontra.
u2016-02-29-209	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Indeed, the figures that were quoted in 2016 are true and correspond to reality. This year, in the two months behind us, the police captured 2754 people for illegal border crossings, 2721 of which were on the Serbian border. The Immigration and Nationality Office received a total of 2534 asylum applications. Over the past year, we have managed to protect the country, protect people with the border closure at the southern border, legal and technical steps, as well as with personal strength. I would like to tell you and this House that we will defend the country again this year, we will protect the Hungarian people, to this end we have strengthened the technical border lock and we have doubled the number of patrol officers. The Hungarian Honvédég Mórahalom, Asotthalom, Domaszék, Kelebia and Röszke also support the work of border guards with helicopter aerial reconnaissance. We have started preparing for the construction of defence lines in the Hungarian-Romanian border section, and, if necessary, we will defend ourselves from the entry of illegal migrants from Slovenia to Ukraine in full length. In addition, we have ordered a firm, tighter control in the counties of Bács-Kiskun and Csongrád. Honourable Congressman, The Hungarian government is determined to protect the country, protect the Hungarian people, and therefore spent 85 billion HUF on this purpose. We are ready to continue this effort again this year. We hope that we will be successful, and we will create all the conditions for this. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-02-29-210	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Péter Agh in return. Here you go. [[18.10]]
u2016-02-29-211	Thank you for the floor. Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. In addition to the new wave of illegal immigrants, however, Hungary is under a very serious threat that the EU intends to impose a compulsory resettlement quota on Hungary; a compulsory resettlement quota that we know is unlawful, pointless and dangerous. The Hungarian Government rejected this from the outset and therefore turned to the European Court of Justice. The quota is the introduction of illegal immigrants. Brussels has thus virtually attacked the legal barrier, which has played a fundamental role in protecting Hungary from illegal immigrants so far, while we can say that European immigration policy has clearly failed. With respect to the EU resettlement quota, therefore, I respectfully ask the Secretary of State what steps the government is taking to keep the Hungarian people safe in the future. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-02-29-212	Thank you, Congressman. You have a rejoinder from the Secretary of State. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2016-02-29-213	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, In addition to these specific security measures, the government initiated a referendum against the compulsory resettlement quota. I would also like to underline here, in front of this House, that this initiative, this referendum, is not aimed at against the mandatory resettlement quota previously decided, but at the mandatory EU resettlement quota to be negotiated in March. I would also like to say that this compulsory resettlement quota poses a significant risk not only to Hungary but also to other countries of the European Union. After all, it would recreate the ethnic, cultural and religious image of Europe, the countries of the European Union, including Hungary. The government considers that there is no authority for this to be done by the European Union, nor by European leaders, nor by any European body, so it will turn to the people, the people. After all, this referendum is fair and legal. We are confident that people will support this initiative. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-02-29-214	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Zoltán Gőgös, representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question:. Would you like to operate on the crash course with a qualified surgeon? It's an address. It is for Congressman Zoltán Haughty to take the floor.
u2016-02-29-215	Thank you, Mr President, for the floor. Mr. Prime Minister, For us, so to speak, village children, since you are also from there, I think it is our shared responsibility to protect the honour of the agricultural profession. What is now happening in the area of agriculture, now speculators have a clear search for land with a few hours of courses or a few hours of courses to get land or buy companies, I think that's amazing for everyone. Prime Minister! Here we work with living organisms, just like doctors do with humans. If this is done by someone who doesn't know how to do this, it can only do harm. You said yesterday that we are not using our gifts in agriculture, and I completely agree with that. But we're not using it because it's exactly the kind of people they let into this system. Your immediate friend or co-worker takes agricultural companies and lands like other 10 ounces of parizer. [[Deterioration in the pro-government benches.]] Don't let this happen, Prime Minister. Stand on your heels and tell me that yes, Minister Lazarus has told me how he could buy land under the current rules, because he has been messing with me for a month, trying to have fun, so to speak, but I'm not gonna stop, and he refuses to tell me how qualified he was to become a farmer. He wrote another cynical reply today that he was in the farmer's register. I'm not gonna argue that, so he's overseeing that system, obviously you're not telling him you're not gonna put him in this register. I'd be damned interested, I'll tell you honestly, in addition to law schooling, let's say the forest management paper is a little bit tricky, but I don't know if at least half of your income comes from it. Don't do this, Prime Minister. Don't do it! You know, one step from here is to buy land with a gold-handed uddering course. [[Defiance.]] We should stop now, because believe me, it's a profession, it's a debauchery for the countryman. We learned that from our parents at one time, and then we went to college, and we went to schools to understand that, so that we wouldn't ruin our future. This future is being destroyed, Prime Minister. Stop this, please.
u2016-02-29-216	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Prime Minister Viktor Orbán.
u2016-02-29-217	If you'll allow me, I'd like to try to continue the conversation in the friendly tone you started, reminding both of us that once we're village children, we should really talk to each other. I also see that you do not like Minister János Lázár, and I also see that you are sitting next to me and you can talk to him, but if I am not mistaken, you will offer me the opportunity to be spokesperson for János Lázár. I refuse, I'm not in the mood, I'll tell you the truth. On the other hand, your question has serious content, and I think it is worth it, even if we have a short period of time, to change seriously three rural words. So it seems that there was a sensible debate here at some point, perhaps a year or two ago, when we talked about whether, after the acquisition of land in Hungary is only possible for farmers under the two-thirds law adopted here, we should consider it a closed community and a closed world or not. Whether we should make it possible for people who are not yet in it or not to create this opportunity. We discussed this here. At the time, the opinion was to create an opportunity for anyone who wants to enter to enter. This can be done through training, and I can see that somehow it has become part of political hack campaigns, that they are mocking on the documents obtained in the goldfish training system. I don't think it's a responsible and sensible attitude, even if it's good for jokes. But it's not right. I mean, that's... [[Defiance.]] - how else would we help young people into agriculture, among farmers, if not through training? Therefore, I would like to draw your attention to what I think you know as well as I do that if you look at Hungary among the European agricultural nations, you will see that the number of qualified people in Hungary within the agricultural population is lower than that of our competitors. So we need to raise our qualifications. Therefore, I suggest that those who undertake such a thing should not be bullied but rather encouraged and acknowledged. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-02-29-218	Thank you, Prime Minister, for your reply. In return, I give the floor to Congressman Zoltán Gőgös.
u2016-02-29-219	So, Prime Minister, no OKJ medical training. I think it's at least the same profession, as if someone's treating people, nothing worse. Or if someone thinks so, I think they're wrong. I don't think the problem is that the goldfish course is 400 hours and a serious course that exists and exists. The problem is they're using it. The problem is they won't do it, Prime Minister. The problem is, if they don't take a lunch break, they take a 400-hour course in three days. That's the problem! And the problem is that everyone takes advantage of it, everyone who has nothing to do with the business in the world, but has the money to buy land, just like your minister. So that's the problem. I even accept that he knows something about this because he learned it from his father a long time ago. But at least one minister doesn't want to play by the rules to answer the questions honestly. But I can say that to a lot of people in this room. I think this has to stop. Rather, we encourage young people to acquire university education, to help them, to hire more people, if possible, and not to sell or buy land in Hungary on the basis of cheating courses. [[A rare applause in the ranks of the MSZP.]]
u2016-02-29-220	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Mr. Prime Minister, you have a rejoinder. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
u2016-02-29-221	I asked the Minister, because I am forced to become a spokesperson, whether he's a goldfish farmer. He's telling you through me, he's not. [[Delightfulness and a long applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-02-29-222	Dear Parliament, It's 6:18 p.m., and we've reached the end of the immediate questioning. Members who now leave the Chamber to carry out their urgent public duties, please do so quietly. [[Move. It's a lot of noise.]] Dear Parliament, On a point of order, Mr László György Lukács, Member of the Jobbik Group asked for the floor. You have the floor, you have a two-minute time frame. [[18.20]]
u2016-02-29-223	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, [[It's constant noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] On account of personal concerns, I wanted to respond at least to the points that Prime Minister said about me. I believe that because I have been affected, there are some facts that need to be made clear. First of all, it was not just my person, but Jobbik, who was, in my view, a completely perverting and false accusation that Jobbik had anything to do with doctors wandering abroad. It must be said, of course, that I was a member of the company of which I was a member until 2013, when I was not a representative of the Parliament. What someone is doing in front of his parliamentary assembly and is giving legal advice to a company, I think he has nothing to account for. But the fact that I'm being attacked by groups who are doctors, who have been forced to go abroad to work, and that the Prime Minister's opinion of them is negative, I think it's the worst attack. What I'm about to do is... [[György Balla: That's a confession! It's not personal. Fo.lya, there's a lot of noise, there's a lot of interrogation.]]
u2016-02-29-224	Congressman, you don't have a chance to answer...
u2016-02-29-225	I know...
u2016-02-29-226	...to speak only on account of personal involvement.
u2016-02-29-227	What I would like to draw everyone's attention to in this case is that we have heard from Viktor Orbán that he is not paying attention to what he is saying, but what he is doing, in this case he must also pay attention to what he is doing, and not what he is doing... [[The president's gonna turn off the congressman's mic. György Balla: Confession!]]
u2016-02-29-228	Congressman, I warned you that you could speak on personal grounds.
u2016-02-29-229	Mr. President. That was the personal involvement, I told you what I was entitled to, and the party was affected. From now on, I think it is clear that Viktor Orbán was not telling the truth, what he said were not true. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik. György Balla: You admitted it! You did it!]]
u2016-02-29-230	Thank you. Dear Parliament, On a point of order, Mr Lajos Kósa, Head of Group, Fidesz Group asked for the floor. There you go. You have the floor.
u2016-02-29-231	Mr. President. Dear House, Dear fellow Members, Our faction initiates that the Judicial Committee, which also carries out the order of business in the House, should take a position on the extent to which personal attack or personal involvement may or may not extend. Because I think it is not a good precedent that our fellow Member, in relation to personal involvement, begins to explain a fact that he was a member of the company, but he quit, but before that, he contracted doctors abroad or contributed to it, but then he didn't, and how that was. This isn't part of the personal assault. Therefore, I appeal in writing to the housekeeping in order to provide clear guidance in this regard, because, by the way, there is neither a need nor a number of personal attacks in the House. Someone stands up and tells his fellow Member that he's not telling the truth, that he's lying, that he's deceiving the public, that the rest is part of the personal attack. [[The First of Novak: There is no such thing as an attack in the house rules! We've got a situation here.]] then we will not be able to have a meaningful debate, so I ask for the resolution on the point of order. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of Fidesz.]]
u2016-02-29-232	Thank you, Mr. Group Leader. Dear Parliament, [[It's constant noise.]] Of course, together with the protocol, we will send the details of today's debate to the order of business committee by asking Mr Group leader to turn to the order of business committee as leader. Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, On a point of order, Mr András Schiffer Group leader also came forward. [[Dr. András Schiffer: Order of business debate!]] This was not considered to be a point of order debate, after the Head of the Group indicated that he would turn to the committee. There will be no debate, and the debate will take place in committee, Mr Group Leader. [[Dr. András Schiffer:...I can make a point of order!]] Do it!
u2016-02-29-233	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Of course, Lajos Kósa is right [[Lajos Kósa: What are you drinking? Let's go to the cafeteria.]] It is indeed necessary to establish the extent of personal involvement, but this can be done if, by the way, the order of business committee also gives clear guidance to housekeeping that if and if any Member of Parliament finds a question, a public policy problem, either the Prime Minister or another member of the government, please answer the question. [[The First of Novak: That's right!]] For example, the Prime Minister will report why Hungarian doctors are fleeing abroad. It's like... [[The president's gonna turn off the congressman's mic.]]
u2016-02-29-234	Dear Chief of Staff, I did not consider it a point of order, and the debate will be held in the committee. [[István Szávay: Thank you very much for an impartial meeting, Mr President.]] Dear Parliament, It is now time for the negotiation of a series of proposals. The MSZP Group has proposed that the Parliament decide on the amendment of certain laws on T/8197. Bill No. 1 on inclusion in the series of articles. The series of articles was rejected by the Committee on Enterprise Development. Dear Parliament, First I give the floor to the author, within a five-minute time frame. Congressman Nándor Gúr, please.
u2016-02-29-235	Thank you very much, Mr. President. So we have tabled a draft law on the failure to operate centralised salary accounting because, apparently, the process is taking place in Hungary, while employees have joint and several responsibilities, while those who act in employers' affairs - now be it a public body, whether it is the MÁK or anyone else, tax authority - are no longer in place. In other words, a person who is at the end of the process as an employee can suffer the story without doing anything about it. By the way, as Mr President presented the story, I must say, in line with the addition that the Committee on Enterprise Development has adopted 4 yes and 4 no positions, so it sounds better than rejecting it. [[Dr. István Józsa: No decision has been made!]] The point is that Gábor Bányai, who took a position there on behalf of Fidesz, asked us to return to this story later on regarding the KIRA system, so that there would be virtually time for this problem to be resolved. I would also like to say here, between the walls of Parliament, that the moment of 1 September 2015 was when this story was practically released, and a national extension took place on 1 November 2015, i.e. after two months. That was a long time ago, almost half a year ago. If a time interval of about five months is not sufficient to address basic issues of a type in relation to a remuneration calculation that involves serving the workers' legitimate interests, it is accompanied by this, I do not know how long this government will take. My simple personal opinion, but I think I can also identify it in the opinion of the Hungarian Socialist Party, so our common position is that whoever operates such systems is not fit to operate the system. I'm telling you with a calm spirit, so the management of the MAC should have stood up a long time ago. I would also like to say that it is also to the supervising minister who practically carries this matter under his auspices. Yes, stand up if you can and move the bike - after Balog - because it is a stylish thing, my fellow Member. You know, when the salaries of people who earn incomes and benefits of the magnitude of less than a million in a given month are slippery or only partially made, it is an unacceptable condition. People can even face the fact that they pay penalty rates in a sense because they don't get their salary or wages in due time and, of course, the service providers charge them everything they can pay. There's no compensation in the background. Once again, there is a joint and several responsibility of employees, but those who are responsible for obtaining the right to obtain it no longer exist. The same is also true of wage taxes and contributions. So if they're miscalculated, that's not a problem, that's not a problem. This is also the case in the case of family tax incentives, because of the miscalculations, the new obligations to pay contributions before tax are due to errors made by the State. [[18.30]] That is why we have this bill, because we believe that if and if the employer is late with the payment of the salary, he will have to pay interest equal to five times the basic rate of the central bank. We also think that it is absolutely legitimate that the payday should be the payday, and if your personal benefits are not paid to the person concerned here, then the Treasury must immediately - not in 10 days, not in 5 days, immediately - conduct the accounting for the payment of personal benefits. These payments shall be effective on the 5th day following the month in which they are paid. There can be no delay. If there is one, five times the base rate shall be applied. That is what the proposal is about. To do so, I would like to ask my fellow Members for their support and then for their vote. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2016-02-29-236	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, A representative from each group of representatives may now speak in a two-minute time frame and the first independent Member may speak in a two-minute time frame. First I give the floor to the Members who have applied in writing. A statement will be made by Mr Sebestyén Vágó, Mr Jobbik Group.
u2016-02-29-237	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, The Jobbik faction will support the inclusion of the proposal in the series. One of the fundamental principles of states calling themselves democratic is equality before law, of course I know that it is unusual to draw this on a relationship between natural and non-natural persons, but here, in this case, we are faced with this under the present law, because, as we have heard in the introduction and presentation of the author, if the individual belongs either to a public service or to a public body, if he is late to pay that debt, he will receive penalty rates. In reverse cases, this does not happen. Think of the absurd situations that this can cause, especially when talking about people working in the public sector. People in the social sphere, who earn 38 percent less than their colleagues in education and more than 23 percent than their colleagues in health care, may have absurd situations from such a faulty story, they need to think about buying milk or bread; they need to think about whether they can get to a given place, whether they can pay the fare or not. It seems ridiculous, but such absurd situations may occur, and even more absurd situations may occur, because what if, due to the delay of such a payment, you cannot pay or meet in time the claim that we say NAV or point MÁK, or another public operator has applied for or granted to them. So what? He has to pay the State interest for what he has not paid, which he has not been able to pay because the State has not paid him. And he doesn't get any compensation, he doesn't get any interest. This is an absurd example of inequality before the law. I believe that the parliament of a democratic state should adopt such a proposal. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2016-02-29-238	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Gábor Bányai, Fidesz Group.
u2016-02-29-239	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, To what Sebestyén Vágó said, I would just like to say that the proposal is not about seeking compensation on the basis of Nándor Gúr's proposal and József Tóbias's proposal, but in so far as it is not about indemnification, but only about providing a five-fold multiplier to the sufferer in relation to the current central bank base rate to remedy a financial settlement error, who, due to the failure of the system, receives his salary and benefits later at the moment; for which, although we are not responsible for it in this part of the horseshoe, we do not consider this acceptable either, and we apologize for it on behalf of those who might be responsible for the error. In other words, the proposal, having been provided for by other laws, and whether in the Labour Code or in the Public Service Act or in the Public Service Act, includes the fact that there is an appeal, namely that the single multiplier of the basic rate of the central bank interest due at the beginning of the current semester gives the level of compensation, so this guarantee is included in the laws that we may wish to introduce. So we do not consider it justified, on the part of the committee, to put forward this law. Thank you for your attention.
u2016-02-29-240	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Congressman Péter Kónya, an independent Member, has applied for a speech. I'll give you the floor in a two-minute time frame.
u2016-02-29-241	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I should certainly like to support the presentation of my fellow Members in the MSZP. I have spoken to many of my former colleagues in the public sector, who have had a great deal of trouble getting their wages late. In such cases, the State has a responsibility, and therefore the State should pay a penalty rate to those who have suffered such damage. There are a number of colleagues who have to pay their loans at a given time, in a given situation, precisely because they were late paid by the state. I remember the time when, when I was a soldier, if you were even a day late in paying the soldiers, you immediately replaced the chief of staff, by the way. So the Hungarian Army had such a responsibility to the soldiers that it could not have been a day late. Now not only civil servants and civil servants have lost their wages, but also many armed law enforcement workers in this case. I can certainly support this proposal. Thank you for the floor.
u2016-02-29-242	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Mr István Józsa, MSZP Group, has applied for a speech. I give you the floor.
u2016-02-29-243	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, It is simply astounding that, after such a situation has emerged, the ruling party's group is also shutting down from medicine. It is simply unworthy and humiliating that people with low salaries - people with far too small salaries compared to those with Fidesz MEPs sitting here - do not get paid in time, so to speak, by administrative error. Think of the few, three, pro - government representatives who are here, that this is their life. When we see OECD statistics that 70 percent of the Hungarian population cannot solve an extraordinary expenditure of HUF 60,000, if such a situation develops in their life, they have no such savings, when your National Bank means that there is a huge increase in household savings, there is HUF 3 million for each person, so see this sky-high difference! As a result of your tax policy, the savings of the top 10 percent are rapidly increasing, and the other 90 percent have no money. So you're in a vulnerable situation because of your administrative error, which might even suggest that you might want to put that civil servant, that civil servant, on purpose, in a vulnerable position, to know who the farmer is at the house, who you depend on. So I say that you should be ashamed of yourselves and accept this gestureal proposal to have at least a kind of increased interest obligation for the state, if you do not give me, God, it would be such a mistake again, but I suggest that you do not make such a mistake again, that you apply reliable capital. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2016-02-29-244	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I'll ask if anyone else wants to speak. [[No one's reporting.]] I don't see any contact. I give the floor to Mr Nándor Gúr, who wishes to respond to what was said in the debate in a two-minute time frame.
u2016-02-29-245	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My fellow Members of the Opponents! Thank you very much for your statements of support, and I ask you to help the Fidesz Members understand why this story is important. Look, it's not about community service, it's not about minimum wage. We know very well, it's about people who, as a working man, may not even earn the minimum of living, because there are many of them. It is about those who earn very much less than average earnings; by the way, two thirds of the people working in the country earn less than average earnings, and half of the people who work in the country earn less than the minimum wage. So it's about them. We're talking about people whose wages provide their daily livelihoods. [[Dr. István Józsa: Or not that one.]] I want the bread on the table so I can make the story very simple. I know my fellow Members are smiling in the pro-government benches that you do not know this story. Unfortunately, I have to say, there are a lot of people who know him, and the problem is that you don't even know how to stop or dull the development of such situations. [[18.40]] When there is an existing proposal on how and how to correct the mistakes made by the State, you have the answer to this: although the problem is given, the solution proposal is not supported. That's a shame. This is shameful when all you hear on the street is that fidesz executives of the theft-based government are filling their pockets, while these people, who may have access to a source that provides a minimum of living, do not receive these resources in good time and in full. I ask you, with all due respect, to reconsider this story, to support this bill. Mr. President, thank you very much.
u2016-02-29-246	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The decision will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, The Jobbik Group has proposed that the Parliament decide on the need for an independent border guard H/8849. Proposal for a decision on inclusion in the scope of this Regulation. The series of articles was rejected by the Defence and Police Committee. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to the author Mirkóczki... [[István Apáti reporting.]] - I'm sorry, Congressman István Apáti, there are several authors marked within a five-minute time frame. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-02-29-247	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, The re-enhancing wave of migration makes it extremely urgent, what is more, it will make it permanent, and it would do so if the pro-government representatives wanted this resolution proposal to be dealt with in substance, and even with Parliament's work as soon as possible, let us begin to re-establish and set up the border guard in a real, physical sense. It was a big mistake in the beginning that Fidesz and MSZP terminated this armed body in the period 2007-2008. It is true that, at that time, it was not yet possible to count on the scale of the migratory wave or pressure on the country by 2015, but this is true, but in most EU Member States, this armed body operates, in many cases even with police, gendarmes and other law enforcement agencies. There was no reason to terminate this in Hungary, either by reference to organisational, organizational or other aspects. And, look, it's only been a few years since the end, and more than anything else, it would be necessary to defend Hungary's borders with an independent border guard, especially the Serbian, Croatian and now slowly the Romanian and Ukrainian border sections. According to Jobbik, the border guard would be an independent body, independent of the police, an independent law enforcement body, primarily responsible for the control of the state border, the maintenance of the state border and the control of border traffic. In addition, it would be necessary to carry out different operational tasks, whether along the border or in depth, to carry out border-hunting forces that worked until the border guards were removed. At the same time, instead of protecting the external border section of Schengen with an independent border guard, what we are actually doing is renaming policemen and soldiers, we are renaming them as border guards. I would like to point out that none of you will be border guards, not in violation of these good law enforcement workers, but none of you will be qualified as border guards, expertise, none of you will have local knowledge, field knowledge, personal knowledge only because the government is labeling them as border guards right now. That is exactly the point of the matter: a border guard has field knowledge, local knowledge, personal knowledge. Not from Borsod, Szabolcs, Heves County, let's say, from North Transdanubia, police officers and soldiers are led down to the southern borders, who obviously lack all this knowledge, without their own faults, of course. In addition, a border guard even has extra motivation, as he is likely to protect his family, his home, his children near his station, and so literally directly, if you will, with his own physical strength, his own body and knowledge. This is just an extra emotional motivation or extra mental charge, which is not irrelevant in a tense situation that is expected to wait for the stock. The other mistake, not only is re-labelling, which in itself does not give us expertise, local knowledge and knowledge of the field, but also that police officers who are removed from their original place of service will miss the original place of service in an extraordinary way. At the original place of duty, public order and public security are likely to get worse, as either organized or less organised criminal groups will very soon detect that the physical presence of police officers has fallen or may have disappeared, and they will immediately know that public security has weakened in that place. Besides, public order in several counties or many settlements of the country is not in a very rosy state, and from now on even worse conditions can develop. Plus, if we look at the relocation obligations that the Prime Minister signed a few days ago or sewed on us, took on by his decision, or set up new reception stations, the guarding of which will again occupy soldiers and police officers. So I ask you, if, in addition to the control of the original place of service, the surveillance of the alien objects with additional living forces and resources will be tied down, then you will guard the Hungarian state border. We need at least 8,000 people, this is the minimum number of people we're thinking about, and I believe the necessary staff is available. We would very much expect those who would return to the board if there were appropriate, fair conditions. There is no need to turn this into an unnecessary party-political petty issue, to sink to a petty level, just because it wasn't the parties that thought about it first, or one of the government-party representatives that the border guard should be restored. I would like to point out that Jobbik has already given votes, if necessary, provided two thirds to defend Hungary, whether it is the fence or the border control of the defence, we would also expect the pro-government representatives to support this proposal. But as we saw in the referendum on quota, [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] The Prime Minister of Hungary may announce in two weeks that they will support the establishment of the border guard. Let's not wait two weeks, because that's an awful lot of time. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-02-29-248	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We now have one representative per group of Members in a two-minute time frame and the first independent Member to speak. Since Mr Kónya, an independent Member of the independent Members, has asked for the floor in writing, I give the floor. Congressman!
u2016-02-29-249	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. It seems that it has now been proven that the decision on the once terminated border guard was a huge mistake, a mistake, and time has already proved that there would be a need for an independent border guard in Hungary, and it was a pity to eliminate it, since an armed culture that could take years, even decades, to replace it has ceased in Hungary. At the same time, it is also apparent that the government is trying to resolve the tension caused by the migrant crisis as a firefighter. That is why the law on the service of law enforcement agencies and the law on the status of soldiers have been amended, which has caused nothing but that soldiers and police and law enforcement workers have been placed under a huge strain, since they have increased the time of standby and overtime, and the hours of work have been abolished for soldiers, which means that they can be employed virtually as long as possible. That's why they're obviously getting some extra money from law enforcement employees, but it can't go on until the end of time, because they're simply overloaded, families are ruined because of the transfer and overwork. Obviously, this can be carried for a month or two. At the same time, the government itself has admitted and is preparing that this migrant crisis could go on for years and decades, so it is time to start setting up an independent border guard, which will not go overnight. My fellow Member from Abbot pointed out that, by the way, it would be possible to expect former border guards to think proudly to this day that they were once border guards, but in order for this government to count on them and to count on this country, it would first be necessary for this government, the Fidesz government, to apologize to law enforcement workers and soldiers who were humiliated when their service pension system was abolished. Thank you for the floor.
u2016-02-29-250	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Further speeches will follow. I give the floor to Congressman Miklós Simon, Fidesz Group.
u2016-02-29-251	Thank you very much, Mr. President. It is not true, honourable Member of the Abbot, that the border guard has ceased. [[Defiance in Jobbik's ranks.]] On 1 January 2008, the border guard merged and integrated into the police. [[István Apáti: It ceased by melting.]] The presentation of the MSZP was also voted by the Fidesz Group because we thought that [[Z. Kárpát Dániel: Confessive confession.]] This is an opportunity that will help [[Z. Kárpát, Dániel: To come to the migrants.]] to protect the Schengen borders, and thank God, this idea has come true. [[18.50]] On 1 January 2008, remember, fellow Members, Hungary joined the Schengen area. The borders were then opened towards Austria, Slovakia and Slovenia, while the external borders towards Ukraine, and border surveillance had to be strengthened towards Romania, Serbia and Croatia. Thus, a unit with a population of 45,000, a police force, was created with much larger reserves and mobilization capabilities. In integration, we made sure that the traditions that marked the border guards were integrated into the police system, so we got four border guards directors, four county border guards, four county border guards, and the police director came to the police at the time. So the culture represented by the border guard [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] has been transplanted to the police, and the police have now passed an A.P.D. on migratory pressure [[The president's ringing again.]] Thank them for that. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2016-02-29-252	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát, Member of the Jobbik Group, will now take the floor. You have the floor.
u2016-02-29-253	Mr President, Dear House, In contrast to the pro-government slide we have just heard, the border guard has ceased to be absorbed. It's not up to you to say that during the Röszke incident, you did so well, but in essence you did so well in the blind fortune. Because if there's an attack on the country in a two-mile wide range, and not as it happened, your ideas may fail. So we need a stand-alone border guard with the right equipment system, depth operations, depth reconnaissance, decent places. In Hungary, too, this may have meant a depth of 50 to 70 kilometers. Therefore, if all this were done and given, according to Jobbik's vision, it might not happen that, while we are holding a press conference next to Szeged's railway station, now that you are fighting the migratory pressure in the rhetorical space correctly, dozens of migrant groups are sitting behind us, sitting in a gyros or from the open reception centre - I stress that it should be open, because it should be closed - according to the report of our local representative Péter Tóth, these gentlemen are being taken to shopping tourism in a van with the official car of the HÁH. They are dropped off at the popular mall, where they can easily make contact with the civilian population, but also with smugglers. This is happening now in reality, while you have correctly collected signatures, you will quite rightly issue an anti-quota referendum along Jobbik's trail. [[To Simon Miklós:]] Don't smile, because you've been stalling for a very short six months when we've already tabled the amendment to the Fundamental Law. There's nothing to smile about when you've been gone for six months. They have absolutely no reason to be proud of themselves. The thing is, what you're fighting is walking between us right now. Five hundred people this weekend! So don't tell me it's okay. Even the physical border lock isn't complete! But with human resources, it must be confirmed that an independent border guard [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] Building on its work, the safety of the Hungarian border should be fully guaranteed. At the moment, you have not guaranteed the conditions. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2016-02-29-254	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Statement will be made by Mrs Márta Demeter, MSZP Group. I give you the floor.
u2016-02-29-255	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, We can fully agree that there will be a clear need for changes in the current conditions of the border police, but we believe that this is not a solution for creating a new, autonomous armed force, but for the establishment of a body within the police organisation with national competence which must perform its task in accordance with the border sections and that it is necessary to do so in full possession of the independence of the professional decision. The operation of this border police body must also ensure adequate personal and material conditions. Our firm professional position remains that we need an independent body of national competence within the police's organisation, which is not in the subordination of the county headquarters, but in the operation of border police administrations, which are adapted to border sections, so that it can focus only on border police tasks. Since the proposal before us does not propose such a solution, but rather essentially proposes the creation of an independent new armed force, the MSZP will not be able to support this proposal in this form. Thank you.
u2016-02-29-256	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, I'm asking if anyone else wants to speak. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. I give the floor to Mr István Apáti, as rapporteur, who wishes to respond to what has been said. Here you go.
u2016-02-29-257	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Congressman Miklós Simon, You can smile at the fact that Jobbik first remembered the anti-quota referendum - well, that's how it happened. It may hurt you to admit it, but it did. Earlier, they lied, two weeks ago, that Jobbik didn't support the fence construction. Jobbik supported the fence construction. Then they also lied, but with the most insufferable cynicism that Jobbik did not support the Hungarian Defence Forces' leadership on the borders. If we're not, there's no two-thirds guarantee, then the soldiers don't protect the border, so I don't understand why it's so obvious not to slip, but to bring lies into their communication. Then there is another important issue, the renewed migratory pressure, honourable Member. It is increasingly likely that migrants will attack from Ukraine and Romania, and therefore also from the eastern border, where there is no fence or living force to protect the Hungarian settlements. Allow me to worry a little about Chenger and the people around Chenger as an adult representative in a border patrol town. Anyone who lives a little further away from the immediate border may sleep a little more calmly, because most of my family live there, I cannot remain so calm or calm, and on the other hand, my current residence, Mátésalka, may be included in the 12th list of settlements designated by BM, where they intend to set up a reception centre in the near future, although this was previously denied. Well, if we sum up these, and we take into account how many police officers have been deployed, I say again, how many police officers have been ordered from police stations or district office, police station, original place of service, plus the growing facilities to be guarded, there will not be enough people to defend the Hungarian borders. For this reason, we need an independent body, operating completely independently of the police, in order to really protect Hungary's state borders and the Hungarian people. It is not unlikely at all that migrants armed with military knowledge and combat experience will soon realize that in the second, third or fourth battle in Röszke there will be many kilometers of attack, then there will be no alert police that will stop them. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] So think about it and make a decision about it. Thank you so much for the opportunity. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2016-02-29-258	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The decision will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, The Commission's reports on the publication of the status agreement between the Government of Hungary and the Global Green Growth Institute detailing the privileges and immunities of the Global Green Growth Institute and the discussion of the summarised amendment proposal follow. Government referral T/8673. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. Dear Parliament, First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. The available time frame is 15 minutes. I give the floor to Congressman Sándor Hadházy, rapporteur of the committee. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-02-29-259	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, I hereby inform this House that the Legislative Committee is the Rules 46. On 25 February 2016, T/8673 discussed the publication of the status agreement between the Government of Hungary and the Global Green Growth Institute detailing the privileges and immunities of the Global Green Growth Institute. Bill No. 1. The Legislative Committee submitted a proposal and a summary report summing up 24 votes in favour, i.e. a unanimous decision. [[19.00]] The summarised amendment only contains the two-point technical clarification proposal of the Committee on Foreign Affairs. I hope that the final vote will be unanimous, as in support of the summarised amendment proposal, thus stressing the standing of the Parliament as a whole in favour of climate protection. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2016-02-29-260	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I would like to ask Mr Zsolt Szabó, State Secretary, if you would like to speak now, on behalf of the rapporteur, or perhaps at a later stage in the debate. [[Zsolt Szabó: Just the closing word.]] Later. We'll get back to work. Dear Parliament, No rapporteur was set up by the designated Committee on Foreign Affairs. It is now time for the speeches by its representatives. I give you the floor... [[Lajos Kepli says no.]] Mr Lajos Kepli indicated that he did not wish to speak. So I'm asking if anyone else would like to speak on behalf of any of the factions. [[No one's reporting.]] I don't see any contact. Secretary of State, I give you the floor.
u2016-02-29-261	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear House, The summarised amendment tabled by the Legislative Committee is in line with the government's position, and I therefore ask you to support both the summarised amendment proposal and the bill. Thank you so much for your attention.
u2016-02-29-262	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The debate is closed. The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, It follows from the 1996 LXXXI on corporate tax and dividend tax. and the discussion of the Commission's reports on the amendment of Law I of 2004 on Sport and the summary amendment proposal. The government referral is T/8840. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. The debate will be the first to present the position of the Legislative Committee and to present the formulated minority opinion within a 15-minute time frame. Dear Parliament, Since the Legislative Committee is now in session and Mr László Salacz, who is rapporteur on behalf of the committee, and our fellow Members Gábor Fodor and György Szilágyi are also not in the Chamber, so I am not setting a time-frame, we will have a quick briefing on the part of the meeting. I'm ordering a five-minute break for now. Please, fellow Members, do not go too far from the Chamber. [[Break: 19.02 19.07President: István Jakabjegyző: Attila Gelencsér]]
u2016-02-29-263	Dear Parliament, We'll get back to work. With respect, I would like to ask colleagues who help us in our work to kindly address the next items on the agenda to the TAB, to tell our colleagues when they should arrive, so that they do not have to make a recess. Dear Parliament, First, the position of the Legislative Committee and the formulated minority opinion will be presented in a total time frame of 15 minutes. I give the floor to Mr László Salacz, rapporteur of the committee, within a maximum time frame of 8 minutes. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-02-29-264	Mr President, Dear House, I hereby inform the Parliament that on 25 February 2016 the Legislative Committee discussed the 1996 LXXXI on corporation tax and dividend tax. Act T/8840 amending Act I of 2004 on Sport The Committee presented 24 amendments and a summary report with 10 non-voting votes. The summary amendment contains only the legislative committee's own motion. As has been said at the committee's meeting, the summarised amendment contained mainly technical clarifications and coherence with the sport and public finance laws. For me, the bill before us is a clear commitment that corporate tax benefits will continue to serve the development of Hungarian sport, whether it is sight sports or the Olympic movement itself, all of which, of course, is done within a legal and transparent framework. This is the purpose of the amended bill. Please support the motion. Thank you for listening. [[19.10]]
u2016-02-29-265	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The minority opinion is now presented by two of our fellow Members who spoke in a total of 7 minutes' time. First, I give the floor to independent Congressman Gábor Fodor. Here you go, Congressman. [[Gábor Fodor's microphone isn't working.]] Card please, Congressman, please place it. [[It's happening.]]
u2016-02-29-266	Maybe it's okay now. Thank you very much. Sorry again about the intermezzo. Mr President, Dear House, Allow us to share the minority opinion with Congressman György Szilágyi, so in my time I would like to express in a few sentences the position that I expressed on behalf of the Liberal Party at the Legislative Committee meeting, and I would also like to share with the House here. Well, for our part, we reject this bill, because, as we explained at the committee meeting, we ourselves and several of our fellow opposition Members are in line with this, so we reject it because, in relation to the amendment of the law on Tao money, i.e. corporate tax and dividend, the country is not clear about Tao money. He can't see clearly, and because of the merger between sport and politics, otherwise because of his misrepresentation and misrepresentation - see what happened to the National Election Committee last week, where representatives of Fradi Security appeared, so because of this merger - the public is right to expect us to pour clean water, transparent funding. In addition, in a delicat case, this lack of transparency and extension of Tao money means the Olympics. This confusion, this lack of transparency, is extended to the Olympic money as well. By the way, when I am talking about transparency - parentheses note - I would also like to refer, among other things, to Transparency International's report, which published an international organisation's report in autumn 2015, in which it dealt with Tao money separately, saying that the way of these money in Hungary is completely untraceable and opaque. Well, if we extend all this to the Olympics, then my fellow government members are making a huge mistake, because the Olympics are an issue in which - if we want to organise this successfully in Hungary - we need to demonstrate the broadest possible consensus in society and political life. I myself supported the Olympic decision with my vote at the time in order to give Hungary the opportunity to conduct a successful Olympics. But of course, one can change one's opinion if we see that it is against all expectations - as we have also stated in the Olympics that these money should be transparent, we know clearly that every forint we spend on the Olympics is where it goes - so if we see that this road is not clear, it is not clear, then many will have a negative feeling about the Olympics. Among other things, the Budapest Olympic Movement - which can look back on more than a decade of history - when it stands up for the Olympics and has lobbied for years in order to organize an Olympics here, one of the most important arguments was that it also wanted the Olympics to be organised, including by supporting this expected success, because Hungary could use a successful project that has a completely transparent funding. Well, this proposal does not correspond to this aspect. I therefore propose, ladies and gentlemen, that this must be withdrawn both because of the political scandal and because of honour, that it should not be presented to the House, and that we will certainly vote against it. Thank you for your attention.
u2016-02-29-267	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman György Szilágyi, another minority speaker of the committee. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-02-29-268	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. I must say, first of all, that is what we have said, that we, in the vote on this law, initially, when the trial started, the general debate, would have abstained from voting on this law. Since then, our opinion has changed, and I will also say why our opinion has changed, and we will not support this bill, otherwise we will vote against the final vote, and we will also vote against the amendments. The reason is very simple, by the way, why not. Because you say that an important issue is the issue of the Olympics, you bring in a legislative amendment proposal to this House, in the general debate on this legislative amendment proposal, in the Commission's debate, and there are not any sports politicians in Fidesz. They did not come; but it is even more harsh that the Secretary of State, the Secretary of State for Sport, did not appear at the general debate, nor at the committee meeting, nor now. If you think the Olympics are that important, then you don't have to push them that hard. On the other hand, it has also been said here from the point of view of the importance of transparency. Indeed, we have said that we can support the Olympic tender, and we are a constructive opposition to this proposal until we really have a transparent system of tendering, what we are spending money on, and how you intend to spend it. We asked a few questions, but we didn't get any answers to our questions. We have not received one answer; however, we have received arrogance, arrogance, and incompetence. We asked very, very serious questions, cross-examinations that could not have been answered. For example, one of these questions was that, until this nonprofit company had access to it, who would finance its operation. If the Ministry of National Development is going to finance its operation, will the amount spent so far be transferred back from the Tao money to the Ministry of National Development? I think it's a very simple question; you wouldn't answer that either. We also said and asked why funds should be provided through the Tao at all, when there is a government decision in December that the Ministry of National Development will hold a HUF 19 billion with HUF 9.5-9.5 billion in distribution in 2016 and 17 respectively. to make it available to you. We didn't even get an answer to that question as to why this is good. Both public funds, the budget money received from the Ministry of National Development, are public money and the funds provided through the lake are public money. But why do you have to do that, you didn't answer that either. We have expressed our concerns that there are serious problems with the Tao control. So the Tao revenue itself in sports associations is very often uncontrollable, we do not see the way of money. We've been asked to give you some answers. We didn't get any answers. So we have asked questions that, in our opinion, are very important issues which are intended to call into question transparency and, above all, the possibility of control, and we have asked you how it will be, you have answered nothing. If you don't give me an answer, if you think you can handle this on your own, then try. The Jobbik Movement for Hungary will not participate in this and will not support you, and I will also say in my normal comment what serious consequences this may have for the Olympic tender. Thank you so much for listening. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-02-29-269	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I will ask Mr Péter Cseresnyés, as rapporteur, whether he wishes to speak now or at a later stage of the debate. [[Péter Cseresnyés: In the end.]] Mr Secretary of State indicated that he wished to speak at a later stage in the debate. Dear Parliament, No rapporteur was presented by the Economic Committee as designated committee. We now have speeches from Members. I give the floor to Mr László Varga, MSZP Group.
u2016-02-29-270	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, We have argued many times about the bill on corporate tax. I also said in the general debate that since 2011, the corporate tax relief system has been on the table for five visual team sports. This is not a heretic idea, because I always say that the socialist governments before 2010 used such a discount in terms of, for example, theatre and cinema. We also had great hopes that this way of sports support could dynamic the five visual team sports. Our hopes turned into disappointment very quickly. As you can see, in the first year, all the corporate tax benefits offered to four other visual team sports were exceeded by the aid amount of the upper road supply academy alone. There is much debate about this in public life; it is quite simply outrageous. Several articles have been produced in recent years, with around 11 billion of the total funding that has been won by the long-standing club and academy of these 1,600 enthusiastic small settlements. In the first spring round, one of these players, raised at the supply academy, was put in the NB I. [[19.20]] Well, for 11 billion a player, I don't think that requires any more commentary. I think anyone who has seen this area feels in themselves the very serious value crisis and problem that this whole thing really is. This is definitely to be rejected. A number of abuses appear, the system should be made more transparent and verifiable, because otherwise, as we said at the beginning, this could be a serious support option for smaller clubs. Obviously, it also means to some who really use it well. Compared to that, I'm sorry, we haven't had a lot of positive feelings for this bill since the very first moment. After all, we believe that a thousand priori and such forms of use of resources will also give rise to abuses in the conduct of the Olympic tender. This has also been said in relation to minority opinions, and I must say that we originally said no, and the Hungarian Socialist Party said no to this proposal. But what we have here in the summary amendment is simply outrageous. So the point on "i" is to complete a life's work, or I don't know how to tell you. An open, cynical declaration that, in fact, you want to spend an inaccessible, uncontrolled amount of public money on a tender that doesn't even have a logo. As a single Olympic competition, I would like to say this. I don't know, of course, with such a level of preparation, what hopes are there. Because the TAB initiative, which has been said here, is obviously supported by the pro-government representatives, puts it in the proposal, therefore, in the wrong proposal, it adds that it does not constitute a subsidy to the organizing company. They are therefore excluded from the scope of the Public Finance Act. Just a few thoughts about what that means. The use of these grants should not be subject to the application of public procurement from now on. That's because that doesn't apply. The beneficiary would be subject to a reporting obligation, but he would obviously not be responsible for that. I do not understand how this can be understood in such a way that the proposal then points towards controlability and transparency. Obviously, the sponsor controls the use of budget support under the rules of official control if it falls within the scope of the Public Finance Act, but it is not. Therefore, this will not apply to the aid granted to this company either. We can also forget about the Treasury monitoring system, and obviously also about the need for data in the public interest as an opportunity, so these will not be public data in the public interest. From now on, it's an excellent hotbed for abuse, for the removal of money. We find this in itself outrageous, and let me personally ask for it, as a sports-loving person, as a person who is willing to participate in the joint development of legislation that serves the Hungarian sports life, whether it be a tender, either the visual team sports, the Olympic sports or the non-Olympian sports, so I ask myself to put myself in a position for the rest of my time to say no to such a proposal. However, on the basis of what I have said so far, there is nothing else to say about this proposal with good heart. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2016-02-29-271	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Mr István Ikotity, Member of the LMP Group, has applied for a speech. I give you the floor.
u2016-02-29-272	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, The bill under discussion fits well with Fidesz's economic policy: it spends money with two hands uncounted for questionable, never-refundable or even harmful purposes, while our economy, our society's basic structures are creaking and collapsing. 19 billion forints, this is the loss of Hungarian taxpayers, nurses, teachers and daycare workers, who, unfortunately, have no resources to raise wages, according to the government. There's money for that. It is also perfect for the government to feel pressured by its obligation to manage transparently and fairly account for the money it has been entrusted to it by the taxpayers. The current Hungarian government behaves as if the public money was not a wealth entrusted to it, with which to steward, but the income of their private estates. One of the biggest gaps in the proposal that has been put forward - to start in the middle - is what it puts it itself:. The provisions of the Public Finance Act on budgetary aid do not apply to the non-profit economic company responsible for the implementation of the Olympic tender. This means, as many have already said, that the private non-profit limited liability company responsible for conducting the Olympic tender is not subject to public procurement or reporting obligations for the use of the money, and its data will not be publicly available in the public interest. Which means he's being ripped off and evicted into offshore companies in a way he's not ashamed of. And lately, we've seen that they're not ashamed of anything like that at all. The transparent management of public funds is a requirement that all decent people agree with. It is more controversial whether the goal itself is to apply for the Olympics: is it desirable to organise an Olympics for Budapest at all, and whether the Tao scheme, which the government is now extending for this purpose, is it good, desirable, sustainable? "Maybe Other" is the answer to both questions: "No." An Olympic event would be a capitalist and indebted money-sharp. They are now talking about HUF 750 billion as a cost of implementation, and experience shows that the final bill will generally increase to several times the amount originally planned. The farther east we go, the more we go. The London Olympics cost three and a half times as much as originally planned. Four times the winter Olympics in Sochi. On this basis, the real cost of the Budapest Olympics would be about HUF 3000 billion, the cost of another Paks power plant and a similar burden on the next generation. It is also a huge question why the applicant company needs HUF 19 billion, as stated in the bill. Would the best use of taxpayers' money really be to try to reach a positive decision in one of the world's most corrupt bodies, the International Olympic Committee? Is it true that bribery of corrupt NOB officials is the goal that the budget must devote to this when society's basic systems, such as hospitals, and thousands of people die of unnecessary infections? All of this is well known to people, and it is no coincidence that the power wants to prevent by every means possible a referendum on this issue. And here we go back to the question of the principle of whether it is right to hijack data on the state register and finance public services, and even to encourage taxpayers to pay not for public purposes, but for the government's current favorite project, whether it is the stadium in Felcsút or the Olympics. It's not right. In 2016, the Tao system would have lost approximately HUF 64-69 billion, with this amendment jumping to 83-88 billion, while non-peda workers in schools have not received a wage increase for eight years, as have daycare workers or nurses. Millions are working and earning under the minimum wage, and the government spokesperson's comment is that there are no more wage increases. Well, as it turns out, if they hadn't stolen it and thrown it away for their own fun, pompous, megaloman projects. Thank you for your attention.
u2016-02-29-273	Dear Parliament, Mr Attila Gelencsér, Fidesz Group, has submitted a speech. I give you the floor.
u2016-02-29-274	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, My fellow Member Ikotity is the most honest on the other side, because at least he admits that he does not want an Olympics. The others are making an Olympic debate out of a Tao law, and they're calling the politician on the government side while he's sitting here; it belongs to the Ministry of National Economy, and it's got to be in order, by the way. I'm sorry, I was a member of the Hungarian Olympic Committee, accept me as a politician, I was also a sports union leader, I'm not a sports secretary, but we ran into the same thing the other day. At least István Ikotity is honest, LMP doesn't want the Olympics, he thinks it's a megaloman plan, which is bad for the country. [[19.30]] The other opposition forces are less honest because they say seven-month, excuses, everything because they do not want to admit that what is good for the country, which could be a significant step or stepping board, can cause a major socio-economic explosion, as they have done in other countries, they do not want to do. They're probably afraid that a major socio-economic explosion would be good for the country, and what's good for the country, perhaps even good for the Fidesz-KDNP party alliance, so they're hating all the big plans. That is what they did - I say to my fellow Member Ikotity - they had the same approach to reducing the rent, they also thought it was a megaloman plan, the Hungarian people didn't think so, and then they stood the same way to save foreign exchange credentials, they voted 'no', and we heard such arguments, that they couldn't see that they couldn't do it, that they couldn't do it. On the other hand, we did these things in a row, people supported them, and most likely thanks to these measures they gave us a new mandate in 2014. But at least István Ikotity is honest because he says he doesn't support it either. For example, Gábor Fodor refers to international surveys of why this otherwise extremely simple system is opaque. I tell him and the others that there is no system in Hungary that the Fidesz-KDNP government is putting together, and you think it's transparent. There's no system, it's simply impossible to figure out what you're saying that you're trying to say - to quote from the old ad - at last, you like that. This did not work in six years, but I don't think it would work in 106 years, because if the tao happened to be a little bit more transparent for you, or I don't know what you're expecting from it, it would come to you in an investment that the public procurement notice was wrong, if it wasn't good, it was wrong for the public procurement expert, or it belonged to someone, if it wasn't, it would come to you that the public procurement law was wrong, and then, finally, what bothered you the most is that if a domestic contractor wins the job and it wasn't a foreigner. So you can't live up to your expectations, in my opinion, every time you're looking for a knot. Otherwise, we could say that this is a natural opposition attitude, a part of their lives. I think a little bit more about the opposition, although I have never been a member of the opposition, so I can't tell you about it. I've only been a Member since 2010, and we've been on the government ever since. But also with Congressman György Szilágyi - forgive me, I try not to be pretentious, because I think that the apostrophe was for me, because we had a debate on the same subject not so long ago, so I am trying to be a little more modest - I can only see why not. And László Varga insults Szút, the people who work there. Look, I wasn't there, I'll tell you honestly, I didn't get a chance to see that professional work, but from what I've heard and read about it, I'm guessing that as many as a hundred or a thousand children, as many young people work there, and as many professionals work there, if they were in their constituency, they probably wouldn't have the courage to insult all those who work there. By the way, regarding the Tao money settlement, let me tell you that I was approached by a sports association in my constituency sometime last year, because he felt that he had ruined the Tao clearance and asked for my intervention to try to give him a helping hand to MLSZ, because he had done something wrong. I'd like to tell you, the rigour in this case is so high that it couldn't be dealt with because you screwed up, and you couldn't account for it, you didn't get the money. It didn't seem to me that it was a soft system as you make it out to be, and that rules shouldn't be followed. It's a lie, I've experienced it on my own. Forgive me, but I am saying the same thing as I have said a few weeks ago in this debate: you are thinking of these things, and I am thinking of Kaposmérő, Toponár, Kaposfüred and Kaposszerdahely in my constituency, which are eager to get access to a small Tao resource, because under the Socialist Government they almost broke down, they couldn't operate and operate their facilities, partly because they couldn't count on a source from the economy, because it was a big crisis situation, and partly because they couldn't expect any public help, but the municipalities were in such a difficult situation by 2010 that they had exited the villages from the sport finance world. That is why they are pleased, but you are obviously silent about it; that is to say, the part of the matter that helps settlements from the small villages to the county seats. Two weeks ago in Kaposvár Mayor Károly Sita inaugurated a wonderful swimming pool roof in the presence of hundreds of people and announced on the spot what percentage of Tao and what percentage of municipal power there are. And then I didn't hear anyone say sentences like you there, and I didn't see it cause them such problems. The situation in this debate is a bit better now than it was two or three weeks ago, because then, after all, there was an Olympic debate on a clearly economic and financial issue belonging to the Ministry of Economy. The situation is better now, because the need or the need for the Olympics was spoken by the LMP alone, who refused or spoke against it, while the others at least tried to stay in the way of what Tao meant. I'm asking you to look at this case a little differently than a source that will generate the money that is obviously needed to prepare the Olympics. I don't think it's as much a problem as the cavalcade here is on the opposition side. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-02-29-275	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform my colleague Ikotity that a two-minute speech is not possible, which has already been indicated by the chair of the meeting. You have five seconds of your time frame, Congressman, because we are in a time-frame negotiation, but we are now going to speak to Congressman György Szilágyi, Jobbik Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-02-29-276	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. If Congressman Gelencsér stays in for a few moments, I'd like to ask him. [[Attila Gelencsér: I just sit in the notary seat.]] - that's why I said if he stayed inside - who's running sports policy in Fidesz. Did you run sports policy at the Fidesz, or was it Congressman Bánki Erik? Who takes sport policy in Fidesz: Secretary of State Cseresnyés or Madam Secretary of State responsible for sport policy? That's why I'm asking. You know, the policy issue is interesting because you have just said something by being a member of the Hungarian Olympic Committee, but I still have to ask myself what István Ikotity said, because you didn't think to ask for it - as a former member of the Hungarian Olympic Committee - so that István Ikotity doesn't say things in the Hungarian Parliament about the International Olympic Committee that he said, because it could seriously harm the whole Olympic application. You didn't think that was important, even though you said you were talking to him as a sports politician. [[Mrs. Loránt Violin will take her place in the notary's seat.]] Or you could have told István Ikotity that there is no need to talk about a referendum, because then the most important element of the Olympic tender, which will decide whether Hungary will successfully apply or not to apply successfully, will be the social support measurement ordered by the International Olympic Committee. And if we don't have social support for the Olympics, then we can submit any application, we can do any kind of sports diplomacy, we won't have a successful application. You know, that's why it's important to be able to talk to each other properly, or to be arrogant and arrogant, because right now in this country, Jobbik is the one that stands out constructively for us to apply for the Olympics. If we step out of the way behind this Olympic competition, then you can look at the international Olympic Committee survey of its social support. And then I'll tell you in a few words why we still think we're supporting the Olympics. Because we think of it differently than LMP or MSZP. We believe that if we use this HUF 19 billion well and use it for what we have set the target, it can come back in any way in a busy and abundant way. We believe that if we do the whole application material in a clear and transparent manner, if we try to go through this whole case in a clear and transparent manner, it will be beneficial. [[19.40]] The problem is that you're telling us why we're asking these questions and why we're so suspicious. Because, dear fellow Member, if you hadn't liked stealing so much in the last six years, we wouldn't be so suspicious. But since you've been stealing so much for the last six years, we're suspicious. And if you say that tao is a transparent system, you still have time to answer one question, you can answer me, then tell me, who should have it, who should have it, which is the state body, which is the state company that should have checked the lake. I'm not gonna tell you now, 'cause I know. I'll give you enough time to tell you in the end if you can't answer it. This state agency hasn't done any kind of control. You can say here whether or not you were able to arrange something. I'm glad you couldn't handle anything in this case because it would have been an abuse of power, so it's a good thing you couldn't handle it. But the inspection doesn't have the terms of the Tao. And what did Jobbik have to decide at the lake, at sports? We had to consider whether tao was good for sport. We said yes. Tao, the whole system is good for sport, it would only be best if there were no abuse of the Tao. Is there any abuse of the Tao? Yeah. If you have watched the past 3-4 years, the Jobbik Movement for Hungary has held back and has not hit the table with those abuses, as we support it. What does the one-channel system look like? The MOB is supposed to distribute the money, then bring it down to the sports unions and then transfer it to the associations. And indeed, there have been abuse in many places in the associations, but now, because of some such abuse or quite a large number of abuse, should we eliminate the whole system? We say no, because it could be a useful system if we could get these negative things out of him. But these didn't work, so we'd like us to at least filter it out here. Filter when a noble purpose is defined. Because we consider it a noble goal to have an Olympics in Hungary. We also consider it to be a noble goal if our names are mentioned only until September 2017 with cities such as Rome and Paris. Indeed, these can also bring numerically detectable benefits to this country. And then I can tell you here why we support it, why it's good for marketing, why it's good for investment, why it's good for strengthening our sports diplomacy. The problem is that you, too, have just said the same thing here, that at least István Ikotity was honest here. I'm being honest, too, believe me. I can honestly say that we are still in favour of the Olympic tender, but we are not far from backing down and stepping out of it. 'Cause if you don't open your mouth and put your cards on the table to accomplish such a noble goal, then we won't be partners in that. If we do not present it to society, for example, and submit a request for data in order to see how much the non-profit-making company created by the capital and the MOB is earning, society will eventually turn against this. Why can't you tell? Well, there are professionals in this nonprofit company, supposedly professionals who have to be paid. Why is it secret how much money they make? Everything should be said, and society should be informed of what we spend, what we spend, and why it is good for us. If we don't do this to people, people won't support the Olympics. And again, that's the most important thing. After all, three main aspects will be taken into account by the International Olympic Committee in the evaluation of the proposal. First, what the quality of the application is. But in terms of weighting, that's the least I can do. The second aspect you will consider is what our sports diplomacy is like. We need to be stronger in this, because we need to continue a very serious sports diplomacy in order for the NOB members, when they vote, for example, to consider the Hungarian tender to be the best. And third, that's what's inevitable about the social support of the particular Olympic contest. The International Olympic Committee won't care who's on the government. You won't even care how many representatives are sitting in Parliament, let's say, for Fidesz. He's not gonna care about any of this. One thing you're gonna be interested in, he's gonna be interested in is whether people support him. If people support 70-80 percent, it will be a very serious argument that Hungary will receive the Olympics, and if the support is around 30 percent, then we have no chance of submitting any proposal. That should be taken into account. And that is why we say that, yes, we asked questions here, too, simple questions, and I think simple answers to these simple questions could have been given. Why couldn't it be said that if the top ceiling was set at HUF 19 billion, we would collect it from the lake? And if until the tao money comes in, the Ministry of National Development will give 2 billion forints to enable this company to work, because it will have to work until these tao money comes in, then they will withdraw from this 19 billion, say, that 2 billion, and the top ceiling will not rise. So it doesn't go up to 21 billion if they give 2 billion, it just stays at 19. Is that a cross-examination that can't be answered normally? What questions did we ask? Why are we going to finance this from the Tao, why was it not right for the Ministry of National Development to provide this source in accordance with the government decree? That's the kind of question we asked. I don't think that's malicious. All these questions have been used to provide basic clarity on this issue, and we express that we would like to have a transparent and clear tender, even if it costs HUF 19 billion. I leave the time, and thank you very much for listening to me so that I can at the end tell you who should have checked the tao money in Hungary. Thank you for listening. [[It's a rare applause in the ranks of the Jobbik.]]
u2016-02-29-277	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Mr Nándor Gúr, MSZP Group, has applied for a speech.
u2016-02-29-278	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Attila Gelencsér talks about transparency. He talks about transparency when everything is completely opaque. Look, the next law will also be about the kind of issues that we can talk about now, practically controlling and limiting the use of public funds, as well as the possibility of getting to know and restricting data of general interest. Now, if you are talking about transparency between the walls of Parliament, then it should be accompanied by a predictability. Here, however, there is factual intransparency and uncontrollability, in this sense, unpredictability. Public finances - nothing else we're talking about. You're always happy to forget that. Slip or not Slip, funds from donations or not, these are public funds, ladies and gentlemen, fellow Members. It should be noted, and as you will see tomorrow in the context of the adoption of the bill, let us say 200 billion forints of public money will be taken out of the basket, without any remorse, that would give you virtually the opportunity to look at it, in the same way you will look at these 19 billion and other resources in terms of tao money. Look, I don't have anything else to say, and I don't want to say anything else, even if you're trying to frame the story, even if you want to legitimize it, or even if you do. There are simply moral things in which you can't just look over these things. The point of this story is that everything, everything that's public money, should be accounted for using every penny of it. And you're doing the opposite of that, you're doing it or you're calling it to life that you can't even look at it at random. They are basically creating the possibility of free theft and of never finding out what should be revealed in life. This is not going to happen, sooner or later it will all come out; when things are saved from public procurement, when, if I have to give an example, I say, in the course of 4-5 years, it was 260 billion forints, which turned around in Tao, and of which 11 billion forints, more than 4 percent, cover the country. In the meantime, there are 3200 municipalities in Hungary, where much could have been done with regard to Tao money, let's say, in terms of mass sports, not only in relation to stadiums. One word, as a hundred, I think it is not good and it should not be allowed to divide resources based on political interests or based on force, and these should also be uncontrollable. Good examples of this are from Kisvárda to Kisvárda or from Kisvárda to Kisvárda. So, all you can say is what the street man keeps saying: the government that is based on theft, and whose political party executives, let's say, fill their pockets in a big way, not in the way that is in the interests of this country. It would be worth moving on to what is in the interests of the country and the interests of the people in this regard as well. Mr. President, thank you very much. [[19.50]]
u2016-02-29-279	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Congressman István Ikotity has spoken. I'll tell you, Congressman, you have a very short time, so that's three to five seconds, please.
u2016-02-29-280	Thank you, Mr. President. I would just like to say one sentence to Attila Gelencsér. Since 1960, there have been no Olympics that would have been profitable, all of which have caused serious losses. [[Dr. András Schiffer applauds.]]
u2016-02-29-281	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman György Szilágyi, Jobbik Group.
u2016-02-29-282	Thank you very much. If we measure it effectively by putting in a forint and if we can take two out of it, then you're right, it just has to be measured not only in this way, but in many others. I would like to say to Mr Gelencsér that the NSI was the one who should have checked it for the first time, that NSI could not solve this task for more than a year, and was dissolved, so this organization is no longer there. So once again, we are in favour of this right now because we are saying that it is good for the country, good for sport, and we believe that, at least for a goal with such a noble idea, you will not use it for grating, so we support it. As we believe this is not appropriate, and you want to use it for something else, we will back out of this and you will be left alone. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-02-29-283	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I'm asking if anyone else wants to speak. [[No signal.]] I do not see an application; the debate is closed. I give the floor to Mr Péter Cseresnyés, Secretary of State, who indicated that he wished to speak at the end of the debate and that he wished to respond to what was said. You have 10 minutes, Mr. Secretary. Here you go.
u2016-02-29-284	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Perhaps I should not respond to opposition arguments, since my fellow Member Attila Gelencsér answered almost all of them, but let me say one or two sentences. On one thing, I agree with György Szilágyi that the effectiveness of an Olympic should not be seen only when we look at how much of a HUF invested money comes back, but in the overall, long term, what it brings to the country for years, this is what we have to look at. And if you were to watch an Olympic event like this, you might see it differently. But perhaps the reason why it is not worth responding in detail to all questions is because it was not about amending the law tabled, it was about opposition statements and emotional manifestations in the majority of cases. Perhaps the most characteristic of this debate was the shouting of András Schiffer on a sentence said by Attila Gelencsér, when my fellow Member Attila Gelencsér said that whatever we would do, no matter how we would amend this bill, this amendment would in no way be in line with opposition representatives, he said that if I recall correctly what András Schiffer said, they did not want anything to suit their needs. I think this is also a search for knots, so the point is not that a draft law should be adopted properly, it is not interesting that a draft law serves the purpose set as a goal, but that it is important for them - my fellow opposition Members - to be able to engage in everything. I would like to answer György Szilágyi that the reason for the support through the lake is that taxpayers' subsidies, depending on the level of payments, may reduce in whole or in part the necessary direct public resources, central budgetary resources, a help is actually this option. Gábor Fodor has left, so I would like to reply to him in full on transparency. The bill before you includes the implementation of the application, its support framework, introducing the new form of the tax incentive instrument already in operation in Hungarian corporate taxation and laying down the procedural rules of the aid scheme as regards the sport law. The corporate tax advantage under the proposal makes market participants interested in providing aid for the costs of the Olympic tender to the company making the tender as a result of their business performance. The Olympics and the Paralympics are a priority event with a social, economical role. Through the proposal, the Government of Hungary wishes to ensure the conditions that can succeed in the tender, and the availability of resources is a prerequisite for this. It is not negligible that taxpayers' subsidies may reduce, in part or in whole, the necessary direct central budgetary resources, as I have already mentioned. The proposal also provides for the fulfilment of the condition of transparency with regard to the new tax relief, so there is one requirement, perhaps a response to Gábor Fodor's suggestion. For this reason, a limit has been imposed to determine the maximum amount of resources that can be collected by the company responsible for conducting the Olympic tender. I say to my fellow Member, Szilágyi, that he is in the draft law or amendment that his combined value for 2016 and 2017 should not exceed HUF 19 billion, so that's it. After that, if it is not used by 31 December 2017, the source that has not been used will have to be paid into the budget. With regard to the bill, the amendment did not bring about any substantive change, primarily legal issues have been resolved; I say this in relation to the TAB's amendment proposal. However, the introduction of a provision stating that the aid in question does not constitute budgetary aid can be mentioned here. This is because the donor taxpayer is not a body forming part of the public finances and therefore the provisions of the Public Finance Act cannot be applied in this case in the first place, so this amendment does not represent a meaningful change. In this regard, socialist representatives here and mentioned skiing and theft. This is something of a discreet charm, however, when socialist representatives talk about stealing and whistling, especially given the experience of their governance in the period 2002-2010. [[Interviews from the ranks of the MSZP.]] Dear Parliament, The main aim of the amendment, as proposed, is to create the overall national, social and economic cooperation that can bring the Olympic and Paralympic Organization, which is certainly a lasting experience for Hungary as a whole, and the first step is the submission of a professional tender material that can make this a reality through its success. We hope that by supporting domestic corporate tax entities, we will be able to help in all of this and organise a successful Olympics that we will then be able to do when we retire, if you are counting, my fellow Member Ikotity, you will be able to calculate that the country has been reimbursed not only financially but also morally. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-02-29-285	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, The 2012 CLIX on postal services follows. The Commission's reports on the amendment of the Act and the debate on the draft amendment. István Németh Szilárd, Dénes Galambos, Roland Mengyi, Fidesz, representatives submitted T/8829. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. Dear Parliament, First, the position of the Legislative Committee and the formulated minority opinion will be presented in a 15-minute time frame. I give the floor to Mr Vas Imre, rapporteur of the committee, within an eight-minute time frame of up to eight minutes.
u2016-02-29-286	Mr President, Dear House, I hereby inform the Parliament that the Legislative Committee discussed the 2012 CLIX on postal services on 25 February 2016. T/8829. The Committee presented 24 amendments and a summary report with 10 non-voting votes. The summary proposal contains a proposal to amend the Economic Committee, which clarifies the limitations and proportionality requirements of data availability in line with the practice of the Constitutional Court, and clarifies the data content as a direct subject of legal protection. I would like to stress that the norm thus amended is perfectly in line with the Basic Law, which the President of the Data Protection Authority has also expressed in writing according to my information. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, as has been said at the committee meeting, Magyar Posta is a profitable and efficient state company, but competition is growing. [[Dr. András Schiffer: Why?]] [[20.00]] In order not to put Posta at a competitive disadvantage, it is necessary to adopt the proposal. Please support the motion. Thank you for listening. [[Dr. László Varga: Wow, that was a very good point. Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. Dr. Laszlo Varga applauds. Dr. Dénes Pigeon: We're glad you like it.]]
u2016-02-29-287	Dear Parliament, I know it's been a very long afternoon, but I'm gonna ask everyone to express their opinion when it comes to it. There's an opportunity for everyone, the time frame provides. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Bertalan Tóth, who is presenting the minority opinion in the committee as one of the rapporteurs, as two rapporteurs will present the opinion, with a total timeframe of three and a half minutes. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-02-29-288	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Today, the Legislative Committee is holding a meeting, still discussing another law, and we are discussing the legislation that encrypts the management of the Hungarian National Bank and the management of the foundations of the Hungarian National Bank, and we are discussing the encryption of the contracts concluded by Posta and what happened at the Post Office. The two cases are spooky alike. I am sure that I will have ten lawsuits against both companies against the foundations and the Hungarian Post and its subsidiaries, so it is no coincidence that they will vote on this at the same time. One of my fellow Members at the committee meeting said that you should not submit any more requests for data in the public interest, because then we will have to negotiate every week some legislation where they make it impossible for these data and contracts to appear as data of public interest. What are they hiding at the Hungarian Post Office? What they hide from the Hungarian National Bank is that they do not dare to face the constitutional principle and fundamental value, fundamental rights, that companies and foundations managing state assets and national assets must disclose the information in the case of public interest data requests, this is a constitutional fundamental right. This legislation is still against the law, since it violates Article 39 of the Fundamental Law, which is about the fact that any state-owned company that manages national assets is data of public interest, but it is also unconstitutional from the point of view that the provision is retroactive, and I have not seen Attila Péterfalvi's written statement that this amended proposal is now in order and constitutionally, since it describes in the proposal for a law on the Hungarian National Bank that the restriction on pending cases is both against the law and against the legislative law, and that is still the case, even in this legislation. You are interfering with justice, restricting the free discretion of the courts, since the courts still have the opportunity to consider what business secrets must be kept secret in public companies when they act on the market. That's what they're stealing from the courts. You do nothing but protect private interests, because the lawyers of FHB use the same arguments as you use in the lawsuits against me and protect their own secrets, and you assist in keeping private interests from hiding what they are doing at the Hungarian Post and doing the same at the Hungarian National Bank, but obviously we will have the debate tomorrow. Of course, I maintain my position that this provision is against the law, in any case in terms of retroactive effect. I am very confident in the Hungarian court, where I will initiate the finding of an unlawfulness in the context of a constitutional complaint. So I will initiate the court's appeal to the Constitutional Court, and according to the practice of the Constitutional Court so far, this will stop. Thank you very much.
u2016-02-29-289	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Gábor Staudt, another minority speaker of the committee. Here you go.
u2016-02-29-290	Thank you very much. Mr. President. Dear House, To tell you the truth, I didn't think I would have to say the minority opinion, and it is in my minority opinion, which was also said before the committee, because I can say what was said before the committee, the reference to the Hungarian National Bank, I didn't think that at the committee meeting I couldn't express my opinion on the Hungarian National Bank because I had to come here in the Posta case to give the minority opinion. And, by the way, in essence, the two proposals have chosen the control+c, control+v solution, and I must tell you that this is precisely why the opposition spoke at the committee meeting about the Postal Law, in order to see what the next laws will be that will come before Parliament. We didn't think we could always be surprised so quickly. We thought that the test process was still going on - because we also said at the committee meeting that we consider this to be a test process; by the way, similar news has appeared in the media - so that you can assess what the feedback will be, how the Constitutional Court will react to this, how it will succeed, let us say, to shove it down the throat of our own delegate. The question is no longer whether it is against the law or not, but whether it is possible to carry it through the members of the Constitutional Court who have been delegated by you, so how much is the violation of the basic law that the stomachs can bear for the constitutional judges. Well, we thought we'd at least wait for these processes. Well, we didn't wait for him. And we have not yet voted on the proposal, they have already brought in the fears that we have talked about before the committee, and it is true that I would like to apply this in pending cases, perhaps from the secretary of state at the committee's meeting that there are 60 pending cases, so it would not be possible to introduce them without an ongoing case. By the way, this means that public information has already been interpreted in a restrictive manner, not in extension, but on the contrary, too at the Post Office, and we can see that there have been cases - and we have heard from Bertalan Tóth - when it was found, on the other hand, that there is no need to disclose certain data on the basis of the current rules, that the reference to business interests can stop in some cases. Otherwise, it could stop even better than the Hungarian National Bank, as the Posta unfortunately has to be a market player in many segments. By the way, this is thanks to the European Union - thanks to the quotation mark - and obviously, in the midst of their fierce freedom fight against Brussels, it was forgotten, therefore, this was not important, perhaps, or I did not hear enough action against this. Locked in parentheses. But the point is that in the case of Posta, it is still necessary to say that in some segments business secrets may have a higher reality than in the case of the Hungarian National Bank. It has also been said before the committee that there have been proposals from the opposition that would have made mandatory publicity a basic rule or a basic one, which could have been considered as a non-compliance requirement. Thank you, Mr. President. I think I'm going to continue with the better time frame. Thank you. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-02-29-291	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I would like to ask Mr Dénes Galambos that he wishes to speak now or later in the debate. [[Dr. Dénes Galambos: Thank you very much, later in the debate.]] Thank you very much, Congressman. Thus, the Member will have a 10-minute time frame as rapporteur at a later stage in the debate. Dear Parliament, I will ask the Secretary of State if she wishes to speak on behalf of the Government at this stage of the debate. [[For signal:]] You have the floor, Madam Secretary.
u2016-02-29-292	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Council, There have been very sharp political debates in recent weeks, even in these moments, on the Posta Act, and the amendment on the National Bank has now been linked to this. I would like to point out that I have prepared and will continue to say to you now and here once again all the arguments and reasons that we have already made when we took the position in favour of the amendment, and we have said that this is important for us and that it is important for Post to be able to develop and change its activities in a way and at the same rate as it has done in the past period. In fact, from this moment on, I may repeat myself to all those who have listened to our argument systems at committee meetings, but I would like to do this in any way. [[20.10]] I therefore think, and this was not the case, that there were no proposals in the debate as to how it should be set up differently, by other means, so as not to set the course for Posta, to be the same competitor in this difficult market, to work under the same conditions as its competitors. I think, and this was, for example, something that we have already talked about, that one of the contracts we wanted to get to know should be interpreted, and if we were to issue an annex to it, details of a multibillion-dollar patent deal would be revealed. I don't think it's a proper procedure here. It's a solution. The fact that Mr Péterfalvi indicated that the amendment complied with the legislative and constitutional requirements is also something that can be repeated in this respect. I can also tell you and repeat that the Posta is profitable and does not require budget support. It does not require this, however, that, for example, by 2016, more than 85% of its employees - I am talking about the 30,000 - were able to provide a wage increase of more than 10 per cent by 2016. It will cover this with its market activities. Only under competitive conditions can it cover not only this but also its various ongoing investments. I think that it should also be highlighted and repeated that, in order to ensure this amendment, the only changes in the public interest of the free market data should not necessarily be issued to the Posta, for which disproportionate - and I would like to emphasise the word here - would cause harm to their interests. And what constitutes a disproportionate violation of interest can be requested in future court resolution and decision in this regard. So I believe that Posta will not be able to hide anything in the future, and that, as has already been said several times, the scope of access to data relating to the performance of public functions is broadened. I would therefore like to conclude by saying that the Government supports the adoption of this amendment. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-02-29-293	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that the designated Economic Committee has not presented a rapporteur. Dear Parliament, It is now up to Members to take part in the time-frame on which they are to be put on the agenda. There is no possibility of a two-minute speech during the debate. I give the floor to Mr Nándor Gúr, MSZP Group.
u2016-02-29-294	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I can't start with anything else, and I think it's right that I start with this, if I refer back to the Fundamental Law 39. Section 2. This is about public money and national wealth being data of public interest. Once again, public money and national wealth are data of public interest. It is no coincidence that the President of the National Authority for Data Protection and Freedom of Information, Attila Péterfalvi, said and wrote to Erik Bánki that he does not fully meet the constitutional requirements that are contained in this bill. Only if we already refer to Attila Péterfalvi, then these sentences should also be said within the walls of Parliament. Look, with the adoption of the bill we're talking about, Posta is out of the scope of the info law. I do not know why it is good to have, say, a situation with regard to judicial proceedings where, in the case of business interests, there is no need to make public data of public interest, why a global regulation should be laid down in respect of the encryption of public funds in respect of a given company and its subsidiaries. I don't know, or I don't really want to know, because to me, all these processes suggest that you want to contribute to or accept matters that would be appropriate for every Hungarian citizen. Look, when data requests and requests for information on pending cases are also blocked, and when the data generated for the period before the adoption of the law is also encrypted, this sends a message of what they are doing and why they are doing it. Retrospectivity is appropriate and perhaps acceptable in terms of legislation if it is in the interests of people in a direct way and not when it creates counter-interest. In terms of last time's speeches, I specifically said what could come next, and in my comment I indicated that perhaps the Hungarian National Bank or MVM or Gambling or MÁV... - well, one of these has already worked, so now they want to call the concealment of HUF 200 billion to life. Now I've been afraid to repeat the other three, from the MÁV in the financial services sector to many other things, because at the end they're going to get this far. This is what you do in this sense, which is absurdly based on the functioning of dictatorships, the functioning of authoritarian regimes. At least so far, you could ask for data, investigate, do a lot of things. Now, with this law, with a draft law, they're practically trying to get us out of this. They keep narrowing down virtually, making it impossible to get data on public funds, access to them. I'm sure you'll remember a few years ago, it's worth meeting this process from 2013, and you can see that what you're doing in this regard is purposeful. Referring to the 444, during the period of 2013, when he said in an article about encryption in this regard, that this law, this bill, which was before us, was nothing more than to disturb us, because it could be addressed as a stealth, I may even doubt that this is what it is, but look, what they are doing in its process, whether it concerns a complete company, companies or the HUF 200 billion of the MNB's foundations, this is the message that I have now, too, that they are actually running this track, that they are really doing this. At the time when the possibility of anonymous data requests was removed - they will certainly remember it, not so long ago, last year - or when they asked for money for themselves to get the data, or in the summer of 2015, when they were limited in terms of budgetary background calculations, they banned this line of data of general interest, when they continued in 2016 as I told the previous story, I believe that they are running a completely distorted, ultimately wrong course in this respect. I do not think that the scandalous and shameful process that is being done to control the use of public money and to limit its control and to limit the knowledge of data of public interest would be forward-looking. I do not think, in fact, that it is still possible to come back to a normal course and that a process could still be strengthened that would help to strengthen public knowledge and the possibility of controlling public spending, and not the development of conflicting processes. So when you see or feel what you're doing, that you're actually trying to bring to life processes through which it can be strengthened or strengthened so that nothing can ever be revealed, then I think you're on the worst possible path in this respect. [[20.20]] And you can rely on business interests, many other things, which are obviously untrue and obviously cannot be understood as truth, because, as I have said, court decisions can base all this on and invite to life all that is necessary to prohibit the disclosure of data of general interest arising from business interests. And what has been said here in this House in recent minutes is that this proposal does not, in fact, limit, but expands the scope of data that can be requested as a public interest, and that is definitely a category of stupidity. I don't want to live with bad signs. So what I would like to ask of my fellow members of the Government, the representatives of the Government, is that they should not be bullied by Members of Parliament, they should not be bullied with things behind which you know, too, that the spark of truth cannot be revealed. Rather, they should go the way that is about making everything that can be considered as data of public interest accessible, and everything that can be interpreted as public money, and its use, verifiable. You know, it's not just the Posta, it's not just the foundations of the Hungarian National Bank, it's the Taora, which was on the table here on the previous agendas, it's also true. This is the path you should take, because everything else you do, coupled with this concealment, the restriction of this access, will sooner or later burn on you, sooner or later, it will stamp on you, which, in my opinion, is not far from reality, that everything you do is done because you serve interests that are not in the interests of the people, but in the interests of some other group. Mr. President, thank you very much.
u2016-02-29-295	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Gábor Staudt, Jobbik Group.
u2016-02-29-296	Thank you very much. Mr. President. Dear House, As I began in my minority comment, I would like to continue at a few points. I don't intend to fill in the time frame. Well, the postal law before us, as I said, is a starting chord for the process that, I must say, has moved on today, because with the MNB law, we have managed to continue to brutalise the process of making public spending invisible or more difficult to sue, and the MNB parallel is very good because, as I said at the committee meeting, in the general debate here, before the Parliament, we said that the next one could be various utility companies, public utility companies or even the Hungarian National Bank. From the point of view of the Magyar Nemzeti Bank, it has also been said, and this is true in some respects for the Hungarian Post Office, and I do not know whether it is working profitable or with loss, but I am afraid that with losses, as is usually the case with public companies, but the point is that in the event that they are able to show some kind of profit or do their spending in some form, taxpayers have nothing to do with it; they only have to do with the loss when these companies or the deficit has to be compensated for in these companies. The same is true of the Hungarian National Bank, which for a long time denied that he would manage public funds, if I may put it this way, while the Fundamental Law is also clear in this regard, and several court decisions have been made: the assets of the Hungarian National Bank are part of the national assets, and the assets of the companies and foundations that he establishes - the same is true of the Post Office - must be regarded as public property. If not, it would be very easy to bypass the rules, and it would be very easy to shovel these funds out of taxpayers' pockets, and we can see, as I said, that when something goes wrong, it is possible to say immediately that this shortage of taxpayers' money needs to be compensated. Of course, it is possible to say at Posta that there are competitors and that they compete in certain segments, but it is said in the committee meeting that another company may have rights in a market company, but here we see that the rights of the state, taxpayers and opposition parliamentary representatives in Hungarian state companies are actually being pushed below the level of a shareholder; and in fact, there is no need to account for exactly what these funds are being spent on. What happened, however, was that these wordings were a little slapped in the summary amendment proposal, and a little tried to provide the technical terms for what they were doing exactly, but the regulation actually applies to the same thing. By the way, at the level of the municipalities, we have seen this, that there were no other cemeteries in the given settlement, or, say, in a funeral home, where only that funeral home was, or that cemetery - because there may have been more than one funeral home - and in this case they tried to refer to the business secret during the request of certain data. So we can see that there is no competition, no problem, but these data are always being properly concealed. Not to mention - and here I spoke about the ongoing cases or the fact that this proposal must be passed immediately before the Parliament, and then not only in an ascending system, but also in matters which already contain a court order... - or even a court order, it must be applied immediately. Unfortunately, this means that they are alarmed by specific matters, and that is certainly not a good thing. So, after the process, summa summarum, which was visible earlier last year at the end of last year, when they tried to hide public studies by reference to intellectual works, while obviously no one wanted to question who wrote that study, so that no one was trying to steal the author's rights, but if the state paid up hundreds of millions or billions of dollars for a study, then at least it would be possible to ensure that its property was transferred to the state or, if it so pleases, to the taxpayers. In addition, the decision preparation document, or even the future pre-decision document, may be refused to issue them for up to ten years, and steps that do not affect the way in which anyone here can see the spending of taxpayers' money. In conclusion, I have to say, once again, a proposal or the right proposal would be after we see these processes, that, indeed, we should define the data and the contracts for which it would be mandatory to have it on the Internet. We also had a proposal for a decision. The state could create a database, more precisely not even upload a database to it, only create its background, its IT background, and then either the municipalities or the public authorities could upload the contracts, and I go on: what they think is a business secret can be left out of it, it can be pulled out, and then, if someone disputes it, it can be argued in court that the sections drawn are really business secrets or not. And they don't tell me that this would be a very long process if it could always be said, in an ascending system, that this should happen as a requirement for validity. I have to say that the level of corruption and the minimum amount of $250 billion stolen since 90 - and this is the minimum, and we do not say international organisations - is worth doing something about it, but not that we are making it even more opaque to spend or manage the assets of public funds and public companies that affect national assets. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]] [[20.30]]
u2016-02-29-297	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr András Schiffer, Head of Group, LMP Group. Here you go.
u2016-02-29-298	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Firstly, I would like to respond to my fellow Member Staudt, namely today's vote by the Justice Committee on the proposal of the LMP for the many times now, when we have now put a concrete proposal on the table of Parliament within the framework of a larger anti-corruption package, that, in the case of contracts concluded through various tenders, contracts should, for example, be subject to the validity requirement that competitive tenders be made public after the deadline has passed. For the fifth time, we have proposed to make these contracts transparent and transparent for various public money and public wealth contracts. You can see, however, that, after Fidesz votes against them in order and without debate, in order to ensure that the public control of public funds in Hungary prevails over public wealth, we need an election where, for example, Congressman Gelencsér can finally taste what it is like to be an opposition representative. There will be transparency in Hungary, so that public funds can be monitored once Fidesz-KDNP is finally out of power. It is clear from what happened today that this postal law was not brought here for professional reasons, not because the Posta must be protected from competitors. The central bank has no competition, and this week's surprise package was a cover-up of HUF 200 billion around György Matolcsy's courtship. It's clear what you're up to. You've put private interests above the public interest a long time ago. Quite simply, public companies are considered to be milk cows so that the oligarchs near the government can be recapitalised. That's what they did in the Simicska era, and that's what they're doing right now in the post-Simicka era, when they're trying to stuff more companies around the government with public money. What the Secretary of State said was that there are many competitors now, of course - you would have liked to have woken up sooner! Who said you have to bend over to postal liberalisation? Why must these dictatorships be implemented? If Hungary had a national government, it would confront Brussels because Hungary will not implement the liberalisation of public services. We wouldn't be standing here. Secondly, my opposition fellow Members have made it clear that, for example, on the basis of the rules in force, when someone was asking for pricing data on postal newspapers, Posta was able to win the lawsuit on the basis of the rules in force. This is evidence that there is no need to amend this law in order to protect business secrets concerning non-public service market activities or business secrets related to non-public service market activities by Magyar Posta. The current legislation provides an appropriate basis for this. A firm judicial decision proves that. The legislative proposal of the Legislative Committee does not improve the legal quality of the proposal. The fact remains that this bill is not simply against the law, there is a total chaos, because this amendment is completely contrary to the public rules of the law on national property and state property, and it also contradicts the Freedom of Information Act. The Freedom of Information Act defines the grounds for restricting freedom of information, such as defence or law enforcement, by sectoral laws, including the Postal Act. There's no crime-fighting business here. The only way to talk about a crime interest is to finally find out whose interests it is so terribly urgent to limit the freedom of information in cases already under way. If we could finally find out about this, we could say that some law enforcement interest is at least related to this bill. Thank you very much.
u2016-02-29-299	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Gábor Staudt, Jobbik Group. Here you go.
u2016-02-29-300	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'd like to add one more thing. You say that the authority of the people you have received in 2010 and in 14 and, although we are very few here now, we should think about it, and here even the events in Salgótarján in Ozd can be said that people are so - and this is an important warning sign that we should stop on this road now - that it does not matter who they vote for, but not you. They don't care if they're behind the Jobbik, like Ozdon or behind the MSZP in Salgótarján, but they don't want to vote for Fidesz. It is painful that this situation has evolved, and it is the result of such laws that the National Bank Act - which is being introduced - owes it to similar laws. Such laws can be attributed to such a cynical, arrogant explanation that things have gone bad so far. Of course, it is possible to say why the opposition hurts if the party's popularity or credibility is reduced. It hurts us in this sense because the whole political set or belief that something can still be done or done transparently in life. That's why I think we should turn back on this road. Thank you. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2016-02-29-301	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I'm asking if anyone else wants to speak. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. The debate is closed. I give the floor to Mr Dénes Galambos, as rapporteur, who wishes to respond to what has been said in the debate. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-02-29-302	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear fellow Members, I would like to respond briefly to those who have left the speakers. I am sorry that my fellow Member, Mr András Schiffer, is no longer here. It is true that, meeting with them at committee meetings, we have already expressed our views, but I would like to briefly summarise what we said in that discussion. I think that in her speech she summarised all the professional arguments and did the same at the committee meeting, which aimed at the fact that the postal law had to be dealt with. When I put the bill on the agenda, I began my response to my fellow Member, Bertalan Tóth, at the meeting of the Economic Committee - and even if he is not here, I will say - that we have to cross the bridge when we get there. This is too trivial, but it is true, and I see that what has been said in connection with the inclusion on the agenda and that in the final debate the rapporteur's reply is the same, and I must say the same thing. The analogy that my fellow Members have formulated today, which is actually fantasy and contain no objective basis, rather than lack, is an analogy with what has been said today at the meeting of another committee. I think that the professional arguments raised in the preparation of this law are completely different. Let me refer to what Mrs Secretary of State has said, and what was an important argument for this bill, and that is, it is possible to argue, but it is not the subject that since 2013 the appearance on the liberalised postal market has generated traffic for packages below half a kilogram and for leaves below 50 grams, in which there is indeed fierce competition on the market. Here came the necessary requirement, which follows from the Fundamental Law, that it is necessary to determine the cases in which the business interests of the company which is state-owned but which appears on the business market, as the State Secretary has indicated, can be appreciated, and would be disproportionately harmed if it were to be provided. It is these two arguments that are related to each other, and that give a very different professional dimension to this law than that which the fellow Members are now trying to draw on the MNB. I think that this serious competition in the market, which appeared in the packages and the leaves below 50 grams, has made it absolutely necessary to address this issue. And the fact that questions are being vulgarized, and I say to Mr Nándor Gúr, he is here and he has not followed through or informed his fellow Members, Commissioner Attila Péterfalvi, of his letter number two, in which he made a recommendation on the amendment tabled by our fellow Member, President Erik Bánki, Economic Commission President. [[20.40]] In this context, Mr Attila Péterfalvi stated in writing that he was in line with the legislation in force [[Nándor Gúr: Let's look at the whole thing.]] a bill supplemented by the amendment. Mr Attila Péterfalvi's letter can be viewed, and I quoted what he described. From this point of view, it is completely incomprehensible, as my fellow Members highlighted in Mr Attila Péterfalvi's position. I think the same is true of the suggestion made by András Schiffer, who said expressis verbis that it is against the law and information law. It is not true, because Attila Péterfalvi's letter No. 2 contradicts this, as I just indicated. I believe that all the methods of negotiation and the proposal for amendment adopted by the Legislative Committee on the proposal of the Economic Committee will correct the issues raised in the debate by my fellow Members. I think the very good thing about these debates is that if a good amendment is made and it is accepted by the Commissioner in the context of the info law, it was worth doing this, and we have not shut down. And the fact that a situation has developed that we have generated, I have contradicted what can be established from the postal data of the past period. I would ask my fellow Members to support tomorrow's adoption of the Postal Act, taking into account all this. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2016-02-29-303	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on our meeting tomorrow. Dear Parliament, The 2013 CLXXVII Act on transitional and empowering provisions relating to the entry into force of Act V of 2013 on the Civil Code follows. a joint debate on a proposal to amend law. Presentation by Gergely Gulyás, Róbert Répássy, Imre Vas, Fidesz, Members T/9379. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I would like to inform you that according to the House Rules adopted, a total of 15 minutes for opening speech and closing speech, 10 minutes for a statement by the representative of the Government, 6 minutes for a statement by the Legislative Committee, 3 minutes for the presentation of the minority opinion, 10 minutes for the speeches of the political groups, 3 minutes for the speech of independent Members. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Vas Imre, the rapporteur on the agenda. I would like to inform the Member that he has a total time frame of 15 minutes for his speech in the debate and the presentation of the possible closing phrase.
u2016-02-29-304	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I don't want to take this time. Our bill consists of four paragraphs. Article 1 § 1 deals with associations and foundations, or, as we say, civil society organisations. The Pt. When it was adopted, we thought that two years would be sufficient for both foundations and associations to amend their statutes in line with the new Ptk. On 19 February this year, less than a month before the deadline, OBH data showed that 53,000 civil society organisations had not yet fulfilled this obligation, and this 53 thousand organisations account for 65% of the civil society organisations registered in Hungary. So my fellow Members and I thought that fairness was more important than rigour. This is not the first time Parliament has pushed such a deadline if my fellow Members accept it tomorrow. For the purposes of this Regulation, the following definitions shall apply: § 1 already deals with companies. Article 2 § 2 of the Act provides that if companies or cooperatives amend their company contracts or instruments of incorporation in accordance with the Act, they do not have to pay a special levy because of the fact that a legislative amendment has been made. Thus, there is no need to pay a special levy for raising capital, or if the company amends its instruments of incorporation in accordance with the Act, and this also includes the situation that if the Ptk. It is necessary to amend their instruments of incorporation on the basis of its permitted rules. However, if you want to change data that is not related to the Ptk. The company will be another managing director, for example, or another member will enter the company, then this data change will have to be subject to fees and publication expenses, but only in accordance with this amendment. So you don't have to pay for compliance with Ptk. Article 3 § 3 no longer applies to all companies, only in the limited liability company allows the capital to be adjusted in accordance with Ptk. not until 15 March 2016, but until 15 March 2017. The bill is 4. § 2 of the Act applies to publication. I thank all my fellow Members who have allowed us to negotiate this bill with a derogation from house rules, and I ask my fellow Members to vote in favour of the bill in the final vote. Thank you for listening. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2016-02-29-305	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I will ask Mr Pál Völner, State Secretary, if he wishes to speak on behalf of the government. [[Dr. Pál Völner says yes.]] Yes, I give you the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2016-02-29-306	We support the proposal and ask for its adoption.
u2016-02-29-307	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The position of the Legislative Committee will now be presented within a six-minute time frame. I give the floor to Congressman Robert Répássy, rapporteur of the committee.
u2016-02-29-308	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, The Legislative Committee, after a brief debate, unanimously proposes to support the bill and supported the bill. Thank you very much.
u2016-02-29-309	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, It is now time for the speeches by its representatives. I would like to inform you that the factions have 10 to 10 minutes, and the independent representatives have a total of 3 minutes. First I give the floor to the Members who have applied in writing. Mr Gergely Bárándy, MSZP Group, will be the first to speak. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-02-29-310	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, Perhaps in this debate, several Members at the Commission stage have said that this is one of the proposals that all parties can support, and this is indeed a rarity nowadays. We would like to thank the pro-government faction for the suggestion that my colleague Tamás Harangozó said at a House Committee meeting could not find deaf ears. Although a different professional solution has been chosen to achieve the same legal policy objective, we are nevertheless pleased that it has been adopted, accepted in this respect and, ultimately, we will vote together on the proposal that my fellow Member, Mr Bellozó, raised there. Once again, in terms of its policy direction, the same thing, there are differences in professionalism. I continue to think, and I maintain this after the Commission's debate, that it might have been more fortunate from a professional point of view if Mr Harangozó's proposal had been discussed and adopted by the House. It is simply because it is also the duty of the legislator, in addition to reacting to a social phenomenon which causes a mass problem, to pay off the behaviour of citizens who have exercised a law-abiding attitude and, in fact, not to put in a more advantageous position those who, if you like, have been more sloppy and have not complied with the obligation imposed by the law on a deadline. [[20.50]] Another issue - and I would like to criticise the ruling party and the government here - is that it is wrong and unfortunate for the government to adopt legislation without impact assessments and therefore impose obligations either on citizens or on the state apparatus, in this case on the courts, which are unfulfilled. It is unfulfilled, because life proves that if I say it again, in bulk, not one or two people, but in bulk they cannot fulfil these conditions by citizens, in this case by companies, it is likely that the legislation has slipped into error, and not by those who cannot fulfil it in bulk. However - and I will come back here once again - for those who wish to comply and comply with such legislation above all means must not be put in a worse position than those who do not. Therefore, we should consider - we have spoken with Mr Rubovszky, and I hope that we will find another way to ensure that his proposal can be accepted and voted on by Parliament - that at least those who have paid the levy, because now that we do not have to pay a levy for the same amount under the law, can get it back. Because it is nonsense, though, that citizens who have fulfilled their obligations on time by complying with the letter of the law are worse off financially than those who have not done so. I will also return again to the proposal of my fellow Member, Mr Bellozó, because there the Member would not put those who have fulfilled the obligation to raise capital by the deadline. So I think this would have been better. If we can at least numb this problem here or put an end to it, then I would much rather vote for this proposal, although I will say it and note that we will vote on it anyway, but it would be good to make it even better than the original proposal. Therefore, on the basis of these arguments, stressing that I urge the government and the governing parties to take down after six years with the practice of introducing legislative provisions in a static manner without impact assessments, and I am saying this in general, not necessarily to be the problem, but we have faced this many times, on the basis of impact assessments, also seeking the opinion of the organisations required by the legislative law, to establish legislation and, above all, to put it into effect within a time limit that can be maintained for both public authorities and citizens. Because I don't know on one hand, but I think that if we added together the many hands of Members in this Chamber, we couldn't really count - at least as many as we are here in this Chamber, certainly not on those hands - how many times we have modified the entry into force for this reason, because the court couldn't hold it, the executives couldn't keep it, the law-seeking public couldn't keep that deadline. So I ask once again that the government pay attention to this, pay attention to the parties to government, but this proposal is a good, forward-looking proposal, which is indeed in the interests of citizens, and we will therefore support it. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2016-02-29-311	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Congressman György Rubovszky, KDNP Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-02-29-312	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, I cannot help but react to the general remark made by Congressman Bárándy. I accept that we've passed laws as a matter of urgency, but that doesn't apply to Ptk, that's for sure. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: That's why I told you not to do this in the first place.]] If I remember correctly, this is the second or third run of the Ptk., which finally led to success. Well, he led us here, we missed that. I do not believe that the deadline was short, it is a general Hungarian curse that the two-year deadline is becoming suspicious to everyone in the last month. That's based on my practice as a lawyer. That's not exactly what this is about. At the time, when, at the time of the Prime Ministership of Ferenc Gyurcsány, the House had taken down the stock capital of the limited liability company to HUF 500 000, we said that this was actually a mockery of the guarantee. That's zero, I should've counted on that. Since the House has been dealing with the Ptk., this issue has been on the agenda ever since. This question, raising it, has been obvious for years. That is not the case, but nevertheless, I am very pleased that this bill has been presented as it is, and this bill can actually solve a lot of problems. Dear Parliament, I had an initiative in which I was disturbed by the fact that those companies or civil society organisations, who voluntarily or generally perform changes as law-abiding citizens, who are the Ptk. they have been completed within the deadline provided for in the legislation on their entry into force, and they have often not received the exemption from the levy. This is only partly a legislative problem, because it is also partly a problem of interpretation of the law. I acknowledge that only the present bill has literally stated how to proceed. That wasn't very well put until now. We have tried not to put customers at a disadvantage in voluntary performances. This initiative has been launched. I would like to say very briefly that we are stuck in the Ministry of Justice, where I have been taught very correctly, and thank you in advance, and I would like to say that this issue must not be resolved in the way I imagined it as a Member of Parliament, but should be dealt with on an economic legal basis on a financial basis, because the Ministry raises the question of which body to pay it back on the basis of what document and in what procedural framework. These will be settled, which is what Congressman Barándy referred to. We look forward to your help, and I hope that we can solve this problem. With all due respect, I ask the House to accept the bill that has been tabled. Thank you very much.
u2016-02-29-313	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Mr Staudt Gábor, Member of the Jobbik Group, has applied for a speech. You have the floor.
u2016-02-29-314	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, Indeed, I will be brief, we can support the proposal, and we are very happy to have this amendment or to be precise, with the introduction of a new proposal and the withdrawal of the old one, the pass concerning the KFTs, limited liability companies has been included. Therefore, in their case, the new legislation also specifies 15 March 2017 as the deadline for them to make the capital increase. Of course, until they do, the old Gt. are subject to its provisions; as soon as this happens, the new Ptk. the one to which they may be subject. By the way, the deadline for Kft.s is also a problem, especially since everyone is trying to do it at the last minute, and thus causing lawyers to have one or two difficult minutes; and in many cases, I would add, because the citizens see the deadline, they go to the lawyer on time, but so many people come at the same time that the Hungarian legal capacity obviously does not allow it. Of course, it can be said that it is regrettable, because why they did not go first, but to make citizens aware that they, let's say, went in time, could not predict that even others would make this claim in the last weeks, it would indeed not be worthy. [[21.00]] I agree with what was said at the committee's meeting: in this case, we must help to ensure that the laws are properly enforced, and if there are situations where this can be done with a deadline amendment, then let us do it, and Parliament must also deal with it. I am also pleased about this in the case of associations and, as I said, also in the case of limited liability companies. Associations are obviously an even more vulnerable sector, they have less money, in most cases they have even more difficult opportunities, they often run out of deadlines even more easily, because there are associations that do not have serious staff, paid employees, only in a self-employed way, using the real possibilities of being an association, say, ten people, and do not have any serious income or other administrative assistance. So it's absolutely good. I am also pleased that the proposal also corrects the tax-paying problems. This, by the way, highlights the fact that, even in the case of such a simple matter, the amount to be paid, 40 thousand, 15 thousand or nothing, unfortunately not properly or not, can be interpreted in the same way by every company court. By the way, I asked about it, and in the case of corporate courts, where it was applied, there were, in some cases, who had already applied these passes in accordance with the new rules, and, of course, there were company courts that imposed higher fees if the announcement of other changes in data was made in addition to the mandatory capital increase. So this is a corrective proposal that can be supported, even if it has to be discussed at this late hour. Of course, Jobbik will support the proposal. Mr. President, thank you. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-02-29-315	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I'm asking if anyone else wants to speak. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. The consolidated debate is closed. I will ask our fellow Member, Imre Vas, as rapporteur, whether he wishes to respond to what has been said. [[Dr. Vas Imre: Yes.]] You have the floor.
u2016-02-29-316	Thank you very much for the floor. Thank you for your support. Obviously, the legislator, the government and the judiciary will also have to make greater propaganda so that next year we do not have to change the deadline again. I ask you to support the adoption of the bill. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-02-29-317	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Decision will be taken on our meeting tomorrow. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of today's agenda. We now have post-scheduled speeches. Dear Parliament, László Varju withdrew his statement after the agenda. After the agenda, Mr Sándor Bodó, Member of the Fidesz Group, asked for a speech. I'll give you the floor in a five-minute time frame. The address of his speech is:. The guest with record number Hajdúszoboszló, you have the floor.
u2016-02-29-318	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear fellow Members, Indeed, the title actually tells us everything. I believe that the economic performance of a country is greatly influenced by the performance of sectors that can contribute to this result. Fortunately, there are several examples in Hungary of the fact that several sectors can produce absolute positive indicators, and for me it is welcome that tourism is included in this line. With regard to Hajduszoboszló, this is obviously much more important than other sectors. The cyclical nature of the tourism sector is known to all of us, and there are the classic times when it is more effective: school holidays, long weekends, and obviously the weather also greatly influences, but of course a lot depends on how and what work the actors in this sector can do. There are therefore human productions behind all performances, everyone praises their activities, but there are absolute indicators to be faced with. In particular, in the case of Hajdúszoboszló, we can say that the most popular rural settlement in Hungary in the previous year has become the most popular, and it is quite a shocking number: 1 130 113 guest nights have been spent there. This is almost a record, by the way, the fourth most since we've known the data, and I think it's definitely a very serious achievement. Of course, there are reasons for this, because in order for the guest to come and enjoy himself, serious improvements must also be made, and this was done by the town of Hajduszoboszló, the spa in the previous period. The spa and the water park have been modernised, and all of this has made the facility more attractive. Otherwise, the quality of the service can be measured not only on the number of guests visiting here, but also on their opinions, and we are also witnessing an important and successful period, if we calculate this, because the town has also won the title of the tourist settlement of the year. It is also worth considering the evolution of the number of guests. This more than 1 million guest night was spent in the city by 329 888 people, and the composition was also absolutely balanced and stable, since 66 percent is domestic, while 34 percent of foreign visitors came to us. Of course, it is not necessary to sit back after such results and to think about how and how the future is going to develop in the context of the analysis of these results. Fortunately, there are encouraging opportunities here too. One of these important options could be the application box for the operational programme for territorial development, as it could be described as, perhaps, a summary. In the green city category, it is important to continue to develop the interior of the city and the spa and to carry out environmental and beautic activities that can make the city more homey and comfortable. There is, of course, a need for more tourism development. In this category, medicinal development also represents a professional potential that can increase the number of visitors later on. Many times, it is said that for a development, a growth, we need more than just thermal water, so it is particularly welcome that the so-called Brussels funds will soon be opened and partially opened. In this category you will be able to apply for programs that offer special attractions and special recreation opportunities for those who relax here. There is, therefore, a result and a possibility for the next period. I certainly commend all those who have contributed to this result with their work, and I wish all of you, too, to witness this in the future, and to visit as many as possible Hajdúszoboszlo. Thank you very much.
u2016-02-29-319	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Mr Sallai R. Benedek, LMP Group, has also applied for a post- Agenda address:. What is in it for 470 thousand? It's an address. You have the floor.
u2016-02-29-320	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would like to have a word with you about a rather remote area of expertise, because a week ago Prime Minister Viktor Orbán, when he was here and he was giving an answer to Mr András Schiffer, who mentioned how good the situation of Hungary is, because the migrants were excluded from the country, and if we hadn't done so much and saved the country so much, then there would be a great risk in Hungary that women and women would be abused everywhere. Obviously, it's something that didn't happen, but it's what he's afraid of, and he feels like he saved this country. This morning, Mr Fisherman, who said in his programme on Kossuth Radio 168 minutes, that if Fidesz did not act this way, the women would surely be dishonored. What I wanted to say is how beautiful it is that Prime Minister Viktor Orbán keeps the violence of women to the Hungarian people, it is possible for Hungarian people to do so unpunishedly, and for migrants who certainly didn't want to stay in this country, but just wanted to go through, he saved the Hungarian women. And in fact, the fact that he did this by maintaining the right of Hungarian citizens to rape women in a calm manner, the fact that József Balogh, a former Fidesz Member of Parliament, who was recently convicted by the court, received a fine of HUF 420 thousand for breaking the cheekbone of his partner to pieces, also broke his right-wing zygomatic bone, and otherwise beat him with an iron pipe. [[21.10]] Added to the 420 thousand some small, HUF 256 thousand criminal procedural costs, HUF 7200 medical expert fee. In this way, it can be estimated that if a woman is kicked, it costs 200 to 300 thousand forints, if she is beaten better, she will come out of 400 to 500, if she is kicked pregnant, then there are about 600 in Hungary. When I thought about it, I have to say that I realized that Viktor Orbán and his government are specifically responsible for the rape of more Hungarian women than all the migrants who have crossed the country. Where did I get this statistical fact? That's basically what the numbers show. According to research conducted in EU countries between 2011 and 2013, 28 percent of women, over 1.2 million, have suffered physical violence in Hungary, including 843,000 by the hands of their partners. Of these, 9 percent, 362,000 reported sexual violence in Hungary, and 42 percent have experienced sexual harassment since the age of 15 and 12 percent have suffered from threatening harassment. But that doesn't bother the Prime Minister, Mr. Fisherman, only those migraines. Those who didn't come in and didn't do all this to the women that he thought they would have done. Because today on Kossuth Radio, Congressman Fisherman said that every day here would be like New Year's Eve in Cologne. But they don't mind what happens every day. Because what happens every day? 6 percent, 223,662 women aged 20-74, are still in a violent relationship. In Hungary, more than 35,000 girls were sexually assaulted before the age of 15. Only 14 percent of women who have suffered severe physical violence go to the police, that's all they can ask for help. 55 percent of women who have experienced physical violence, 44 percent of women who have experienced sexual violence, also suffer serious other injuries during the attack, which they do not report. Women suffer an average of 35 beatings before they first turn to the police for help, and then they ask for help at 5-12 institutions, organisations and authorities, while someone helps them. Every week in Hungary, at least one woman is murdered by her husband or partner or boyfriend or ex-husband, ex-partner, ex-boyfriend. Every fifth woman grows up in a family where her father beat her mother. All of this does not bother the Prime Minister of Hungary, only what did not happen and could have happened conditionally. Viktor Orbán's government and colleagues are okay with it, because since the adoption of the Istanbul Convention in 2014, it has been two years since he could have ratified it and implemented the package of measures in Hungary. Wide range of information campaigns, prevention programmes covering all types of school, training packages, prevention infrastructure improvements, police sensitivity trainings, effective distance measures, expansion of victim protection institutions - the most important package of measures in Hungary could be made in one year from the Istanbul Convention at the price of a stupid poster campaign, but this is not important. That is why I say: Viktor Orbán and his government are responsible for the rape of more Hungarian women than all migrants who have crossed the country. Thank you very much.
u2016-02-29-321	Dear Parliament, An independent Member, Zoltán Kész, has also applied for a statement after the agenda. I give you the floor in a five-minute time frame.
u2016-02-29-322	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Today is not only the day of the communist-centralized education system that has been deliberately beaten up by the Prime Minister in the last six years. While we are solidarity with teachers, parents and children suffering from amok running in Orbán, we should note that last Tuesday the history of Hungarian democracy between 1990 and 2010. In 1945, the Communists needed four years to destroy freedom; of course, the elections that were well written were later, but what was the significance of them? Now everyone can see and feel that Viktor O. didn't waste any time in 2010. Of course, democracy was not graved by the balds of Viktor O. a week ago by physical violence in front of the national electoral office, sunk as a party foundation, but by himself, who, shredding all the elements of the democratic institutional system, built his distorted, one-man system. He himself, who had not been able to deal with his 2002 election defeat, planned the destruction of democracy in cold blood and then pushed his own regime down the country's throat. Because when, under the pretext of the 300 HUF visitation fee, it was possible to paralyze the transformation of today's broken health care or lie about tuition, then the institution of the referendum came in handy. When the referendum could have been a means of finally grabbing power, it was possible to hold pious speeches about the importance of people's will - which was no longer important when the new party-based constitution was imposed or when the country was closed on Sunday. Viktor O., when the regime changed two years ago, he said that democracy and communism were not compatible. It is time to say that democracy and orbaniism are not compatible. And it is time for you to see, my fellow pro-government Members, what you are assisting me with. When the stolen public property is accounted for, it will not be enough to excuse me for my command. It is still possible to get off from the small railway leading to the blind track of the Eastern opening, which has only stops such as Moscow, Ankara and the leader admired and sincerely envied by exotic Asian dictatorships. Is that what you signed up for? Really? The Omerta, the law of silence, as the main core value remaining, still holds the state party together, but not everyone will be obliged to stay under the ruins of institutionalized corruption. It is not an obligation to be accomplice to our country's departure from the European Union, to play the Russian hand of the country, in Paks II, in Ceauşescu's debauchery, in the fight against the West, in the destruction of education, health, in the faceless abduction of the land, in the disturbing of young people abroad, in the introduction of successors into state leadership positions, in the operation of the gigantic Orbán money pump. Is it really worth the few crumbs that fall from the hacienda table in Upstairs to sacrifice everything, my fellow Members of the Fidesz? However, to change can only be combined, with existential fears overcome. Like all self-conscious systems, the Orbán regime is the most important weapon of fear. His downfall comes when more and more people say we are not afraid. And then, in front of everyone, a deranged, self-destructive battle against the enemy of the outside and the inner. Then it is no longer possible to mislead and deceiving social groups with false questions, and then all Hungarians also wonder where the young people have disappeared from the country. Then, at that definitely coming historic moment, we can move towards a future in which all Hungarians have a place. It's not too late, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you for your attention.
u2016-02-29-323	Honourable Congressman, I called you Congressman Zoltán Késztő. So much respect must also be given to the Hungarian Prime Minister in this House. Dear Parliament, Speaking after the agenda, Mr President Novák, Jobbik Group asked for a post- Agenda address, not violence for the pig - a message for the Fidelitas. I give you the floor, Congressman.
u2016-02-29-324	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Unfortunately, the benches of the government, Fidesz and KDNP were completely empty, but indeed, especially Fidesz and its youth organization Fidelitas, I wanted to draw the attention of Fidelitas to the deceitful manner in which Gábor Wheelmaker was deprived of his youth councillor's title in the newbuda municipality on Thursday after he caused and continued a mass struggle during the wellness pig slaughter of Fidelitas. Tamás Hoffman, mayor of Fidesz, didn't think that there was any need for a misstep in youthful heat. According to him, I quote, you're saying that you've only just realized that it's more practical, for professional reasons, to put the youth policy area to the deputy mayor. Thus, the main culprit of the mass struggle with strangulation and serious injury does not have to give up any forints, can remain a entrepreneurship councillor, chairman of the financial and legal committee, member of the economic committee, teacher of the Corvinus University of Budapest and president of the Újbuda Citizens' Association, which, of course, is only so much a civil organisation that the XI. Head of the Fidesz office in the district. Gábor Wheelmaker wrote that he had no excuse for fighting, and then he started apologizing that he drank too much. The scandalous decision of the municipality of NewBuda is similar to the procedure of the Fidesz majority of the council of representatives in Dunaújváros, which caused a public uproar, since on 18 February they voted against the looting of their murder suspect, Roland Gál, who was arrested in advance, from his membership in committee and from his post as Councillor of Public Security. It says a lot about Fidesz's unscrupulousness that in Dunaújváros there could have been a public security councilman who had already been convicted of corruption, fraud and forgery, and is currently under arrest for a well-founded suspicion of murder. [[21.20]] While NewBudan may have been a youth councilman in Fidesz's youth organization, a teacher who provokes and actively participates in a fight, who could finally learn that violence is not a swinetor. And, yes, back to Dunaújváros, as a result of the public uproar, the vote was repeated on 22 February, so at least Roland Gál was deprived of his post, but not of his mandate, which should also be taken away. However, you did not support the return of politicians. Yes, the Fidesz Members voted against this proposal. Tamás Pintér, a better representative and an investigation has been launched because of the Dunaújváros public lighting slammer with Fidesz and Gyurcsány fibers. For this reason, and because of the mandate of the murderous Member, our Member also initiated the vote of the Dunaújváros Assembly on its own dissolution, but this proposal was not even supported by the left-wing Members, fearing their own mandate. Several other cases justify the creation of a recall. For example, there is József Balogh, who, by his hair, struck his partner's head against the railing, causing, among other things, a broken nasal bone. He did not give up his seat as Parliamentary representatives, and Fidesz did not support his recall, even though my proposal to amend the law with Dóra Dúró would have given him the opportunity, but Fidesz's resistance was as harsh as the concrete in Dunaújváros. I know that our proposals against political crime cause serious harm to the Fidesz people, but before they throw me in concrete, I would like to say that my motion to recall is not directed specifically at them. Because the leaking of the speech in Balatoneséd, without consequences, and the inability of society, already in the autumn of 2006, had a widespread need for the interim accountability of Members by the people, if, unfortunately, in most cases, politicians do not have to be afraid of law enforcement authorities. The Government now proposes the sixth amendment of the Fundamental Law, which Viktor Orbán previously called granite-solid, in order to obtain dictatorial rights by referring to a terrorist threat. Wouldn't the Fundamental Law also be worth an amendment in order to bring back Members? And then there's an example of why that would be necessary. For example, there is the case when the Gyula Tribunal sentenced the former Fidesz representative of Peace Csaba to a seven-year-old prison for illegal trafficking with false Viagra. The former Chairman of the Legal and Order Committee sold a HUF 1.6 billion counterfeit and illegal pharmaceutical product in a criminal organization. In 2009, when Fidesz was a representative of the municipality of Pécsaba, Chairman of the Legal and Order Committee, the primary defendant created a six-membered criminal organisation. And we could also mention the fidesz spy scandal across the continents, the people linked to Fidesz who have been arrested for spying on behalf of the United States and the IMF in the last few days. One of them was already a member of the Prime Minister's Office during the first Orbán government, and after 2010 he became Deputy Head of Department of the Ministry of National Development. The other person is also closely related to the government, as he won HUF 630 million in non-refundable funding. On the anomaly of this money, my colleague Jobbik and György Szilágyi drew attention in May 2013 in the spirit of our anti-corruption struggle. Unfortunately, the list is incomplete, and without the need for completeness, I have given examples of why recall is necessary. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2016-02-29-325	Thank you. In response to the next agenda, Mrs Hegedűs Lorántné, Jobbik Group, asked for a statement on the struggle of settlements against the threat of migration. I'll give you the floor in a five-minute time frame.
u2016-02-29-326	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Orbán said here in Parliament on 16 November 2015:. As long as this government can breathe, no migrant can come to Hungary on the basis of quota or deportation. On the same day, and even at the same hour, the municipality of Szentgotthárd voted on the establishment of a wintered migrant colony on the basis of the government's request. This example also corresponds to the legendary self-religion of Viktor Orbán, which says: "Don't listen to what I say, but what I do! And unfortunately, this is not the only example of the migrant crisis. Think about how many more migrant settlements have been initiated by the government. The last time they're planning to do this is next to Szentgotthárd, Körmenden. Not to mention that the use of migrants in long-term public employment has been made compulsory, with an EU quota or not, the government itself has set a quota for Hungary at a time when 59 thousand so-called third-country nationals in our country set the number of migrants. Therefore, when the governing party initiated the rejection of the compulsory quota at all municipalities, in addition to the fact that, of course, we agreed with the proposal itself, we certainly had mixed feelings about the sincerity of the initiative. In this way, we have proposed a substantive addition to the pro-government motion on the issues of repatriation, migrant settlements and migrant public employment. And in many places this has also been successfully adopted by the body of representatives. For example, in several districts of Budapest, Karcagon, Veszprém, Gyömrő, Mosonmagyaróvár, Zalaegerszeg, Eger as well as in the general assembly of Heves County, and finally, but more surprisingly, in Hódmezővásárhely - I would add, with the support of János Lázár himself. Of course, if it has not been accepted somewhere, it is not our failure, but rather the shame of Fidesz. At the same time, we are also making another proposal across the country, as the final declaration adopted by the European Council on 19 February and confirmed by the signature of Viktor Orbán created a difficult and dangerous situation. Thus, we ask that the representative bodies, by exercising their authority under Article 32 ( 1) (j) of the Fundamental Law, ask the Government to reject any initiative in defence of Hungary that would jeopardise the security of our nation, such as the possibility of quota, deportation, relocation and the obligation to set up new reception centres, until the European Council meeting in March 2016 and subsequently the law corresponding to the decision of the referendum. In addition to the responsible way that Jobbik will do everything in its power to avoid the fatal consequences of the migrant tsunami, unfortunately other political parties have shown shockingly cynical behaviour. For example, Krisztina Bakó, Member of Budaörs, said the following. I quote, it is actually a shame to quote this in Parliament, but, nevertheless, we must talk about it, so the Member said, "If we are thinking about what happened a thousand years ago, then a violent people of foreign culture from the East, Internal Asia have been raging Europe, stealing, cheating, lying, setting fires, using everything, and then even taking up land, i.e. the country. It's a shame! It is a shame that this woman may still be a representative in Hungary, and using this status, she can abuse the people whose representation should be humbled. But perhaps even more shameful is the fact that his fellow factions and fellow parties are apologizing, and the mayor is not calling for an immediate resignation. These people should be in a dump in history. Thank you for listening. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2016-02-29-327	Thank you. Dear Parliament, Members of the Jobbik Group, Mr Vágó Sebestyén, also applied for an after-the-date speech. Where did you go, a rehabilitation fund? It's an address. I'll give you the floor in a five-minute time frame.
u2016-02-29-328	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Or I could say, my fellow groups, because, apart from Mr President and Mr notary, only our group is currently in the Chamber, although the meeting is supposed to be until the end of the speeches after the agenda. So, as many of my fellow political groups, as I'm sure many of you know, there is a such thing as a rehabilitation contribution in Hungary. Rehabilitation contributions should be paid by employers who do not comply with the legal requirements, i.e. do not employ at least one person with a changed job or disability per 25 persons. In the past, this amount was transferred to the rehabilitation fund within the Labour Market Fund. At the time, we did not really know what money collected in this fund was spent on, i.e. the law determines not only who has to pay the rehabilitation contribution and to what extent, otherwise it means nearly a million forints per year, it determines not only this, but also what the amount received is for and what to spend on. [[21.30]] This should be spent on nothing more than employment for people with disabilities and disabilities, job creation, job support, and activities to promote the employment of people in an open labour market and people with such status, i.e. people with disabilities. As long as this rehabilitation fund existed, we knew that it was 65 billion forints per year. We have questioned the government many times, especially when discussing the budget, about the fate of this amount. There was still no way to trace what the government was spending it on. Since then, I guess because we've asked too many questions, this rehabilitation fund has stopped. You can't really keep track of the amount that's coming in. At a committee meeting, I had a proposal for an amendment, a proposal for a decision, to re-establish a rehabilitation fund. To my questions, the head of department who appeared there gave me answers that I cannot accept. First of all, he stated that it is currently 65 billion forints. Someone's been fibbering around here. Either the fib who said that it was 65 billion forints left, or that it was a fib, and here I could list even all government members, who announce the establishment of a large factory of another multinational company almost daily in the public media, announce the extent to which small and medium-sized enterprises have grown, and announce daily the extent to which unemployment has fallen. In the meantime, we know very well that the proportion of those who prefer to comply with their legal obligations, as opposed to those who prefer to pay their rehabilitation contributions, has not changed. Then where's the truth? Either there had to be an increase in the rehabilitation contribution received, or it is not true that so much jobs have been created in Hungary and that unemployment has fallen so much. So there's a difference between the two. But let's start with the fact that this amount is 65 billion forints. It is proven that this amount will be spent for the purposes laid down by law at HUF 35 billion. On my question, I also learned from the Head of Department at this committee that they were spending 120 or 130 billion forints on other transformations, which makes life easier for people with disabilities or even easier for them to travel, and we heard similar huge items, but I somehow felt that either they were trying to mislead or they were confusing the season with the guy. Then I lived with the analogy that I'm saying now, because I think it's right, like, say, to cut pensions overnight, and explain where the paid pension insurance amount is, that they're not spending it for this purpose, then we'd hear it as an explanation, but we've renovated elderly homes, supported elderly homes so that they can provide better quality care for the old people there, or transformed the streets in such a way that older people can travel more easily. The same is the case here, a sum is coming in, you don't know what the fate of it is. By the way, these employers, who create sheltered jobs and employ people with such disabilities, struggle to make a living every day, support for them is not enough, and it is not known that the amount spent on them is almost one more time. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Where it went, where it was spent. That's why I'm asking you here, in this form, to restore and restore the rehabilitation fund. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-02-29-329	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Mr Ander Balázs, the Jobbik Group, also applied for a post- Agenda address with the title "Living Buried." I'll give you the floor in a five-minute time frame.
u2016-02-29-330	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, It is said that the Russian writer Ribakov gave Stalin, the Communist leader of mass murder, the sentence in his novel Children of Arbat, which says that if there is no man, there is no problem. As regards rural policy and relations with small settlements, this Bolshevik approach has been applied in Hungary at least since the adoption of the shameful national network development concept in 1971. It was then that the death sentence was issued over the vast proportion of small settlements declared unrepresented. People who live there often feel unwarranted as if they had been left on the side of the road or kicked into the trench as if they had been buried alive - for if there was no small settlement, there would be no problem. I asked the Ministry of National Development a written question about the horrifying infrastructure situation of the sack settlements: the county of Bagsvilles, your name? It's an address. About 25 percent of the 246 settlements of Somogy County are sack villages, i.e. the world is only open from one direction to them. The badly bad economic and social indicators resulting in a cumulative disadvantage are mostly explained by the lack of infrastructure due to the small village structure. In order to unblock the settlements, it would have been necessary to build some 200 kilometers of road at the turn of the millennium, which would have required 23 billion forints at that time, which, according to some calculations, would now amount to more than 50 billion forints. Most villages, however, would be satisfied with a four-metre-wide economic exploration journey, which would allow the costs to be only a third. It would be huge money, even this 17 billion, but where a billion-dollar stadium is awarded to football teams producing ridiculous results, an unacceptable response is the lack of resources. Unfortunately, in the national transport infrastructure development strategy, there is no such thing as a hopeful road construction for sack settlements, so a series of towns worth a better future are practically being sorted out in Somogyország, even though three years ago the county's general assembly would have solved the problems by means of a back road development. But if, on the other hand, the government believes that the destruction of the depopulated settlements will automatically resolve this issue, then they are on the right track, as 40 percent of our communities are in peril. People living here with unemployment and economic inability are not interested in EU programmes and national strategies with different fantasies; they just want to know if there are some resources available for villages in Somogy if there are billions of people on the small railway up the road. Therefore, I ask you to lobby for these roads, and dare you to raise your voice, too, to ask what will happen with the roads of North Somogy, Tikos-Szegerdő, Szegerdő-Vörs, Csákány-Nemesvid, Somogyszentpál-Táska, Pamuk-6701. Connecting road No.1, Fonyód-Buszak, Long water-Kelevíz, Hács-Kisberény, Teleki-Nagycsepely, Karád-Kötcse, Balámányos-Pusztaszemes, Sérsekszőlős-Zala, Tab-Torvaj, Bábonymegyer-Nim, Balatonszabadeti-Enying, Somogyegres-Zics, Somogyegres-Kánya, Bedegkér-Törökkoppány, Gadács-Somogydöröcske. What about the middle Somogy roads of Újvárfalva-6702. No.1, Somogyvávos-Edde, Polány-Somogygesti, Somogyjád-Bodrog, Várda-Magyaregres, Magyaregres-67. Highway No.1, Gadány-Somogyzsitfa-Szőcsénypuszta, Ecseny-Mernye, Igal-Somogyacsa, Zimány-Kisgyalán, Zimány-Patalom, Inke-Kaszó, Varászló-Inke, Nemesdéd-Applause, Jacob-Kissand-6617. Connecting road No. 3, Kaposvár-Zselickislak, Patca-Santa Martin, Gige-6616. Connecting road number Csököly-Rinyakovácsi, Csököly-Mike, Csököly-Kissajom, Kaposhomok-Kaposkeresztúr, Kaposkeresztúr-Gödre, Hajmás-Gödre? What about the roads in South Somogy, Őrtilos-Murakeresztúr, Porrogszentpál-Nemespáró-Liszó, Berzence Geeky, Csurgógymarton-6801. Connecting road No.1, Somogycsicsó-Senta, Bolhás-Somogyszob, Three Trees-Tarany, Three Trees-Vízvár, Rinyaszentkirály-6807. Connecting road No. 2, Bakháza-Rinyaúj people, Rinyaújlak-Rinyaúj people, Babócsa-Peterhida, Rinyabesenyő-Homokszentgyörgy, Csokonyavisonta-Homokszentgyörgy, Kálmancsa-Kisdobsa... [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] - a moment, Mr President; wonderful settlement names from Somogy, I will be finished soon -, Kalmancsa-Merenye, Kadarkút-Hedrehely, Visnye-Vásárosbéc, Gyékényes border crossing between Iharosberény-Sand, because since the change of regime, only seven such roads have been built, the last between Lulla and Balatonendréd. Why are the others late? Thank you. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-02-29-331	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches after the agenda. I thank you for your work, and you will resume the Parliament meeting at 9:00 a.m. Meeting day's closed. [[Meeting ended at 9:40 p.m.]]
