u2014-11-26-0	Good morning, everyone. We'll start our work. Dear Parliament, The 20th day of the autumn session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that, in the chair of this meeting, notaries Loránt Hegedűs and Attila Móring József will help me. Welcome to our guests and to all those who monitor our work. Dear Parliament, The 2007 LX on the implementation framework for the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change and its Kyoto Protocol follows. Act CCXVII of 2012 on participation in the Community greenhouse gas trading scheme and the implementation of the effort-sharing decision. General debate on the draft law amending law for harmonisation purposes until closure. The submission is T/2083. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I would also like to inform you that the detailed discussion of this proposal will be conducted by the Committee on Sustainable Development as a designated committee. First, I give the floor to Mr János Fónagy, Secretary of State of the Ministry of National Development, author of the item on the agenda. Secretary of State, you have the floor. Here you go.
u2014-11-26-1	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, The purpose of the bill is to comply with EU legal standards and to enforce them in the domestic legal system. The motion intends to amend both sectoral laws governing domestic law on climate policy issues. The vast majority of the international scientific community believe that increased greenhouse gas emissions and their accumulation in the atmosphere are the cause of global warming, resulting in climate change. The first and most important step to reduce and combat the negative consequences of climate change was to ratify the Kyoto Convention. Climate action has a key role to play in both international and EU policies in order to mitigate adverse impacts. The proposal before you is the 2007 LX. It contains an amendment to the Act, which transposes the principles and targets set out in the Kyoto Convention as a result of global action against greenhouse gases, regulating the emissions of greenhouse gases by industrial sectors. 517/2014 on fluorinated greenhouse gases. The European Union Regulation entered into force on 6 May 2014, putting the legislation on fluorinated greenhouse gases on a completely new basis. It is therefore necessary to review the existing domestic laws and regulations. The 2007 LX. At present, there is no provision in law on the specific arrangements for certain substances classified as greenhouse gases, the requirements to be met when they are applied. With the entry into force of the new EU standard, it has become necessary to identify which body is responsible for greenhouse gas emissions at the specific regulatory level and what type of legislation they require. An important element of the amendment is the resolution of the issues of reporting and reporting required by the Commission, the introduction of a marketing quota for hydrofluorocarbons and the application of the sanctioning system assigned to them at Member State level in accordance with Article 517/2014. for undertakings carrying out activities covered by the European Union Regulation. However, the requirements imposed by the Union can only be effective and serve as a basis for combating the adverse effects of greenhouse gases if the legal system of a Member State acts by appropriate means of enforcement in order to ensure that the provisions of the directly applicable Union act are complied with and fully respected by the Member States. The bill also includes the means and measures necessary for effective action against abusive conduct, so that the penalties laid down are effective, proportionate and dissuasive. The proposal also introduces the designation of the responsible authority for climate protection. The amendments aim to establish a regulatory system that effectively fulfils the mandatory tasks of the Member States in the field of fluorinated greenhouse gas legislation arising from climate protection and climate policy. In 2012, the government re-regulated domestic greenhouse gas measures, the 2012 CCXVII. With the entry into force of law, the emissions trading system. The new legislation for the extension of the greenhouse gas emission trading scheme to air transport was already included in 2008/01. the provisions of the European Community Directive. As the new law also covered a number of existing and applicable EU legal standards, the government had a reporting obligation to the European Commission. Following the reporting, the Commission sent a request to the Government for information from 2008/01. on the transposition of a European Community directive in Hungary. The Commission concluded that the transposition of the Directive is partially or completely lacking in several provisions and that it is not adequate for certain provisions. The comments concerned the definition of the concept and unit calculation of the commercial aircraft operator, the process of allocation of allowances for aircraft operators, the setting of the allocation deadline and the use of Union allowances in other Member States. This Decision shall enter into force on the day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The aim of the EU Regulation is to establish a single global market-based system of measures for emissions from international aviation, as it was not in the European Union's emissions trading system and within the EU's RTS system prior to its publication. The Regulation included trade in aviation allowances as part of the scheme. In order to comply with the new Union provisions, it has become necessary to recast the provisions on aircraft operators and aircraft operators. The 2012 CCXVII. In addition, there is a justification for amending the law on the difficulties encountered in the application of existing law and practice, the review and simplification of measures in the course of official work in order to establish easier and more transparent procedures, and the clarification of cooperation tasks in relation to emissions trading. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, In view of all this, I ask the Honourable Parliament to discuss the bill and then to support it. Thank you for the opportunity. [[It's a rare round of applause from the pro-government ranks.]] [[8.10]]
u2014-11-26-2	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, It is now time for the speeches by its representatives. In the first round, the keynote speeches will take place, and I would like to give the floor first in a row to Mónika Bartos, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group. Congresswoman, you have 15 minutes tops. Here you go.
u2014-11-26-3	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, The amendments before us are just a small part of the international efforts to combat climate change. I myself took part in the UN's 2014 parliamentary hearing last week with our fellow Member István Józsa, whose call centered on strengthening the human-centred approach to the new sustainable development goals and shared responsibility. This idea follows the goals signed in 2000 by 189 UN Member States and committed by the Member States. These objectives are called the Millennium Development Goals, one of the UN's most successful initiatives and what the public thought was successful. In addition, the international community has come together and the efforts made to implement it have been successful, but the implementation has been critical, and these criticisms have led to sustainable development goals, which Hungary has also been actively involved in. For a year and a half, the UN Open Working Group, which was responsible for drawing up a proposal for sustainable development, was co-chaired with Kenya. The report of the working group was adopted by the Assembly on 10 September. Dialogue, open working methods, working methods to give all Member States the opportunity to participate were very important in the preparation of the report. The proposal includes 17 objectives and 169 sub-targets, of which point 13 states that urgent action is needed to combat climate change and its effects. As we know, sustainability is not equal to environmental protection, and we have often emphasised this in this House, because it is very important that the three systems, the economy, the environment and society are consistent. It follows naturally that many aspects are met, many interests conflict, and that is why it is a great achievement for Hungary that, as co-chairman, we managed to fight out a report, which was adopted by a public cry, which could be the basis of common thinking after 2015. That is why I thank Ambassador Csaba Kőrösi and the staff of the United Nations Mission in New York. This shows that the international community is making a lot of effort to provide a viable future for our children and grandchildren. A few weeks ago, President János Áder spoke to us here in the House of Parliament and quoted the idea that we should think globally, act locally, and also quoted President Barack Obama's words in New York, who said that we were the first generation to feel the effects of climate change and that we were the last ones to do anything about it. Indeed, along with the economic development of recent decades, the balance between human existence and nature has been significantly disrupted in many areas. Global warming and air pollution are one of the most serious issues requiring international cooperation. In addressing this problem, the European Union and Hungary have shown exemplary commitment and results in the past decades in a global comparison. In 1997 the first major international step to reduce global warming greenhouse gases was the ratification of the Kyoto Protocol, which entered into force in 2005, with the exception of the United States of America and Australia being supported by all major countries in the world. At the same time, it must be said that Australia joined in 2007. The signatory countries then undertook to reduce their greenhouse gas emissions by 5.2 percent on average for the period 2008-2012 compared to the base year 1990, and in 2012 the extension of the Kyoto Protocol in Doha, Qatar, in 2020. Does climate policy play an increasingly prominent role in international and EU policy? This is reflected in the 2030 climate energy package adopted in October. T/2083 in front of this House. The first part of the 2007 LX bill. As the Secretary of State said, which transposes the principles and targets set out in the Kyoto Convention on Global Gas Action, regulating the emissions of greenhouse gases by industrial sectors at domestic level, it is indeed a legislative harmonisation step. The 517/2014 adopted in May. In accordance with EU regulation, this law amends the Climate Action Sector Act in order to enable our country to perform climate protection and climate policy effectively and effectively. It clarifies the regulation on emissions of fluorinated greenhouse gases. It sets out mandatory reporting, reporting, marketing quota volume and penalty system. All this is necessary in order for the infringement to be clear and to be able to act against it; these have also been spoken of by the Secretary of State. I would like to highlight the importance of the second part of the bill, which is the 2012 CCXVII. By amending the law? taking into account the Commission's comments? harmonises our country's legislation on the emissions trading system with EU legislation. From a climate policy point of view, it is important that the EU and, in line with this, Parliament's bill extends the greenhouse gas emissions trading system to air transport. In order to ensure successful compliance, it sets out the reporting and reporting obligations of the aircraft operator, as the Secretary of State stressed. As EU harmonisation, sustainability objectives, the delicate balance between human civilization and nature, are served by the bill before my fellow Members, so we ask for their support. Thank you for your kind attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the governing parties and the Jobbik.]]
u2014-11-26-4	Thank you, too, for the Member's speech. I now give the floor to Congresswoman Anita Heringes, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group. Here you go.
u2014-11-26-5	Thank you very much for the floor. It is very important that we talk about this issue, but, of course, like everything else, we have to nuance this. In view of the period of the third Orbán government, climate protection has fallen apart from an administrative point of view. The objectives are clearly defined by the Minister for Energy Policy, while the Minister for National Economy is responsible for managing the assets. This dual management is unsustainable in the long term. The MSZP takes the view that climate protection is an environmental issue that requires modern and responsible economic policy solutions. Fidesz's climate policy has been the most talkative fact that since 2010, while managing our entire domestic quota assets inaccessible and with minimal efficiency, the state has spent only a quarter of a stadium of money to modernise the energy efficiency of family homes. We generally object to the EU's climate policy in the open, but we do not do much to ensure effective restraint. Moreover, as you can hear, the Hungarian government is doing everything in the background to ease the EU's obligations. Orbán's official reason for this is that the Eastern states have already made their climate sacrifice at the time of industrial disintegration. While EU-funded wind and solar power plants are largely built on zero emissions in our neighbours, their licensing in Hungary has virtually stopped. The Orbán government does not invest in renewable and green energy. It is also important to note that in 2010, at the time of the change of government, the Kyoto climate quota still worth HUF 300 billion has now lost its value. [[8.20]] However, together with the transfer take-over, not only the billions remaining from previous sales, but also the developed green investment system guaranteeing a sustainable reduction in the costs for tens of thousands of families and the sales prepared with many customers were handed over by the then Ministry. We know from the written responses of the 2010-14 cycle that the previous Orbán government was unable to sell anything from this framework due to bad and failed professional decisions. This is supported by a study by the SAO, according to which today it is worth only HUF 200 million on the domestic Kyoto quota. This was done by the government before the current one, knowing that in 2008 the left-wing governments sold about 10 percent of the available budget effectively, providing the country with an amount of HUF 40 billion in development resources. In addition, there has been a similar process with regard to the quotas for the European Emissions Trading Scheme. The share of this quota was about 10 million units at the time of the change in government in 2010, which means HUF 54 billion at the price of the stock exchange at that time. The stock exchange price of the allowances started to decrease steadily from the unit price of EUR 17 after Fukushima and stopped at EUR 2.76 at the end of the trading period. This low was achieved by the dilettious sale of Hungarian quotas on the Leipzig-based European Energy Exchange. The State Audit Office V-0069-242/213. The 2012 quota sale is a priority for the 2012 report. According to the report, nine companies applied for the purchase of the emission quota in 2011-12, but for formal reasons no one had a sales relationship; despite the fact that NFM's experts at the time predicted a price of EUR 7-14 by 2012, and the offers also came at a unit price of EUR 9-10. Indeed, sales were finally made at one of the weakest prices at the lowest level of the five-year trading period, below EUR 3 per unit. Neither before nor since then has anyone sold such low-cost allowances in such a large number. In addition, after Hungarian sales, the price level on the stock market increased by 50 percent. The loss of assets from failed sales is nearly HUF 5.4 billion. This is only culminated in the communication issued by the Ministry of National Development in the week of 17 November 2014. According to this, revenues from the CO2 quotas are about HUF 4 billion behind the annual plan in 2014. According to the data of the portfolio, this year HUF 14.4 billion has been transferred to the Hungarian budget for the sale of CO2 quotas. However, in this year's budget, the government calculated a total revenue of HUF 18.5 billion from the sale of allowances. This year, this goal will no longer be realized. The bad decisions of the last few years prove that the Fidesz representatives made a huge mistake when, at the meeting of the Parliament's Environment Committee on 6 April 2010, they banned the sale of Kyoto quota units at a unit price of EUR 7.6 for the then Ministry of Environment and Water, worth HUF 12.8 billion. For today? From a 2013 Interpol investigation? not only did it turn out that sales at that time were completely legal and legal, but also that left-wing governments could have sold some of the quota assets at a much better price. Thus, Hungary has not only lost its revenue potential because of Fidesz's mistake, but because of the bad decisions of the current governing party, there has been a lack of collateral in the panel program that they have not been able to replace until today. Is this supported by the NFM national climate strategy in the previous cycle: 2008-2010? Was it made for the Orbán government and quoted the numbers certified to them? In the most difficult years of the economic crisis, 292 723 residential units were supported by the left-wing government, i.e. 97 574, on an annual average, falling to 4045 in 2011 and 1082 in 2012. In view of the poor and failed decisions taken by the Orbán government over the past four years in relation to the sale of quota assets, the legislative amendment constituting the extended regulation is not supported or rejected by the MSZP parliamentary group, because legal harmonisation is necessary; the practice of the last few years will be strongly criticised in voting. During the debate on the proposal, it draws particular attention to the fact that the Orbán government caused the budget to lose revenue of tens of billions forints due to its poor quota sales policy. A professionally appropriate sale would have been a secure order for thousands of small and medium-sized enterprises in Hungary, and for hundreds of thousands of families a real and sustainable reduction in the cost of everyday living, i.e. the implementation of a panel program of similar size, as left-wing governments did. Thank you.
u2014-11-26-6	Dear Parliament, The KDNP Group has indicated that it does not wish to speak, so I now give the floor to Mr Lajos Kepli, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group. Here.
u2014-11-26-7	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, Allow me not to approach the issue from an actual political or political point of view. Of course, I do not want to mention the technical details of the draft legislation in detail either, as it is about the alignment of an EU act with national law, which contains technical details. Of course, the involvement of aviation in the carbon quota sales system is something to support, but I would like to approach it a little further than always. The general debate gives us the opportunity to discuss climate change and sustainability issues in a slightly broader context. Am I always surprised when it comes to energy or energy? in the speech of Congresswoman Anita Heringes? I hear about zero-emission wind and solar power plants, which clearly makes sense to me about its logic, where it comes from, but it should be put to an end, I think this, I don't know, pipe vision or what to call this approach, when and only when it comes to the emissions of a type of power plant during the operation, and we don't look at its entire life cycle, how the production of the type of power plant, the decommissioning of the power plant and then the management of waste at which power plant produces carbon dioxide emissions, or what effect it has on sustainability at all. After all, especially in solar panels, solar cells or solar power plants, but also in wind power plants, this effect is much more significant than we can see in operation, since it does not, of course, emit carbon dioxide, but in order to build and install this power plant? Just like other power plants, of course? From the mining of metals to concreteing, much more energy-intensive operations are needed until foundation, and if we take into account the energy generated over the lifetime and many other factors, we are not so sure that the most climate-friendly solution is, say, solar panels or solar power plants. However, it is the fact that these energy sources should play a role in a country's energy mix in the same way as nuclear energy or, otherwise, less and less significant fossil energy sources as time progresses. Are we trying to eliminate it in the spirit of combating climate change? at least this has been the trend at European level so far? fossil energy power plants and increasingly switch to solutions that do not generate direct CO2 emissions during operation, but this process seems to be halting now, since nuclear energy, which also does not generate carbon emissions during operation or to a very minimal extent, has become undesirable in some countries. For example, Germany is leading its nuclear power plants out of circulation, while it is forced to make up for this in some way, and since coal assets are significant, it is able to meet this system's electricity demand by installing coal power plants; therefore, we can already say that it is a less climate-friendly measure. Now, green organisations or environmental organisations often make anti-nuclear arguments, in which there is obviously some truth, and I always listen to LMP's speeches about nuclear power with such an ear. [[8.30]] There is obviously a risk, like all technologies, of using nuclear power, but if you look at it from a climate protection point of view alone, then it might be worth thinking about the solutions that can be economically replaced at the moment, because I do not think that this could happen with wind and solar power plants in Hungary. In the case of Hungary, it is important to think about what makes this possible that we can now sell this much CO2 quota. This is obviously due to the fact that in the last 24 years, but especially in the early 1990s, our heavy industry has ceased and that Hungary's CO2 emissions have fallen dramatically, and that we are clearly able to sell the quota volumes released here. However, this has not had a positive impact on Hungary's economy, but rather an extremely negative impact, which we have to try to remedy ever since. Obviously, if the industry is developing, it will always result in an increase in CO2 emissions, unfortunately that is the nature of this. However, this can be done by taking appropriate action in the area of climate protection, and by the way, the economy should also develop. So our CO2 emissions, our CO2 emissions reduction, are largely due to this, and we also need to establish in the future that, in order to maintain this level or even further reduce it, we need to take measures to anticipate a more climate-friendly industrial or economic structure in the field of CO2 emissions. At the moment, there are still little signs of this, but there is also a concern that countries that are not members of the Kyoto Protocol make up a significant part of their emissions. Therefore, Hungary and the European Union's every effort is not enough to significantly reduce the world's carbon dioxide emissions. We really are at the last minute on climate change, and we do not know at all whether we still have a chance to change these processes. But, of course, everything needs to be done to eliminate the effects that have already occurred, as we can see in Hungary that the seasons have already been quite shifted, and on the other hand, we can see that the precipitation distribution has become quite rapsodic, so the annual precipitation will fall in a few months, and then we will experience no precipitation for months or half a year. This is obviously the effect of some sort of reorganization or climate change. We must take all measures to protect this as much as possible in the future. So, for example, when you think about water management, the uneven precipitation distribution is obvious that it can be eliminated by storing water. So far? as I have said many times here in my speech to Parliament? water management is more limited to flood protection, which is a very important thing, especially recently, that there are increasing floods on the Danube and on the Tisza. On the other hand, while some efforts have been made to keep the waters, in the form of flood reservoirs, it is not possible to produce any meaningful results. It would be particularly important for Hungary, for the Hungarian economy, and for agriculture, if we had a significant water reservoir capacity, because whether we are looking at irrigation, agricultural irrigation or other uses of water, this is extremely important for the country. So there are very many aspects of such a draft climate protection legislation, if you look a little further away. I think that all parties here in Parliament, all factions and independent Members, have a minimum set of objectives that we must agree on and put party policy aside. This is that we must do everything we can to combat the effects of climate change at the global level, at the level of legislation, to eliminate the effects that already exist, and at the same time to try and do what we can; we, Hungary, are quite small emitters in the world's large carbon sea, but we must have a clear conscience and bring about the smallest possible climate change. In this case, in this respect, the Jobbik Hungary Movement has already supported all kinds of measures and legislative proposals, and this will continue to be the case in the future, and this may be one of those cases where in the future we do not want to bring forward political or political issues or make Parliament the scene of such battles. So we will also support this amendment of the law, which is the transposition of European law into national law. We ask the government to do everything in the future, in the light of what I have just said, in terms of climate protection and sustainability, or much more than ever. Let me introduce so many policies, or so many party policies, so that there would be plenty more to do here, whether we are thinking about investments in energy efficiency, improvements, or the weakening of the environment as a sector. We will continue to make constructive proposals on this issue in the future, and we trust that the government will support them. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare applause.]]
u2014-11-26-8	Thank you very much. Mr Sallai R. Benedek, lead speaker for the LMP Group, is coming. Here you go.
u2014-11-26-9	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, For my part, I was pleased to see the presentation, although, after all, I did not have so much pleasure reading it, since it is practically implementing legislative harmonisation technical solutions which are our obligations under the framework agreement. Besides, I've seen a number of points in it that require a transfer from the Ministry of National Economy or transfer from the NFM to the entire... Consequently, these technical amendments will certainly serve the effectiveness, implementation and effectiveness of the implementation of the Convention. However, just like my fellow Members, the speakers before me, allow me to look a little further away. I would like to draw attention to the fact that, in order to achieve global environmental objectives, we do not need to sell an emission option, but rather not to release it, we need to retain it and, as far as possible, sell as little of it as possible, and we do not want to finance a significant part of our development resources. This is a very, very important difference in approach, because obviously as a representative of a green party, I am interested not only in how national development resources are available and how, but also in the price of everything. The cost of carbon trading is very high, because the countries that want to sell it, which have the ability to buy it, make a serious contribution to helping us benefit from the negative effects of global climate change. So here I am saying, in this regard, that an environmentally conscious government is trying not to sell, as far as possible, only what it absolutely needs, and that it is trying to achieve all the rest, so that it does not become a global CO2 emission. Let me tell you something else I'm happy to tell you? The news from two days ago? that China and the United States, which are the world's two largest carbon emitters, have issued a communication in which they have taken a firm position to finally reach a global climate agreement under the auspices of the United Nations in 2015, and both states have promised to be actively involved in the fight against climate change. The United States reports that it is now committed to reducing greenhouse gas emissions by 28 percent by 2025 to the 2005 level. It is very, very important that, from when, a very important aspect of climate policy is when do we expect a reduction in emissions, because? As Congressman Kepli said? Compared to a strong socialist industry or the inherited, what we have achieved is not a great achievement. The great result now follows if we can develop our economy in such a way that our CO2 emissions do not increase, and this is a very, very important economic policy issue. We are here at the beginning of the EU budget cycle, and we are about to start investing in the development resources that the government has promised to Hungarian society, which it has promised to Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprises, and it would be a matter of vital importance that these small and medium-sized enterprises implement industrial activities that, overall, do not result in environmental pollution and, together with carbon dioxide emissions, in order to achieve their development policy objectives. A flawed and extremely outdated approach is when, twenty years ago, most developed countries thought that economic growth and CO2 emissions were hand in hand, and the only way for industry to grow is for the economy to develop if our CO2 emissions increase. [[8.40]] For a very long time in an analogy, we have seen that where the most advanced economy and industry are the most advanced, there is the highest emissions, and we have assumed that this is the way ahead of us, and in order to develop our economy, unfortunately, we have to achieve a multitude of industrial developments, which will eventually bring with them negative trends in climate policy, thus increasing CO2 emissions. Thank God we can now say that we have all the technology we need to avoid making industry dependent on carbon emissions. There is a way that the government has often talked about, only in the last four years for some financial or other reason, to try to help the local economy, the local food processing industry, and the need for an agricultural-related asset background, which, if possible, not only offer local solutions for job creation, but also, where possible, contribute to reducing CO2 emissions. In this case, it would be vital to reduce the need for mobilisation in the country and not to build an economy that is basically based on truck traffic, which is basically based on road infrastructure, but also to create the basis for this, so that people can get to work locally and have local industry at their disposal. I think this is my most important message on this item on the agenda, and my most important request to the Hungarian Government is to achieve, as far as possible, an economic development that will enable employment and the economy to grow without increasing CO2 emissions. The other part, which I wanted to reflect on in the context of the legislation, obviously wanted to reflect on the possibility of preparing for the global climate change already mentioned, because unfortunately, in most cases, especially for such objectives, only words and legislative levels are limited. It's gonna take a lot more than that. We need action, and action requires resources. I would therefore like to point out to Mr Secretary of State my proposal for a budget amendment which would provide substantial amounts for the implementation of the national adaptation or adaptation strategy, because until then we cannot achieve a normal climate policy, effective adaptation to climate change, until otherwise there will be no resources to implement the adaptation strategy supported by the Fidesz government. We need action, we need to adapt as much as possible to the changed circumstances, we need to adapt to the heat, we need to adapt to what Congressman Kepli has said, that in most cases, under extreme weather conditions, our precipitation has shifted to a very large percentage of our precipitation that it can fall down in a few days in half of the annual quantity in one area. In the lowland area where I live, the average would be 500 millimeters, and this summer it fell to 350 millimeters in practically two weeks. As a result, we need to be prepared not only to create the environmental conditions for the fundamental engine of our economy, Hungarian agriculture and agriculture, which can create the best economic conditions, but also to prepare for the steps that we can take. Let me also draw attention to an earlier fidesz promise, which is the importance of irrigation and melioration improvements. Minister of State Czerván stressed on several occasions during the campaign, the parliamentary elections, that Hungarian agriculture will be provided with substantial resources in the current EU budget cycle, so that farmers can prepare themselves and create the infrastructure required for irrigation conditions in Western Europe or in the Netherlands. Obviously, it is worth considering how intensive our agricultural culture should be, how dependent on this type of infrastructure, but at the same time it should be seen that Hungary's production area, thanks to God, is higher than what is necessary for food supply in Hungary, so there is a very important external economic opportunity in agriculture, which would be a waste of its potential. May I also say, although I am less faced with the tasks of the capital on a daily basis, that the failure of the Metropolitan Municipality to create public rivers? is it part of the adaptation strategy? it has not been a step forward that no substantial use of resources has been made in recent years for the construction of shadowed public transport and community transport waiting areas, this task is now ahead of us. I proposed to transfer resources to carry out such tasks in the Budget Act in the order of billions. With all due respect, I would like to point out to the Secretary of State and the Government that, indeed, as I have said, words are not enough, action is needed, and action requires resources. By closing my speech, I can say that it is obvious that the implementation of an international environmental agreement as an eco-party will be supported by the May Other Politics, but the most important support is not to create its legislative framework, but to ensure that the objectives set out in it can be achieved as much as possible. So we want the government to have the right intentions and resources to make sure that these are not just one of our many other international conventions. Forgive me for referring back to the Budget Act again, as I have also made several amendments to the need for resources to implement either the Convention on Biological Diversity or the International Convention on Endangered Species or the Convention on the Protection of Migratory Species or the Convention on the Protection of International Wetlands. The implementation of these international commitments involves sacrifices, and we must create them, and we cannot constantly refer to the fact that later, when the economy is strengthened, or when we have resources. Climate policy objectives, which must come about in this century, so that we do not achieve the 2 degrees Celsius or 3 degrees Celsius increase that could result in a global collapse, must, therefore, be part of these tasks. This is what this convention is about, and as small as the country seems, I do say that, compared to a significant part of the world, our economy is so advanced that we take our share of these tasks, and I therefore call on the Government to provide as much EU resources as possible for the implementation of the Framework Convention to be made available to the institutions and the institutional background. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2014-11-26-10	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, This brings us to the end of the keynote speeches. As an independent Member has not applied for a speech, there are two minutes' contributions, and there is a possibility, but for two minutes there is no one else but Mr Lajos Kepli, so I give the floor to him. Here you go.
u2014-11-26-11	If nothing else, I will, thank you very much. I would like to continue with what my fellow Member, Mr Benedek, said. We can fully agree with the LMP on what we would have done in terms of energy efficiency, and perhaps this is the way to reduce Hungary's energy dependency most for the future. Maybe that's where the greatest potential is, because now that our power park park is largely out of business in the next one or two decades, we need to think about how we're gonna make up for it, because the new two Paks blocks will only replace the performance of the other four Paks blocks in the long run, the other 4-5 thousand megawatts? that's out in the medium term? It is necessary to start thinking about its replacement right now. Part of this can be replaced by taking energy efficiency seriously, and by spending much more resources on building insulation, building engineering solutions than at present. Here in quota trade, there is also such EU legislation that 50% of the income generated should be used for this purpose. This should be used rationally, and additional resources should be grouped into this area, so that Hungary does not become energy hungry in the coming decades and that we do not become dependent on energy imports to a greater extent than we already are. After all, we are now covering thirty to a few percent of our electricity demand by imports, which is obviously not good for the country, because we have gas engines and other power plants, which are relatively modern and could produce electricity efficiently if they were standing, because my import price is more economically worthwhile at the moment, so to import electricity. This is what we need to think about in the long term, so that it is also good for the country's energy security and also for sustainability and climate protection. Thank you. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2014-11-26-12	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, There will now be further speeches by Members. First, I give the floor to Mrs Erzsébet Schmuck, LMP. Here you go.
u2014-11-26-13	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, My fellow Member, Róbert Benedek Sallai, as he promised, was practically out of the law in his keynote speakership, so I can now focus on the bill itself, namely, what exactly can be read out of it. The law to be tried is not easy to read. The justification gives modest guidance to decision-makers on why the law should be amended. [[8.50]] In fact, the only explanation for this is due to harmonisation with EU law, but we do not know from it what those fluorinated greenhouse gases are, hereinafter F? I will call gases, what their role can be in global warming and who are responsible for their emissions. F-gases can be found in cooling and air conditioning systems, heat pumps, trade, industry and households, foaming, fire protection, aerosol bottles and solvents. The most common F-gases are hydrofluorocarbons, HFCs? Will I continue to use it like this? which followed the generation of even less desirable chlorinated and hydrofluorocarbons. As is known, the Montreal Protocol adopted in 1988 introduced chlorine and fluorinated hydrocarbons from industrial applications after their ozone-damaging effects were proven. Although in this form we have disposed of the most dangerous form of ozone-toxic substances, the F-gases used to replace them have not solved the problem of climate-modifying greenhouse gases. The global warming potential of F-gases can be hundreds of times, even ten thousand times, depending on their type, compared to the heating properties of carbon dioxide, and some of them are characterised by long, even thousand years of atmospheric stay. Their atmospheric concentration is low, but due to the high warming potential they can be of little importance. The limitation of their emissions is justified by the recent increase in their atmospheric concentration by more than 10 per cent per year. Is the F due to their high-level use by 2050? gases can contribute to climate change to the same extent as all cars in the world combined and will soon compensate for any improvements that have occurred after the Kyoto Convention. It is perhaps worth drawing attention here to the fact that climate change itself is contributing to a large increase in their use, especially because of the increasing demand for their cooling capacity. It is also instructive because we can see how to switch from one environmental problem to another, adding trouble to trouble. Dear Parliament, In the context of the current law, Article 517/2014. There is an EU regulation on reducing the amount of F-gas emissions by 2030 to one third of the current one-third. It would also prohibit the use of F-gases in new cooling and air-conditioning systems in cases where less climate-damaging solutions are already available. Some measures without the need for completeness. New household refrigerators and freezers containing HFC shall not be placed on the European market from 1 January 2015 if their coolant has a global warming potential? later GWP? new commercial refrigerators and freezers with a GWP content of 2500 or higher shall not be placed on the market as from 1 January 2020 or as from 1 January 2022 for a global warming potential of 150; built-in refrigeration equipment with an HFC medium with a warming potential of 2500 or more shall also be banned as from 1 January 2020; new mobile room climates with an HFC medium with a warming potential of 150 or higher may not be marketed after 1 January 2020; extruded polysaccharides with an HFC content of 150 or higher shall be banned from 1 January 2020 and other foams shall be banned from 1 January 2023. The new regulation also sets rules for the storage, use, recycling, destruction of gases and quantitative limits for the entry of F-gases into the market. Compared to these tasks, the law before us does not provide any basis other than the definition of the administrative framework. It does not address the role of consumer awareness, which would already be able to significantly reduce the problem. The German Federal Environment Agency has shown that in more than twenty different industries, there is an appropriate alternative solution for each F-gas, except for some industrial insecticides and self-defense gas sprays. The main alternative cooling gas substitute for HFC gases is hydrocarbons. We can buy such refrigeration equipment, especially if we are aware that this can help our environment. On the other hand, the law prefers to seek excuses from the responsibility of manufacturers, how to avoid or minimize climate fines, or how to obtain the right to pollution through a fine. However, a small spill-over policy is not responsible for the future here, because the small one we emit will be a factor of environmental conditions affecting future generations for decades and centuries. In such a time, burdening the future, placing tasks on future generations, cannot be considered moral. Dear Parliament, The law under discussion concerns climate-related partial issues, as we have discussed similar details. For the first time since Kyoto, the European Union's 40-percent Ughg reduction target has put Hungary ahead of actual emission reduction tasks. It is unfortunate that climate issues do not have a framework law that would put climate-related drivers in the system and repel them. There has been an attempt to do this, and to the best of my knowledge, the National Sustainable Development Council is currently authorised to do so. Therefore, in my speech, I would like to urge this House not to delay the creation of such a law. Thank you for your attention.
u2014-11-26-14	Thank you very much. Here comes Congressman Béla Turi-Kovács, Fidesz. Here you go, Congressman.
u2014-11-26-15	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr. President, allow me to take a short detour before I talk about the law. I am truly sorry to see that this law, which I believe to be an opportunity for a broader view, is, as Congressman Kepli, Mr Sallai, has done, even if I do not agree with all the details that have been said, but with a significant part of it, this must be discussed in a kind of illegal way in the House. For my part, I find it totally unacceptable that a general debate should take place in the House in the future with the Hungarian public television in which the Hungarian state is pouring a lot of money, through them the taxpayers, quite simply not transmitting. That is why I am asking what is the important programme that is being broadcast on these televisions this morning, which is more important than what the House is discussing today. What's that? I'm asking you? We need to be more interested in viewers than the environmental factors that, here, we will not agree on everything, we will debate, I hope, or we will be arguing about them, but we will not be informed about them in general. Let's not hope that's the headline in the press tomorrow. I thought it was necessary to say this because I believe that it is possible to cultivate and restore the role of the Hungarian Parliament in a fair manner if the public sees this, understands it, and screens the experience from here. So there won't be any misunderstandings such as misunderstandings in a number of recent cases? You want me to say that as a pro-government representative? they have been very detrimental to the parties of government. I therefore believe that there is a need for change in this regard. Now, in substance, I agree that the detailed rules of this law, which, by the way, in a very professional way, Elisabeth Schmuck's old, dear friend here has told me very well and accurately, are less important than the background of the law and the historical background of everything. I remember well that after Kyoto, it was a true euphoric atmosphere. Here, in some green circles, it was thought that there was going to be a change in which, therefore, there is no way that the great international society, the great states, and the small states, could not agree, and that we would achieve something that would bring a significant result in the area of climate change. [[9.00]] If we look back now at this not very little time, then the results, I must say, are more than modest. Then the results that have been achieved so far, I am convinced that they are far from the big voice, as we have often heard at a conference. Conferences. The series of conferences started after Kyoto; preferably somewhere far away, in an exotic place, preferably so that what they are discussing there does not actually have any consequences. It also started with the fact that the powers of which the issue could actually be significant were uninterested. The fact that, in recent times, there has been a slight turnaround in this regard, ladies and gentlemen, we know, from all of us, that they are now aware that it is not as important in the political world as we would have liked it to be. Certain oral concessions can therefore be made today. But where we were talking about what major reductions in emissions will take place by 2020, they will base their entire domestic energy industry on shale gas, as they say? If I can. I think, therefore, in this House, that it is worth discussing this issue in a different way, even here, in this illegitimate way, so as to see what it is that we can expect, what are the areas where I believe we need to move forward together, even without policy. I consider it to be the biggest mistake that we have been able to raise from the outset scientific questions and undisputed scientific questions to the level of the taboo; that there have been findings that have been, have been, have remained, and have not been decided. What I know from history is what I not only love, but I hope I have been looking at for a long time, and I hope that it is not fortunate when a decision on scientific matters is made with a power word, because it may be centuries later, but almost certainly, it will require reimbursation. And I'm looking at something like that right now. The fact that there is climate change, no one in the world has denied it, denies it. It cannot be denied, the history of the earth shows that these climate changes are happening legally. I understand the role of emissions, and I accept that this should be reduced, but not simply because of that? And I think it's very important? Because emissions will result in what kind of climate change will occur. I think that if, say, Iceland at the same time, say, somewhere in the South Asian region and don't give it to me, somewhere in the African region there is a volcano erupting, I'm afraid there will be much more CO2 emissions than we can imagine. The newer kinds of lectures that make poor cows responsible for many things have made me particularly think, because I have to say, further to the point that in searching for the reasons, we forget that it is somewhere in the order of nature that all of our intervention creates some kind of change that has positive parts of change and unfortunately has hard negative parts. I would like to point out that, in my view, this is not a mere or even a far cry from energy. If we narrow that down to the energy issue? And I agree with Congressman Kepli here? Then we're on the wrong track. The fact is that, if we take note of climate change as it exists, we strive not to increase the negative impacts of climate change, and I agree deeply with that, and to do so we need to adopt the laws, including this law. He won't do miracles, but it's worth accepting, because maybe there'll be a step ahead. But real solutions need to be sought in our own options: water management, for example. In a water management that, in my belief, can bring great opportunities and benefits to Hungary under a unified management. Especially when you do, huh? Whether you like it or not? we take note of the fact of climate change. We are aware that we are striving for this to be beneficial, but at the same time we are aware that it exists. And as an existing climate change, I believe there are two kinds of preparation. One of the things we're talking about here under the law is the possibility of reducing emissions. The other is to look for ways and opportunities that put us Hungarians, Hungary, ahead of us, not of disadvantages, but of the more favourable opportunities that give priority to the potential for the continuation of possible warming trends, which must be prepared for, and what, if we are best prepared here in the region, in Europe or even in the world, can be a huge advantage for us. Once again, I would like to urge no one to misunderstand, I consider all options that reduce harmful emissions to be far-reaching good and to be supported. But even when I had a word in this area in 2001, I did not understand how it is that we are now giving and buying quotas so that the poorer countries will allow the emissions of the richer countries that can afford it to increase, thereby increasing their benefits in the area of industry. It's the formula that actually appears. And they're hand-to-hand protesting that? I'll tell you, is it possible that a lot of people here are gonna say that? What a load of crap that I may have reduced my income. What was up to me was that Hungary had to develop industrially, Hungary had to live in this industrial world for a very long time, so our goal in the field of emissions could not be to eliminate something that we might otherwise need. Dear House, I think that on the basic issues, and I dare hope that the deep greens are less green and the not greens at all agree, namely that the fact of climate change is a fact that mankind will probably have to live with for a very long time, as long as it is here on Earth. Consequently, the best solutions can always be found here, on the one hand, in the smart and rational organisation of our own activities and, on the other hand, in adapting to them. For this reason, I also support the adoption of the law in the hope that, perhaps even here in this House, we may have a word and an idea about these issues, not in this way, but in a wider circle. Thank you very much.
u2014-11-26-16	Thank you, too. I now give the floor to Congressman Sallai R. Benedict, LMP. Here.
u2014-11-26-17	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I am very fortunate to be able to speak immediately after Minister Béla Turi-Kovács, Mr Vice-President, Member of the Council. For my part, I am very pleased that there is also a topic in which there can be a constructive debate in Parliament and not political aspects or party political aspects, but differences of views, ideological differences, but these can be discussed. For my part, I am pleased with this professional atmosphere, and I am particularly pleased that half of the Committee on Sustainable Development is here in the plenary room and is taking part in this debate. So for my part, it is also a special pleasure that the committee includes people, professionals, who are interested in this topic. I would like to reflect on some of the things that have been said before me. Mr Béla Turi-Kovács, Minister, spoke about the euphoric atmosphere we experienced after the Kyoto Convention and called the results modest. For my part, I must say and even go further: the results are disappointing, and let us add that this is not the fault of the Government of Hungary or the Government of Hungary at all times, but the global economy. That is why it is important to have what approach and how we adapt to this. It has also been said in the debate that global climate change is a global phenomenon which, as a result of geographical, geological facts, will occur either way without human activity, but it certainly does not matter at what speed, how, when and where the adverse effects will occur, what impact it will have on society and on the country's economy. For this reason, I would like to make a distinction on the point of view, when it comes to debate, between preventable and non-preventable harmful emissions. Because a volcanic eruption, which I liked to mention as an example, should be noted that, due to the operation of the Earth, we cannot be considered preventable, whereas there are quite a few that human activity emits as harmful substances or carbon dioxide, or as any other greenhouse gas that could be prevented, and that technology would be available. [[9.10]] As a matter of interest, I'd like to say that I've counted here as I've been speaking, how many glowing skies are in this room right now. I don't know how surprising it is, there are over 600 bulbs in the room and 600 bulbs in the sky. István Bibó said that the task of the elite is to show morale and attitudes to society, and how we do this is very, very important, and what we show to society is very, very important. Let me tell you. And forgive me for bringing back so many actual policies that I'm talking about the budget bill? That there are 28 billion for a Paks development, the details of which we do not know at all, while in Hungary, everywhere in the press, the application system is famous as the cold of home, which can be open for a day and half days, because it cannot provide households with enough resources to save money in the field of communal emissions. If we spend a lot of billions on something, an emission activity, and in one or two we determine the symbolic amount that we want to save emissions, then it is not in proportion to our ambition and our goals. Words? What did I tell you? We agree, and I don't dispute it. However, it would take not one billion, not two billion and not four, but many tens of billions and hundreds of billions to transform Hungary's dependence on energy, which Mr Kepli spoke about. We need not only to debate or examine how much energy we need now, but also how much energy we need in a country that is normally built. And we can't examine this until we have insulated the walls of all Hungarian public institutions, remodeled its building engineering, remodeled its windows, made it energy-efficient, put a solar collector on top of it, and looked at what it really needed. We can't talk about this until we have replaced Hungary's public lighting system with water everywhere, and we have looked at what the real energy needs are. Can't we talk about all this while we're talking about Hungary's rural areas in the family house system? Nice little blockhouse, familiar to everyone who comes to the Hungarian countryside? We didn't isolate everything, and we didn't look at what can be achieved in terms of energy demand with the windows. All these efforts? which we have actually represented throughout the Paks debate? those that would give us the opportunity to reduce emissions, because until volcanic eruptions can be prevented and saved, retail, communal, industrial, municipal and public service emissions and energy demand can be prevented, it can be saved. Let me tell you that, too? After the Fidesz fraction and the KDNP fraction have been honored that the vast majority of Hungarian society has elected you as its representative in individual constituencies and you represent the vast majority of Hungarian society, rural areas? What other economic benefits would there be if there were no centralised plant, 100 jobs in one place, but small fires and construction companies everywhere in the country to make these changes, what effect would it have on rural development, what local employment would it have on all these resources? That's not a billion plus two billion, that's a lot of billions? We would make available to the Hungarian communal sector what opportunities there would be for this throughout the countryside. So I wanted to reflect on how, when we talk about how emissions can be reduced, the basic issue is obviously how to reduce consumption. This is a very, very important message for the Hungarian government, as it has tried to separate climate policy and energy policy at several EU negotiations. In my opinion and best belief, can we not separate climate policy and energy policy because there is no energy production system? And Congressman Kepli referred to that? even in the case of renewable energy sources, the global emissions of which would not be significant in the whole life cycle analysis, because infrastructure, operation and background can be done with low emissions, as this is already the case in the operation of the nuclear power plant, but while we are moving 1000 billion of iron and concrete while delivering everything, it is a very serious emissions. That is why we have the right to debate the fact that all the climate policy objectives that are in front of us at the moment as a legislative modification proposal are linked to Hungary's energy policy, because it is practically impossible to say that until we reduce Hungary's energy demand and place them on the position that I said in my original speech about how the economy can develop industrially without carbon emissions, we cannot talk about how emissions are going to decrease. Energy demand and climate policy go hand in hand, and in economic development, we need to look at how we can reduce our energy needs. This requires the government's efforts, which the government has started, but how to replace the old Saratov refrigerators with three-star, AAA-sign, energy-efficient refrigerators, how to transform heating systems requires resources, and this would have to be in Hungary's budget if it were serious about achieving these goals. That is why I call on the Government to support any proposals or amendments to the budget debate that it sets out as a goal in the bill before us today. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2014-11-26-18	Thank you, too. Dear Parliament, We now have two-minute speeches. First of all, Mrs Erzsébet Schmuck has the floor. Here you go.
u2014-11-26-19	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I asked for the floor because of my fellow Member, Béla Turi-Kovács. I'm very pleased to hear what you said in a number of ways. One: I have been a Member of Parliament since May, and I find here in Parliament that we are constantly rushing, law running through, and there is no time to think about the contexts, but not only about the coherence between laws, but also about how Hungary depends on global processes. There is very little mention of ecological conditions, how we relate to nature. I, too, find it a very serious problem that everything is discussed in the media, but fundamental issues that really determine our future are very few. People over the past 25 years have heard only that material values are important, eat more, run, eat, eat, eat, economy, economic growth, and very little has been said about what is really important for future generations to have resources and to be able to live in a sustainable way. I am very, very happy when there are conversations in Parliament when we look at the context. In this connection, Béla Turi-Kovács mentioned water management in the first place, but I think it is very important to look beyond the ecological conditions. There is hardly any mention in Parliament, for example, of how important it is to preserve biodiversity, and if we are talking about climate now, the question of the surface cover of the Earth and Hungary is also essential to the issue of adaptation. One fact: you said that scientists also doubt whether it is caused by CO2 emissions or not, and I would like to point out to you that we should be aware that what we are not sure about, we should be more careful there and try to reduce CO2 emissions. Thank you.
u2014-11-26-20	Thank you, too. The dialogue will be resumed in two minutes, as Congressman Béla Turi-Kovács is next.
u2014-11-26-21	Thank you very much for the floor. Once again, I would like to say that I am in favour of mixing questions of faith and scientific questions with unlucky ones. The fact is that scientific questions that have not been completely resolved, if we make them a question of faith and dogma, it always leads to a dead end. I therefore agree that caution is valid in all respects, and also for those who say that, yes, this is what is decisively affecting climate change, and also for those who say that it is perhaps not so much. And I have to tell you somewhere that decision-makers have to find a way to do this within reality. I would like to say to Mr Sallai that I do not object to the fact that the lights are on here, because if, under such circumstances, so many of us are having a debate without TV, then let us at least give the dignity of the House in which we are, because it is the first House in the country. But at home, I also follow the example of Mrs Thatcher, which I do not like, and I must tell you, not because of climate change, but for very rational reasons: every time my wife leaves the light on, she leaves the light on, I go and turn it off. And somewhere between us, there's a kind of, I have to say, a difference in thinking. I do not expect the Hungarian peasant, as a small farmer, to decide not on the rationalities of this issue, to think that if he saves some energy from his production here or there, for example, what will happen to this climate change. He's thinking rationally. Therefore, I think that the decision-maker should act correctly when he sees the greater goals himself, pursues the greater goals, while at the same time defining the goals for those who implement them, to be rational, and to be able to opt for them with reason. [[9.20]]
u2014-11-26-22	Congressman Lajos Kepli is next in two minutes, Jobbik. Here.
u2014-11-26-23	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I am very pleased that Congressman Turi-Kovács has also brought such a line. I can agree with the climate skeptics' camp that it is indeed unclear and scientifically unproved what causes climate change itself, and how human activity and the presence of man contribute. The fact is that it contributes to some extent, because now 7 billion people cannot pursue their activities, live their daily lives at a level that does not affect the planet. But that's not the point. Here I agree with Mr Sallai, and with the LMP fraction, that renewable energies are indeed a part of energy sources in the future, but, as I said in my speech as a speaker, this should not be declared exclusivity or omnipotence. If we just look at how much concrete is needed, for example, in order to establish the base of wind wheels, if we want, say, to replace the performance of the Paks nuclear power plant, which is an example that we often bring up here in Parliament. Well, if anything, then, let's say, cement production is a highly energy-eating industry and less environmental-friendly. Of course, a nuclear power plant also requires a lot of concrete and a lot of other materials, but here, once again, there should be a life-cycle view to fully examine these possibilities. Indeed, I see the role of renewable energy as an energy efficiency investment, so that when we are doing energy efficiency investments, we should install a solar battery or solar collector on the building to contribute so much to achieving the energy and heating targets on the ground, and that we need to obtain less energy from external dependence, but not in the form of large power plants. Thank you.
u2014-11-26-24	Congresswoman Erzsébet Schmuck has the floor. I would like to draw attention to the fact that a full round of two-minute contributions has been made, so I would like to give the floor to the Congresswoman so that, by the way, I consider her to be a normal word applicant, so that she can speak in more than two minutes. But if you finish it, you can finish it in two minutes, then we can move on faster. So it's your chance. Here you go.
u2014-11-26-25	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I asked for the floor, and I felt compelled to speak because Mr Kepli spoke to the LMP about Paks in practice. Paks, you're putting nuclear energy against carbon dioxide emissions a little bit as an alternative to CO2 reduction, aren't you? I think that this cannot be put together because they are talking about only a very, very narrow cross-section of Paks, and you list very, very few arguments in favour of why. We forget that Paks, if we look at the price of nuclear power on the one hand, would have to look at the costs from beginning to end, i.e. from cost to the very end. And the very end is not only when we are going to deal with the nuclear power plant itself, which we have no idea how much it will cost, but at the very end there is the issue of the disposal of high-activity waste, which cannot be estimated financially. But not only can it not be measured financially, but what is much more serious is that the dangers cannot be estimated from the perspective of the future generation. Because who says today, in the context of climate change, that high-activity waste, which is not equipped with adequate technology for safe disposal, in a few hundred years' time, what weather conditions there will be, whether or not there will be an earthquake, or what other conditions there will be, and then how the generation around it will be endangered in their lives. I think that, especially here in the House of the country, the homeowners and the countrymen have a very serious responsibility for what they pass on to future generations. And do we dare to say to ourselves today that we should live more modestly, not to think of the poor, but to the rich, because the world is torn apart, to live a more just society overall, and without even less economic growth. Am I referring here? And thank you so much for letting me talk for more than two minutes? measuring GDP. We don't even know what it measures today, do we, because a lot of things, if more people die or flood, will increase GDP, so we don't even know what it measures anymore, but we say that we should live more modestly, according to different values. And it is very appropriate to consider the question of nuclear power, what we are putting on the next generation, what we are putting on the neck of the next generation. These need to be considered in the context. There is no other alternative for mankind but to consider the fact that the Earth has a capacity, a limit, in a finite world, to grow infinitely, and to respect these limits. I would also like to suggest to my better fellow Members that they reconsider their relationship with nuclear energy. Thank you very much.
u2014-11-26-26	Thank you very much. As we have considered the speech of the Member to be a standard speech, we now have a two-minute session to begin with. Congressman Lajos Kepli, please.
u2014-11-26-27	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I really do not want to generate a nuclear debate from this, because it would take me very far from the original subject, not even because I agree with most of what the Member said. I, too, believe that we really need to consider how we live and how we can have as little chaos as possible in our environment and transform our lives accordingly. I do not value this as some kind of backward progress, but must use the results of modern technology and science in an increasingly efficient and environmentally friendly or sustainable way, if you will. Nuclear energy has been supported by Jobbik, by the way, since it became a party, and we have consistently never changed our position. Not because we do not see the real dangers, but because we do not see a realistic alternative as a responsible politician at the moment. And every time in such debates I have asked either Mrs Bernadett Szél or you to present a study showing in detail how, say, the 2400 megawatts of the Paks Nuclear Power Plant, which the two new blocks now represent, to replace with renewable energies or in any other way, we have never reached the point of getting proof of that. I've always heard some vague theoretical discussion about how to do this with solar energy and wind energy investments in energy efficiency. In fact, at the moment there is a need for reliable and stable, high-performance electricity in Hungary, such a power plant as the Paks Nuclear Power Plant. I hope that by the time the new blocks reach the end of their lives, there will be no problem. And I share some of your concerns about the management of radioactive waste, but refrocating and recyclating fuel helps in this to some extent. We need to find the ideal solution.
u2014-11-26-28	Congressman Sallai, LMP!
u2014-11-26-29	Thank you very much. I apologize to this House, I really don't want to waste any time, but I want to reflect. I don't think there's any such thing as green and poison green and not green. There is no such thing as renewable and non-renewable. We're talking about one thing, a direction that destroys the future, or that doesn't destroy the future. In addition to the latter, does the LMP vote, all the other risks, where the principle of caution or prevention should be used, reject that? It's as simple as that. I've tried several times for Congressman Kepli, but now I promise to give it to you right away...? For example, there is a road to sustainable energy management. It has nothing to do with LMP, practically created by an ELTE research workshop. This research, led by Béla Munkácsy, is about how to fully replace the Paks Nuclear Power Plant. There are several studies that I'd be very happy to make available to any of the good guys, because there's practically an alternative. No one talked about it, at least we certainly didn't talk about wind power being the answer. No! Most importantly, we have always talked about reducing energy demand and energy efficiency, which is the most important. And when we get past that and see what kind of energy needs we need or what the communal sector and industry really need, then we can talk about what source it comes from. We think, and we believe that this is the best way to go, that we need diversified systems adapted to local landscapes, not global ones. [[9.30]] Storage and transport of energy are energy-intensive and local solutions are needed at as many levels as possible. It is necessary to examine what is in geothermal options. It is necessary to examine where the wind is justified. You have to look at it in the southern counties of Hungary, where the number of sunny hours is guaranteed to be above 2 thousand, which is significantly more than in several Bavarian or Austrian farms, where solar energy is already used in a way of life, about the possibility of using solar energy there. It is necessary to see how the infrastructure necessary for their production can be produced without pollution. But this requires the availability of innovation resources and research resources. Thank you very much. [[Erzsébet Schmuck applauds.]]
u2014-11-26-30	Congressman György Szilágyi, Jobbik, has applied for a speech requesting a normal word. Here you go.
u2014-11-26-31	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. I say to Sallai R. Benedek, we say the same thing almost as you, you said it yourself. Indeed, you need to examine, see what alternative solutions there are. The problem we're arguing with each other is that right now, you're opposed to building and developing the Paks Nuclear Power Plant, and we're saying there's no other option. Let us examine these things you have said. You say that the solution is, for example, to reduce electricity consumption and the like. Indeed, if you support us not to build Paks, the consequence will be that when we have to shut down and shut down the existing reactors, we have to tell people that they can consume about enough electricity from renewable energies so that we do not use electricity for 10-14 hours a day, not for industry, not for humans, not for anyone. So, for example, let us reduce here in Parliament during this speech, we should sit in the dark, your voice would not be heard, because there is no speaker and similar. That's possible, but we're not there right now. The goal could indeed be what you say: try to replace nuclear energy, use resources and try to find alternative solutions that can replace nuclear energy. But until we can replace nuclear energy, we have to think responsibly, I feel as a Hungarian politician, and we have to say that the primary goal is to provide care in this country, and here we are at the moment. [[Lajos Kepli applauds.]]
u2014-11-26-32	They're getting there. Thus, as the participants of the new momentum, the first two minutes of Congressman Sallai's life will follow. Here you go.
u2014-11-26-33	I promise, Mr President, that I will be very brief and thank you very much for the floor. All I would like to say to Mr Szilágyi is that we only say that we have the technology, we have the knowledge. There are no two directions. There is no direction here where 3000 billion or 5000 billion are placed on one and available on the other. We'll have to take a look at the direction. Do we need to look at our budget, what do we want to spend thousands of billions of dollars on when it comes to energy efficiency? Secretary of State, are you sure you can give me exact numbers? The budget was 1 billion, 2 billion, and 4 billion is what we're going to use. There's no source for both. However, the technology of energy transmission and storage systems is completely different, it cannot be built both and cannot be switched from one moment to the next. So if the state and government have voted alongside nuclear power here, then it is a long-term strategic goal. I mean, in the long run, it's a hundred-year scale. And there's no other way, and the problem is, as long as we have technology, we have knowledge, we don't want to live with it. We object to that. I promised I'd be brief. I will continue to stress so much that we believe that energy policy and climate policy cannot be separated, and that is why, obviously, in the case of the implementation of a climate agreement in Hungary, this issue arises. Thank you very much. [[Erzsébet Schmuck applauds.]]
u2014-11-26-34	Congressman Zoltán Haughty, MSZP, in two minutes.
u2014-11-26-35	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. I am very interested to hear the debate that is obviously no longer about the Kyoto Convention. With regard to Paks, I would argue with my right-wing fellow Members that we are not saying, for example, that the Paks Nuclear Power Plant is not needed at this moment, but that we are saying why we need to bring forward an investment by 10 years when we have no idea in 10 years, let us say, what technology will be in the world. I just wanted to let you know that 20 years ago, I used to invite our neighborhoods from the company for an international emergency, and then he came in at 4:00 p.m. if I invited him in this morning, and now we're looking at the Internet on our phones. So, ten years to prevent a current problem, that doesn't make any sense. There's only one thing that makes sense that someone will get very, very good at this. That's what it's all about; no Paks, it's not about anything else. So I think that we should think about why, if this is really the formula, we should say why, for example, Germany's dairy farmers are going to leave us next year when the milk quota stops. Because at the top of each farm there are state-supported or almost free solar systems, and along with providing electricity to the otherwise non-low-energy sector for almost free, it can even sell excesses. So there are countries that think that they are doing rural development by, say, spreading this demand and, say, helping everyone, helping large masses, and we want to build a long-term energy base by having 900 people work. It will be until it is built, but it will not bring any rural development surplus. The added value of rural development is to spread energy production nicely, taking into account technological developments, and I think that this could be a realistic chance. So we're just arguing why now. No one argued with the extension that that power plant had to work for a very long time, and the electricity is still on, and there's still a speaker, so now we have to bring in another power plant with this capacity. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] 10 years ago, I don't know what the point is.
u2014-11-26-36	Dear Members, I do not want to limit your thoughts, nor your speeches, but as President, it is my duty to draw attention to the fact that you are speaking your sentences and your thoughts closely linked to the item on the agenda, and that in a two-minute session, I can only speak to one Member from a faction. Now, for two minutes, we'll have word requests again. Congressman László Varju, independent, coming up. Here you go.
u2014-11-26-37	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Although I have now heard the call for attention, but, obviously, if Paks is mentioned here, it is necessary to address this in two sentences, especially because Congressman Haughty did not go through the whole idea, because it is quite obvious that if it is 10 years from now that the Paks block should be stopped, its operation will be completed, then it is completely unnecessary to make a decision now and to decide on the new power plant which will otherwise be needed by 2035. That is why the argument that you have given us that the technological development that could actually be available to us in the coming years is completely justified is being thrown out by the state, thrown out by the government with its proposal, the adopted law and as a consequence with the investment, this opportunity is thrown out of the window, and this is a serious disadvantage for the Hungarian economy as well. Thank you very much.
u2014-11-26-38	Thank you, too. Two-minute line, Congressman Kepli, Jobbik.
u2014-11-26-39	Thank you very much. I hope it's my last two-minute speech. As a betterman and a responsible politician, I absolutely do not agree with the idea of Pál Pató that we have time to decide, since it is true that we are making a decision of 80 to 100 years, but the decision must be made today, and we do not really know what technological development will be like in 10 years or 20 years or 50 years, and we may have a realistic alternative in, say, 50 years. But we have a decision to make today. By referring back to what Mr Sallai said, I say that there is, in fact, no debate between us. He says we need to think ahead in a 100-year time frame. Yes, that's right, and 100 years is exactly the time when the life span of the newly built blocks will be over, and we are very confident about it, and I'm almost certain that by then we will have the alternative that will be able to replace the use of nuclear power in its entirety. However, we do not want to get ahead of time, and we do not want to force a solution to the country that makes energy supply uncertain, not give, God, we become more dependent on imported energy, and on the other hand we can produce electricity more expensively. Obviously, none of them can be a target, so we support nuclear energy. Speaking of renewables, let LMP help integrate renewables into the system by not opposing forms of energy storage otherwise supported by Jobbik, such as the pump storage plant or hydroelectric power plants whose existence in the system would be highly eligible. If we could achieve these, then renewable energies would fit very nicely in the system, and I think it is possible to coordinate very well what we have in mind. Thank you very much. [[György Szilágyi applauds.]]
u2014-11-26-40	Thank you. Congressman György Szilágyi asked for a proper speech. You have the floor, please. [[9.40]]
u2014-11-26-41	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I, too, promise to make my last speech on this, but I must respond to the sentences of Congressman Haughty. You're right, of course, you shouldn't have to deal with it ten years before, like, if it's Paks II. I'm only asking you why it was so important to deal with Paks II 16 years ago. by building [[Zoltán Pride: We have made no decisions!]] Since during the socialist governments, you have been engaged in Paks II. by building it. I also agree, Mr President, that you are saying that you are assuming that you are likely to profit from this here from the profits of certain people. We do want your profits from all kinds of energy expansions, all kinds of energy-related things to come only to Hungarian people, only then...? and talked about solar panels and stuff. So I'm gonna ask you that? We don't want other people to make a profit out of it, do we? How much profit you've made lately, say, from Paks. I'm guessing your representative gave the Paks Nuclear Power Plant for 6 billion forints about how to replace, say, the power of the Paks Nuclear Power Plant with solar panels, because in recent years one of your representatives has received 6 billion forints from the Paks Nuclear Power Plant for counseling, and we could list them more. But I promise you, I'm done discussing this. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause in the ranks of Jobbik and the ruling parties.]]
u2014-11-26-42	Thank you very much. Now it's another two-minute lap. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that two of the same factions are not allowed to speak in a circle. First, Anita Heringes, MSZP, asked for a word in two minutes. It's your chance. Here you go.
u2014-11-26-43	Yeah, I definitely wanted to respond to that. The MSZP has given the authority to prepare [[Zoltán Grimlock: That's right!]] And by the way, the total majority, because we voted 98 percent. This is the irresponsible thing the Fidesz government is now doing to not prepare the entrepreneur or the region for this question. This isn't a screw company. I've told you this a lot. I'm a Paks girl, and it's not a question of me to start this training seriously. First, we do not make the decision, but prepare for this task. The other is counseling, as Józsa addressed István. You know, his company deals with qualified welding. He did a professional job that I knew as a deckie, as a young girl, he was doing things no one else could do. As a professional, I respect this man, so I think that István Józsa did not do counseling but professional work. [[Intercoms from the ruling parties. ? The president's gonna ring the bell.]] Thank you. The other thing is that more money should also be given to the budget for the panel programme and for building efficiency investments, and then perhaps the reduction of the rent that if people do not have to pay the bill...? They simply don't spend that much, because they don't have a bill that big, because they can live in much more efficient buildings, and that's also true for public institutions. Thank you very much.
u2014-11-26-44	Thank you, too. Congressman Sallai R. Benedek in two minutes, please.
u2014-11-26-45	I, too, promise, Mr President, to thank you for the last time I am going to take part in this debate or to take part in the debate with final sentences, and to apologize to the Secretary of State for having such a good conversation here. But I would like to respond to two things for my better fellow Members. One is the water power plant, which has been said. You have to acknowledge that this has to be considered. So if we had a Niagara waterfall, we could think in a water power plant, but a sub-water country with slow water and low flood yield is not suitable for putting a long-term energy strategy on a water power plant as far as possible. And the other thing that I would like to reject is that the microphone is silenced and the thing is dark, which is typical, I really apologize, but it is a very simple problem. It's not like that. So I didn't want to say the word demagog. Because we are talking about how much is needed, and we are using only what is needed and what is to come from. It's not about someone sitting in the cold room in the dark, and it's really a mistrial. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare applause in the ranks of LMP and independents.]]
u2014-11-26-46	Thank you very much. And I'm gonna tell you to keep your promises, because now more people have done it, it's a very nice thing. Mr Lajos Kepli asked for a two-minute speech. Here you go.
u2014-11-26-47	Only because Congressman Sallai... [[Happy István: Who has not spoken in this debate! ? Defiance.]] Congressman Sallai spoke to me...
u2014-11-26-48	Dear fellow Members, I'm in charge of the meeting. I'm glad you guys are helping. Are you okay? The congressman will continue.
u2014-11-26-49	Two sentences about hydropower, and I'm not gonna take the two minutes. In hydro-energy production, a basic assumption or part of it is the height of falls and the other is the yield of water. So the water yield on the Danube is also available. Obviously, it is not by accident that 20 years after the investment, the Slovaks and the people of Bős paid off their investment in the power plant in Bős, and from then on it produces electricity at a very low cost. So we could argue about this for a long time. It is a fact that we are talking about renewable energy, and it is a fact that it can be integrated in the same way, and it would also help other renewables spread, and that is why we continue to support it. And I'm done here. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare applause in the ranks of the Jobbik.]]
u2014-11-26-50	Now, please, I don't see any more applicants, but it's my duty to ask if anyone else wants to take the floor. [[No one's reporting.]] Not because of their vows to each other. So I will ask the rapporteur, Mr Secretary of State, if he wishes to react. [[On Dr. János Fónagy's signal:]] Before giving this opportunity, the general debate is closed, and the word is for the Secretary of State. Here you go.
u2014-11-26-51	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear House, I really think it is a very good thing that, in the context of a proposal for harmonisation of laws, a number of issues have been raised in the House and in the polarities between fellow Members, which I believe to be an equally important element of our present, our near future and our distant future. I would therefore like to thank everyone who has supported this proposal with part of its contribution, for the proposal which essentially addresses the inclusion of fluorinated greenhouse gases in the regulatory sphere and the inclusion of aviation in the emissions trading area. Thank you, everyone, and I respectfully ask the Socialist Group to reconsider the possibility of supporting the law. Because, by the way, for other policy reasons, you don't support a government referral, I understand that, but given that the purpose of this law is? And the one-and-a-half-hour debate that we had said supported this? It is well founded from a professional point of view, since no one has contested this, and I would also ask you to look beyond this decision on your position. All the more so, and if you'll allow me to reflect on a few questions, I'll reflect on some of the issues that have come up, even so that they don't remain unanswered in the air. First of all, my fellow Member, Anita Heringes, raised and, in fact, I believe, brought up, as a reason for abstaining, the polarities relating to quota assets. One of the things we all know is that Hungary has achieved some 36 percent reduction in quota emissions compared to 90, which we all know is that it is not good in all respects, because it is not because of our energy management, but because of the loss of the economy. So it is not certain that such a reduction in quota, which is, of course, a good number in terms of emissions, and then gave the basis for any kind of base-calculation debate, is good for the country as a whole. I also think that there is no need to give particular reason and reason to believe that the Kyoto quota assets have been completely devalued during the international treaties due to the economic crisis. So it's not that previously brilliant people sold it well, and then, to say the least, they sold it badly, but there was simply an economic crisis, and during the period of living, running contracts, this quota fortune was virtually devalued. At the same time, the remaining quota assets were effectively transferred for the period 2013-2020; they were not lost but transferred to the following period. I very much agree with Mr Sallai's position once at the beginning that we always argue with the consequences, in many respects because they happen. Indeed, and this has been confirmed by several of my fellow Members, we need to reduce emissions and thus basically energy consumption, and then we will go back to the root of the problems. [[9.50]] Of course, this also requires the elimination of other original sins or anomalies that, logically, appeared here in conflict with each other during the speeches. I am just saying as an example, and I do not want to reflect on Paks' polarity, but I would like to draw attention to the fact that today a significant part of energy use is in Community transport, resulting in emissions and carbon emissions being a significant part of individual transport in motorisation. What's the solution? An electrified public transport, in Hungarian, is an even more electrified rail system, but an electrified rail system needs a continuous, reliable and inexpensive energy supply, and this, in addition to the state of things and science today, is the nuclear power plant, which is otherwise challenged for other reasons. That is why I say that there are statements here that are either uniform or logically not always justified. In addition, in the comments you have made, do you refer to the blocks currently being prepared as new power plants and new capacity? No, these are not new capacities, but the replacement of existing capacities with a forward-looking planning time. I say to my fellow Members, who may not be familiar with nuclear power plants, that they are building in virtually three places in the world today, or are able to produce large nuclear power plants, and the ordering time is 10-12 years, 10-12 years in advance. Did anyone tell you why you have to think for 10 to 15 years? because the capacity required in 10-15 years is to be reserved today. I would like to say to Mrs Schmuck, thanking her very detailed and extremely correct contribution, that the EU negotiations have shown that Hungary is, by the way, in a very good position among the countries dealing with climate change regulation, and this is only reinforced by the passes on the emissions of fluorogas in the current proposal. Allow me to make one more general remark: in contrasting the various energy sources, I think we all agree that there must be a proportionate one everywhere that reflects some kind of reality. It is no coincidence that almost everyone has used the term energy mix, and it is no coincidence that the energy law adopted in 2011 is thinking in an energy mix that is compatible with today's realities and is now possible by the scientific outlook, which includes the combination of conventional, nuclear energy, alternative sources and these. Obviously, what is continuous and relatively cheaper than others for a new power plant is energy; is it obvious that what is emissions and climate protection? next to the atom, because the atom has virtually zero emissions? The alternatives, which are fundamentally and decisively alternative, and here I agree perfectly with Mr Sallai, where local production and local use have been carried out in some parts of the world, are proof of this by a number of examples. So there's no debate between us. This, of course, includes the mobilisation need I have already mentioned, which is aimed not only at transporting energy but also at reducing the need for mobileisation throughout the world in general. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, In addition to my comments on what has been said in the debate, I would like to thank you once again for the declarations of factions that support the bill in a professional way, and again I would like to ask the Socialist Group to examine its position once again on the basis of what has been said during the debate, and I would like to ask you to support our proposal during the vote. Thank you, Mr President, for the opportunity. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-11-26-52	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Dear Parliament, There will be a general debate on the bill amending certain laws necessary for the integrated supply of tobacco retail trade until closure. The submission is made in T/2081. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I would also like to inform you that the detailed discussion of this proposal will be carried out by the Economic Committee as a designated committee. First, I give the floor to Mrs Hegmanné Nemes Sára, Secretary of State of the Ministry of National Development, author of the item on the agenda. Madam Secretary, please.
u2014-11-26-53	Mr President, Dear Parliament, The experience of the period since the entry into force of the Law on the control of smoking of minors and the retail trade of tobacco products has demonstrated the legislative will. The regulation has proved to be suitable for its main task: it has effectively curbed smoking in general and also among the most vulnerable minors. Compared to 2012, the proportion of daily smokers decreased by 10 percent and the proportion of young people affected by smoking decreased by nearly 5 percent. In addition to the fundamentally favourable processes, harmful processes have also been launched in the domestic tobacco market, mainly due to the behaviour of tobacco wholesalers, which need to be adequately addressed by means of legislation. Due to the commercial coercive measures used by tobacco wholesalers, tobacco retailers cannot exercise their purchasing activities without any influence, in fact in line with market and consumer interests, and it is therefore necessary to limit it to a regulated framework. The bill seeks to prevent negative market behaviour by tobacco wholesalers, which often abuses a dominant position, by eliminating the direct exposure of retailers to tobacco wholesalers. The proposed amendment provides that a tobacco retailer may purchase tobacco products only from a tobacco retailing company authorised by a public or concession contract. The tobacco retail supply company coordinates retail purchasing activities. Tobacco wholesalers can continue their activities, in particular the production of tobacco products or their entry into free circulation in Hungary, suggesting to retailers when ordering tobacco products, but in the future they can only sell tobacco directly to the retail supplier. A number of guarantee rules ensure that the tobacco retail supplier carries out this activity in a competitively neutral manner while continuing to supply retailers with market needs, and do not, for example, depend on the fact that some tobacco shops cannot buy tobacco because of the failure to comply with the so-called shelving standards or by the arbitrary decision of the tobacco wholesalers. The Government's bill also proposes minor corrections to excise duty on tobacco products, in view of market changes, in order to make public revenue less dependent on the price policy of manufacturers. [[10.00]] Dear Parliament, The proposal clarifies the right of the State to determine how retailers acquire their tobacco products in the context of the regulation of retail trade in tobacco products. The regulation does not result in the monopoly of wholesale tobacco products, and wholesalers, i.e. manufacturers, importers and excise licensees, may continue to carry out their activities for the free circulation of tobacco products in Hungary. Purchasing and supply tasks may be carried out in the future either by a company authorised by the State or by the State under a concession contract. The bill states that tobacco products released for retail sale in Hungary can only be purchased and purchased from the tobacco retail supplier, and the contrary legal transaction is null and void. The proposal makes it an obligation for the wholesaler of tobacco products to provide adequate supplies to the supplier at all times, so that there cannot be a case where inadequate management of the sources of supply could restrict competition by the supply company. On the sales side, the tobacco retail supplier is at all times responsible for the regular dispatch to retailers of the chapter ordered by retailers. This removes the obligation of tying, which is sometimes provided for by tobacco wholesalers. The proposal regulates precisely the liability and ownership conditions, the contractual arrangements between the parties and the payment obligations for both wholesale and retail companies. A wholesaler of tobacco products may sell tobacco products exclusively to the retail supplier of tobacco products. Therefore, it also has to pay the retail margin. Retail margins are slightly and differentiated in the proposal, while growth is taking into account current practice and the fact that costs for tobacco wholesalers will be significantly reduced in the future. It is proposed to add new rules to the law. Thus, if the tobacco product wholesaler fails to comply with the statutory obligation of the tobacco retail supplier or sells directly to the tobacco retailer, the customs authorities will impose a significant fine. If the tobacco product retailer does not purchase the tobacco product as required by the bill, the customs authorities may impose a fine of between HUF 5 million and HUF 500 million. Dear Parliament, The basic aim of the existing tobacco law was to reduce the smoking of young people and to protect the health of our children. In addition to consistently enforcing these objectives, it is necessary to combat harmful market behaviour on the domestic tobacco market. In view of all of this, I would like to ask you that, while considering what has been said, T/2081 on the amendment of certain laws necessary for the integrated supply of tobacco retail trade. To discuss bill No 1 and to support the government's efforts. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2014-11-26-54	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary. Dear Parliament, The speeches will now be held by the Members, with keynote speakers taking place in the first round. First, I give the floor to Pál Völner, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group. Here you go.
u2014-11-26-55	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Today, there are several laws on smoking in this House. I think that the dangers of smoking and the fight against it cannot be said enough. The provisions contained in the proposal before us have already given rise to a great deal of feedback in the press, so it is particularly important that we now discuss this issue in calm and cultural terms, without the intention of creating a mood. Many question the meaning of the transformation of tobacco trade, the traff system, while they tend to pass the tangible results of the past year and a half. Therefore, allow me to inform you of some facts about smoking. The primary objective of the new tobacco sales method was to protect minors. While 58 percent of juveniles had access to tobacco products in the past, data from the Consumer Protection Authority show that this rate has now fallen to 12 percent, thanks to strict and continuous controls. A survey was carried out between 21 October and 27 November 2013, and 4018 students of 103 Hungarian educational institutions completed the questionnaire. This looked at the frequency of smoking, access, the impact of media and advertising. Compared to data from 2012 and 13, it appears that the proportion of non-smokers who have tried tobacco products decreased from 57 percent to 45 percent, and from 64.5 percent to 69.5 percent. Thus, there is a clear improvement in the younger generation, but there is a large improvement in both sexes under the age of 39 and fewer smokers than in the past. Of course, we cannot sit back, we are only at the beginning of the process, especially because of the involvement of women. According to the KSH, the proportion of women over 40 in Hungary is increasing, and while more and more of the men have been smoking in the last 13 years, the same cannot be said for women. Half the male population, a third of the women are nicotine addicts. Over the past 12 years, the number of men who died from smoking-related disease has decreased by nearly 10 percent, while women's similar mortality rates have increased by one and a half times. Professionals explain all this with the changed role of women, the increasing burden on them. [[Attila Móring József is replaced by László Földi in the notary seat.]] I would like to outline the main elements of the bill, its essential points. Based on the experience of the past period, it is necessary to limit the purchasing of tobacco retailers to a regulated framework due to certain undesirable market phenomena. By undesirable market phenomena, I mean, for example, wholesalers could not buy tobacco because of non-compliance with the so-called shelving standards or by the arbitrary decision of tobacco wholesalers. The proposal clarifies the right of the State to determine how concession retailers acquire tobacco products in the context of the regulation of retail trade in tobacco products. This regulation does not explicitly result in the monopoly of wholesale tobacco products. Wholesalers can continue to carry out their core activities aimed at the release of tobacco products for free circulation in Hungary. The proposal states that tobacco products released for free circulation in Hungary for the purpose of retail sale of tobacco products can only be purchased from the tobacco retail supplier and that the contrary legal transaction is null and void. At this point, however, some misunderstanding should be clarified. The regulation does not monopolise the retail trade in tobacco products and does not limit the merits of their activities. They continue to produce or release their products for free circulation in Hungary and to determine prices. They can continue to freely define their trade policy within the framework of the law, make proposals and make offers to tobacco retailers. At the same time, tobacco supply will become independent of other agreements between tobacco retailers and wholesalers, such as shelving. The proposal makes it an obligation for the wholesaler of tobacco products to provide an adequate supply to the supplier at all times, so that there cannot be a case where the supply company would restrict competition by handling the sources of supply inadequately. On the other hand, on the sales side, the tobacco retail supplier is at all times responsible for the regular delivery to retailers of the chapter ordered by retailers. It is important that the tying obligation, which was previously imposed by tobacco wholesalers, is removed. In addition to the above, the proposal provides for a precise framework within which tobacco wholesalers can enter into agreements with retailers. However, this will remain independent of the supply of goods, so that the parties can really agree on a partnership and not a dependence on trade relations. A number of guarantee rules therefore ensure that the tobacco retail supplier carries out its activities in a competitively neutral manner, while ensuring that the supply of tobacco products to retailers is indeed continuous and appropriate to market needs. In the context of the bill, many raise the growth of black trade in the tobacco market. We see this problem, we don't want to put our heads in the sand. In recent weeks, the NAV and the domestic tobacco industry have launched a national campaign against the black trade in tobacco. The campaign raises awareness of the harmful effects of illegal tobacco trafficking through posters, radio advertisements and newspaper articles. [[10.10]] The tax office is responsible for crowding out illegal tobacco products and, above all, seeks to ensure that illegal products do not enter the country. They have results. By the end of September this year, the NAV seized 85 million cigarettes worth 3.4 billion forints, which exceeds last year's year. According to GfK's research, illegal cigarette traffic in Hungary was 5.8 percent in 2012, it jumped to 11.8 percent by the end of last year, and this year it reached 12.1 percent. The black trade in cigarettes is territorially different, mostly in the eastern part of the country. However, let us not pretend that the problem is only Hungarian. According to NAV data, illegal cigarettes are a problem not only in Hungary but also in other EU Member States. In 2013 the EU had one illegal product out of 10 cigarettes smoked and the overall share of smuggled and counterfeit cigarettes was 10.5%. With regard to the share of total consumption of smugglers and counterfeit cigarettes Hungary is in the middle, including Austria, Italy, Belgium, Spain. As I will say later, black trade must not be combated by whitening black activity. There was a goal of narrowing down the access to tobacco, and it mobilized the black trade at some level. But to claim that the old system was better when children of 16 years of age were served with cigarettes on every corner of the street, is a flawed argument, because by doing so, we could expand the reach of all products available in the illegal sphere from hard drugs to weapons for no reason. Black trade must be combated by official means, and consumers appearing on the black market should be aware that they can wrap virtually anything into illegally traded cigarettes, from animal excrement to sawdust. I thought it was important to say this, as this problem has a major impact on tobacco trade. Ladies and gentlemen, There is, of course, a lot of debate about the trade fairs and the development of the tobacco market. However, the data clearly show that young people smoke less since the introduction of the new system. In our own environment, too, we can see that it is only as a result of keeping the harmful effects of smoking on the political agenda that many people decide to put down cigarettes. What I see is that tobacco retail is controlled and well organised in the transforms, that no person under the age of 18 can get into the transforms, and that the owners of the transforms are Hungarian small entrepreneurs. In my opinion, it is important that the transformiks are not exposed to the dominant position of tobacco wholesalers, and I therefore urge you to support the proposal in order to reduce smoking. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2014-11-26-56	Thank you very much, Congressman. I now give the floor to Mr István Józsa, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group. Congressman, I would like to remind you that you have a maximum of 15 minutes. Here you go.
u2014-11-26-57	Thank you, Mr President, for the opportunity. Ladies and gentlemen, I don't want to start with what I'm going to finish with, that we're going to witness another turn in Trafikmuty, because basically it's the public who suffers it, the Members of Parliament can only say their disapproval and the opposition represented in Parliament, but there is, there is a counter-opinion. So it's very nice what you're referring to here, that young people's smoking is being reduced, but it seems that this otherwise noble goal here is merely an excuse to refocus certain business interests, the business interests of Fidesz close groups, and put them in a better position. According to this bill, new restrictions will also be introduced in the purchasing activities of tobacco dealers on the basis of the experience of the period since the introduction of the Traffic Act. Accordingly, on the basis of experience over the past period, some undesirable market phenomena suggest that it is necessary to limit the purchasing of tobacco retailers to regulated limits. This may be a noble goal, there are usually such planning economies, market economy-compatible, but you believe that it is well-functioning, well-developed, even well-distributing tobacco products, direct planning farms, is a question of why this is the government's objective in this area that is generally driven by a distance from a market economy, or that it is not specifically aimed at placing a tobacco wholesaler in a position. It is proposed to remove direct exposure of retailers to tobacco wholesalers. The exposure manifests itself directly to Fidesz, which you believe is desirable, but less so according to those involved. In the future, the tobacco retailer could only buy tobacco products from a specific tobacco retail company, as in the system of national cooperation, according to the designated production routes, this has not yet been included in writing, but it can be seen that there are designated production routes, and you consider it desirable, which is also foreign to the conditions of competition on the market. They also want to introduce a number of guarantee rules to ensure that the tobacco retail supplier performs its activities in a competitive neutral manner, so that competition can only be eliminated for its own benefit with all others, while at the same time ensuring that the supplier is able to ensure that the supply of tobacco products to retailers is indeed continuous, appropriate to market needs, if not, that he can write you a letter to the Ministry, because there will be no other competitors from whom he may order it even in case of inappropriate services. The author proposes minor corrections to excise duty on tobacco products in order to make public revenue less dependent on the price policy of manufacturers. This is also a very nice effort, a stable budget, sound planning management. It shall specify in detail which company, state-owned or licensed to carry out the supply of tobacco retail trade. The proposal states that in the direct context of this activity, tobacco retailers may accept gifts, discounts, discounts, compensation or other benefits only if expressly permitted by this law. Well, that's very nice. They say that no other benefits can be granted, this is entirely appropriate; otherwise, in the case of pure market operations, the market provides them only within the framework of regulated frameworks and marketing instruments, and never in person does any law, let us say, the civil code. It intends to regulate the scope of agreements between tobacco wholesalers and retailers. Well, that's nice, too. Under the market economy framework, of course, the contracting parties must be protected, interestingly, in your taste of mouth. If the tobacco product retailer does not purchase the tobacco product as required by this Act, the customs authorities shall impose a fine of between HUF 5 million and HUF 500 million, which is entirely appropriate, since it is not in the interest of the market-like operation to place the black economy on the market, i.e. untaxed products, on the market. It also proposes to modify the excise duty on tobacco products, of course it intends to increase the whole in line with the reduction in smoking. The first and perhaps least of my critical comments is that there is nothing to compare it to, there is no international experience with this measure or organisation. As I have said, under a market economy framework, such a scheme does not operate anywhere in the world; where it operates, it is not a market economy, so in this sense there is no comparative experience of such a step. There is no rule related to the quality of service undertaken in the proposal and the frequency of deliveries, so there are no guarantees. For example, it is not possible to predict how many daily sets you have to order because you do not know how often you can expect a next delivery. That is not provided for in the law. [[10.20]] It states that only a very narrow circle can carry out this supply activity, while the guarantee part is missing. Interestingly, the winners of the trade concessions support this proposal, but the wholesalers and tobacco companies oppose the bill, which reorganizes the domestic tobacco trade and, in this case, the retail trade. This regulation is expected to result in an average price increase of HUF 130 per box, so the practicality of a law is questionable, which can already be calculated as a result of a significant increase of HUF 130 per box. The margin previously called 3 percent is now going to 13 percent, so a 60-70 HUF increase is expected on this branch. This will also affect inflation and the further shrinking of the legal market could lead to the loss of 700-800 additional jobs. This proposal does not help the fight against black trade, although research shows that, as Mr Völner has just described, the black trade in tobacco in recent years is unfortunately on the run, and it is estimated that in some cities the proportion of tobacco-black trade is up to 50 per cent or more. It is calculated that the average illegal market of 15 percent on the side of public revenue, budget revenue loss...? By the end of 2014, this measure will result in a revenue loss of some HUF 45 billion, so this black-trade aspect of regulation or regulatory shortcomings will be quite significant. Retailers support the creation of a tobacco retail supply company because they hope it will help offset the power position of wholesalers. Retailers see that, on the basis of the experience of the last year, it has long been time for the law to take action against the unfair conduct and practices of certain market players. They believe that the supplier should be a public company, because this is how competition neutrality can be guaranteed. This is an interesting idea, and it is likely that retail operators are right, but there are also many ways of supporting their safety with legal guarantees. This proposal is more of a targeted market restructuring. The Hungarian Federation of Tobacco Investors finds it unacceptable for the government to hand in its tobacco product sales without prior professional consultation. It is unnecessary and cost-effective to create a supplier, which complicates retail supply and violates the right to free competition and freedom of business. So, as I said, this is a foreign market solution. The bill describes well what kind of companies can be considered as reliable distribution organisations. This shows that once again the goal is to put friendly companies in position and make billions of dollars a year, which is guaranteed by the bill. In view of all of this, given that the entire tobacco trade deal is shifted by the intention of obscurity and direct benefit, the MSZP does not support the adoption of the bill and protects the government from attempting to rewrite the tobacco trade in this way. In doing so, it carries the risk of continuing to grow black trade and further strengthens the corruption suspicion that is generally raised behind the Fidesz economic legislation. Thank you, Mr President, for your attention.
u2014-11-26-58	Thank you very much, Congressman. Here comes Congressman György Szilágyi, lead speaker of Jobbik. Here you go.
u2014-11-26-59	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen. We now have a wonderful, fantastic bill before us, a bill that expresses our wise leaders' concern for the people's care and wisdom, with which they have created this entire bill. The importance of the bill before us and the legislative amendments contained therein is undisputed. The scope of the problem, the way the governing parties want to approach and resolve the problem, is unique, but the importance of the bill is not given by the importance of the subject area or its impact on society, but by the fact that 25 years after the change of regime, we were able to gain insight again into the thinking of Hungary's 50s and 60s, the world of existing socialism. It was an interesting time trip to read through the norm and its justification. The paternal attitude of the state's omnipotence, which is considered to be a minor child unfit to enforce the interests of the country's people, has not only transcended today, but I think it is particularly harmful. The idea of creating a player on the tobacco product market, who is standing above everyone, affecting the flow of goods, the order of payments and the range of products placed on the market, is simply amazing. The central, state-led and supervised trading system is currently in Cuba and the Democratic People's Republic of North Korea. Gentlemen, in short, this bill is unsuitable. So I would also ask you to withdraw this bill as quickly as possible, and please don't bring back the spirit of the '50s and '60s into the Hungarian Parliament. The large and ambitious reform of the tobacco trade system two years ago has reached another milestone with this bill, the press and the common language refer only to the scandalous enforcement practice that the state administration has done in connection with the trade-related applications two years ago. In view of the scandals, the government lying in the eyes of the people and the corrupted old truncheons, filling the pockets of their friends in an indiscriminate manner, we thought that there was nothing lower. Unfortunately, the bill before us is an eloquent example of our misconception: there is still more. The general justification of the bill repeatedly refers to competition on the market, to the market adapted by supply and demand, and to competition neutrality. The argument also shows that they want to eliminate the exposure of retailers to wholesalers and to guarantee the smoothness and security of supply. These arguments are simply ridiculous. We are talking about a market that is strictly regulated from manufacturers to traders, from producers to importers to wholesalers, which is directly influenced by the state by legal instruments, and that is even more informally influenced by government parties. In this area, declaring the freedom of competition to those who created this situation is an immense cynicism. The rest of cynicism, however, is that, in order to protect the market and free competition, the bill seeks to include a central public operator in the distribution chain, whose task is actually to limit and distort real competition. The justification for the bill does not reveal one important thing: why is this new actor needed? The explanatory statement, I quote, is that some undesirable market phenomena have emerged over the past period and that the trade coercive instruments used by tobacco wholesalers need to be regulated. [[10.30]] There is also a mention of harmful market behaviour of tobacco wholesalers, which the bill aims to prevent. No specifics are mentioned. No harmful or illegal or unfair act is described, but only vague references can be found in the text. Dear House, This rhetoric is hauntingly similar to the state-wide demonization of kulaks. The bill creates an enemy image in a world without purpose or reason. As far as tobacco wholesalers are concerned, the reason for arbitrary decisions is that some tobacco shops were not supplied with the goods. It is outrageous that it is precisely the state who has taken arbitrary decisions in the redistribution of the tobacco retail market that calls for arbitrary decisions. It is anachronistic to read that, in order to protect free competition, the State intends to introduce instruments that undermine effective competition and the regulatory impact of supply and demand. If a retailer does not receive goods from a particular wholesaler, buy from another dealer. If you cannot buy from another person, you will not market the product or products in question, which has an impact on customer habits and thus on the market as a whole. It's not from the devil. Is it also an interesting question to dissect the government's reason for the revolutionary subversive of tobacco retail trade two years ago that the main objective of reducing smoking, including protecting young people from smoking, is to make tobacco products difficult to make available, to limit them to about one tenth? the place of sale of tobacco. The retail was mutilated. Indeed, legal access to tobacco products is much more limited than before the trade-off. It is also a fact that on the basis of traffic data, the cake of tobacco trade has shrunk significantly. As we read in this bill, supply has already decreased in individual retail units, and access to certain tobacco products has continued to be difficult. I'm asking you, what's the problem? Wasn't that exactly what you wanted? Wasn't that the purpose they had written back then? The question is, of course, poetic, because we all know what the real goal was: to serve your friends unintelligently and unscrupulously. If so, what is the real purpose of introducing another unusual market solution? Let us not doubt that the real goal is just as weak and unscrupulous as it is now: serving the immediate financial interests of our friends at the expense of all of us. You don't care, just like you didn't care a whole year and a half before, about the effects of this law. Hundreds or thousands of jobs will disappear here again. You didn't care about families losing their livelihood. You didn't care about that either, because we used to draw attention to how much black market growth is going on in the country. Pál Völner now says that yes, it is a real fact that the black market has grown. It also says that we are in the middle of Europe at the moment in relation to the black market. I guarantee you that Hungary will also perform better in this area. If this is their aim, then Hungary will certainly do better, because the black market will grow again for this measure. With regard to certain laws and specific provisions planned to be amended in the bill, my comments are as follows. As a new paragraph, the bill introduces in the law on the protection of young people from smoking the possibility that the State may require that the retailer buy tobacco products only from the operator designated by the State. The emphasis is that the proposal for a regulation is conditional. It is not clear whether there will be such a player or not. How can the state require the purchase from this new actor? How do the actors concerned become aware of this? These are open questions, without which the practical applicability of the provision is questionable. The proposed legislation also does not make clear the identity of the tobacco retail supplier, the new operator, as Fdvtv. 3. According to the new point 11 of Section 11 of the Act, the State may perform this function itself or may conclude a concession contract for the performance of the task. Who will decide whether or not the State will carry out the task itself and set up a 100%-owned company? If a concession contract is concluded, who will determine the terms of the selection? Will it be the same as the conclusion of concession contracts for the tramps, that only friends will be selected in a very secret procedure? This is, moreover, referred to by the addition, which is also included in this bill in relation to the concession law, that the Minister responsible for the sector may refrain from issuing a public tender. At least in the case of trade fairs competitions an act has taken place. The government doesn't even care about that here. They're trying to bring their buddies in the background to the legal level. The new function, tobacco retail care, is also very problematic. According to the new definition to be introduced, during the tobacco retail supply activity, the supplier purchases, stores and sells the goods. This will include an actor in the trade chain who will incur costs. It therefore requires a share of the margin in the price of the tobacco product to finance them. This reduces the profits of existing players, destabilises their market position and, ultimately, may lead to an increase in consumer prices. The new legislation is very detailed and also deeply affects the future practice of concluding specific legal transactions. It should be pointed out that the supplier is obliged to pay the wholesaler for 60 days, while the retailer is obliged to pay the supplier of the goods delivered within 15 days. Based on this, taking into account the time needed for the order and delivery, it can be at least 30, but it can be up to 60-70 days, the supplier has the purchase price. He's using that money, so he doesn't pay interest. This is particularly true in cases where the retailer carries the goods from the specially designed supply unit for cash, with immediate payment. You remember, ladies and gentlemen, when there was indignation in the benches of Fidesz, similar payment arrangements for large food chains were on the agenda. At the time, they said that the trader would have the suppliers finance the stock, which is a significant part of its operation. And indeed, they were right, and this is unacceptable as far as possible. Well, now the same good men in law want to guarantee a similar privileged situation for someone. To ensure the livelihood and profit of the new monopoly player, the bill provides in detail for pricing and guaranteed margins between the individual operators. With the exception of cigarettes, the wholesaler shall provide the supplier with a margin of at least 15% compared to the retail margin. The supplier shall provide the retailer with a margin of at least 13 per cent for the same product between 10 and 13 per cent. It can therefore be established that the margin due to the supplier is at least 2 per cent and not more than 5 per cent compared to the retail price. In view of the market as a whole, this is a substantial and guaranteed business result, in particular with regard to the fact that the supplier will have virtually a monopoly. The spirit of the bill and the solutions envisaged are contrary to fair market behaviour and to market economy and legal certainty. If the State intends to intervene in market conditions in this way and to this extent, how can fair behaviour be expected of market participants? The bill under discussion is an eloquent example of gross abuse of state dominance and the immediate subordination of state interests to individual material interests. The bill, both spiritually and for its purpose, is destructive, morally unacceptable, harmful to society as a whole. I therefore consider it necessary to reject it without any amendments. I ask you once again to withdraw this bill, not to force your own representatives to vote for such a bill in the spirit of party discipline. Thank you so much for listening. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik. ? Dr. András Schiffer applauds.]] [[10.40]]
u2014-11-26-60	Thank you very much, Congressman. Here comes the lead speaker of the LMP, Congressman András Schiffer. Here you go.
u2014-11-26-61	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Lex Continental is nothing more than a continuation of the trafikkuty. I am obliged to argue with my fellow Members, Józsa and Szilágyi, that there is no socialistic measure here, there is no question of paternalism, because if it were true, what you have said here, it would be that this is a law where the legislator is led by good intentions, led by some misunderstood good intentions, to care for his subjects, and to that end, to create a socialistic or simply paternal law. There's nothing like that here. The justification for this bill is a lie from the first word to the last, you know that, and I don't understand how you can come here and argue for such a bill, which you know is that a specific economic interest group has ordered a law, and the communications panels have been manufactured for the Habony works. I do not understand one thing: how can the purse or secretary of state take on this with good conscience when the same two-thirds majority passed a legislative law in autumn 2010, which required that social consultations be conducted in government proposals? We know that in the system of national cynicism, social consultation means that the fidesz oligarchs discuss that they are about to reach the market. However, this law also requires that it be presented to the House and presented to the committees what impact assessments the wallet has carried out in advance. These communication cartridges can be blown up very nicely here, but the thing is that we are dealing with a government proposal, you would have had a dog duty to put on the table exactly what health effects you expect, on what basis, what you expect in the tobacco market, what you expect in the situation of retailers, and what you expect from this bill in terms of job development. No such impact assessment has been carried out, because you are cynically ignoring what will happen to people, you are not interested in what will happen to individual market players who are not your patrons, you are most not interested in the impact of a bill on the labour market and on the domestic small and medium-sized enterprise sector. This law fits into the line where you legislate for public market robbery and make personalized laws for your friends. What I really don't understand is why István Horváth, the former mayor of Szekszárd, is not here, for example, who has gained great experience in the evaluation of traffic contests. I believe that his professional experience in discussing such a bill would be immeasurably necessary for the Fidesz faction. Of course, it is also an obvious lie that you have been raging about the fact that the aim of this law is to dissipate young people from smoking or to pursue other health objectives. I think that smoking itself may be hated more than I am in this room, and I have not smoked one cigarette in my life, so, of course, if there were any health concerns in this proposal, I would certainly vote in favour. It's just that if I led the government on this bill of health, you wouldn't be free to rob, you wouldn't benefit from your oligarchs. It is not because you would be disturbed by young people's smoking or by the health effects of smoking. What our fellow Member Szilágyi has just said: there is only one fact that this bill would otherwise have positive effects on young people's smoking habits or on public health at all. It is simply what I said in my speech before Monday's agenda: you are about to put in place a market that you know very well that no one will protect because of your judgment, and the expansion of which the Habony works can wrap nicely and smoothly. This is part of the process that this type of market, if you will, has begun, if you will, with the expansion of markets with a negative view, in the post-Simicska era, the designation of the national bourgeoisie, the designation of your home oligarchs. It is clear from previous and current laws that it is not important for people to smoke, but that some people can make great wealth. The other is that your so-called employment protection policy is quite clear. Fidesz is only interested in jobs that you directly or indirectly have. If you have to fire 800 people to create 400 jobs where you can keep people at bay, you do it without thinking. That's why they've shut down the small shops and put the trucks in their place, and that's why they're charging the tobacco wholesalers. This bill will continue to build a new vassal system where you will use state resources to build the winners of state capitalism governed by Fidesz. That is why I have stated that, contrary to what my fellow opposition Members have said here, there really is no mention of Cuba and North Korea, that you are not in any way hurt by capitalism as such, it is simply that you want to keep the players in the economy in one hand, and that you are falling into the markets that you think are wrong and which can easily be wrapped in communication wrapping papers. That's what I'm talking about. Through the collapse of the tobacco market, you can appoint a player when you have reached into the gambling market, you have appointed another player, and you keep putting the puppets on the chessboard, through whom you can control not only the economy, but the existence of millions of Hungarians. That's what this is about! They are constantly plowing the markets, marking the orange oligarchs, prime ministers designate who will be the winners of the Fidesz-style market economy, through these people they control the existence of retailers and families, who cannot make a living in this market, they have public employment, and through public employment you also keep people in chains. This is what the system of national cynicism is about: everyone's existence depends on a single centre. What is still rather worrying and frightening about the public market robbery is that one thing in the operation of the economy must be removed, and that is predictability. An economy where there is no predictability, not only disturbs multinational companies, let there be no misunderstanding. In a economy where there is no predictability, people who have some knowledge in their minds have some talent, something that they have learned from their ancestors, they dare not risk, they dare not invest, because they cannot know when the state is coming, and they take away with one stroke of pen everything that they have crouched, their elites crouched. An economy where creativity is killed will be constantly banged, unable to produce results. In a economy like this, which you want to control through some of the appointed oligarchs, wages in your stinking life will not come close to European standards. Of course, a great lie is also what they say about suppressing the black economy, because we can clearly see that the opposite has been true recently. As a result of the measures so far, tobacco trade reported as a tax base has been significantly reduced to around half of the previous tax base, which shows not only a real decrease in consumption but also an increase in the black market. You have not provided accurate data on the distribution of this, but the fact is that even the non-smoking population regularly encounters black sellers in public areas and the discarded packaging of obviously non-taxed products. You didn't account for this today either, and that's how you put in this bill. Is there a law in front of us again? Contrary to the Prime Minister's 2010 introductory speech? private interests are far ahead of the public interest. On this bill for the supplier? if this bill is not withdrawn immediately and the voting machines press the yes button? All you have to do is set up a warehouse and an electronic system for orders in every county. According to the draft, the loading of the warehouses will no longer be his responsibility, but that of the factory, of the wholesalers. The payment deadlines would be laid down in law, so it would be convenient for the central supplier in this respect. Trafiks have to pay for the tobacco goods they receive within 15 days, but the supplier may be two to three months before paying to factories and wholesalers. The margin is also fixed by law: the supplier is obliged to take over cigarettes for 87 per cent of the retail price and the other goods for 85 per cent. [[10.50]] Trafies at 88.5-90 percent, the rest? Cut tobacco, cigars, cigars? And you can sell it at between 87 and 90 percent. If you only take 3 percent on cigarettes, counting the 400 billion-dollar market, that could amount to 12 billion-dollar income. If we deduct the supplier's costs from this, it could still benefit between 5 and 6 billion. Dear Parliament, The bill before us is a bomb business for someone. The point is three. Paragraph 11 and 12 are introduced: the tobacco retail supplier, which separates manufacturers and wholesalers from tobacco shops, may not only be state-owned, but can also be a concessionary private enterprise. It is certain that a perfectly unnecessary logistics undertaking will be put in place among manufacturers, wholesalers and tobacco shops, which, in addition to the interest-based influence of the market and operators, will be able to charge the full benefit. And if it's a concession to go into private pockets, then it's better. Who this beneficiary favourite will be doesn't seem like much of a secret, since 3. The new point 13 of Section 13 describes it quite accurately. The point is not only what they say about the extent and settlement of public debts, although it also designates certain winners, but also point (d): the chosen lucky winner has been authorised for 15 years in the field of tobacco sales as a manufacturer or importer or trader or an excise trader when the law was adopted. Well, that's the rule of everything, if it isn't the stimulus of the domestic small and medium-sized enterprise sector! It's also important to have 15. §, since the fixed margins are laid down in this, i.e. the amount of margin that the tobacco retail supplier can obtain at national level can be calculated. This is the real party! Law, the market does not regulate guaranteed income for a private concession firm that has been well selected in advance, and the conditions have been laid down in law. So what is important in this story is that there will be no open applications, no closed tenders, no more mistakes made in the quote mark, and there is no way to keep track of who won concessions on what basis. And let's not forget, you're the one who's been hiding the trade fairs until today. They don't leave anything to chance, they don't open applications, they're gonna try to invite their friends on a restricted basis. In closed proceedings, in the rule of law, the State selects a concession holder on the basis of a non-transparent system of criteria, which can achieve a significant extra profit annually at minimum business risk, in Hungarian: the robbery of domestic retailers. That's why a perfectly organized state market robbery is what you're doing here! Of course, you do not care that 700-800 jobs will be lost by the adoption of the bill, because there will be a few hundred jobs that your friends will check out, and those who still cannot get a job will go to public employment. You don't care that this is detrimental to tobacco retailers. There is no agreed quality of service, the frequency of delivery and the delivery deadline are not set, so the retailer cannot know in advance how many daily supplies to order. This makes the stockpiling of retailers very difficult to plan, while with them they have financed the supply of goods and profits, as my fellow Member Szilágyi has just said. So make no mistake, your economic policy is in the best interests of many, but not the domestic small and medium-sized enterprises, the domestic retailers, it is quite certain. It is particularly interesting why, in such a bill, we do not see the opinion of the Hungarian Competition Authority or the State Audit Office, because in a proposal that is a harsh intervention in a market, a market redistribution, a state market robbery; in a bill where state rights are intransparency, both public bodies should exercise their rights? Is this the law of both the Court of Auditors and the GVH? To comment on this bill. [[In the notary seat Mrs. Hegedűs Loránt will be replaced by Adam Mirkóczki.]] We would be able to make a sound decision if the Court of Auditors and the President of the Competition Authority were to stand here and express his opinion, look us in the eye, look people in the eye, and tell us how well this is in relation to fair market conduct and the transparent distribution of public funds, public goods. LMP has submitted an anti-corruption package, part of which is the publicity of economic interest. Will the Judicial Committee be discussing the inclusion of this proposal in the series tomorrow? I have no illusions. However, it is certain that if you say no to a proposal that, if you adopt it, it cannot happen that a company, let's say, will be penned from the laptop of Continental's CEO, as we have already seen a few years ago, if you say no to such a bill, the only thing that means is that this legislation is not even a father to the Hungarian people, it is a simple, state-organized market robbery. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2014-11-26-62	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, This brings us to the end of the keynote speeches. The first independent congressman to come forward may now speak. I give the floor to Mr László Varju, who has applied in advance in writing. Congressman, you have 15 minutes tops. Here you go.
u2014-11-26-63	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Once again, we have come to a point where we have to talk about a subject between the walls of this House that has not only swelled up in Hungary, but has become a world scandal, and it is quite clear that the law that you have tabled here is clearly insufferable. This is demonstrated not only by the 30,000 pages of material that you were forced to do by court to monitor your crimes committed in the first stage of Trafikkuty, where it was evident that no criticism had taken place in substance, but that the possibility of participating in the retail network was, in fact, treated as economic benefits distributed on the basis of political merits; we have now reached the point of dividing the wholesale part in itself and, in this sense, the beneficiary is likely to have already been designated to do so. Today it is difficult to decide whether it will be Mr János Sánta or the CBA who will be responsible for this task. If Mr. Béla Turi-Kovács were in the room right now, he wouldn't be surprised why there is no television broadcast today. That is precisely because it is not necessary to discuss this topic in public, in public, but it is a story of wanting to hide it as much as possible. Once upon a time, the President of the House himself promised broad mediation, not only about plenary sessions, but also about committee meetings. After this little detour, what did you really submit? And it really is worth wondering why, apart from her salary, Mrs Secretary of State gives her name to such a story, when it is quite clear not only in Parliament, but also in public, that everything you are presenting here is one of the solutions of that Mob state, one of the branches that you are trying to defend here, inexcusably, but inexcusably. What has now been found here, in the context of tobacco trade, has been targeted at the designation of the supplier who could otherwise be a public operator, but you have systematically designated and listed the parameters of the person who is otherwise not state owned. In this way, you are looking for a reliable tobacco trader who will become a supplier to retailers from a relatively small number of opportunities coming from trade. If you have to give an example of what you are doing to a company that is integrated between wholesalers and retailers, it could actually be very similar to the fact that if the supplier, let's say, would not only provide space for the supply of goods to the wholesale market, but would also take over and buy it there, and then sell it further with sufficient profit. [[11.00]] This certainly represents a serious opportunity for someone who will be appointed and, for example, Mr. Lajos Kósa, if there were such a central company not only in the tobacco trade but also in the sale of air tickets. Then it would be much easier to buy the plane ticket to Dubai, and then they would be back in time, and Mr. János Halász, who here suntanned us yesterday about the conservation of monuments, could have come here much easier. [[Dr. János Latorcai, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]] Therefore, I highly recommend that you consider looking for new sectors for wholesale tobacco, where you can find a reason to introduce this. Nevertheless, I think that all that they have done or are doing in this context is not necessary, that the law itself does not make any sense, and, therefore, with great respect, I suggest that this should be withdrawn and forgotten. That is why it is interesting why Mr. Pál Völner is getting involved in this story and giving his name to this story, because, in fact, such impertinence that they are doing is essentially the emergence of public violence in your name, which I think you should not take on personally. When they're actually in their intros? Can I just say that in a rather inconvenient way? they refer to young people, and they make their comments in their health protection, while there is nothing to do with it other than this law or the title of the other, but it has nothing to do with it, and they create only new opportunities for the beneficiary companies in the Fidesz environment, and you will join in this form, such as Dr. Chiba, whose family has 12 trucks, and otherwise, as county chief doctor, hospital director, will do everything you can to protect health. I think that, even in the face of this insolence, you can do nothing but to withdraw this law, under no circumstances can you support it. This is also well demonstrated by the fact that the benches of Fidesz are completely empty, since Fidesz itself cannot accept this bill. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Dr. András Schiffer and Gábor Fodor applaud.]]
u2014-11-26-64	There are two-minute speeches coming up. Welcome, fellow Members. I give the floor to Mr. András Schiffer. Here you go.
u2014-11-26-65	Thank you very much. Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Was it a shock to me what Congressman Varju said that there is no television broadcast here? So, this is really the point of insolence. The fact that you're bringing in such a proposal is a careful one? They could've put it in a night class so people wouldn't happen to see what they were doing. Did our colleague Satmary just show up? We're talking about three tobacco laws, right? He's the author of one of them? In order not to take account of the lack of social consultation, he did not participate in the debate, nor was he here at the keynote speaker's. But what's really interesting is that you refer to health care, the benches of Fidesz-KDNP are practically bone-empty, and there is a piece of the governing parties that is not in the Chamber. So if nothing else, it alone proves that the reason for these suggestions is a common lie. And the other is, what kind of health benefits are they referring to here at the tramputty when it's constantly being expanded? They did that two years ago? the product scope of these shops. If the goal really was to make as few people buy tobacco as possible, especially young people, why would they allow them to buy ice cream, for example? Wasn't it to make the sales of these stores grow after all? So, my friends, small businesses with your families and Continentals, can get even more extra profit? If the goal really was to keep young people from entering these shops by accident, then we would not have to allow product products that we know for sure are specifically, let's say, young people or children's parents are going to visit the shops for this. Thank you very much.
u2014-11-26-66	Thank you very much. Just to clarify, I would like to ask Mr György Szilágyi that he has applied for a two-minute or proper speech. [[György Szilágyi: Normal!]] Normal speech. Okay, then István Józsa is next for a two-minute speech.
u2014-11-26-67	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remove the misinterpretation that my fellow Member, Mr Schiffer, interpreted it as if I saw something socialistic in this proposal, and I merely referred to it as a foreign market. So what is paternalistic about this measure is only putting friends in a position, but elsewhere, it eliminates jobs. My colleague László Szakács informed me that, under the influence of this law, some 150 people are losing their jobs in Pécs, the Tobacco Factory in Pécs, because they forcefully put away the distribution opportunity. The easier it was for the tobacco factory to deliver its products to retailers with its own employees, using its own tools. You're making this impossible, all you can do is eliminate this activity. In this way, 150 people in Pécs will cease their work. So, so much for your care, which specifically means putting your friends in the position, and the public is upset about it. So there is no rationalization, there is no cost reduction, it merely means that those who are dear to you will be put in a position; and the opportunities for competition on the market, which would basically result in lower prices, will be eliminated by you, including the price increase, which will be about HUF 100-130 per box. It may also serve to reduce smoking, but it does not matter whether it is job losses or possibly job-enhancing conditions. Thank you, Mr. President. [[Dr. András Schiffer applauds.]]
u2014-11-26-68	Thank you very much, Congressman. Then it is up to Congressman György Szilágyi of the Jobbik Group to make a proper speech. Here you go, Congressman.
u2014-11-26-69	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. I'd start by reacting to a few things. One is that Mr Schiffer's previous two-minute speech concerned matters and issues which do not belong to this law, but to the next, because you have tabled three legislative proposals on the sale of tobacco products today. Of course, all three of them will have the same goal of protecting and protecting underage people, and all three are about completely different things. The other thing is that they could have actually included it, if there was already such a wide range of product scopes and other sectors involved, that they could really, develop the gambling industry, have a betting system in Hungary, like in England, bet on everything. At this moment, the whole system would be doubtful, people could go in and bet on who this state-supported chosen person would be, who would win the entire concession. And then you could bet on Continental or CBA, as has already been said here. I'd bet on Continental myself, by the way, and he's probably gonna be the winner in all of this. The other thing that's weird to me is that we're meeting again with some of you sitting in here from the Fidesz representatives, but Madam Secretary of State doesn't answer any questions, doesn't take part in the debate, and then we're gonna tell you our stuff, you, I suppose, stand up, and when we can't answer it, when we can't ask you any more, you're gonna say again the sentences that are going to cross the border of demagogues, how important it is to protect young people, to give this entire trade section to Continental. You're not gonna say that, you're just gonna tell us how important this is gonna be to us. I would like us to take part in this debate. What could be the reason why you won't speak to him? There could be three things. One is that you know perfectly well that we are absolutely right and are ashamed of you, and rather say that you are not taking part in this debate because you do not want to. The other is that they don't even know what's going on. It's been issued, let's say, in order, and you will carry out and complete this task. Or maybe I can't even think of the third one that maybe someone didn't read the law, just sits in there and doesn't even know what this whole thing is about. [[11.10]] I'd like answers to my questions before closing. One of these questions would be that you say that this new regulation is necessary because the behaviour of tobacco wholesalers so far justifies it. I would like to ask you to tell me the negative effect you can mention on the operation of the previous tobacco wholesalers, which justifies the introduction of the current system. Tell me what that was. By the way, you may have information that we don't have, and you might actually be able to give us a reason to convince the opposition that we should actually end it the way it is, and let's go to Continental. Then tell me this. The other question is...? I really don't want to take her to this, because they still think I'm anti-Continental, and I don't have any connection to Continental, so I guess you don't either. [[Depletion in the lines of the LMP.]] ? When the previous laws were written, it just happened to come from a particular computer, so I don't want to go this way, but if you transform this system of tobacco retail suppliers and define the criteria, then there will be problems here. One of the things I would like to ask you here is how this is going to be, so have you carried out an impact assessment or anything else that, under the statutory terms of payment, retail suppliers are obliged to pay for the products delivered to them, as I said in my lead speakers, in 70-90 days? depending on what delivery deadlines will be, or just how the retailer buys, so buys them, or by delivery and the like, but only after the products that are actually sold. In addition to the cost of production of the product, suppliers will therefore be obliged to grant 70-90 days of credit for excise duty of between 50 and 80 per cent, and even the supplier will be obliged to pre-position and lend supplies corresponding to the average sale of the product for two weeks. So that's probably what big companies will be able to do, and that's the retail supplier, or whatever you want. So what were you thinking? Was there any impact assessment? What kind of cash flows are we gonna make? How much capital does a person need to have in order to carry out this activity at all on the part of the suppliers? And will there even be a supplier who, under such conditions, will continue to do these things? The other question is, are smaller importers and the significant number of products they market? If there was an impact assessment, will they know if it will happen? will disappear from the Hungarian market. And what will happen to these products that disappear from the Hungarian market? They will come into the country through illegal channels, because regardless of the demand, they will simply not be available. It probably won't be available, for example, bong tobacco and most of the most popular pipe tobacco, but premium cigars can come to the same end. Madam Secretary, consider that, in addition to a 70-90-day loan, all risks will be borne by the supplier, since ownership of the goods delivered but not sold will remain with the supplier. The question arises here, with regard to this particular product, what will happen to the warranty period of tobacco products here. What about the deterioration in quality? After all, both premium cigars and bong tobacco may have these. It will remain in ownership, expiration date and deterioration, and they will say that we couldn't sell it, here, it's your property, take it away. Who do you think is going to do these things? The point of the system is, as I said, retail suppliers are guaranteed a minimum profit of 3-5 percent at zero risk. So all the risks are borne by the suppliers, and they're going to benefit 3-5 percent of all of this guaranteed? So again, we're guaranteeing some kind of profit. Let's guarantee some profit to Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprises once in a while! Let's just tell him that you should start doing business, it doesn't matter how this is going to work for you, but we can guarantee you this profit. With the closure of smaller companies, I dare say that the number of jobs will be as high as a thousand. They could put a thousand families in danger so much that I have to think about what I'm gonna do for a living. Of course, I know you have the answer again: go to community service, because it is also employment, you can also make a living; you have created this opportunity for people in Hungary to work in the framework of the Public Works Programme. I have one more question. When we first discussed the tobacco law here, did you say so proudly that in the previous legislation? Is that correct? The so-called shelving system was abolished. So the practice of entering the tobacco store has been abolished that some multinational companies have been confronted with the window of the shop. You've said this several times: it was exploitative how bad this system was, we're shutting down the shelving system. Then tell me what it means to bring this whole thing back again with the proposed shelving contract, to bring back this dominant system, the beneficiaries of which will be the owners of the mutytrafiks. Why are you bringing this system back? If you guys once told me that this was a bad system, then it's gonna take some time and it's not a bad system anymore? So, just like I said, the shelf money system at the big shopping malls was bad, and besides, what deadlines were paid for, they said that only suppliers would bear the burden here, morally, financially, no matter how unacceptable, that's what you said, and now you're doing the same thing with this law. I'd like to get some answers from you. I'd really like to know what your idea of this is. For example, can the Secretary of State tell me how you are trying to guarantee that you will not be burdened by suppliers, that you will not be able to sell the goods, and then what damage can you suffer in this regard? Will there be bong tobacco in the country, for example, premium cigar products in the country, or will it not be legally available, and the black economy will continue to flourish? Because let's not forget that by acknowledging that you have grown so far, even though you said that the black economy will not grow, because you are prepared for it, we have heard it now, Pál Völner said that we already have the plan in advance, which campaigns will be conducted, whether with billboards, advertisements and all...? I think it's gonna be a big impact. So I also suggest that we write out that you do not smuggle cigarettes, because with that you are a loss of revenue to the Hungarian State. And I think the cigarette smugglers are gonna wonder if they're really not gonna be smuggling cigarettes. [[Depletion in the lines of the LMP.]] [[László Földi is replaced by Attila Móring József in the notary seat.]] Otherwise, the main reason cigarette smuggling in the eastern regions is because cigarettes are cheaper there. No one from Austria will smuggle cigarettes into Hungary, and I think that they will then try to sell them in Ukraine. So these are huge problems, and you don't care about that. But then at least they'd be concerned about the loss of public finances, the loss of revenues, the continuing growth of the black market. It is constantly growing, and you cannot do anything about it, because the fact that a few percent of these smugglers are caught, the fact that a few percent of these smugglers are caught in police hands, occupying certain products; I would be glad that the statistics that Paul Völner said here would actually show that this many people quit smoking during these measures, but unfortunately, these statistics do not show this. These statistics show how many people do not legally buy tobacco in these measures, how many people roll cigarettes, how many people grow because they can grow nooks in relation to tobacco leaves and how many black cigarettes come into this country. This means, to a large extent, believe me, but these statistics can also be perceived as having achieved enormous results in terms of quitting smoking. I wish. I'd be happy to say it anyway, as a smoker. I'd really like to quit smoking, too. Also, consider how smokers can be treated as enemies and enemies in this country, but believe me, most smokers, when they have reached a certain age, and this is where the protection of minors really counts, would want to quit smoking, but that is not so easy. Anyone who smokes knows that there are obstacles to this. So believe me, this law, which you have submitted here, or who has written this law, believe me, read it in detail and in detail, is not in the interests of the country, it is not for the protection of minors, and this law is not in the interest of this country. So I'm asking you to consider or withdraw or find something else you'd like to submit. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of Jobbik and LMP.]] [[11.20]]
u2014-11-26-70	Thank you very much, Congressman. The next speaker from the LMP Group is Mr Schiffer András Group leader. Here you go.
u2014-11-26-71	Thank you very much. Mr. President. Dear Parliament, In addition to the fact that you have done very well to solve today's statutory public market robbery in such a way that TV cameras do not broadcast the meeting, we see once again that you do not enter into a substantive debate. I should like to warn you that if the Secretary of State is once again playing what the majority of State Secretarys are doing to read the text prepared in the Habony works after the end of the debate, I will certainly not be here in the Chamber, because I am not interested in that. Parliament's debate is that the government or the pro-government representatives discuss it with each other, where appropriate, or with opposition representatives. There are ministers of state who do that, by the way. I think that even if we don't agree, it's a fair attitude. That you would listen, that the government representative would call the parliamentary debate, and then read the prefabricated text as if nothing had happened, so we wouldn't play this game? I'm sure I won't be in this Chamber. I very much like the idea of my fellow Member Szilágyi to place a bet on which companies or companies might be the winners of this bill. Would I suggest that this bet is written out in Parliament? In a legally regulated way? In order to be able to make the bets at Andy Vajna's businesses, it would be a whole story. [[Dr. István Józsa: Profit maximization!]] That's right. The fact is that the condition laid down in this bill, T/2081, is that since 2000, no infringement of more than 20 million forints could be punished, since 2005, there has been no half a million forints of expired public debt and the rest of it clearly excludes BAT, the tobacco factory in Pécs, to which my colleague Józsa has already referred, or Philip Morris. It doesn't hurt me at all. The fact is, however, there is also a third point: it has been dealing with tobacco wholesale for 15 years. The picture came together. You're trying to put one company, Continental, back in business, and it seems like it's not enough, it's a lex Continental. They're gonna shoot around a company or a group of companies in the bill. Why wouldn't it be easier, Madam Secretary, to say, for example, in such a law, that this right should be given to a particular company? It saves you and us unpleasant minutes, saves you extra hours of work for the communication gurus, you shouldn't be making up this massive lie that the health of young people, the education of young people about smoking is your goal; it would be nice to write down what's behind it. The threefold set of conditions described in the law points in the same direction, and this is not the first such case. It would be much better for everyone to play with open cards and write down the law in which they wish to favour the Continental Group, and perhaps, in addition to respect for copyright, to indicate who has dictated this bill, who has actually written it to you. [[Defiance in Jobbik's ranks.]] The Ministry should not be embellished with foreign feathers, and it would also be nice to describe when Andy Vajna wishes to grant extra rights. I think that would be the fair game. And what we've heard in the Fidesz speech here is that they're going to organize campaigns against the black trade, and that's what I was afraid of. This is certainly a benefit: if you are planning campaigns against the black trade, to which my fellow Member Szilágyi referred, it will obviously be a very large number of cigarette smugglers who will strike you on the forehead with a billboard that you may not have to smuggle cigarettes. I do not know how many languages these posters are intended to be written in, but one person will surely benefit: not the state register, but the marketing communication companies to which these orders will be issued. So this proposal is extremely clever, because there is a main beneficiary, the Continental Group, but they are already hiding the little bonbons in this proposal that they will give to the buddy marketing communication companies. These enlightenment campaigns obviously have no use for them, they have only one advantage: additional money can be passed out by law to buddies. There will be communication companies, there will be various marketing and advertising agencies that can be given the busy orders to say how to stop Ukrainian cigarette smugglers from doing this nasty thing, that they want to bring cigarettes into this country in black. I think we should leave these stupid things alone; we know that these campaigns are worthless. The black economy must not be dealt with by billboard campaigns, but by clear, transparent market conditions. As long as you wish to favour buddy companies in closed tenders, as long as you make laws to cut down legitimate retailers, yes, the black trade in this country will grow. Let us note one more thing: this law is not against just two multinational companies. This is a declaration of war against all decent Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprises. It means that at any time in Hungary, the State can redistribute any market by means of law and appoint the winners of this particular state capitalism. That's what this bill is about. It is about that if buddy companies and orange oligarchs do not give enough jobs, and more jobs are lost than this bill, for example, at Pécsi Dohánygyár Kft., than there are new jobs, let's say Continental is setting up, then you can go to public work. We should speak honestly, and it should be said that in a country where there are some buddy oligarchs who inaugurate a few assembly plants every month, which, of course, are set up by multinationals, and those for whom neither, nor in the buddy oligarchs, nor in the assembly halls, will be able to go to community service, and in a country like this, people will always work for hunger. Public service is not an alternative. The alternative would be to have Hungarian businesses that would be given the chance to take risks; if there were Hungarian traders, entrepreneurs who would dare to take risks, because they know that the state does not steal their money. If the economy in this country were to grow by the fact that small and medium-sized enterprises in Hungary would produce innovations and produce high-quality domestic products, there would be added value and wage growth. The Robbery Capitalism that Fidesz is doing, of course, in a regulated legal framework, is not only bad because few people make unspeakably great profits and destroy legitimate retailers, but also because it freezes an economic structure where the economy produces very low efficiency, low added value, and wages will remain persistently low. It has to be said openly that if this Robbery Capitalism is built, which you are standing constantly, week after week, then Hungarian wages will never be close to the EU average. This is the result of all these public market robberies. In this country, where, at any time, the state can put its hands on markets, destroy decently functioning small and medium-sized enterprises in Hungary, nobody dares to take risks in such a economy. Not only will the multinationals, the multinationals that have not just entered into a strategic partnership agreement with you, who knows what kind of profit it is in hope of, as they will not be willing to disclose it; honest Hungarian businesses will not risk it either, because they can never be sure whether a fidesz oligarch will come who wants to put his hand on his market, and you will change the conditions unfairly with a pen stroke, and then, if necessary, rip off the shop that someone has worked for for for decades. This is the case, and this filth in this whole package of laws, which consists not only of this bill we have just discussed, but also of the other two, one of which is also the author of the wallet, and the other is my fellow Member Satmary, who, I do not know how he will protect the unprotected. This bill is about a lot of things, it's about buddy communication companies, it's about Continental, but it's certainly not about one thing, and it's about people's health. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2014-11-26-72	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. Mr László Varju is next for a two-minute speech. Here you go. [[11.30]]
u2014-11-26-73	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, I believe that, precisely because of the statements made yesterday, it is worth pointing out once again and stressing the Pharisee behaviour of the government itself and the governing parties when making such a presentation. Yesterday, the energy sector was flogged because, in one of the most important economic areas of the country, yes, the former law provided for a condition which, by the way, provided the economic operator with a very large investment for a long period of time. Yesterday, you argued against it. They come here impertinently, they present a law in which an intermediate player, who has no real role in trade, because tobacco wholesalers remain the same, retailers remain the same, a player is inserted in the middle, and for him they define a 3-5% sure profit, adopted by law. We have already mentioned the known figures that if the result of this is at least HUF 12 billion if half of it goes to the cost, the other half is a clean result, with HUF 400 billion in traffic. From then on, indeed, what my fellow Member has indicated is that others can feel free to, I could say, distribute legally, Mr Simicska's billboards are filled with meaningless advertisements, which will [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] It's about what an incredible health policy you guys have. Thank you very much.
u2014-11-26-74	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr. András Schiffer's group leader will be here in two minutes.
u2014-11-26-75	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. So, it's really hard to discuss a bill without any meaningful reflection on the government side. We have already established that in the debate of such a sensational health protection bill, there is no one health politician in the benches of Fidesz. However, once again, I would expect an answer to require operation, no public debt and no fines as a neutral prerequisite, but it is only 15 years, half a million and 20 million forints that are clearly written or written with market knowledge. I would very much like to know what preliminary market calculations have been used by the Ministry of National Economy. Madam Secretary, I don't want to know whose laptop this proposal came from at the Ministry of National Economy. I have my assumptions. What I'm interested to know is that the wallet we maintain for hard-core tax forints has the appropriate law-preparation departments, according to which preliminary calculations you calculated these conditions. Of course, I would also like to know what labour market effects were otherwise examined when this bill was prepared and submitted. I would certainly like to have an answer to that, preferably even in the debate. Thank you.
u2014-11-26-76	Thank you very much, Congressman. Congressman György Szilágyi is next for two minutes.
u2014-11-26-77	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Madam Secretary, I would like to draw your attention to the possibility of not waiting for the closing, by the way. If you press a button, you will be given the opportunity to give your opinion on the issues that have been raised so far. In the same 15 minutes, as if he were closing, he would give the opposition the opportunity, at least to honor the opposition, to ask questions raised during your so-called closure, and then you would have the opportunity to answer them again. But since there is no debate, because this is a general debate, at the moment, this is the rule of the house, so I have no choice but to argue with the person who spoke. I am trying to argue with Mr Schiffer about not being so small about the importance of this advertising opportunity. I would like to draw your attention to one thing: there have been advertisements in recent years, during the period, remember, during the first Orbán government, when you were a very ambitious sports minister of this country, who launched a campaign for the fans for a billion forints, an ad campaign, which was to cheer, not war! What's the matter with you? Was it Tamás Deutsch? To get as many viewers as possible into the stadiums. Well, well, now we're there in 2014 to see a full tournament of 19 thousand people if we add up all the matches. Any new stadiums? Don't you think I'd fill it up yet? these people would fit in, so these advertising campaigns could have a positive impact on society, by the way, so remember that it's been like this before. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2014-11-26-78	Thank you very much. Mr Schiffer, unfortunately, I do not have the opportunity to give you a two-minute speech because, according to the regulations of the House, I have the opportunity to do so, but the House Rules also say that the President will give you the opportunity to speak again, so I will give you the opportunity to do so, but I ask you not to come out of this by saying two-minute speeches. Here you go, Mr. Group Leader.
u2014-11-26-79	Thank you very much, very kind, Mr. President. I would just like to respond to Mr Szilágyi's speech. Let us not forget another sector, beyond the need to issue orders to different communication agencies. What László Varju referred to is that the advertising media, the outdoor tools that can be placed on them, are also owned by someone, and there may be an undertaking, and I do not assume that they already know that in the Fidesz fraction, there may be a group of companies that have not been doing so well in recent months, and the needs of such a group of companies may also need to be considered. Joke aside, I really don't know what they're thinking. In recent weeks and months, despite the three-thirds victory, there have been some warning signs that people are getting fed up. Every greed and every brazenness has a limit. I just want to say that you can grin here with pride, you can dive into a laptop and make phone calls, you can ignore the debate in Parliament, you may think that there is no television broadcast and you can do anything, but I would like to indicate that these laws are used to draw the match every week. This will not end well, and rest assured, I think that with all my opposition fellow Members, we will make sure that this debate today, or this debate today, is called something that will bring down this new state market robbery, this lex Continental, will reach the electorate even if you have done everything you can to ensure that voters are not informed of this new state brazenness. Thank you very much.
u2014-11-26-80	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. I will ask my fellow Members if anyone else wishes to speak. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. The general debate is closed. I will ask Mrs Shegmanné, Secretary of State, Mrs Nemes Sára, if she wishes to respond to what has been said in the debate. [[For signal:]] I wish. Here you go, Madam Secretary.
u2014-11-26-81	Mr President, Dear Parliament, I am truly sorry that Congressman Schiffer is leaving, because I would not cynically begin my answer by saying that smoking is harmful to health, although this is very important, and I would also like to draw your attention to this, because the government was indeed aimed at protecting health and protecting young people. In short, a few words about parliamentary mediation, although it is not my place to define it. As far as I know, there is an agreement on this, when public television broadcasts parliamentary broadcasts, this day has not been included. I myself have been given about four other times when we are discussing the debate on the Traffic Act, so we are not in line with when Parliament is broadcasting it, when it is not, but Parliament's TV is broadcasting this debate right now. I think this is the day. Technically, we couldn't control it. Last thing I knew was that next week we'd be negotiating the Traffic Act, by the way. To the questions of the Members, first of all, what is the input and what is the set of information that has led us to decide to put forward a legislative proposal to protect retailers. I have in my hand a letter from the head of the Hungarian Tobacco Retailers' Association, in which he specifically and incredulously lists the problems and objections they had with tobacco wholesalers. At present, some are countable, but there are not many tobacco wholesalers in the country, but there are 6329 tobacco dealers and retailers who have their interests in mind. [[Lajos Korózs: They're all fidesz!]] The Tobacco Retailers' Association has just formulated these problems, which we said during the debate in Parliament and I said in my expozem, so in practice tobacco wholesalers abuse their dominant position and unilaterally try to amend contracts in very many cases. In practice, these standard contract terms could, in many cases, be unilaterally amended even without the retailer's signature, or even written in this letter, to encourage Members to breach the concession contracts, and there is no competition neutrality. [[11.40]] We therefore started to amend the bill on the basis of proposals from tobacco retailers. I would also like to draw the attention of honourable Members and ladies to the fact that tobacco trade itself is not a free market. The left-wing representatives did not like the system of socialism in this distribution system, and liberals did not like the system of capitalism in this system. You should have decided which one you like. But it was interesting to me that they were looking for socialism and capitalism in it, although that's not what it's all about. This is a concession product subject to excise duty. The State is obliged and entitled to make such distribution and regulation available, and indeed the State will state how and under what conditions these products can be marketed. In the case of a product such as mineral water, which would also be marketed in a tramp, the terms of distribution and procurement are not regulated by the State. There are no competition and there are no free markets here, as I have said, there are international examples of this, as we have started the tobacco law on the basis of international examples in recent years, and Austria has also seen the state regulates the wholesale and retail trade of tobacco products. Which company will be incorporated into this intermediate system is very early to say. By the way, according to the legislation, the Minister for Sectoral Development, the Minister for National Development, is entitled to do so, but I would not vote for the companies that the Members have said, because, by the way, these companies themselves are tobacco wholesalers, who are currently protesting this amendment to the Tobacco Act, and the retailers are supporting it. I would like to draw attention to the fact that there is a National Tobacco Trading Company. a company operating as a 100% public property under ownership of the Ministry of National Development. This company is capable, in both its capacity and its records and its system, of performing this task or of participating in the establishment of such a state-owned company. I would not be looking at a loss of several thousand jobs because the contraction of the jobs of tobacco dealers, tobacco wholesalers and producers is caused by a decline in consumption in the tobacco market, and this is not the law, not this legislation, which only makes it a transparent, strike-down measure of how tobacco wholesalers will sell to tobacco retailers. I'm sorry, I look at what other question it was, because I actually wrote down the questions, and I want to answer all the questions. Facts are stubborn things. As Congressman Völner has said, the actual consumption of tobacco is on a downward trend. At present, we have the international impact assessments that show that it is the regulated market and the state-controlled distribution that significantly reduces tobacco consumption. I know of a country where tobacco consumption is planned to be banned from all over the country, by the way. So they're not gonna argue about the regulated, controlled way of getting tobacco in the country, no matter whether it's for bong tobacco or cigars, there's no smoking in that country. [[György Szilágyi: Which one is it?]] It is true that this is a far-reaching country, but I think that the regulation of access to tobacco, the reduction, the narrowing of the state, is what helps young people to start smoking as little as possible and I strongly recommend that those who smoke stop smoking. I myself don't smoke, I don't have any traffic, I don't even know any traffickers, I haven't set foot in any new traffic, but I do know the traffic records, and I can tell you that there's no extra profit and extraordinary income for the traffickers here. A lot of traffickers are already returning their concessions on the way, and the reason why the next bill amendment is being proposed is to increase the number of people who can get to a concession in a settlement to 3,000 people, given that the taffy people can't live in settlements. And the fact that you can sell other products is just to help you get a minimum of extra income or turnover. These are domestic retailers in all cases, domestic retailers, whose support this law is indeed not in favour of tobacco wholesale and not in favour of multinationals, but rather in favour of domestic and national traders. With regard to black trade, I believe that the NAV and the bodies responsible for this fight is increasingly effective. Now it seems to me that they're growing up to do the job. Is it true that reducing black trade is a big challenge for the NAV, the customs authorities, but I think that after it is not free competition? Did everyone object to the lack of free competition, isn't that what this is about? This is about restricting access, but those who sell should otherwise be competitively neutral in their turnover and trade, so it is practically the responsibility of the NAV to reduce black trade. I believe that in the case of retailers, there was neither a problem nor an excuse. And again, in the case of the intermediate company, it is an exaggeration to say that it is a regulated margin, that it receives extraordinary revenue, because the intermediate company will also have serious tasks, since the distribution and control network must also be organised by this intermediate company, which? as I stress - by all means, the National Tobacco Trading Company. can only be a company belonging to the company or company in the first round. Right now, it's too early to visualize who else can get one of these, because it's not planned and it's not. National Tobacco Trading Company. However, he is working with a very good system of records, since he was willing to suffer a great deal of controls, official, public prosecutorial and other reports in recent years, for which it has always been established that there are precise, accurate records and that the concession contract itself was free competition, and that the award of concession contracts was free competition. It is true that, in the case of the amendments to be tabled in the next bill, the Ministry of National Development will be given more leeway and the Minister for National Development, but just because we see that the market is shrinking, most of the existing traders will give their concessions back, we will give them the opportunity to do so in a more relaxed form. The company also sees the traffic figures, there are no billionaires or even 100 million extra profites for retailers as a result of the decline in tobacco sales, which is? Like I said? It was the government's goal. In conclusion, I can say again what I said at the beginning that smoking is harmful to health; our goal was to reduce everyone in the possibility of smoking; and if anyone wants to quit, the government will give all the help they can by means of the medical wallet to quit. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2014-11-26-82	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that the amendment proposals can be submitted by 16:00 tomorrow, which means Thursday at 16:00. Next up is the 2012 CXXXIV on reducing young people's smoking and retailing of tobacco products. General discussion of the bill amending the law until closure. The submission is T/2080. is available to all on the IT network. I would like to inform you that the Committee designated for the detailed discussion of this proposal is the Economic Committee and that we will hold the debate there. First, I give the floor to State Secretary Sára Hegmanné Nemes, State Secretary of the Ministry of National Development, within a 30-minute timeframe. Here you go, Madam Secretary.
u2014-11-26-83	Mr President, Dear Parliament, I will be briefer, and I think I would like to start with this comment by continuing the previous debate and a few more reactions, as T/2080. Legislative proposal No.3 is practically an answer to the further questions raised by the Members here. [[11.50]] The need to amend the legislation and, as I have said, what retailers, tobacco retailers, have submitted to the Minister for National Development in written form, as well as the experience and practical experience of the past period, which have sometimes made the conclusion of concession contracts and cooperation with consorts problematic and more difficult. The bill therefore aims at further clarifying and fine-tuning certain provisions of the existing law. The dispositive regulation to be introduced at each institution and the discretions are suitable to address the problems based on the practical experience so far. On the one hand, does the bill initiate a minimum expansion of the product scope for sale in tobacco shops; does it increase the amount of entitlement to be paid after 2 thousand people to 3,000 people, thereby further reducing the number of shops selling tobacco products? It's true. Both amendments, however, serve to ensure that the functioning of the tobacco retail market is more economically balanced. The proposal also allows the electronic submission of concession proposals, adapted to the needs of the information society. The amendment empowers the Minister or the person acting on his behalf who is entitled to conclude the concession contract to terminate the concession contract by common accord in the areas where the number of tobacco shops and the lack of purchasing power justify it. Indeed, the number of those who have announced the return of the concession to the Minister for National Development has been between ten and twenty. Another important amendment is that the proposal explicitly allows the legal institution of succession to prevail in the concession relationship. Unfortunately, it was the real life again that there have been many cases of death in the case of concessionaires, and it gives the Minister of National Development practically the right to do so, so that if the company and the family are able, able and willing to carry on the concession for their livelihood, they can do so. With the 120-day deadline for the launch of the new tender, the bill allows the publisher to react flexibly to the specifics of the local market in shops other than the standard tobacco store authorised in settlements of less than 3,000 inhabitants, with the rules of the mobile shop. The amendment initiative aims to provide a wide range of opportunities for National Tobacco Trading Nonprofit Zrt. to contribute to health care tasks. Of course, this should not only be subject to advertising contracts and communication contracts in preventive campaigns, but also to extensive health-preservation campaigns and educational programmes, for which the National Tobacco Trading Corporation has a serious strategy. I, by the way, am really looking forward to the Congressmen's proposal on what else the government could do other than: [[Lajos Korózs: You have to take the Trafiks from the Fidesz.]] practically bans the purchase of tobacco for young people throughout the country, since these preventive campaigns can be the best and most important to make as few regular smokers as possible. For in many cases, young people start smoking after testing, after easy testing. We have to get ahead of this. The amendment initiative is therefore, as I said, the Tobacco Trading Company. it gives us the opportunity to carry out these tasks, and we will develop a serious cooperation and strategic programme with the relevant wallet. In addition, the bill contains clarifications on the rules for the withdrawal of the licence, which may be imposed in the event of an infringement. Dear Parliament, We see that the experience of more than one year since the entry into force of the Law on the control of smoking of minors and on the retail trade of tobacco products has demonstrated the rightness of the legislator's efforts to reduce smoking by means of a new instrument: strict restriction and control of purchasing channels. According to traffic data, the number of tobacco shops permitted by law exceeds market needs at present. A gradual reduction of this will be justified and justified in the future. At the same time, it is worth pointing out that the recent EU legislation, the new EU directive on the rules for the production and sale of tobacco products, will provide an additional opportunity for Hungary to move forward in the fight against smoking. The basic aim of the current tobacco law was to reduce the smoking of young people, to protect the health of our children, and to continue to define them as a priority. On this basis, I would like to ask you that T/2080 on reducing smoking in minors and on the retail trade in tobacco products. We would like to discuss and support legislative changes. I hope I've cleared some tobacco smoke with my answer. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2014-11-26-84	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary. Dear Parliament, It is now time for the speeches by its representatives. In the first round, speeches will be held by the lead speaker, and then the first independent Member will have the opportunity to speak, and the ethnic advocates will not speak, and then there will be a two-minute speech. I give the floor to the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group, Mr Pál Völner. Here you go, Congressman.
u2014-11-26-85	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, I'm sure you'll remember the 90s and the Horn-government period when the information about the harmful effects of smoking spread to the point that at the bottom of the popular cowboy commercials on the billboard, there was hardly a visible statement that smoking was harmful to health. Both then and later, the left-wing political leadership did not have the courage to fight the strong tobacco lobby in substance. In general, the process looked like a relatively strict law had been tabled, and then the tobacco companies lobbied until the original draft could not be recognized. The first substantive steps are the non-smokers, and let's add that they are linked to the Orbán government in order to protect smokers. The annual XLII on the protection of non-smokers and certain rules for the consumption and distribution of tobacco products. It is a law that has created a balance between the protection of passive smokers, in particular those at increased risk as a result of their age or health, and the respect for the rights of smokers. Luckily, today, 15 years later, we are much further ahead in this area. In the autumn of 2011, the National Assembly adopted the CXXXIV on the control of young people's smoking and retail trade in tobacco products. a law aimed at protecting people under the age of 18 and to give tobacco retail to Hungarian businesses instead of multi-companies. The experience of the past period of more than one year has fundamentally demonstrated the correctness of this idea of reducing tobacco trade in general and underage smoking in particular by means of a newer instrument, more stringent restrictions on tobacco supply channels. The legislation has been subject to minor amendments to the amending legislation adopted on 11 December 2012, specifying the rules on the appearance of tobacco shops and the concession tender and extending the scope of marketing products for gambling and tobacco supplement products. In addition, Act I of 2013 allowed tobacco shops to market alcoholic beverages, coffee, energy drinks, newspapers, mineral water and soft drinks to cover tobacco retail activities. A May 2013 amendment set a margin of 10 per cent and clarified the rules for the tendering of the tobacco trade concession and provided that a new tender should be launched no later than 36 months after the first unsuccessful procedure and at least one repeated procedure. [[12.00]] The amendment before us is explained by similar aspects as before. Since we are in constant contact and are negotiating with tobacco retailers, I would therefore like to respond to the problems they have raised. The proposal therefore only serves to further clarify and fine-tune certain provisions of the law in order to ensure that the domestic tobacco retail market remains stable. Before I present to you the substance of the proposal, allow me to remind you of some of the aspects that we had taken into account when we decided three years ago to combat the undoubtedly strong tobacco lobby. I think that there is not enough to talk about the dangers of tobacco, and the negotiation of such laws is always a good opportunity to make public awareness of the dangers of this harmful passion. Smoking from the American continent has spread around the world over the last 500 years. At present, about one billion people on Earth smoke, and five million people die of this passion each year. Smoking is included in Annex XX to the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Until the first third of the century C.E., it was considered not harmful to health, and in the 1950s, the first study, which linked it to the development of lung cancer, was published. The passion for cancer death plays a role in 15 percent of all deaths, and the world's second leading deaths. Smokers live on average 8 years shorter than non-smokers, and every other of them die as a result of smoking. Its culture in developing countries is particularly greater among men, here 48 percent, while in developed societies the average is twice as high, and in smoking, the proportion of women is 24 percent. Their number is decreasing in the developed world, especially in the trained, educated population, but in developing countries it is rising by more than 3 percent per year. Only 0.1 percent of EU territories produce tobacco, and it is estimated that about a quarter of the world's tobacco production is being dumped in the Community's tobacco factories. In order to reduce smoking, international organisations have taken steps from the mid-'80s to end with taxes on tobacco products, banning advertising, declaring jobs smokeless. But still half the male population, a third of the women in the country are nicotine addicts. The fact that we cannot sit back despite the encouraging processes we have now shows that smoking is the biggest problem in Hungarian society after Bulgaria in the international comparison in Central and Eastern Europe. The proportion of smokers in our country is 31.4 percent among the population over the age of 15, which is the second worst indicator in the region. Hungary is the fourth in the EU after Lithuania, Latvia and Romania in terms of tobacco-related death. The first cause of death in lung cancer mortality, while in the same way closely related circulatory diseases caused by smoking, is the fifth one behind Romania, Latvia, Lithuania and Slovakia. Therefore, action must continue to be taken against smoking, and the fact that it is now much more difficult to obtain cigarettes for underage young people because of limited numbers of transforms has brought us closer to the goal. Of course, we should not go beyond the fact that it is more difficult to access tobacco legally, so that illegal routes become more creative and more intensive. No one's arguing that we have to fight this. I would also like to draw the attention of everyone, especially young people, that if they smoke contraband cigarettes, they cannot be sure that they are not breathing plant fragments, grass, beetle remains, or bird droppings. But let's also consider whether anyone who wants to buy illegal tobacco at a cheaper price would want to buy tobacco products in their mouth that, who knows, had access to the country under what conditions. So you can question the traff system by increasing the black trade, but with this power, as I mentioned earlier, we could legalize other illegal things, such as drugs, to stop the drug trade. Seriously, the right order is that if something is clearly proven to be harmful to health, it should make it difficult to access it, squeeze it down into the illegal sphere, and then do whatever it takes to get it out of the illegal sphere. I recommend this to the critical opposition. I'd like to move on to the main points of the bill. The draft aims at a reasonable minimum extension of the product scope for sale in the tobacco store, with products that are organically linked to the supply of tobacco products. The proposal allows, in particular, the sale of chewing gum and menthol products, candies, plates and public transport tickets, as well as the uploading of mobile phone balances. In addition, the proposal clarifies the legal definitions. The proposal also raises the threshold after which the law makes the issue of another tobacco product retail right mandatory. As the Secretary of State has said, after 2 thousand people, a entitlement has been issued by half of the proposal, and after the entry into force, applications must be issued in such a way that the threshold is 3,000. In addition, if the traffic data justify it, but at least two rights are exercised in the locality, the publisher may decide not to transfer all rights, but less. This will ensure that fewer than the maximum number of tobacco shops operate in municipalities where the number of consumers does not justify this. On the one hand, the possibility of flexible regulation should be ensured because it is a whole European trend to reduce smoking and this is an even more typical process in our country. On the other hand, if further measures further reduce the number of smokers in Hungary, the number of customers visiting the tobacco store will also gradually decrease. As mentioned earlier, concessions will also be submitted by electronic means. It allows an agreement to be reached with the holder on the termination of the concession contract in areas where a reduction in the number of tobacco shops may be justified. The proposal amends the interval from 45 days to 120 days, after which the new tender will have to be launched after the concession contract has ceased. I would particularly like to point out that the bill is the National Tobacco Trading Nonprofit Zrt. is responsible for the intensive involvement of tobacco control and health protection tasks. Accordingly, media campaigns should be organised, conducted and supported professionally. Community health aspects, such as the appearance of sports events, should be ensured. In addition, it is necessary to cooperate with quitting bodies and health institutions and to participate in health care programmes. The tobacco retail coordination body should therefore be particularly concerned with these aspects, because it has the information that makes it fit to carry out these tasks. Would the draft legislation, in accordance with the previous law, allow again the self-employed to be entitled to retail? As the Secretary of State said? If the child dies, the family business can be maintained. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to support this proposal because the fight against smoking is now out of the question, regardless of party political origin, and this proposal serves this purpose and aims to increase its effectiveness. Thank you for listening. [[It's a rare applause from the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-11-26-86	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker of the MSZP Group is Mr István Józsa. Here you go, Congressman.
u2014-11-26-87	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, It is a little strange for us that the package that originally titled reducing smoking by minors in the regulation of retail trade in tobacco products has now been broken down into several legislative proposals. So the maiden name of the tramp dog named the noble purpose of reducing underage smoking. In this sense, my fellow Member, Mr Schiffer, may be right, that this whole thing was actually made in the Habony works, that they would come up with a really well-sounding title that everyone could really support, and then, during this collection, they would nicely rearrange a market segment in line with their own interests. Well, there's also a certain increase in excise duty here, which reminds me of the protesters' sign that we can't pay as much as you steal. So these two are very interlinked, because this revenue goes directly to the Fidesz people, but even the increase in excise duty ranks behind the very noble goal, which, of course, is supported by the MSZP, so that young people's smoking is kept as low as possible. As a result of the surprising improvement in mortality statistics, Fidesz's traffuty may also have a role in this, because Hungarian mortality statistics have been surprisingly improved over the past two years, and there is no other reason to find, because the standard of living has not improved, consumption has not increased, the level of health care has been significantly reduced. Well, there's only one, the decline in smoking, which may be connected. Unfortunately, the birth rate has not improved yet, so some negative impact on smoking control seems to be in some areas, but this is, of course, due to bad habits. The truth is that there are large areas in the world, especially in the developed world, where smoking is indeed noticeably reduced, fortunately, and specifically the subject of social condemnation. [[12.10]] Last week I had the pleasure of attending the UN conference in New York as a member of the Hungarian delegation of the Interparlamentary Union, and it is not visible in Hungary that they are gathering next to the offices or smoking in style. It's basically gone, there's no smoking man in New York. So this can be achieved not only by administrative means, but also by social awareness-forming or by reversing public opinion, which results in people not living with this enjoyment article. Of course, this does not apply to everyone, because some people want to live with tobacco products, even to a lesser extent. The present proposal seeks to use the experience of the period since the entry into force of the Law on the control of smoking of minors and the retail trade of tobacco products, using it to clarify the relevant legislation. These experiences also show that the number of tobacco shops has exceeded market needs in certain areas and are therefore intended to achieve a gradual reduction in this in the future. It will not be possible to issue a concession right after 2 thousand inhabitants, but to raise it to 3,000 inhabitants, which is probably a good trend, although the approach to such a categorical whole may not be right, because there may be a settlement structure where the 2 thousand are small, because there are 2 thousand inhabitants living in such a scattered area; in other places, in the case of a denser, more intensive settlement structure, 3 thousand would be small, so even less tobacco stores would be enough. So this approach is a little rigid, but in any case it evaluates experience and is a kind of attempt to correct and correct it. According to the government's calculations, smoking has been significantly reduced in Hungary, which is likely to be true, as confirmed by the already mentioned mortality statistics, and I do not want to underestimate it.The Hungarian Prime Minister could receive the award of the World Health Association, also a UN organization in the fight against smoking. [[Dr. László Cook applauds.]] In recognition of his unwavering struggle. Probably the World Health Organization doesn't watch them fill the pockets of fidesz buddies. [[Defiance in the ranks of Fidesz.]] Although it seems that someone also noticed, as if for reasons of corruption, some people could not get admission to the United States. So, if you're in any other lineup, you've noticed, it looks like you're on the downside of this. The European Union Directive 2014/40 intends to introduce further steps to combat smoking, and rightly this bill also calls for this source of law. This shows that the author wishes to build on a broader basis. The expansion of the related product scope, that the law allows the sale of chewing gum and menthol products, as well as public transport tickets, is very right, because it is a special art to obtain a public transport ticket, at least in Budapest. So it is very right to have access to it, but I also think it will increase the spread of tobacco products a little bit; as well as the upload of mobile phone balances, there is a duality that while on one side it is really necessary to keep tobacco products away from as many consumers as possible, as little related consumption as possible should contribute to tobacco sales, so that as few people as possible meet tobacco products at random, this circle is now clearly expanded with public transport tickets and telephone uploads. We'll see how it affects traffic. The proposal also provides for the possibility to submit concession tenders by modern electronic means. Fortunately, this is such a small range of data that the Internet tax intended or intended to introduce would not have significantly increased this amount of data. This is a step towards modernity so that it can be submitted electronically. It's just not sure if everyone will know which button to press, whether you have to press an orange button or press an. + tobacco button, or how this will be clear to make a successful application. The proposal also provides for the possibility of agreeing to terminate the concession contract in areas where a reduction in the number of tobacco shops is otherwise justified. Again, this is a kind of flexibility that it is not necessary to maintain a loss-making tobacco store by the force of the contract, so it is a sort of escape route for those who missed, although we said that at the time when it was possible to submit a concession tender without having to place the sales spot on it. Thus, the examiner could not consider the survival of the transaction. Of course, we could also say that in this small segment there was a market impact, so the market has eliminated the surplus. In this sense, it must be supported that the law goes after this, so that it can correct the excessive number of transformiks, and that it can be closed. This relates to the threshold of 3,000 inhabitants from the previous 2,000 inhabitants. In this regard, I have already expressed my opinion that you seem a little stiff. It is difficult, of course, to describe in legislation how this is to happen, but it follows from the approach at all that there is very little, very difficult to talk about even care in one place and there is too much in the other. But the idea of losing even less tobacco products is, of course, eligible. The point that from 45 days to 120 days the submission amends the interval after which a new tender must be issued after the concession contract has ended can be approved again because the concession tender is likely to cease where there is less demand for the supply of goods. Thus, the publisher will have more opportunities to examine the terms and conditions. The proposal expands the scope of cases where the publisher is not obliged to re-open the retail rights of tobacco products. This assessment can also be made on the basis of a market feedback, which seems to be realistic. The proposal settles the maintenance of the family business in the event of the death of the self-employed retail holder, the possibility of its survival. This is more in line with previous traffic operation and operation. [[12.20]] So it can be said that this is what serves the family's livelihoods when the concession approach was introduced, but it did not explicitly serve. So they're a little bit readjusted for the existential exposure, the uncertainty that they've done with the introduction of the Traffic Act. The submission clarifies the level of fines that may be imposed and the provisions relating to the withdrawal of the licence; this has been lacking so far. Does it also provide that the rules of the general administrative procedure of two levels are to be applied, not in cases covered by the law? Is that a fundamental rule of law? So that everything has a second degree of discretion. Unfortunately, it's unclear according to the law what decides which of the two losers is to be closed in a settlement. Furthermore, there is no explanation as to why the product scope should be extended with mint candy from the goods previously removed. Nor does it settle when and under what conditions the termination of the concession contract can be initiated by common accord. The products listed in the proposal are clearly expected to increase traffic, but in the future it will be expected to lobby for further expansion, so if this continues, this will never end. There are no background calculations on the way in which tobacco prices will run as a result of tax increases. Due to the central distribution, it can be seen that it is 100-130 HUF, but probably even more expensive with excise duty. A fair presentation in our opinion [[The president's ringing the bell.]] That's what he would have done. Thank you, Mr. President. [[A rare applause in the ranks of the MSZP.]]
u2014-11-26-88	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker of the Jobbik Group is Mr György Szilágyi. Here you go, Congressman.
u2014-11-26-89	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. First of all, I'd like to apologize? Because we're talking about almost the same thing here, the tobacco trade and its goals? In case I accidentally confuse what was said at the closing point and the current bill, but I'm trying to comment on that. The first one? I think, by the way, did Paul Völner just say that? And far be it from me, believe me to protect the socialists, above all, far be it from me to protect the Horn government at some point, Pál Völner said that the Horn government had no courage to fight the strong tobacco lobby. You may be right about that, which is why I would like to commend you for having the strength to fight the tobacco lobby. I am pleased that, at the time when we first discussed the law on smoking control in the protection of minors and on the retail trade of tobacco products in 2012, I am glad that the final things that came from the laptop of János Sánta, the CEO of Continental, did not arrive at that time. I am pleased that you were able to resist Continental's lobby, that is to say, the tobacco product lobby, when, when the concession contracts were awarded, people belonging to the group gained the right to operate hundreds of tramps. I am delighted that they are able to resist this lobby today, as Mrs Secretary of State has said, that the association of tobacco retailers has written you a letter in which they did not object to the previous amendment. I'm sure you've already agreed with the Tobacco Retailers' Association on what the tobacco retailers would need, and I'm glad that the president of the Tobacco Retailers' Association is not, by any chance, one of Continental's tobacco brokers. [[Dr. András Schiffer: Oh, no.]] As an entrepreneur, it's called Polish Antal. I'm glad they could resist Continental, the strong tobacco lobby, here too; these are so comforting things! One last remark like this: did you say, Madam Secretary, that you've never been to a trailer before? If we're dissecting this question right now, why don't you go in there and see what it looks like? But now you have the opportunity, because it's true that you don't smoke, but imagine what an opportunity you're opening up to get yourself into a trade. If you don't come by accident, let's say the state car, you'd like to go with BKV, but you don't have a BKV ticket, and you'll have the opportunity to go into a traffic car and buy a BKV ticket, and even when you're going to enter these trucks, you'll see the tobacco products right there in this store. So we have to decide what the goal is, because you have formulated the goal. What's the goal? The goal here is to make as few people as possible smoke as healthy as possible. So what does that mean? To keep the tobacco stores as low as possible. That's not what this is about. It's not about keeping your traffic down. Then you'd have to put up with this. Let's be glad that the smaller the turnover of tobacco shops, the fewer people that come in, the fewer people who buy these products, but that's not what this is about. And then let's move on to T/2080, what you've put in here. Another sad episode of the bill presented in the press and in the common language is a phenomenon known only as trafikmutyi, which is characterized by the legislative and governance practices of the past five years. So you regulate by fundamental laws issues that are solely in the short-term interest of a narrow group of beneficiaries, while at the same time causing direct material damage to the broad layers that cannot be measured and significantly exceeded by the financial benefits provided. Is the fundamental law such as a flagship legislative instrument? Can we say it bravely? Putting it into the service of low-level goals is a shock to social confidence in legislation and Parliament, thus causing enormous damage that cannot be expressed in financial terms. I am surprised, by the way, that László Kövér, Speaker of the House, who in other cases is so sensitive to the authority of this House, now that the governing parties have reduced the legislation to serve the petty financial interests of the fellows, he remains silent and does not raise his voice. The proposed amendment to the law before us is now 8 since the birth of the law, which means that since the entry into force of the text of our fundamental law, it has been modified on average every two and a half months, this is Amendment 8 just as it was dictated by the momentary interest of the trolling buddies. That in itself makes me wonder. How long will the current amendments that you wish to make to this House remain in force? How long will these new rules be permanent and permanent? According to the general justification for the amendment, clarification and fine-tuning on the subject is justified by the further strengthening of the domestic tobacco retail market. So what? Should the market for which the aim is to have as little traffic as possible continue to grow? This justification is very sound, but unfortunately it is not easy to interpret in my opinion. The aim of the law as a whole, as I say, is to reduce smoking, especially among young people. The law intended or intends to achieve this objective by radically reducing the number of tobacco retail supply facilities, and by further reducing this amendment. The sales...
u2014-11-26-90	I'm sorry. My apologies, Mr President, there is no crucial chapter in the 2012 law on the control of young people's smoking and the retail trade in tobacco products. I'm sorry, I don't know what you're talking about. [[Dr. András Schiffer: Irrelevant, let him speak.]] Mr. Fraction Manager, it's important because this is either what we're talking about or this is not what we're talking about. [[Dr. László Kács: The government will respond.]]
u2014-11-26-91	May I say, Mr. President?
u2014-11-26-92	Yeah, I'll just get your attention.
u2014-11-26-93	Far and far from criticizing the leadership, because I can't even...
u2014-11-26-94	Don't do it. Don't do it.
u2014-11-26-95	I'm not. By the way, I feel that if I may say things that Mr President disagrees with, or the Government disagrees with, or if the Members present do not agree, they will stand up and respond to it, but I feel that, on the basis of what has been said so far, I am clearly talking about this law. So let me tell you what I think about this law.
u2014-11-26-96	Congressman, if you'll excuse me, I'm just asking you, I'm sorry that since you don't have a corner section, what are you talking about?
u2014-11-26-97	Mr President, you are criticising my speech precisely in substance. You're criticizing my speech. You're doing nothing else. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. [[12.30]] Although I know it's probably going to lead me back to being a cheerleader again, that I dared ask you that now. May I continue, Mr. President, with all due respect?
u2014-11-26-98	Just because the last law has it doesn't mean it doesn't.
u2014-11-26-99	Thank you very much. Maybe my time, too, if you'll let me know.
u2014-11-26-100	Go on.
u2014-11-26-101	Thank you very much for allowing me to speak at all in this House. So that's where we were? To go back to what I said? that this law intended or intends to achieve the objective of a radical reduction in the number of tobacco retail supply facilities, and that this amendment should be further reduced. That's in the law, because according to the paragraphs, it can be read from it. If we want to reduce sales places, why are we aiming for a further strengthening of the domestic tobacco retail market? Or should we, by this sentence of the explanatory statement, mean that the aim is to serve the circle of privileged people further unethical and unsatisfyingly opportunistly? Or? Do you want me to be clear? Is the aim of crowding out honest entrepreneurs who still show up among retailers here and there in order to avoid reducing their buddies' share of the ever shrinking cake of tobacco retailing? The general justification refers in general to certain surveys but does not specify them. Based on these so-called surveys, the preparatory team came to the conclusion that massive cessation of smoking was clearly the reason for drastically decreasing traffic data. Do I have to disappoint you? Did I say it during the previous debate? Unfortunately, the decline in traffic may not be caused by mass cessation, but by the fact that an increasing proportion of smokers acquire the products needed for smoking from sources that are invisible to the authorities. If the global decline in smoking is indeed the cause of a decline in traffic, where is the survey or study or research result, which supports this presumption? If there really was a survey on this, please present it to us, let us know who did it, what method the survey took, what size and what sample was tested. If we have actually managed to reduce smoking to this extent? Which, by the way, is a serious public health risk factor? Then you should be proud of what you've achieved. Why, then, are they hiding them? We'd like to meet you, too. Or perhaps there is no such research, and is it only the rapidly decreasing turnover of tobacco dealers that causes them to want to further reduce the number of tobacco retail outlets and increase the range of products that can be marketed in order to increase the profits of individual commercial units? That would be a question to be decided. Amendment proposal 1 Article 2b of the EC Treaty extends the scope of products that can be marketed in tobacco stores. Products that have been purchased or consumed by a much wider range of products than tobacco products have also been included in the marketing industry. The sale of such products in tobacco stores is completely contrary to the spirit of the law, as it attracts customers who do not smoke, as I mentioned in the example, for example, Madam Secretary of State. But this is especially true of charging prepaid mobile phones, and I would like to draw attention here to the fact that prepaid mobile phones are generally common among young people, among those you want to protect from encountering tobacco products. They use these prepaid cards in large part, and fortunately, most of the young people are not smoking yet, and you attract them to the tobacco shops, let them meet these tobacco products. If the purpose of the law is to reduce smoking and make it more difficult to access tobacco and make tobacco products invisible to non-smokers, why would they want to allow products that attract non-smokers to be marketed in tobacco stores? That's what I thought, by the way, about ice cream and ice cream. Kids can't even go to the tobacco store, they usually eat it, and they still sell ice cream? It just doesn't make any sense to me. The situation is also similar with the wording of the lines of public transport. Line ticket is also a product used by many more people than smoking, so non-smokers are also involved in the tobacco store. On the basis of the extension of the product scope, I can conclude that the amendment only serves the purpose of increasing the turnover of the business of privileged traders, thereby ensuring profit. This is both an attempt contrary to the purpose and spirituality of the law and a morally reprehensible effort. I have tabled an amendment to the marketing of both product types, one of which only takes out the line ticket and the possibility of uploading mobile phones, the other I took the liberty of going further than that, and I even took out the ice cream sale. I don't think they're tobacco products. If we're talking about a tobacco store, let's make it a tobacco store. I would like to ask you to support this amendment. The draft would modify the number of retail outlets for tobacco products by opening one or less trucks per 3 000 inhabitants instead of one authorised tramp per 2 000 inhabitants currently in force. According to the explanatory statement, this effort is supported by the fact that, according to the traffic data of recent years, sales sites per 2 thousand inhabitants in certain municipalities are not justified. As I understand it, this means that in some places the Traficans couldn't make a living, couldn't function profitably. In this context, a number of information has been published in the press, so it can be assumed that the pre-legislative team had a good sense of the problem. Knowing the scandalous history of trade-offs, I should only assume, behind this amendment proposal, that carefully selected beneficiaries wish to guarantee a market by reducing competition. This is unacceptable, in my opinion. According to the amendment, in settlements where at least two tobacco shops are already operating, regardless of the number of inhabitants, the publisher may decide not to allow more tobacco, although the population would allow it. Remember, when a husband and wife opened two tobacco stores on a property in a settlement. How many other cases will we encounter in the future? The proposal to further reduce the number of tobacco shops is unacceptable for Jobbik, and we cannot support it because of these abuses in the first place. A new 7 is to be introduced according to the amendment. Paragraph 8 of Article 8 would allow the author to submit an electronic tender. Given the practice of tendering and evaluation, as well as the scandals about selection, ensuring the possibility of electronic tendering without providing adequate guarantees is a hotbed for further abuse. Following the secrecy of applications submitted on paper in previous years, it is reasonable to conclude that the possibility of electronic tenders is merely intended to make future selection procedures even less verifiable and even less traceable. Jobbik also cannot support this amendment. It is sad that this amendment, after scandalous tendering and opaque selection, affects the tender procedure, but does not promote pure competition, but further strengthens the possibility of influencing selection. Thank you so much for giving me the opportunity to finish the sentence. Then, if I have the opportunity from Mr President, I will continue my speech. Thank you so much for listening. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik. ? Dr. András Schiffer applauds.]]
u2014-11-26-102	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr András Schiffer asked for the floor in order of business. Here you go.
u2014-11-26-103	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, The fact is that our colleague György Szilágyi was indeed wrong when he said that the T/2080 in front of us was wrong. The bill contains a cardinality clause, which would be a fundamental law. The fact is, while we know that the government is infallible, we opposition representatives are sometimes wrong. I think it is advisable, on the other hand, to give the pro-government representatives the opportunity that, when an opposition Member is wrong, which, of course, occurs, they should strike and try to prove how unprepared the opposition representative is. With great respect, my point of order, Mr President, would be that, if an opposition Member is wrong, precisely in order for the pro-government Members to be able to complete their culture of debate, do not interrupt, correct, but give the Secretary of State and the extremely prepared and infallible pro-government Members the opportunity to point out the serious errors of the opposition. Thank you very much.
u2014-11-26-104	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. You don't mind, do you, but I don't consider that a point of order. It was a suggestion from you, and I consider it a suggestion in that sense. But I'll give you the floor for a proper speech. Here you go. [[12.40]]
u2014-11-26-105	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, It can also be seen from the depth of the health objective of the governing parties, in which this bill was conceived, that, for a moment, Congresswoman Bene Ildikó appeared in the Chamber to be a health politician in the pro-government benches, but as she came, she left. So we are renegotiating a major health protection law that a piece of health policy is not actually physically in the pro-government benches. In addition, I thought that if such a far-reaching bill, fearing the health of the growing generations, was put on the table, perhaps the Christian Democratic People's Party would break off with its habit of now a few months ago that although allegedly an independent parliamentary party with an independent parliamentary faction, it is not used to leading the various legislative proposals. Now, again, the benches of KDNP are empty, the KDNP is not taking advantage of the possibility of a bill? Especially what's so important to KDNP? at least state the group's position. However, if we are looking for further contradictions in this bill, we do not need to go too far; partly, my fellow Member Szilágyi has already mentioned that the justification of the bill itself is likely to reflect poor communication techniques, since talking about reducing smoking at the same time, and a few thoughts away on the desire to strengthen the market, so let us not joke about it. We know very well that if we reduce smoking, we cannot strengthen the tobacco trade market, and vice versa: if the tobacco trade market is growing, there is much to talk about, but that is not about reducing smoking, that is quite certain. So that's what I'd advise the secretary of state? You're not going to be involved in the debate? In order to inform your communication experts or Fidesz communication guru that the next time such a shady bill comes in, do not write a justification where two arguments mutually logically exclude each other. Smoking cannot be reduced at the same time and the tobacco trade market cannot be strengthened. Is it another issue that some operators can be strengthened at the expense of others? Don't talk about health and smoking control. Dear Parliament, In broad terms, what can be said is T/2080. The government wants to reduce the number of shops, but it expands the range of products that can be sold there. It's a complete contradiction within a law. The government wants to tighten their grip on traffic owners, but they also want their buddies to make more money with their trajectories. This is confirmed by the fact that the government can eliminate trade-offs where it feels unnecessary, and that it can decide for itself, it is not written on the basis of which, in its entirety, the Minister can make arbitrary decisions. The proposal provides for the possibility of expressly authorising the Minister authorised to conclude the concession contract and the person acting on his behalf to reach an agreement with the rightholder on the termination of the concession contract in areas where a reduction in the number of tobacco shops may be justified. It is a specific curiosity in this proposal, it is absolutely surprising that the National Tobacco Trading Company. It can also make media campaigns and attend sports events. We know exactly what that means. Again, it means that in the background, there are those fidesz explorers who haven't had enough money out of their wheelbarrows in the last four years. Why do the Tobacco Trading Company want it? Do media campaigns? What if there's a communication budget in the government? And we know how he is? Then noble goals, such as reducing smoking, could be made by the Ministry itself. National Tobacco Trading Corporation is not responsible for organising media campaigns, we know that. The other question is, there's obviously kissers there, there's buddy media agencies, and they got hungry mouths to fill. The bill can be roughly divided into two groups, with some measures aimed at reducing smoking and others not helping to reduce smoking. Fewer tobacco stores seem to have issued applications for 2,000 people so far, which is being modified to 3,000 people. Furthermore, if at least two rights are exercised in one municipality, but the traffic data justify this, the publisher may decide not to transfer all rights, but only less, i.e. less than the maximum tobacco store, to operate in the municipalities. There is also a wide range of possibilities where the publisher is not obliged to publish the entitlement again and again in the absence of interest. This could indeed be suitable to reduce smoking, at least legal cigarettes, if fewer tobacco stores will be available in the future. According to the explanatory statement, smoking in Hungary has been significantly reduced in recent years due to the measure, but what is going on with the black trade is not written about, perhaps not by accident. Previous news was that legal consumption dropped nearly 40 percent at home, according to NAV statistics. In June 2013, some more than one billion cigarettes were consumed, in July, when the rules of the Traffic Act became mandatory, only 623 million. How much we lost in the black trade, we don't know anything about it again. Compared to the previous year, excise duty revenue also decreased from 34 billion in July 2012 to 28 billion in June 2013. National Tobacco Trading Nonprofit Zrt. His role in health care is quite absurd. It's absurd what 10/B is. Article 4 (1) (a) Imagine: if the National Tobacco Trading Nonprofit Zrt. shows up at a sports event in accordance with point (c), what health impact does it have? The performance of these health care tasks should indeed be strengthened, to which the law refers, but perhaps not the National Tobacco Trading Corporation. by its role. This is exactly what is missing in Hungary, to help prevent or quit, especially for minors. The national anti-drug strategy, which Fidesz has put off a lot, finally announced in July 2013, does not deal with smoking, here and there it mentions only as a problem, but does nothing to reduce it. Let us say that the 2009 parliamentary resolution, the national strategic programme for tackling the drug problem, did not address the issue at all. If this were an important goal, then they would take care of it and spend money on it. It's not. This is a cheap lie they're trying to feed people. But basically for such preventive quitting tasks, admit honestly, there is no resources, there is no resources in the 2015 budget. They're trying to use stolen money to separate cash registers like this, which, of course, will not serve prevention, but to give orders to buddy media agencies. Let's see non-smoking measures. For example, the legislation in force already provides for what has already been mentioned by many of us that tobacco shops can no longer sell only tobacco products. What's the added value of all this now? Are you familiar with the additional products needed for local consumption? sugar, milk powder? I think we should get this over with. You can get chewing gum, mint candy, and candy in a tobacco store. Now, if it really is to protect minors, to prevent them, why would they want to sell a product in a tobacco store that they know is very enjoyable for children? Line tickets, collector's tickets for public transportation? that a citizen who would not otherwise go to a tobacco store as Secretary of State, because she is not a nicotine addict, should also visit her in case she wants to smoke. And then you have the nerve to say that this proposal is about reducing smoking? ! You really don't have eyes? ! With such a suggestion? It is said that you will be able to obtain a prepaid service for uploading the balance of subscriber mobile telephone services here. Are you kidding me? Again, who are the people who use this kind of mobile charger in a crowd? They're young. People who don't smoke, by the way. And then they allow these tobacco shops to sell products and services that this young target group is keen to use. And now they're able to write that down? 'Cause, right, printing can handle a lot of things? that this bill has a health prevention objective. These trucks will be just like before, offering customers a wide range of products. Furthermore, there is also the fact that tobacco trade can not only be carried on in trades, and the current Traffic Act 11. §2 of the Act also provides for the possibility. Now they're raising the population ceiling for 3,000 people. This goes against the fact that tobacco is sold in fewer places, whether in or outside of trade. From now on, therefore, in the case of more settlements, they allow distribution outside of the trafics, and so on. [[12.50]] So this bill is full of elements that actually increase the possibility of sales outlets and, on the other hand, expand the product range and target target groups that are actually intended to be protected by sound communication bluffs. It is not the National Tobacco Trading Corporation that needs to provide additional resources to conduct a media campaign on sports events to stop smoking! For example, tobacco stores should not be expanded with products typically and primarily used by minors. Dear Parliament, Further sections of the bill could be discussed. However, I think it would be worth wasting a few words on what steps should or should have been taken if there was any need for further tightening of the tobacco trade rules, to stop smoking, to prevent smoking, to reduce smoking. For example, proper planning, which could be the task of the development wallet, is to assess how much space is needed for the supply. 'Cause if there's a lot of land left out, the black trade is gonna jump, obviously. Neither this design nor the estimated black trade, so if you like, the share of the tax revenue loss is not reported here in the expoze in advance in a government impact assessment. Two. A distribution system that prevents territorial concentration? It is true that this would require an impact assessment. It's a system where people with real disabilities get a job. What do I mean? In other countries, such as Spain, the lottery can only be sold as a percentage, but there are many of these among traffickers. This is a lot of job opportunities for them, and it is good for society to meet them, to appreciate them, to have meaningful job opportunities, to have a business opportunity. Or, for example, the removal of the sense of prison, i.e. the imposition of inaccessibleness, that employees should sit in a blurry hole. Or they should be subject to tonight's ban on alcohol, including these stores, not have a competitive advantage over convenience stores. One owner, a group of interests, can have three or even one, but definitely a maximum number of shops. Currently, the Continental Group has 500 stores of its interests. From now on, it may not be a question of who's good with the whole traff act. It's not good for people, it's not good for young people, it's not good for home-owned small and medium-sized enterprises? It's good for one group of companies. And tomorrow, it's gonna come out of the bag when the LMP proposal on the publicity of economic interest is being discussed by the Justice Committee, and you're obviously gonna be sweeping it off the table. It is quite clear that you would like a world here where certain oligarchs are not only benefiting, but these economic interest groups are also telling the government what regulations they want for themselves. Obviously, if the development portfolio wanted to create an economic environment where small and medium-sized enterprises in Hungary would develop, it would create a predictable legal environment, it would create predictable relations, because the price of unpredictable is paid precisely by Hungarian SMEs and would avoid any situation that favours some large ones. That's not exactly what this is about. Neither in the previous bill, when it comes to large distributors, nor in this bill, do they go in the direction that many retailers can live happily in this country. They only have one goal: to have some government-wide oligarchs to feed the others hand-to-hand so that you can control as much of your existence in this country as possible. And yes, for the seventh part, it would be a fair re-regulation of tobacco trade if distribution and tendering were to be restarted with pre-set clear conditions and scoring, where political influence would arise and tenders would be suspended immediately. In order to ensure fair, predictable conditions in tobacco trade, it would be necessary to guarantee the publicity of tenders and to introduce rules in the concession law and in the various tobacco trade laws that prevent political influence, but to ensure that all competing offers are accessible and comparable to the public after the deadline. But you guys... [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging his bell.]] If they're really scared of something, the public is that they're gonna find out about their dirty business. Thank you very much.
u2014-11-26-106	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. This would be an opportunity for independent representatives to speak. [[For signal:]] I see Congressman Varju is here. Here you go, Congressman.
u2014-11-26-107	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Since the content of the previous bill and the present bill, the methods formulated by the law, have been so critical, so I am choosing an area which, I think, has been even less discussed so far, and I would like to demonstrate through it and clearly show that if the government wants to further refine the retail trade in addition to the tobacco wholesale trade and focus on their use of the word, then how unjustified it is, because it is based on a basis that has actually created an impossible situation in the country, building on the sand of previous frauds. Therefore, small shops and small businesses alone have been made impossible in order to be politically, let us say, through the beneficiaries of the tramps or their multiple beneficiaries, to reward merit with these economic benefits. However, before I get to this point, I think that it is also a very serious irresponsible thing, which is the disadvantage of the present draft law, but they cannot remedy that there are, in fact, at least eight hundred settlements today without care, while their previous intentions have been formulated in contrast, and no matter how many applications have been made here, you cannot provide services in so many settlements. In fact, they abandoned people, they do whatever they want, what happens to them, these people find them, solve their problems if they're looking for tobacco products. But why do I say that there is a scandal in the proposal that you have carried out before, and that cannot be any other, nor can it be a continuation? As you know, as representatives of the Democratic Coalition, did it have to come to a court on several occasions, or was it only in this form that it was possible to achieve results that instead of operating a public tender system that could otherwise be considered normal in a closed circle, in fact in a way agreed in advance? Can this conclusion be drawn? and lead winners to opportunities. I can say that, in fact, we have asked for it several times in some 30,000 pages of electronic form you have photocopied, and they have refused to provide it to us in electronic form, despite the fact that the court ruling would otherwise have given us the opportunity to do so. This has not been done, and compared to this, a person who wants to get results needs to study such a large amount of paper. I am telling you now that, in fact, we have come to the next conclusion by examining the results and the review reports of seven settlements selected at random. And it can be clearly proven that there's been fraud. The summary protocols, which are available, mask the reality that each applicant has, in essence, been judged on the basis of two sets of criteria, so that they could receive 60 points for objective results and 60 points for subjective aspects. It was supposed to be anonymous criticism by the critics, but if we look at the winners from city to city, we can see exactly how many concessions, as many tobacco sales trucks could be selected locally, more than 50 points, and the losers received criticism or points below 25. [[13.00]] It can't happen on its own, by accident. This, I think, can be proven and proven on a mathematical basis, that there has been fraud, and once again, there have been exactly as many criticisms and winners over 50 points as tobacco concessions have been distributed. So I think that it is safe to say that there has been a pre-trial, as Szekszárd has already heard on the basis of the announcement. I think that here in front of the public of Parliament, and as much as you restrict it, you have banned the possibility of broadcasting today, you are not taking part in this debate. [[Lajos Korózs intervenes.]] It's all for trying to cover up what you've done before, and by submitting today's laws, you're just adding to that, that the economic situation you've created is trying to refine it in some way. Like I said, every loser got a sub-25 review. You can look at it calmly: 30-40 points result is missing. Thus, since, in many cases, the objective points do not show this clear situation, because when the summary takes place, and the losers in the objective part perform better in many cases than the otherwise winners, so based on the added scores, the difference disappears, disappears, and as a result, the situation of clear fraud does not appear to be apparent. That's the result? Am I going to stress it again? It wouldn't have been possible if you hadn't controlled it. From this point of view, therefore, since the system of applications established as a consequence of the first Traffic Act is unacceptable and clear fraud, any subsequent amendment is only a consequence or continuation thereof and is equally unacceptable and unsupportable. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2014-11-26-108	Thank you very much, Congressman. To make a two-minute contribution, I would like to address Congresswoman Ildikó Bangóné Borbély. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2014-11-26-109	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Experience has shown that the law justifies that the number of tobacco shops, after 2 thousand inhabitants, a store exceeded market demand, so they want to achieve a gradual reduction in the future. Instead of qualifying for the previous 2,000 inhabitants, the threshold will be 3,000 inhabitants. Let me give you a local example of how Fidesz politicians play with the Trafiks on the spot in Hajdú-Bihar County. In a settlement of 6,000 people? the population of Kaba was just over 6,000 in 2009; was there 6087? When the trade fairs were put out, three Trafiks opened up in Kaban. It was clear that Kaba's population couldn't actually sustain three trucks, and the three tramps worked; and this year, by some miracle, we know very well that January 2014 figures indicated that Kaba's population had already fallen below 6,000 people: 5946 people based on January data. After the elections, we were shocked to see that another trade-off would open up to the market. Did I start then? Kaba is a small settlement? Asking who said what, and the local rumors were that the mayor, who was fidesz, was able to exercise Kaba's population over 6,000 for some reason very quickly, and on this basis she managed to open a fourth tram. I would just like to draw attention to the fact that when they make laws, they should talk to their own politicians, so that they can follow the law and stop playing games. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] local residents. Thank you.
u2014-11-26-110	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. There will be regular speeches. First, I give the floor to Mr László Szakács, from the group of the MSZP. Here you go, Congressman.
u2014-11-26-111	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, At first, I wondered why we were discussing these three laws separately; they are so interrelated, otherwise one changes the other. In fact, you don't know what the reason is. I would encourage the Secretary of State to take part in the debate. So if we know what the government's position is, what the government thinks about it, then we can not only spout our own arguments, but there is a real debate; it is called this genre. You were saying, Madam Secretary, that smoking has been successfully reduced in Hungary, as there are 10 percent fewer people smoking. And I believe that the Socialist Party's faction, as well as the profession, most of the industry, believe that you have reduced legal trade by 10 percent, and otherwise this is visible on the black market. What you have done, what you have done in the past, has resulted in a 14-15 percent increase in black trade in the tobacco market, resulting in a budget loss of some HUF 40-45 billion, if you will, damaging the budget. There is no country where there is no black trade. Certainly not in Europe. Between 4 and 5 percent of the black trade around here appears everywhere, but 14 to 15 percent is unacceptable. This is unacceptable, and in fact, the tax that you are not collecting is causing budgetary damage. It is highly likely that reducing smoking by young people or what is constantly referred to as cardiovascular diseases, and in other aspects, and others, the market access of uncontrolled products is much more harmful. It is far more harmful than the entry of controlled products on the market. What you're not prepared for, and what I'm seeing is how many jobs it's going to affect again, what you're doing. You always make ad hoc changes, and we change this law eight times now. When ad hoc things change, of course, you sometimes think about whether the world around you is changing and whether we give the right answers or if it is simply that the government is rushing. But when the government rushes, there is one thing you always forget: the real economy will certainly respond. The real economy is not the Patymkin village you're building here, and they're telling us we're doing better, and everyone has a beautiful and beautiful world! No, there are poor people in the real economy, there are economic operators in the real economy that create value. In the next proposal, we will discuss this for the first time: where value-producing companies will be subject to separate taxes, the market will respond to them. Even if the market is narrowed down in the meantime. If I set an example? As an opposition representative, why shouldn't I do that? ? And I'm saying that the market leader is leaving the country, not just the supply problems will be higher. Your budget revenues will fall horribly, and the black market will fill the 35-36 percent hole we say a company with a leading market share in Hungary would go and hit. You are not aware of these, because that is not the purpose of the law, as you describe here. That's a nice frosting that you're pouring on, that you're very concerned about smoking young people. You do not even take into account that if these companies cannot be sufficiently productive, profitable; they cannot absorb tobacco from tobacco production in Hungary. This is the work of 27,000 people, that is 27,000 families, secretary of state, from whom these companies buy what they produce for processing. [[13.10]] I believe that the real purpose of the law, which you cover up, is to machete, pick out the tramps that are profitable, and close those that are not profitable, or maybe even get profitable Trafiks to friends. How can a bill, Madam Secretary, be broken by common accord? Just because the Hungarian legal system already has the Ptk. According to him, even according to our healthy sense of law, the parties in Hungary today, in civil law, do whatever they want with an agreement. The fact that, in addition to the obligation to settle, the State can withdraw the concession because, in fact, this is what you described as giving a concession to someone for 20 years, they allowed him to invest, even gave him a 139-page manual in which he had to design his own image, let him invest, and then, instead of 20 years and a half, they would simply lose it, and now you will name it by common accord. I wonder how much we're gonna have to agree on. I don't know if that's what Continental's warehouse manager wrote to you as the president of the alliance, how and how to account for it. The security of the concession and the legal order. The concession generally means a long-term relationship. Long-term relationships are not a year and a half. The long-term relationship, when both the legislator and the will of the contracting parties express that, for the long term and, as shown in the contract, for 20 years, someone has obtained this concession, I think it is also happening that he would like to pursue this type of activity for 20 years, and perhaps the first one or two years may not have been profitable, perhaps because they were driven away from a hypermarket last July by a modification, even if it was not fully profitable, it may have become profitable in the coming period. No, you want to pick the right ones. They want to pick out the good ones, and in 120 days, they're gonna sign out the new concessions for the places where it's worth it. Maybe you'll break a contract with someone who's actually worth doing this, but you're not happy with him. That's what I'm afraid of. How can it really be said in a sentence or in a draft law that we are suppressing their traffic and otherwise filling them with surplus goods? Slowly, these tramps will look like the tramps that you have removed, from whom you have taken away the tramps, where you can buy bus tickets, where you can buy newspapers, where you can buy chewing gum, where you can buy cigarettes, you can buy lighters, and I don't know what else. One or two things are missing, by the way. It also shows that you wanted to completely rearrange a market. What we can see from this is that you have a full view of how profitable it is at what time. There were previously urban rumours about this when the first trade-concession was written out. There have been urban rumors that there are people who are always a little more prepared than the wholesaler himself, they are always more prepared, they always know how much they have lost. I said, "Well, it's got to be some kind of urban rumor, so can't something like this happen to a government that operates so transparently?" I'm sorry about the cynicism. But, by the way, you can see that all of this has happened. You're looking at it now, and you're going to redistribute it to the people you're going to ask loyalty to, I think. I don't think you've managed to cover it up, and you're not gonna make it even if you act like you did in the previous law to say you're not monopolising, you're not monopolising? I mean, every time they say that, they're monopolising me, isn't it like, like, ten times the person who told me wins? There will be quite simply real economic processes that you will not be able to cope with, and you will be faced with masses again. The real goal here is certainly not for you to worry. You don't worry about smoking young people. Just because two thousand or three thousand people have a traffik, I think sometimes it's good, sometimes it's bad. You can really see that a settlement of 4,000 people certainly does not support two trucks. Let's just say, for a 5,000-person person, I don't think that's the case; in a large settlement, especially where there are long distances, there could be a housing estate of 6,000 people, why wouldn't that be enough for three trucks in these things. You sewed the coat against the button. The whole point of this bill is simply not to make 2 thousand or 3 thousand, not to make young people smoke less, but to go there for bus tickets, of course, but to fill their phones there. You want to create a new social group that is loyal to you, and you want to provide them with additional resources, not least? There are very, very few such deals - guaranteed profits. It was raised from 10 percent to 13 percent, and in the debate on the previous bill, this could have been said. There are very few sectors in Hungary today where the government itself, the state itself, guarantees that you will earn this much in this business. That's why you're going to ask for something, and I'm almost sure of it. If you want to restructure this way, and you pour it with this frosting that you are concerned about young people, worry about smoking young people, I think that you underestimate the Hungarian people, underestimate those who are thinking about it, and believe that everyone can see through the situation. You're going to take something one-sidedly, and you're going to want to give it to someone else, and you're going to have a couple of outstanding examples, which, by the way, will meet the original purpose of the law, and I'm sure you're going to post it everywhere. I believe that this law, this proposal, is not acceptable, because it is not prepared. It is not properly prepared, and the kind of cynical behaviour that makes you refer to competitiveness, pushing young people as far away from smoking as possible, I think it is too transparent. Here you want to steal an industry, all three draft laws that we are discussing today will support this, only you will forget that there are people behind this, there are people who work in this industry. There are very few jobs in the city of Pécs where I come from, where I am a Member, where they can still pay normal, competitive wages. You are putting the sword of Damocles over the heads of hundreds of people in the city of Pécs, that you may lose your job. There's nowhere else to go, you've already driven the Elcoteq away, now you've driven the glove factory away, the champagne factory is leaving, so let's go, of course, to the tobacco factory. It's important because if it doesn't, there'll be nothing in that part of the country but the community work you want to spend more and more on. Don't just serve the moonyard. Don't serve only those who are kind to you. I said that a while ago, even in the tax system. You are very proud of the fact that there is a single-band tax system in personal income tax, but you are very happy to apply the banded tax system when the moonyard needs to be served. By doing so, they will put the country on a labour market, an economic and industrial path where the oligarchs, the members of the lunar yard, the economic operators who are loyal to you, provide benefits that they will take away from others, thereby transforming the entire structure of the Hungarian economy, but in the wrong direction, into a course that is not very returnable. This law, in some ways, serves this purpose. Thank you for your attention.
u2014-11-26-112	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr György Szilágyi, from the Jobbik Group, will be again speaking.
u2014-11-26-113	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. We've been discussing the same issue for four hours now, because each law, the three laws that follow, is actually about tobacco retailing. For four hours, the opposition has been trying to ask questions, trying to confront you with facts, by saying that the aim that has been set in these laws is not what the bill itself and its amendments are about, we are trying to confirm this with facts, and we are looking forward to your rebuttal. [[13.20]] Indeed, let's say I have been making my arguments for almost an hour, and in this hour I have indeed made a small error of interpretation, but I still maintain that it doesn't matter whether it is a fundamental law or not, it can also bring these laws into the service of such low-level goals, which could undermine social confidence in the legislation and Parliament. I'll tell you that I would have been more happy if I had been right about this one thing, so if I had only made this mistake, I would have been right about that, and all the rest of it would have been disproved by you. They would have denied that I was falsely claiming, and that the law was not written on the computer of János Sánta; that I was wrong about it, and that the people associated with Continental did not win hundreds of concessions in the contracts; that I was wrong about it, and that there was no shambles in the concession of the Traficans; that I was wrong about it, and that there had been no increase in the black trade in the past period; and that I was also mistakenly aware that I was now seeing this broadening of product scope, and that this is indeed what the law laid down in order to reduce the smoking of young people. I'd appreciate it if I'd just kept saying things like that that wouldn't have been true, and you would have disproved me, but that's not what happened. I would like to talk about one more thing about the law, and that is that the amendment proposal 10. Paragraph 5 of this Article seeks to introduce a new provision. According to the new provision, it is possible for the State or the public limited liability company, acting on behalf of the State, to refuse to tender for 36 months in areas where the conclusion of the concession contract had failed at least two times within two years. According to the well-known facts, in particular in smaller settlements, there were no successful or unsuccessful tenders, in places where solvent demand could not support a business, there were no candidates. In these places, it may indeed be justified to conclude an individual agreement on the sale of tobacco products instead of a tender. This is also possible under the law currently in force. However, from the events of previous years, I am forced to assume that applications can not only be unsuccessful in cases where there are not enough applicants, but also in cases where the critics do not find the applications received valid. The selection procedure is not public, there is no legal remedy, the selectionees are not afraid of anything, so far they are not afraid of it, we have seen this. On this basis, it is possible, therefore, once again, that the provision now to be incorporated, which allows for 36 months of non-application, also serves to ensure that the choice of beneficiaries of concession contracts can continue in the future without barriers or inhibitions, as the decision-makers wish. The Jobbik Movement for Hungary cannot support this amendment. [[In the notary seat, Adam Mirkóczki is replaced by Loránt Hegedűs.]] It can therefore be concluded that the amendment, as a whole, further limits competition in the area and further broadens the possibility of arbitrary decision-making on the choice of tobacco retailers. This is a cynical way in which, following the series of scandals, the government that has proposed will continue to expropriate this area of trade and will not care about the fact that the expropriation of the market in this way has already resulted in a loss of budget due to the decline in legal tobacco products traffic and the loss it will result in in the future, as these three laws will most likely have the effect of increasing black trade even more. So I ask you to consider our comments, even if they have not been denied. I would ask you to take into account the amendments that we have tabled, and with this broadening of product scope, do not contribute to changing the target and to attracting people who would otherwise not go in because they do not smoke, but because of these products, they may be allowed to enter. Thank you for listening. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches. ? Dr. András Schiffer applauds.]]
u2014-11-26-114	Thank you very much. Mr András Schiffer is next. Here you go. It is also a repeated speech.
u2014-11-26-115	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, In fact, what our fellow Member Cook has said is a rather accurate explanation of how the health protection objective is achieved in these laws, because we have seen that several opposition posts here now described this proposal and the previous one are actually not intended to protect the health of people, the health of minors, because if the aim was to keep young people away from smoking, they would not constantly smuggle goods that could typically attract minors into tobacco stores. However, it is correct to conclude that while the purpose of the bill is to re-enhancing buddy businesses, a public market robbery is served by such a bill, on the other hand there is a loophole that health protection goals can also be announced through communication campaigns distributed to buddies on billboards, where outdoor advertising platforms will also be provided by companies close to Fidesz, as we know. Health protection is not in the bill, but will be formulated on the front pages of the media campaigns advanced in the bill. That's the big trick in this proposal. I think it's worth taking a closer look at some sections. Article 4 § the premature termination of concession contracts also confirms the suspicion that several of the friends were disappointed in the traffic data, that the big business did not work, so now they want to get out of the party with state help. Article 5 §, with 120 days' notice instead of 45, it also helps tobacco sellers remaining active market players to enter the competition only after a long time. Article 6 I think it's the case of pure doggies. In essence, it is about the fact that those who submit fake applications also win and then do not engage in activities, so that only the beneficiary shops that received concessions in the first round of traffic dogs remain on the market, and everyone is forced to buy them. Article 10 In Section 2, the fine threshold is to be adjusted from 200,000 to 10 million to 10 000 to 20 million. By introducing this ridiculously low amount, it can make the institution frivolous and a hotbed of abuse. Therefore, the reduction of the lower limit requires a specific justification, since if you really served health and market cleaning purposes, you would not, in fact, reduce the lower limit of fines further than in other cases you would not normally resort to such an instrument. So I think, Honourable Parliament, that you would continue to look forward to explaining how long you intend to continue with the fact that practically oligarch groups are putting bill proposals in the pen. What's going on in front of us is nothing more than the typical case of a captured state. Are there economic interests that can be identified? But then former Secretary of State Satmary will clearly explain this exactly? , well-defined economic interests are dragging legislation in Hungary. That's what public market robbery is all about. Thank you very much.
u2014-11-26-116	Thank you very much. Since no one has applied for a two-minute speech, I would like to address Mr Lajos Korózs as a member of the MSZP Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2014-11-26-117	Dear House, If the oligarchs were just dragging the legislation, we could make peace with it. It's a lot more than that. If you begin to examine the sociology of a corrupt state, then you do come to very serious conclusions. Dear Friends! This state and its organs, let's watch the NAV right away, they look like a corruption management, even at the middle level. I believe that if Ildikó Vida were to be replaced from the presidency tomorrow and said that 15-16 middle managers should be removed from the head of the institution, they would not be able to do it. They couldn't do it, not because there wouldn't be a lot of decent, prepared people who work at the NAV, but they couldn't do it because they couldn't replace or plant people who could run this system because it's a corruption management. [[13.30]] Ladies and gentlemen. I've got a report in my hand. I just printed it out. Is Hungary the most corrupt state? Writes the address. Is Hungary currently the most corrupt state within the European Union? claims Professor of Political Science at Concordia University, Montreal, András Göllner, a sociologist. According to him, the authoritarian system benefits only the oligarchs, the close factors of power, while the standard of living stagnates, and the taxes and the embezzlement of EU money are stealing incomes. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Dear fellow Members, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that a few weeks ago, István Jávor, professor of ELTE, highlighted the sociological character of this corrupt state, and in other countries the teacher received a medal for this study. And then there's his second volume. [[He's showing it to me.]] , but can I also show you the first volume of Hungarian Bálint edited by the Hungarian octopus? The book The Nature of the Post-Communist Mafia State. Dear fellow Members, This is not about protecting children's health. There's no city where they wouldn't know who the family that owned the Trafiks was supposed to be. We know those scoundrels on the outside who are Fidesz's money-making men and steal this market. Are you saying, on the first agenda, that it was for the sake of retailing on the previous agenda? By the way, I'm gonna put it here: I don't know why we had to negotiate these agendas separately, but if that's the case? For the sake of retail, the hell with retail; for the sake of Fidesz, these amendments are made! She also claimed that I wanted to create a balanced tobacco market. I don't want to create that. They want to create a balanced local Fidesz policy, to designate the local small kings and oligarchs who will finance small communities in the settlements when they may not be in government. The Mafia State grants concessions, my dear friends; as Mr Schiffer said, this is not about the protection of youth health. What we're talking about here is that they're gonna launch a media campaign, and they're gonna put a lot of money into the media campaign, and the oligarchs are gonna take all that money again. Make no mistake, there have been corruption cases in this country before. He was also in the previous social system, socialism. It is only here that the change of regime has changed in scale, as ownership has also changed, and as a result, corruption opportunities have also changed after the change of regime, and they say that such free-competitive corruption has developed in the country. But then, so far, until 2010, even if corruption was present, it didn't affect the state's full operation as it did during the Fidesz government. Once again, the book published by the Hungarian Bálint is here for a few quotes. He claims, and he is right, that he has brought quality novelty to corruption, because he says: "If corruption was still widespread in previous systems, it did not define the direct content and purpose of the policy itself, so it was a disability and not a determining factor in the system. However, the essence of the Mafia state is that the concentration of power and family assets coincides and strengthens one another, thus forming the continuances that systematically subdue the growing layers of society. In my opinion, the Mafia state...
u2014-11-26-118	Congressman, would I like to ask you? I hate to stop you, but do I have to? When you turn to the bill on reducing underage smoking, because I feel what you've said is not about that. [[Dr. András Schiffer's intervention.]]
u2014-11-26-119	I know exactly what it's about, Mr. President.
u2014-11-26-120	Then I'm asking you to talk about that.
u2014-11-26-121	I also know that you want me not to tell you the sociological character of the Mafia state, and Madam Secretary of State...
u2014-11-26-122	Congressman, if my intention is to...
u2014-11-26-123	... don't make faces here for me, but then press a button... [[The president's gonna turn off the congressman's mic.]]
u2014-11-26-124	Congressman, it's all about you not being able to continue that I'm pressing the button to turn off your microphone. You have to understand, this is a debate about the law on reducing underage smoking. The lead president, no matter which bench he sits in, is responsible for paying attention to the debate about it as well. [[Lajos Korózs sits down.]] I let you talk for over five minutes, you didn't say a word about it. [[Dr. István Józsa: Yes. Two.]] If you want to continue... [[Noise, interruptions.]] I'll tell you if you want to continue, but talk about the law, then it's up to you. [[Lajos Korózs: Thank you, I do not wish to take advantage of this opportunity.]] He doesn't want to. I ask my fellow Members if there is anyone else who would like to speak. [[For signal:]] István Józsa in two minutes, please.
u2014-11-26-125	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, So, I understand that Mr President wants to keep the debate under strict control, but when my fellow Member Korózs starts by saying that the target definition in the title of the proposal, the reduction of the smoking of minors, is just a cover, he explains that nicely, and then talks about the corruption implications of this, it is difficult to say that he is not talking about the proposal. I listened, every three or four sentences, he would always return to reducing underage smoking as a sound target, and he would always point out to him that this was not really true in the bill, because the bill was actually about a market redistribution. It's about having a mutual agreement to put a piece of paper in front of someone that you're willing to give up your good business by mutual agreement. Why? Well, that's none of your business, but we want to give it to someone else. So when he talks about the mafia state, about this sociology, he is closely linked to the law called the'repressing the smoking of minors', which is all about it in its name, in fact there are links, motivations, according to many assumptions and many practical experiences that my fellow Member, Mr Korózs, spoke about. So, in the context of a general debate, although I know precisely the house rule that the work of the governing president should not be criticised, I should like to express my surprise at the fact that, while my fellow Member expressed these contexts, Mr President stopped his speech. [[Dr. András Schiffer applauds.]]
u2014-11-26-126	Thank you very much, Congressman. I just stopped him, didn't stop him. I stopped him, and I told him that if he wanted to continue, he could continue. On a case-by-case basis, Mr András Schiffer asked for the floor. Here you go.
u2014-11-26-127	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, We're in a general debate. The feature of the general debate is that the political purpose of a bill is mentioned here. That's what we heard from the secretary of state. The general justification of the legislative proposals is also typically concerned with the policy objective of the bill. In this debate, opposition representatives? Among other things, Congressman Korózs? We have dealt deeply, deeply with the tension between the presumed and described policy objectives of the law. Our colleague, Mr Korózs, did nothing but the sentences quoted from the author who had gained much experience in the construction of the Mafia state. [[Defiance.]] I think that this is the case in such a debate, and I would like to ask Mr President with great respect to give the Secretary of State and the MPs of the Government the opportunity to disprove the writings of such an experienced author as Bálint Magyar in relation to the Mob State. Thank you very much. [[Dr. István Józsa applauds.]]
u2014-11-26-128	Thank you very much. You are absolutely right, Mr Group Leader, I give everyone an opportunity to speak if you press the button. [[Dr. András Schiffer: You must listen.]] I would like to ask my fellow Members with respect if anyone else wishes to speak in the debate. [[No signal.]] I do not see an application; the general debate is closed. I will ask the Secretary of State if she wishes to respond to what has been said in the debate. [[For signal:]] Yes, he does. Here you go, Madam Secretary.
u2014-11-26-129	Mr President, Dear Parliament, After all this has been going on through my travel habits from book advertising, let's get back to the point of the government's amendments to the improvement of the existing tobacco law. However, I would like to make some clarification on what has been said. Firstly, that we have not banned television broadcasting, we cannot do this anyway, so technically, this law is being debated in the process now. [[13.40]] As I said on the previous agenda, we have been constantly adapting ourselves to the timing of this in time. As far as I know, there was no other reason. The other one. To comment on certain points of the bill, perhaps I can say that reading the material helps a lot to understand it. So what is in the various points of the amending proposal may be a serious mathematical problem for some [[Lajos Korózs: You are not in a position to lecture Members in this Chamber.]] , but when it comes to the amendment 2. In its section, the tender must be issued in such a way that the tobacco product retail activity can be continued in all Hungarian settlements by the fact that the number of permanent residents does not exceed 3 thousand in a municipality with a tobacco product retail activity? that used to be 2 grand? This means that there can be concessions in fewer settlements and no more. So there must have been some misunderstanding in Congressman Schiffer's comment. The other is a matter of mutual agreement. The concession is a acquired right. The concession may be terminated by the State only if it infringes the relevant concession holder. Therefore, the State cannot terminate the contract or initiate a mutual agreement. The paragraph that we have submitted is specifically about the right of the person referred to in paragraph 1 to initiate, by common accord, the termination of the concession contract, or to conclude an agreement with the rightholder, on the basis of traffic data or on the submission of the tobacco product retailer. Thus, it protects the buyer with the right to the concession, and the State has no right to terminate this contract. This is just about making it possible to do what I also said on the previous agenda, that quite a lot of people have already written to the Minister for National Development that they would like to give back and terminate the concession. And indeed, as one of the Members said, the parties are accountable to each other, and so it is safe to return the concession to the person who considers that the traffic data does not allow him to operate the trafics. The extension of the invitation to tender has only one reason, the technical conditions. The deadline for a new concession was very short. That is why the Minister for National Development proposed that the deadline for issuing a concession be extended. A concession tender is currently under way. But there are a lot of conditions for this, and 45 days has proved to be very little, so we have asked for or suggested an extension. The employment of people with disabilities is still an advantage and, as is the case everywhere in the European Union, benefits from the trade-concession. That is why Mr Schiffer is banging open doors when he proposes to do so. One candidate can operate up to 5 trucks, and it is still the case. So I don't understand what you're talking about when you're talking about hundreds of tramp empires, because that's what the previous law said. [[György Szilágyi intervenes.]] About further questions. Congressman Varju has gone, but to quote him, he is making a risk-free suggestion, but I suggest that if there is a suspicion of a criminal offence in connection with trade concessions and their assessment, he should take the necessary measures, press charges and disclose his evidence. And with regard to the expansion of the retail activity of the tramps, as I have said, we are talking about minimum types of expansions that make it possible, in practice, for those of you who operate this kind to make a living on these trucks. The same purpose is served by narrowing down. We see, and those who go to small settlements see that they are not millionaire oligarchs who operate traffics, but they are small family businesses, who actually want to earn income with this expansion of activity. [[Bangóné Borbély Ildikó: Others are ruined.]] If the trend that has emerged as a good trend under this law is that the number of tobacco consumers is decreasing, this means that all tobacco markets will continue to shrink. It's the previous law 16. §2 of the Act included, and it also states that a minor cannot enter the trades, so the minor cannot be seduced into the trades by selling chewing gum or ice cream. I wanted to make these clarification comments. Thank you, Mr Szilágyi, for his proposal, but I suggest that you come with me to Budapest every day by train, as I usually do, you can't smoke on it, thank God, for years, and then together we will discuss how to quit smoking easily, which I didn't have to do, because I never smoked. Thank you very much for listening, Mr. President. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2014-11-26-130	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, The amendments can be tabled at 16:00 on Thursday, or 16:00 tomorrow. A general debate on the bill on the contribution of tobacco companies to health in 2015 is now taking place until closure. Szatmáry Kristóf Fideszes, our fellow Member, made his own motion T/2027. may have been identified on the IT network. I would like to inform you that the Committee designated for the detailed discussion of this proposal is the Economic Committee. The debate will take place there. First, I give the floor to Mr Kristóf Szatmáry, the rapporteur on the agenda, who will make his speech here on the platform. The time frame is 30 minutes. Here you go, Congressman.
u2014-11-26-131	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Don't take it as cynicism on my part, but since we've been discussing the same subject for four hours more or less, I wouldn't take the 30 minutes available. And if I may, at the beginning, since we cannot open a window in this room, but I would like to give you a slightly easier overview before I get to the substantive discussion of this proposal about what we call smoking, and how this custom has evolved over the past few hundred years. By definition, smoking is nothing else... [[Lajos Korózs intervenes.]] If you'll excuse me, I wouldn't take the 30 minutes, but to be able to prepare a little easier for a more meaningful debate later. So smoking is the enjoyment of leaves of ornamental plants belonging to the potato family. It has been known since ancient times, about between 5000 and 3000 before Christ, that there are plants that may be ignited or stimulated or stunned by the smoke of the burning plant. [[Dr. András Schiffer: Do they legalize easy drugs?]] Our fellow Member Schiffer wasn't here at the beginning when I said that I was planning a 3-5 minute lighter introduction, not taking the 30 minutes. So Columbus and his companions probably met Indians who were Europeans for the first time, and they also introduced this custom to Europe, where the 16th century was the year of the 16th century. It spread by the end of the century. As an interesting fact, a French diplomat named Jean Nicot moved it from Portugal; otherwise, the word nicotine comes from it. At the time, it was used as a recreational agent and also as a medicinal and ornamental plant. So much so that among its titles, in many cases they called it divine grass, holy grass of the cross. Tobacco production and consumption spread in our country during the Turkish occupation, and from the beginning this kind of enjoyable article was criticized, becoming increasingly popular. First, German scientists, only to turn back to today, have already shown the relationship between smoking and lung cancer in the 20s. The first anti-smoking campaign in modern history is interestingly based on the period of the Nazi Party. During World War II. It is also partly due to this fact that in the 1950s anti-smoking campaigns were not popular, also because of the previous campaign in Germany. In England, Turkey, too, smoking was subject to the death penalty during certain historical times. The church was among the first to try to combat tobacco consumption, with all kinds of excommunications and other things, to prevent the spread of this sinful pleasure. [[13.50]] The first anti-smoking provisions in Hungary are, by the way, interestingly referred to in Article XVII. In the 18th century, they survived from Transylvania, and at that time they were fined. Since the 1980s, the number of scientific evidences that encouraged politics to take decisive action against smoking everywhere has become completely clear around the world. CHAPTER XX From the last decade of the century onwards, consumption rates in developed countries have fallen fortunately everywhere, but they are still very popular in the developing world. Smoking is the most common way to consume tobacco products. Many smokers start to smoke during adolescence or as young adults. Smoking at an early stage usually gives a pleasant feeling, a positive reinforcement for young people, putting a great risk on how it will be used in the future. In case of several years of smoking, the risk of being unable to quit is constantly increasing, including for withdrawal symptoms and negative confirmation. International standards for smoking? on the more serious part of the proposal now? It causes confirmed diseases in 15 diagnosis groups. The following are: tracheal and lung malignancies, heart disease, chronic pulmonary disease, upper digestive cancers, vascular diseases, pancreatic malignancies, other respiratory diseases, disorders associated with shorter duration of pregnancy and lower birth weight. However, it is important to mention the following: cataracts, tooth decay, osteoporosis, gastric ulcers and fertility disorders can be attributed to smoking. According to health statistics, smoking caused the direct death of more than 20,000 people in 2010, representing 16% of all deaths. In men, nearly a quarter of all deaths, 23 percent, and in women, this was 9 percent as a result of smoking. With regard to early deaths, i.e. deaths before 65, 30 percent can be written at the expense of smoking. One second of those who died because of smoking is under 65 years of age. Of the major diseases associated with smoking, lung cancer accounts for more than one third of the deaths attributed to smoking, and heart disease accounts for almost 22 percent of deaths. Smoking reduces the life expectancy of smokers in Hungary on average by 16 years, and for women by nearly 20 years. Two-thirds of the losses, by the way? Even though people's lives shouldn't be measured like this? If you look at it from an economic point of view, it falls to the most active stage of life, i.e. between 35 and 65 years of age. Two leading deaths, lung cancer, and heart disease cause 60 percent of the expected years of life lost due to smoking. It's not customary, but allow me to bring you a personal comment. Do I dare to do it because Congressman Szilágyi? She's not in, though, is she? in the previous debate, he mentioned that he was in favour of anti-smoking measures, although he was smoking himself. I started smoking myself when I was 14, and it lasted eight years. Was it one thing that helped me quit when I was in college that I was doing press research as an outsider? Among other things, on behalf of Philip Morris? Where I had to read through all the health risks associated with smoking, and as a young man, that was pretty obvious? If someone ever reads through this, what does smoking cause? It helped me put down my cigarette after eight years. So it's worth reading more about. [[Attila Móring József will replace Attila Gelencsér in the notary seat.]] According to medical economic analyses, smoking in Hungary is about HUF 80 billion. Direct and indirect expenditure of the Hungarian population due to smoking in 2010? I'm gonna say it slowly? It was around 440 billion forints. The direct individual and public spending required for smoking amounts to HUF 350 billion, of which the state's spending is close to HUF 300 billion, of which three quarters are otherwise charged to the E-Fund. The direct expenditure on the health budget for smoking reaches 15 percent and the deficit in 2010 is nearly 2.5 times higher. The indirect costs attributable to smoking, i.e. the loss of income associated with early death and illness, are also higher than HUF 80 billion at the national economy level. The largest amount of this is drug expenditure, inpatient care, early death income loss and disability pensions, accounting for almost 80% of the combined expenditure. Half a million people were treated in Hungarian hospitals in 2010 with the disease associated with smoking. More than a third of the patients, nearly half of the male patients, and more than a quarter of the women, were hospitalized for smoking. The numbers in outpatient care are not much more encouraging, because due to the diseases associated with smoking, some 440,000 patients appeared in 2010 and nearly 40 percent because of smoking. This rate was 45 percent for male patients and 32 percent for females. In order to reduce smoking, however, the government not only rearranged the so-called tobacco retail market or made rules for it, but decided by a large majority on 26 April 2011 to amend the Non-Smoker Protection Act 42 by a large majority, according to which, as of 1 January 2012, the main rule was that smoking was prohibited in public areas with enclosed air spaces. Do I remember the parliamentary debates at the time, where a number of my fellow Members were? especially from the opposition? the objectives have been accepted, but with some double standards, the main focus has been on the negative effects of retail sales and economic impacts. The period since then proves that this has not in any way reduced the turnover of hosts and these shops, and in some places, to my own knowledge, due to the fact that tobacco smoke is not standing in the restaurants, they have a positive guest salon. [[President Tamás Sneider, Vice-President of the National Assembly.]] At the time, Hungary joined the countries that implemented one of Europe's state-of-the-art anti-smoking regulations to meet the health and professional expectations and recommendations of the European Union and WHO. Otherwise, just here, in this area, would I indicate that, in view of their efforts to reduce smoking, the World Health Organisation? Which is not necessarily to blame for a biased organization? On the World Smoking-Free Day, on 31 May 2013, Prime Minister Viktor Orbán gave a medal for his actions to protect non-smokers. As of 1 January 2013, the vast majority of tobacco products can only be placed on the market in a package with a health warning combined with images and illustrations to ensure cost-effective communication with consumers. The places, premises and public areas affected by smoking restrictions, as well as those designated for smoking, as of 1 March 2014, shall be marked in a prominent manner by the use of a uniform inscription, specific content and form. [[14.00]] Ladies and gentlemen of the Houses of Representatives, It is a fact that smoking plays a crucial role in the development of diseases in Hungary and is a priority among the causes of death. Undoubtedly, one of the tools to combat smoking is the proper excise duty on tobacco products, but this burden is largely imposed on consumers, and they also pay a significant part of it. However, it cannot only be that they bear individual social costs, and therefore the purpose of the bill I have tabled is twofold. At the same time, it wishes to enforce the public burden which I thought was fairer, not only for consumers but also for the benefit of the tobacco product itself, if one can say so, for companies with the greatest profits, and for registered traders to be included in this category. At the same time, the bill guarantees that it intends to support government ideas on the transformation of the health system in terms of how the amount of money that comes from it should be spent on health expenditure on the basis of the bill in the following year. Ladies and gentlemen, In today's debate, although I believe that the bill that I have tabled is substantially different from the bill that I have discussed in the first two agendas, I would ask my fellow Members to take into account the consequences of smoking in Hungary. Maybe? Or, unfortunately? there are few Hungarian families in Hungary who do not have a more narrow or wider relationship with a person whose life has been taken away by smoking. Obviously, this proposal is no longer helpful, but I would certainly ask for the understanding and support of my fellow Members that there is no issue in the taxation of smoking, there is no case in terms of reducing smoking, taking into account these facts, which would not serve to ensure that as few people smoke in Hungary as possible, that the burden of smoking is being borne in the widest possible way by society and the economic sphere, and that there is no legislation at all that would be wrong if it resulted in fewer people smoking in Hungary. With that in mind, I would ask for your support. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-11-26-132	Ladies and gentlemen, Welcome. I ask whether, on behalf of the Government, Mr Béla Glattfelder wishes to respond or respond to what has been said. [[On the mark of Béla Glattfelder:]] Yeah. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2014-11-26-133	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The health risks associated with smoking and the huge amount of health expenditure due to illness are well known. The bill proposes a one-off health contribution to tobacco businesses for 2015. According to the bill, the amount of the contribution can be used entirely to finance public health sub-schemes and serves nothing else, i.e. to increase the quality of health care. The bill fits the government's public health objectives. The bill is in line with the government's vision for the transformation of the tax system, i.e. to achieve an increase in turnover and consumption taxes. As the bill concerns one single year, i.e. one year, we do not expect price increases on the market due to strong price competition among companies. At the same time, it is expected that the revenue from the contribution will amount to 11-12 billion, which I will say once again: it will only be possible to use it to finance health care. The Government has discussed the proposal and, taking into account the above, proposes that the motion be adopted. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-11-26-134	Dear Parliament, It is now time for the speeches by its representatives. The first round of these will be the speech of the lead speaker. I give the floor to Pál Völner, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2014-11-26-135	Thank you very much. Dear House, Mr President, In Hungary, smoking continues to play a crucial role in the development of diseases and is a priority among the causes of death, despite the efforts made by Parliament and the government to produce significant and visible results. Several studies have shown that the amount of individual and state expenditure and revenue due to smoking in Hungary is negative. Good measures and restrictions can be used to achieve results in the area of tobacco control. Under the Act on the Protection of Non-Smokers, smoking will not be allowed in closed places, bus and tram stops, underpasses, children's institutions, hospitals and other public institutions within 5 metres from 1 January 2012. The measures significantly reduced the consumption of cigarettes in Hungary, the proportion of smokers in the adult population decreased by about 8 percent, and the overall consumption of cigarettes decreased by 4 billion pieces last year. [[Bangóné Borbély Ildikó: Because of the illegal!]] In the 13-15-year-old population, the number of occasional smokers also decreased. Undoubtedly, one of the tools to combat smoking is the proper excise duty on tobacco products. At the same time, this burden is largely imposed on consumers, while they cannot be the sole party to the individual-social costs of smoking. Tobacco manufacturers easily pass excise duties on to the smoking population, which, although politically, is largely acceptable, however, the personal burden of tobacco manufacturers is absolutely justified. This bill places a one-off obligation on tobacco companies to pay contributions in the manner set out above, so that the national may assume, in view of the objectives and market competition, that the majority of this burden will indeed remain on tobacco companies and that operators will not pass on the burden to consumers. The bill provides that organisations in the tobacco industry, as defined by law, are obliged to pay a single contribution to facilitate the financing of the health subsystem if they fall within the scope of the bill. The legal proposal is mainly for tobacco manufacturers in Hungary, and for all registered traders, as defined by the excise law, who place tobacco products on the market in Hungary. Since the proposed legislation clearly states that the licensee of the tax warehouse, the importer and the registered trader are not subject to the consent, nor are wholesalers trading in products already released for free circulation, nor are tobacco retailers subject to the bill. As the Secretary of State has said, the amount of the contribution is the revenue from the central budget, which can only be used to finance the health subsystems of public finances. The payment of the contribution shall be made by the legal person who has been or has been engaged in the production and trade of tobacco products in Hungary. The bill sets out the scale of the contribution to be paid, also in order to ensure a fairer burden on the public. The contribution is 0.2 per cent of the tax base, but at least HUF 30 million, 2.5 per cent of the tax base and 4.5 per cent of the tax base, above HUF 30 billion but not exceeding HUF 60 billion. The obligation to pay a band of tobacco companies with a higher share of market shares is a proportional burden, but smaller businesses must also make a contribution to the financing of health expenditure, which is why I ask my fellow Members to support the proposal. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-11-26-136	I now give the floor to István Józsa, the lead speaker of the MSZP group.
u2014-11-26-137	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, We are now starting to negotiate the third very similar law on the health contribution of tobacco companies in 2015 and we have heard a very meaningful cultural history discussion, the resume of which must be agreed, which simply said that smoking is harmful to health. [[Dr. András Schiffer applauds.]] [[14.10]] This is indeed true, there is no debate, we also support this statement, and it is very right to protect health, to reduce smoking. However, it doesn't matter how. They told me they're taxing it in lanes. It got out of me to say, charmingly, that only those who you want to tax well will be taxed well, who you do not want to tax, will not be taxed. They'll do that in a charming, striped way. Unfortunately, smoking continues to play a crucial role in the development of diseases in Hungary and is still leading among the causes of death. The saldo of individual and state expenditure and revenue due to smoking in Hungary is particularly negative, which has been shown numerically by Congressman Völner. There is no problem in this regard. Rather, it is the charming tax approach that is problematic for us. According to the law, one of the means of combating smoking is to tax tobacco products to an appropriate extent, but not to be burdened on consumers. Is that right, because as we speak? I am not so informed by myself, but did my fellow Member László Szakács just mention it? 78 per cent of the price composition of cigarettes currently available on the retail market is excise duty and general sales tax, and the rest are the benefits of the chain and the cost of production at the very end. Now you want to tax this part properly. So the approach to reducing tobacco consumption through taxation, I think, has already been enforced effectively enough, would not be nearly as expensive in Hungary if it were not for a fairly large rate of 78 percent. In relation to the fact that you have recently begun to transform the health system, as you say, to make it more effective, it is essentially the case that money is being withdrawn from health care. The aim would be to increase the quality of health care, to which financial resources should also be provided, and the primary objective of the law is to involve additional resources from additional revenues in the financing of health care. It is a pity that guarantees do not really appear in the law, how this is used. The amount of the contribution is the revenue from the central budget and no additional expenditure is available in the budget on the health section in this connection or in any other context. So our concern is that this is not used to finance health objectives, it is quite factually included in the budget. You say that this provides for a one-off contribution payment obligation for tobacco companies. Usually, special taxes start out like this to figure it out, once they say it's a one-time thing, like a bank tax, an energy tax, a retail tax, and then it happens, and that's the only thing that's ever happened, that the one-off tax has stayed that way? almost like the temporary stations. The main scope of the bill is the tobacco manufacturers in Hungary and all registered traders who place tobacco products on the market in Hungary. The amount of the contribution is, by virtue of the law, part of the central budget, but what part, as I mentioned, would be quite difficult to find out from this proposal. There is a verbal promise that it would probably be for health purposes, but it would be good to add a written guarantee to that. You claim that it can only be used to finance the health subsystems of public finances, but that no guarantee can be found in the proposal. It sets out the basis for the contribution to be paid, on the basis of the net turnover of the debtor in the 2014 tax year. This shows that it is basically a type of traffic, consumption-type tax, so the trend that the government has taken so far to tax traffic is radically raised in this area as well. However, if the debtor has chosen a different financial year from the calendar year, his net turnover in the last financial year of the calendar year, which has been reported in 2014, will be the basis for the payment obligation. The rate of the fixed or charming payment contribution appears to be only 0.2 per cent for the part of the tax base not exceeding HUF 30 billion. However, the 30 billion is no longer a small farmer, at least a medium-sized enterprise, a strong medium-sized enterprise, which you still benefit significantly from, after more than HUF 30 billion, but not more than HUF 60 billion, so you have to pay a tax of 2.5 per cent on turnover, while you have already paid 4.5 per cent on more than that, i.e. more than HUF 60 billion on turnover. This is basically cutting down some of the major players in the industry who have been on their feet so far. The rules of procedure are laid down for the declaration of consent and for its payment in such a way as to make it clear to you. This will be seen in practice as to whether it will be clear. It is also stated in the submission that the party to the contribution may charge the contribution determined on the basis of the bill to its pre-tax outcome. This is very nice that we do not yet have to charge this type of traffic extra payment with a separate corporate tax. With the aim of the bill, as far as its health component is concerned, it can be agreed. Even with the extra income? Which, in our opinion, is not a public burden, because it is not a shared burden, but rather a one-way load on someone? for health purposes, this is also a good objective. Our problem is that there is no guarantee in the law that such a targeted use will indeed be less cardiovascular disease, lung disease and smoking-related diseases, that this revenue will be used to treat them. Our view is that this temporary special tax clearly affects two of the biggest players in the tobacco market. Together, they pay nearly HUF 10 billion, which represents 80-90 percent of the estimated tax revenue of 11-12 billion next year. At the same time, the draft legislation does not clarify exactly how the contribution will help to reduce smoking and what exactly the central budget will use these revenues for. On this basis, it can be said that the proposal launches a violent reorganization of the market. It is possible that these two major players may throw in the towel, and then the Hungarian tobacco market will be lame in all senses. He was lame because he was not even, and on the other hand John Sánta's interests advance. I do not assume that this was directly the aim of Mr Szatmáry, who had quit smoking a long time ago, but, in any case, as a controlled market movement in this very progressive taxation. So, given these lamenesses, our faction can't support the proposal. [[14.20]]
u2014-11-26-138	I now give the floor to Congressman László Lukács, lead speaker of the Jobbik faction.
u2014-11-26-139	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. First of all, I would like to thank the rapporteur for the bill, Mr Szatmáry, for his meaningful words and for his introduction. I think that this will certainly be a prominent place in the fairytale chapter of the musiclopedies, because there were few things at the very beginning that would have been about the bill in substance, and much more like an ex-cathedra lecture, which he said or well fit into the choreography, because there was a very strong feeling that he was watching a choreographed lecture in which you would say that smoking had a bad effect, and that a State Secretary's reply immediately came to light, which directed his part of the tax, and that choreography was very directed in the direction that it was a wolf in sheep's clothing, which is in front of us, and that sheep's skins is nothing but a socially acceptable goal, to repair, reduce and put into health. So going through the wordings and revelations in the preamble to the bill, we can say that it is true, it is true, it is true. It's just that what comes next is what they're really thinking and what that has to do with health care. So, by breakdown, the goal is quite important, they are in a very good place, and health care really needs this money, although I do not know what calculations it was calculated on, because we cannot see it, because it was presented individually, it was not in a social debate, but I think the Ministry, the Secretary of State, has so much insight into the market they want to tax. And what is the wolf of this bill in the end is immediately that there was no consultation on the matter. Obviously, it would have been possible to describe what health care providers, health institutions, and how people interested in tobacco trade themselves would have felt about this. The other, which gave me a bit of a shady suspicion, I am sorry that I have to be personal here, was your person and your previous involvement in the tobacco business, because I find it very difficult to imagine that when you prepare such a bill consciously, one day your own family members are counting on the benefits of tobacco smoking in the tobacco industry, making some kind of profit from smoking, and then going home in the evening and crying tears over the effects of smoking on health. So I think you're following a sham, a Hollywood cashier recipe, which is that you put the good subject of health care, the good direction of health care, the intention of improving it behind an intention to tax you, which is the well-known Hollywood recipe to put in babies, animals and everything that can be sold. Have you put in the same way a completely sellable subject, which in this case will help health care and thus introduce a tax? And then we can get to the tax? One of the very big criteria of this tax and its very important disadvantage is that it is for one year. I do not want to say here that anyone should be more sabotaged, or that such special taxes, or sectoral special taxes, are appropriate or good, but we do not think about health care in the same year. If you really want to put health care in a position with this contribution to health, you have to think at systemic level and trend for years. A one-time help in health care isn't good for nothing, it's a waste of money. However, if you look at the system level, who knows if the HUF 10-11 billion that you are prognosticating will come from this, if you plan for a longer period of time, and they say that this contribution can provide a solution for, for example, the underdues that will cover the purchase of a serious device of HUF 800 million in radiation therapy institutions, and Hungary would be able to catch up with the WHO level you mentioned, where fifty of these radiotherapy devices are expected from Hungary, and currently 36 are in operation, so if we could see that this trend can be maintained continuously, the proper replacement of machinery, the reduction or elimination of the harmful effects of smoking would be suitable, because this would be built up into a seriously detailed public health plan, then it could be said that this is acceptable, but in this case it is nothing more than the Hollywood Snotch success parade, which you are trying to cover here, that you are trying to cover the tax in a very good way, or tax. [[Erzsébet Schmuck takes the notary seat.]] I think that you must also bear in mind what has already been said today, because the Tobacco and Tobacco Workers' Union has repeatedly pointed out, for example, what damage can be done to their sector by contributing to health. There was talk of 2,000 workers, but it was also about strengthening the black economy and the black trade, and it was also about the fact that it would certainly increase the price of cigarettes. Although you said this one-time tax wouldn't appear in the price increase, but surely? And should we trust the trade unions working here and the people working in this industry? I do not regret the fact that I do not smoke and I am anti-smoking, but there are those who currently have this passion, and this passion will be more and more costly, thanks to you. So what I said as a criticism is that it's only for one year. But it would also be nice to hear how and based on what calculations this HUF 10-11 billion has been planned and what important health purposes they intend to devote to. Where do you belong? Tell us by appropriation, by address, what chapter you will receive, how much you will spend, for example, on healing lung diseases caused by smoking, and what an institution will get for institutional operation, what it will get for prevention, what it will get for basic care, such as general health care, or what organisations will receive for any other screening, or, for example, what health NGOs will get, because there is plenty to do there. For example, when we talk about a Hungarian anti-cancer league, it manages an amount that is an unworthy amount of money compared to their size. For example, if I saw such things written down and the reasons for the bill were to be used for this, and we would try these addresses after July 2015 in August, when the revenue comes in, then you would think differently about it. In the meantime, all you see is a choreography written by you in a honey-sweet glaze, which, by the way? And that's also my personal opinion? It's a completely vile and impertinent procedure against health. I think that health issues should be taken more seriously than that, and not in such a housing, bringing in taxes and setting health care as a target for the first time, so that no one will dare to shoot, because why would they shoot? I think that this bill is certainly a bill moving in the wrong direction, and it seems to take more than it brings, in addition to all the objectives that you have set out, which the Parliament creates in the light of what you have to do in health care, are right, but your choice of means is to achieve this goal, I think it is completely wrong, and even I think that it is just a little unethical and stylish. What's that? and that has been said in the debate before, perhaps Congressman Szatmary was here? That health politicians couldn't sit through it on the government's side, and they didn't really want to see it, it's even more outrageous. I think that if this really had a health aspect and you weren't the only ones who created a health dimension, Gábor Sombor, Bence Rétvári would have sat here, or one of the Deputy State Secretarys could have said how important this would be in health and how important it would be in the 2015 Health Budget. That didn't happen. That's why I think that particular horse's foot stands out from under your creation. So certainly, and you can count on it, Jobbik will not support this bill. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]] [[14.30]]
u2014-11-26-140	I now give the floor to Andras Schiffer, the lead speaker of the LMP Group.
u2014-11-26-141	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, First of all, I would like to thank Mr Secretary of State, who is now trying to govern as an individual representative in the name of the parliamentary government, to our fellow Member Kristóf Szatmáry, for this excellent cultural history talk. I'll tell you honestly, so at the beginning of your lecture, I thought maybe you'd be arguing about declaring cannabis as an excise product? I've already looked up to the Christian Democratic Vice President to see what he's going to say. Is that what's going on? A little correction here for my better fellow Member? That the bill doesn't have a horse's foot, it's a whole horse's horse. Again, this is not what it seems to be; this is the third bill today, which serves the same purpose: the state redistribution of a market, a state market robbery. Is that the law? And I'll explain why in a minute? It's about putting a group of companies in position. I'd like to clarify two things in advance. First of all, what is the stated, described purpose of the law, not what is behind it, of course, we fully agree. The LMP had its own proposals for this. We, too, basically have a problem with the tools we use. One more thing: we have not only agreed with the aim of health protection, and we have said this in the last four years, in itself, the imposition of sectoral taxes, the increased taxation of a sector that accumulates an incredibly high extraprofit, is that we think that it can be the right goal. So we have no problem with a segment, such as the tobacco industry, being subject to increased tax by the government. Another issue is that when such a proposal is brought in, preferably not as an individual proposal, but rather as an individual proposal, the Ministry brings here the special taxation of a sector by showing the expected effects, expected market effects and the expected impact on the labour market, how the increased taxation of the tobacco industry, the imposition of an extra tax on the tobacco industry, happens to affect current jobs in the open labour market. For example, how Pécs and its surroundings affect the development of the number of jobs, if, say, Pécsi Dohánygyár Kft. still has to pay extra taxes next year. Is this proposal in front of us now? Is it true that since you are here as an individual representative, there is no legal obligation to be an impact assessment, even though you are not disturbed by legal obligations? That we do not know anything about it, and that Mr Szatmáry did not say anything about the market effects of this proposal, in addition to the very noble health objectives, in particular on the labour market. We are primarily interested in the number of jobs created and the number of jobs lost as a result of another economic policy measure. Today, people in this country are primarily interested in how they can make a living on decent wages and meaningful work. If there is no answer to that, then I think that this bill, as it is, or such a bill as it is, must be withdrawn. If people in this country are primarily interested in how there will be a job, how there will be a job where they will earn a decent wage, not 48,000 forints, and can do meaningful work, then at each such bill, they must be able to demonstrate the impact of the imposition of such an extra tax on jobs. The proposal to introduce a band-based progressive health contribution for one year, which will be charged to the product at the first place of placing on the market, be it the manufacturer or wholesaler putting into free circulation, is based on the net turnover for 2015. Its value is 0.2 per cent up to HUF 30 billion, 2.5 per cent between 30 and 60 billion and 4.5 per cent over 60 billion. At first approximation, we obviously cannot think of which manufacturers and traders fall into which lane, although I think that the suggestion of Mr Szilágyi a few hours ago should also be considered here, that a prize game could only be introduced in order to guess, let us make bets at Andy Vajna, which group of companies would benefit from such a strangely formed band. The fact is that the rate of contribution between the different bands is very significant, and this is unusual for such tax laws, and there is no valid justification for it. Congressman Szatmáry has not given any meaningful explanation as to why all these unusual leaps are between the different lanes. Therefore, in our view, the aim of the proposal is, in addition to public procurement, to exert a radically different burden on market participants, thereby influencing competition on the market. In Hungarian: at first glance, the horse is hanging out here, and the suspicion of the state market robbery arises. Do you know the purpose of health care or health funding, for example? as the LMP has repeatedly proposed over the past four years? the increase in excise duty could also be achieved, with the primary objective being to influence the forces of market players by the government. Considering that, let's say, the social security costs of a lung cancer patient cost Hungarian society, Hungarian taxpayers, we could even suggest a significant increase in public burdens. But let us stop here for a moment: if we are missing impact assessments, as important as it is for such a sectoral tax to show the impact of such a sectoral tax on the given market, so that the tobacco market, and as important is to look at the impact of such a sectoral tax on the labour market, how many jobs may be lost, how many new jobs may be created in the introduction of a new law, a new tax law, at least as important for the introduction of a contribution for such a public purpose, that the government should demonstrate that this extra income is actually taken aside from the fact that it serves health protection purposes, how it will be able to make health budget at least in 2015. In this respect, we have not seen an impact assessment, and I am once again joining what Mr Luke said: it is very telling that there are no health politicians again in the Fidesz fraction. I think that if, for example, we put forward, say, a bill for environmental policy, then our representatives, who are, say, familiar with the subject, usually sit here in Parliament. However, the question is why we should come up with a new public space to be paid once, since there is excise duty on tobacco sales in an extra way, which has already been proven. It was always enough to raise it if the state budget needed money, as the government is using the excise duty increase tool now, when it raises the rate of excise duty per cigarette from HUF 24 to HUF 28 by 16 percent. The LMP also has a proposal for an amendment, which concerns the fact that an increase in excise duty on tobacco products would compensate for the VAT reduction on healthy local food. So the same goal, I think, could be achieved by radically different means. What matters here is why, as a cold shower, tobacco companies have been hit by the bill of our fellow Member Szatmáry, which places a huge special tax on them. This is called an extraordinary health contribution by the bill submitted by the State Secretary for Economic Regulation in the previous cycle and according to this it is only due in one year, in 2015. Another issue is that I do not think that the dog will believe this to this government, or the current or former officials of this government, today. The new special tax that drives tobacco companies into a billion-dollar loss will leave a single business intact, and then perhaps there is no need to write out this prize game: the Continental Group, which is still in play. Did Congressman Satmary write it in his name? I think we should leave this in the dark in the night. , the bill enumerated by the Member was written by someone who could pay a huge amount of money to the multinationals. I'll tell you one more time, we're fine with that in itself. Sectors that have made a lot of money in the last 10 to 15 years, yes, in the first approximation, it is very right to contribute separately, especially when it comes to sectors that have produced more social, health or environmental externalities. So that's not what we're arguing about. Pay for these sectors, which have gained extra profit, and have created particularly large environmental, social and health disadvantages for Hungarian society. At the same time, let us look at how this very strangely edited band system distinguishes between some actors. According to the first estimates, Philip Morris pays at least 6.4 billion, the BAT, i.e. the Pécs Tobacco Factory 3.5 billion, Imperial Tobacco 1.7 billion, and JTI Hungary HUF 685 million. One actor, on the other hand, gets away with the new special tax almost unharmed: Continental only has 47 million forints to pay. [[14.40]] This result is described in the proposal as a burden of only 0.2 per cent up to HUF 30 billion, 2.5 per cent over 30 billion and 4.5 per cent over 60 billion. Continental Zrt. So he'd only pay a fraction of the tax on his $25 billion income. Are you serious or are you kidding us? What we have said many times today is obvious the policy they follow. They constantly rag into markets that are devastated by theft of which by public means, by legislative means, can be relatively well wrapped in a communication glaze. That's what this is about. Which party is going to say, or which social group is planning a protest with great pleasure, like, tobacco companies? Obviously no one. But the message is perfectly clear. It's just a matter of communication, which segment, which market they put their paws on. This proposal is about non-health objectives. It is not that they want to create regulated, clean relations; it is not even in itself that it aims to reduce the revenue of the budget, as the expected tax revenue is small compared to the total volume. It is not even a matter of wanting to tax the sectors that hold the great pale fairly, because then they would not operate with such a strange lane system. This bill fits exactly with the other two proposals discussed today, this is the state stretch of a segment by identifying the appropriate fidesz oligarch, the oligarch group that they want to put in position. That's what this whole story is about. Of course, we thank you very much for the lecture on cultural history. Very interesting philosophical and cultural history debates could continue on this, but I think we should talk about the point, talk about the horse's foot rather than the horse's foot, which is quite out of this bill. Thank you very much.
u2014-11-26-142	This brings us to the end of the keynote speeches. I see no two-minute comments have been received. Then we will continue with the speakers announced in advance. In this context, I give the floor to Mrs Ildikó Bangóné Borbély.
u2014-11-26-143	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would quote from the bill: Parliament, given that increasing the quality of health care in Hungary is a key public policy objective to which the necessary financial resources must be provided; smoking plays a prominent role in the development of many diseases and continues to appear directly or indirectly in domestic mortality indicators; the health impact of tobacco products contributes significantly to increased health expenditure, and, in relation to this and their economic power, tobacco companies themselves do not contribute in proportion to public expenditure... I would now like to read some details from the situation analysis of the national social inclusion strategy - extreme poverty, child poverty, Roma (2011-2020) and its access to healthcare: I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Access to healthcare. ? I would like to point out in advance that the Fidesz-KDNP government created this material. ? The overall health status of the country's population is rather unfavourable. It is a well-known feature of the situation that the average life expectancy rate expected at birth in Hungary is significantly lower than the expected values on the basis of modest economic performance. In addition, in addition to the generally unfavourable situation, there are particularly serious problems with health conditions, typically territorial differences, which closely follow socio-economic differences. Weaknesses in basic services are the most basic access problems for health care in terms of social disadvantages. In recent years, the indicator of supply has deteriorated in terms of basic services, despite the decline in population. It is typical of the segmented supply system that the number of doctors in Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg county is the lowest, even though Borsod-Abaúj-Zemplén county has had the most significant improvement. For the purposes of this The main focus of the national public health programme under the parliamentary decision is the operation of targeted screening studies for public health purposes. Although measures involving particularly disadvantaged social groups, such as school education and education programmes, their current volume and organisation are not sufficient to bring about the necessary changes in the area. There are also serious inequalities in children's health and access to health care. Social factors are therefore largely responsible. 30-50 percent of children's deaths and health problems are related to the disadvantaged socio-economic situation of parents. Health promotion is the most effective in the first years of life, but good health is established before conception. It is typical of home-patient care that the network is incomplete or is not at all present where the highest proportion of children living underprivileged, including Roma children, and there is a lower number of childcare practices for ten thousand children. For example, in the Central Hungary region, it is nearly twice as high as in Northern Hungary. The priority of the protection network is prevention care for all age groups. However, the fact that there are many unfilled jobs hampers the effective supply of women in disadvantaged areas. In the North Great Plain region, 10 percent of jobs were not filled in 2007 and many districts can only be replaced permanently. That's why it's legal? The number of beneficiaries per female in disadvantaged regions is significantly higher. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. And here's the thing. Again, this is the material you've prepared: I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Smoking is among the health-related risk factors: 77.4 percent of the Roma population smokes, compared with 31.4 percent of the total population; high blood pressure: 87 percent of the Roma population suffers from high blood pressure, compared with 32 percent of the total population; and nutritional problems and lack of prevention activities are clearly factors affecting health. In a research conducted in Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg county, the following has been established. Active smoking and environmental tobacco smoke are significantly more common among Roma than non-Roma. More than two thirds of Roma have smoked the first cigarette under 18 years of age, with only 50 percent among non-Romas. ? You could say it's high, by the way. ? It is a very early start, with 14.9 percent of Roma under the age of 12, compared with 2.5 percent among non-Romas. Everyone was smoking without exception in previous years: there were two thirds of Roma and 50 percent of non-Roma smokers. Only one in ten Roma women decided not to smoke during pregnancy, while in the case of non-Roma women this proportion was 66 percent. Roma were exposed two and a half times more frequently to environmental tobacco smoke and passive smoking, mainly due to domestic smoking by their husbands and partners. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Before you think about it, I have actually listed very serious data as to why I keep bringing up the social situation. because several sociological studies confirm that there is a close relationship between smoking and poverty. Now, I would like to say, before anyone has any idea that smoking is going to be linked to how much they spend on socially disadvantaged people in health care. Now I'm reading a very harsh data, Fidesz Study: From experience, 64.2 percent of Roma have never or very rarely used free healthcare, due to their poor financial and social conditions. They can't get to the screening, they can't afford the drugs, they can't trust the kids. What's the matter with you? And the rest. [[14.50]] I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. The underprivileged families? I'm not talking about Roma? Its primary objective is to maintain life, ensure everyday livelihoods, and not to preserve health and prevent diseases. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I thought it was important to read these parts of this material because it has been said several times that with these introduced laws, the creation of transforms, the proportion of smokers decreased by 8-10 percent. Let the politicians in the benches of Fidesz-KDNP understand that this is not true. That's not true. You have to come to East Hungary and see how this works. Do you know that there are different ways of buying black tobacco from the black market? There's no way to know where it came from, what it's made of. There are some examples: tobacco is available in disco, and I'm not talking about drugs, cigarettes. There are different ways to buy cigarettes on the streets. No one can say today how many percent of the black market works, very high, that's all you can say. The other, dear fellow Members, is not two years from now. Is that a crime? In quotes? What they're doing. Ten, twenty, thirty years from now, this will have a health-damaging effect on our necks. That's right, you'll be nowhere by then. But these people who don't get it legally, they don't smoke controlled tobacco, and trust me, I don't smoke, I don't like tobacco, but you gotta understand, you can't do that, you can't do that with laws like that. And it can't be said that they're going to spend it on health care, because it doesn't appear in the law at all what point it will be where this tax revenue will appear in health care. Show me exactly where this is written and what this tax revenue is going to be spent on. And the reason I brought it up is that they're socially disadvantaged, because they're not gonna get a penny of that money again, just like you never think of disadvantaged people. Thank you so much for listening.
u2014-11-26-144	Now it would be possible to make two-minute comments, but there is no candidate. So I give the floor to Congressman László Szakács.
u2014-11-26-145	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remember first of all the history of the expo, which was interesting in a number of ways, but I think that this is not worth doing because in the history of law, we can bring to our attention the development or termination of certain institutions or other driving. How the legal system in which we are living has evolved is possible; we must not take such examples, my fellow Member. You can give me a much uglier example, and I'm not gonna say that, but I hope we don't get this far to get you there? I'm gonna give you an interesting example? That there was legislation in the Saxon mirror that regulated the length of the moustache of men. I hope that this will not be a reference one day when we will be discussing similar legislation. Trends should be drawn from this and from today. Can I deduct the trend from today? This is gonna be more important than the last one. Today's trend is that we have discussed three legislative proposals, these three legislative proposals have one single point in common, which is the beneficiary. As regards the quasi redistribution of the wholesaler, including the tramps, and so on the levying of this special tax, all three have the same beneficiaries. And that has already been said here today, but it is worth pointing out that this is a very, very, very unfair solution to pour all of this down with a kind of frosting, wrap it in, for the first two laws, in fact, only in a wrapping paper, and now, Congressman, in a really beautiful Staniol. We have the feeling that if we are watching this trend, you are not necessarily interested, and that is not necessarily a goal to have fewer cardiovascular diseases, is it not necessarily a goal for young people to find tobacco more difficult and is not an absolute goal? Can we see in the budget if that amount goes in there? to provide more resources for health care. That's not a goal. The goal is what the trend shows: who is the beneficiary of this, both in wholesale trade and in the redistribution of tramps and here. I told you once in the budget debate, you consider the tax system, which is not proportionate, but a single-key one, to be so fair, that people's incomes are taxed. But you always use the banded tax system when you have to give your own moonyard advantages. With this tax, they actually put someone in the position again, and the other two or even the others are punished quite simply. Look, according to the current regulations, a pack of cigarettes has a large amount of 78 percent tax, VAT, excise duty together. This is yet to be realized by 10 percent, or if the previous legislation is adopted, 13 percent is a guaranteed benefit. Here again, it must be pointed out that there are few businesses in Hungary today where the state guarantees profits. Then 78 plus 13, we're now at 91 percent, and the remaining nine percent should otherwise maintain the industry. It's not the industry I'm worried about. I'm sure the industry can decide what it wants. However, in these companies there are Hungarian people working, and as a representative of Pécs, I cannot again go along with the fact that as many jobs have ceased where 1,500 people have lost their jobs, the champagne factory is leaving, the glove factory is leaving, and Damocles' sword is now placed above the head of those working in the Tobacco Factory in Pécs, so I think that they have not thought about it, they have partial interests, quite simply self-servingly, in a voluntarian way in this law. It is always annoying that I have heard many times today how much you have fought and how much you have achieved in terms of reducing smoking, as there is 10 percent less smoking. That's not true. That's how the black market rate grew. If they could repress this and collect VAT and excise duty there, that would be HUF 45 billion. Not the 11 billion forints that you've been talking about here, Secretary of State. Forty-five billion forints could still be collected in this sector if it were in the interest. But it is not in this interest, it is in the interest of a beneficiary to benefit both in wholesale trade and in the redistribution of trades and in the imposition of a special tax, to build and serve his own lunar yard. That is why I wrote down one thing when my fellow Member Satmary spoke, that the state must act everywhere. Yes, we must act in the same way everywhere, not through bands designed for ourselves, where we clearly favour a certain operator. You got us out of here...? not with us, but with us, but with the EU flag being carried out, and in this club where we are members, there is free movement of goods and goods, market protection, protection of private property, competition rules and free enterprise, these are still interests, and this system distorts both competition and freedom of enterprise. This, in particular, as has already been said, is a market robbery. I don't think this is gonna be a one-time thing. Just like you guys have repeatedly pretended to introduce a one-time tax and then we have it here? I don't think there's any character in this sector where you think this tax revenue is a one-off? I think it's gonna stay on their tail. I'm afraid of one thing, and that's why I'm giving you another set of examples: if, say, the biggest player in the market were to say that he would rather not stay in Hungary now, the drop in excise duty, the loss of VAT and the labour market problem that this would cause, would you be able to handle it? You are shaking your head, my fellow Member, because there are no impact studies, no negotiations with any associations, no false alliances, or with any of the players in the industry, quite simply brought in, thought out, this idea seems to be a good idea. [[15.00]] I believe that what is most terrible about this is today's trend to adopt three laws that have one beneficiary and pour it down with a frosting that won't be true; that won't make more money in health care, because then it would have appeared in the budget, and that won't make one less cardiovascular disease? But there will be one more pro-government oligarch. That is why I share the group's position, and we will not support this proposal. Thank you.
u2014-11-26-146	I now give the floor to Congressman György Szilágyi.
u2014-11-26-147	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Indeed, I must tell the speaker in front of me that these three legislative proposals, which have been tabled today, must be de-consequenced, can be dealt with together, since these three are nothing more than re-organising the tobacco market. A reorganization, a redistribution of the market. To know what we're talking about, let's see what the tobacco market looks like right now, from here, let's say, how the direct supply of tobacco retailers has been done so far. There were two main channels to this. One of them is the large tobacco companies, Philip Morris, BAT, Imperial, JTI, Róna, Continental, which directly spread their own products. Among these products were usually cigarettes, fine-cut tobacco, cigarillos, pipe tobacco, in order of importance. The other large group were products sold by importers and wholesalers, including fine-cut tobacco, cigarette tobacco, bong tobacco, pipe tobacco, premium cigars, cigarillos and tuba. Are they in the first group? With the exception of Continental? all multinational companies, including Róna, are based on a domestic production base, and BAT also partly produces its products in Hungary, and their supply is limited to almost large quantities of products that can be sold. The second group companies were either foreign producers or subsidiaries of distributors, or 100% of Hungarian-owned importers were wholesalers. Who will be the main beneficiaries of the health contribution, and who will benefit from it again by paying the health contribution? The Continental Group referred to in the previous two laws. If András Schiffer was here, I could tell him who to put it on if he wanted to bet on this thing at the reception hours. Why is that? Because the multinationals with the highest turnover in the band, who will pay about 3-5 billion tax according to the preliminary calculations, will obviously be charged this tax, although you will say that you do not do this. Yeah, they're gonna do that, they're gonna force it on consumers. This will result in, for example, an increase of approximately HUF 80 per cigarette sold by them. Although this Continental will not be affected, Continental will not need such an increase. What does that mean? The market is already reorganizing, as the consumer will not quit smoking during a higher price increase, but will first turn to cheaper products, thus turning to Continental's products. The other thing that wins Continental is that the players in the second group, who will have to pay 30 million forints, are likely to withdraw from the market, will not pay those 30 million forints. If they leave the market, what does that mean? It means that, in general, they have marketed a small quantity of products and choice, and there will be a market gap. If you were just listening when I listed what different groups are dealing with, then it is very important here that already in the new system, what was observed was that most people did not buy cigarettes but finely cut tobacco and carried cigarettes themselves. This market is getting bigger. Now that importers and wholesalers are leaving, a segment that Continental has is opening up, so it can sell fine-cut cigarettes and tobacco to a greater extent. I say it is very important that we look at the fact that, if we look at these three laws, the bill, and we take them all into account what effects will then be expected. It was clear from the negotiations that one of the biggest effects will be that Continental will dominate almost all segments of the tobacco market, from production through sales, through retail trade and from retail. I'm saying that it's your right, by the way, to agree to something like this, to support a company so much, but that you've decided to do so, I think you'll have to bear the consequences of that at some point. But the problem here is not the consequences you have, but the consequences that citizens must bear in relation to these decisions. Two very important things will happen again. One is that with smaller companies disappearing, which is predictable, the number of jobs that are going to disappear can reach up to a thousand. So at the moment, you may be risking your livelihood to a thousand families or forcing a thousand families to look again for work and endanger their livelihoods or the normal payment of any payment they make in the future. Of course, you will be able to say again that the employment is being organised here in Hungary, because there are public works programmes, these people will be able to leave within the framework of the public work programme, and you will see in the statistics that these people are not unemployed. This is a big problem, I think, if you are willing to risk thousands of jobs in Hungary today without any impact assessment and without everything. The other important thing is that, and even in 2012, we said that even in spite of the fact that these laws, the law, will result in the growth of black trade in Hungary, they did not believe us, even though the black trade grew greatly. According to some opinions, it has doubled over a year in recent years. It can now be enveloped that, since certain products will disappear from the market, certain products will become more expensive, we must count on the immeasurable increase in black trade. I would like to note here that a statistic has been made by the Fidesz Member, Pál Völner, about how many patients there are and how consumption has decreased by 4 billion pieces in recent years. I wonder, however, how many times we have asked you today, on the basis of what studies these numbers are being made available to the public, or who has done these studies, on what basis of immersion, on what basis people have been asked, and on what basis they have come to these findings. Because I'm convinced it's not 4 billion? Like Paul Völner said? consumption decreased, so not consumption decreased by 4 billion, but traffic decreased by 4 billion. It's not the same thing. The fact that 4 billion cigarettes are missing from the market is conceivable because the black trade has increased. It may have had some effect that people who quit smoking decreased by some, but it didn't really decrease by that much; black trade increased, and a lot of people switched to, say, another form of tobacco consumption, namely, the use of cut tobacco. So it cannot be said that consumption has decreased by 4 billion pieces. Traffic is down, that's down. Unfortunately, I feel that black trade will increase greatly in the coming period, so I would ask you to reconsider whether this is good. The most talkative in this bill is what my fellow Member, László Lukács, has just said that they are talking about a one-time payment. Why do you need a one-time paycheck? That's what tells me everything. A one-off payment is needed because this one-off payment is one of their greatest means of implementing this market restructuring at the moment. When the market reorganization has been carried out, when this market will operate in the way that Continental is best placed to do, then there will be no health contribution to be paid. Because probably, when Continental's products will be consumed in this country, he will benefit from it, then the people who unfortunately smoke and unfortunately harm their own health and become ill will no longer matter how much we spend on these people in health care, because then the health contribution, let's say, Continental, would have to pay a great deal. [[15.10]] Well, that's the biggest tell-tale sign in all of this. As I said in both legislative proposals, and now, in the third bill, I will say that we can in principle support the principle. We can support the other two here, and we will reject them as they are, because it is clearly not about what you have submitted. The last two laws weren't about the protection of minors, if we just take into account what I said about selling charge cards and bus tickets in a truck, and that's to lure people who don't smoke in. This was also an eloquent example. It's definitely not about that, we're rejecting that. Here, however, we could agree with the principle itself if this was not about the reorganization of the market and it was not about a single occasion, but about a well-thought-out, planned and long-term amendment of the law. So, as my fellow Member has said, in all likelihood you will not change that, because I know that you are generally determined to do so, because there have been long discussions on these legislative proposals, only these discussions have not been conducted with civil society organisations, they have not been with different participants, they have been with one company, and they are called Continental, and we cannot support this. Thank you so much for listening. [[It's a rare applause in the ranks of the Jobbik.]]
u2014-11-26-148	I now give the floor to Sallai R. Benedek.
u2014-11-26-149	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, I'll pick up where Congressman Szilágyi left off. It is very nice to have this debate between us, because we are slowly pretending that Parliament is actually working, although we are quite aware that if a Fidesz Member of Parliament has tabled a motion, the government has expressed its support for it, we will continue to multiply the word from here on out, because it is already sorted out. How nice it would be for a great and powerful force, like what Fidesz here politically embodies in Parliament, to be a little reasonable, to be a little inclined to listen to another opinion. Several people criticized or made comments about the whole agenda. I, for my part, thank you for the interesting educational presentation, and I found it very enjoyable. If you'll allow me, Congressman, I've prepared one of these in return, improvising here, so that I can live up to it. There is a very interesting analogy with the background of smoking as a whole, which can virtually point back to another economic crisis period, the '20s, then America has a very well-known alcohol prohibition system. In the 26 Member States of the United States, the sale of alcohol was banned, and the 18th amendment, which prohibited the production, marketing and import of alcohol throughout the United States, came into force on 16 January 1920. There were economic reasons for this, but I'm not going to go into detail. However, alcohol consumption has not stopped or even decreased because the black trade has quickly and effectively been built despite the fact that the police and the prosecution have tried to enforce the law with very serious steps. The prohibition of alcohol finally failed because it created a degree of uncertainty in American society, the risks of which exceeded the beneficial effects it had, thus reducing consumption and disease in vain. The ban was finally lifted in December 33rd. On the other hand, the black trade has started crime, organized crime, and the black trade has helped the mobster Al Capone, for example, to get rich. The reason why I wanted to read this analogy and come up with a little cultural history is because I feel very similar to the whole process of smoking. For my part, as a fully compulsive and consistent tobacco attacker, I was very, very proud of the government when the Non-Smoker Protection Act created the opportunity not to sit in smoke in the restaurant and create the opportunity to sit in some normal places with the family. At the same time, on the basis of the above mentioned considerations, I feel that a significant part of the restriction that has been put in place for trade is not entirely for the purpose, but rather for economic purposes that I do not want to repeat. After all, several Members who have spoken before me have already told me what is behind this case. Let me draw attention to some minor maladministration. The rapporteur would fully use this resource for health expenses, which I feel is commendable. At the same time, I would like to draw attention to the fact that this reflects very much the pipe end thinking that is already trying to address the problem. He doesn't want to prevent, he doesn't want to raise him to reduce smoking, he doesn't want to finance thinking, he doesn't want to make fewer smokers, he wants to finance health care. This would be a very, very supportive and consistent and good goal, very, very supportive if it were not a hypocritical thing. I was at a committee meeting this morning where the governing party voted off several proposals that would have helped strengthen and finance health care. Today, there were several of us, I think, at committee meetings in different places, the governing party consistently sweeps all budgetary amendments off the table that would give us the opportunity to support Hungarian health care, to ensure the functioning of rural hospitals, so that we can guarantee decent patients' rights to Hungarian citizens. While there is no funding in the budget for this, while the amendments are being swept down by the government by way of a high-ranking vote and a package, it comes up with a desire to raise funds here. I also find that attitude very, very interesting, I myself am a Protestant Reformed kun child, and I would have been very happy to learn about KDNP's position. I would like to mention that during today's Kyoto Convention, we did not have a keynote speaker, we did not get to know him, and after that he was not a lead speaker in three tobacco legislations, and we could not get to know his opinion. So it would be good for us not only to maintain the appearance of dialogue, but also for the party of government, or also for the parties of government, to apologize to the present Fidesz Members, to try to make the dialogue appear. For my part, and I think that the LMP is open to this, I would be fully open to a dialogue on how to prevent diseases, how to achieve a healthier society. What taxes should be levied to say that, in general, unhealthy life forms, eating habits, lifestyles that give a significant proportion of disease and premature death can be reduced. Let us sit down, Congressman, whichever one of us is open to this, but I think there would be openness in the other factions, let us see how, let us say, the impact of population sickness in Hungary, obesity. Let's see if sugar or sugar products need to be taxed. Let's see how all the processes we see affect us. But it's weird because in one case, which doesn't, by the way, have a market effect, they say it's all for health protection, while ice creams are allowed into traffic. Well, then, how is it that we open up the opportunity in one place and say that in those places we start traffic while in another place we limit it. The other is part of the constructive dialogue, the lane system. I am also saying that it can indeed be an interesting professional debate on the impact of reducing the VAT on basic foods in society, and it is worth talking about, but I consider the single-key tax on major social injustice, which is also mentioned by Mr Cook. I consider that, while in one case it is said that the single-key tax system is fair and fair, in the other case, when an interest so requires, the lane system is preferred there. This is the inconsistencies that I think are unacceptable and points out well for the purposes of the entire draft legislation. Because it's obviously not what it's about to reduce smoking. In his speech, Mr Völner, when he presented the position of the Fidesz faction, he said that further measures were necessary because the number of such diseases did not decrease. I suppose, too, that Congressman Völner did not think that within two years this would have substantial consequences, and that a large part of the patients in Hungarian health care would immediately recover from the measures. But if we obviously want to achieve, in the long term, the unwarranted early death of Hungarian society, then the lifestyle changes that should be treated in a complex way, not in a segment...? As I said, sugar can typically be forgotten as a product in the commercial sector in Hungary, which, like tobacco, collects many victims. We need to think about it, we need to discuss it, and if there was a dialogue that Fidesz could afford once in a while, if it had the strength to do what it wants to do; if we could have a discussion about it with professionals and doctors, could we look at the statistics on the causes of death, what proportion of cardiovascular diseases is there in addition to the diseases caused by smoking? Everything would make sense. It would all make sense to talk about why smoking in society is harmful. Let us talk about why it is difficult for social security to finance the fact that some people in their lives choose to engage in harmful activities for their health. There would be a basis for this dialogue, this dialogue would be necessary, but at the moment we see that this is not the goal, this is not the important one, but we take an example, we take out a small segment and we talk about it. [[15.20]] Recalling the Prohibition Act, which was in the United States between 1920 and 33 in the United States, referring back to what my MSZP fellow Member mentioned earlier, how Ukraine feels about the strengthening of the black economy present in all markets in Eastern Hungary, it is obvious that it serves or does not serve the purpose set. In our view, this cannot serve or even cause additional damage to society in relation to the purity of public life, which should not be adopted in this way. I would like to thank myself, for once, for exercising the opportunity, by virtue of their right, to withdraw and give us a meaningful space to discuss this and to make a substantive decision that can help Hungarian society. Thank you very much.
u2014-11-26-150	I now give the floor to Congressman László Varju.
u2014-11-26-151	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, We are in a lucky position to negotiate three laws dealing with tobacco trafficking. Even if we are doing this in an illegal way, because we are discussing these important matters in isolation from the public, but it is clearly embarrassing for you, so the public has been effectively excluded from this. But in this case, as in the previous two laws, all good works will eventually be punished. Mr Szatmáry, in view of the debate on the previous two legislative proposals, I think you have sensed that there is a unanimous rejection of what you are doing on the side of the democratic opposition and of the opposition. I think it is better for you to see that there are not evil elves sitting here, but it is quite obvious that what you are doing is the redistribution of tobacco wholesale and retail trade, in which, let's say, you have experience. But you and your family have experience, because they do it in everyday operations, and they do it, so the effect of this, in itself, of adopting such a law, you will perceive it directly. I think that the biggest mistake we'd make would be to take seriously for a minute that they wanted anything, or they ever really thought that this special tax on health would have anything to do with it. It's not like that. You simply give your name to a fundraising activity, one part of which is a financial issue and the other part is purely political revenge. Is this because I don't know if there's any similarity between the two, I can't judge that right now, but I can't ignore the fact that I'm going to give you a little bit of the news the other day when the head of the wholesale chain, the head of the trading network, said that despite the orders given to the Fidesz Members? I mean, where studies and such had to be ordered specifically by one of the wholesale networks from their companies to recommend them? it was one of the worst investments of their lives, because compared to that, they got the total opposite of that. The fact that it is also here that, in this sense, there must be revenge, or that they were not satisfied with the performance of the service, in the system that you operate, anything can happen, and so, in fact, the secondary is that the price increase, which is the consequence of what you are about to submit, has what effect apart from the simple collection of funds. But this is part of the economic policy or the lack of policy they are doing, because they have not been able to make a substantial contribution to economic policy and growth in recent years, but, like the private pension fund, to ensure that the gluttony of the budget is resolved in some way. That's how you can spend money. Or we can even assume that since you have finally seen that you have no opportunity to make progress on the Internet, you need to find a new toy and take it from those who have money. To sum up, would I like to say once again that what has been tabled here under the title of the bill? Because I think you took it in his name? In that, essentially, a public authority violence appears. The adoption of this is a collection of funds that is clearly not eligible, because it has nothing to do with what you say as nice words. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare applause from the ranks of the MSZP.]]
u2014-11-26-152	I am asking my fellow Members if anyone else would like to comment on the debate. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see a candidate. The general debate is closed. I give the floor to Mr Szatmáry to respond to what was said in the debate.
u2014-11-26-153	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Let me start with the part in which we may agree, and that is the wording of the objectives, even if the majority of opposition representatives do not fully agree with its way. The question that has been repeatedly raised is why the person who pays, I can say, as I have already said in previous statements, that if we agree that smoking and the tobacco industry itself are wholly or partly responsible and engages in a very costly business at national level? Although I would not go to what Congressman Sallai has suggested here to ban smoking with a hussar cut, because we all know the American example of economic policy that it would not solve the problem, but in many cases only multiply it? In any case, if we agree with that, there is a gift. There is a gift that, as in the world, so in Hungary, the vast majority of this market is dominated by large international multinationals, both in terms of trade and production. Of course, it can be debated, as in other areas, in other areas, perhaps even with my better Members, in certain objectives, so it should also be said in this area that those who dominate most of the market on the basis of their gifts should pay more. You can argue that the numbers that are now 2.5 to 4.5 are good, but perhaps in principle we agree. On the other hand, I would like to say one thing and, generally speaking, to what has been said in this debate, that everyone is paying in this respect. So if the bill has been read, it is not about the fact that the proposal simply doesn't tax a single cast, and everyone else has to pay, and that's not what it is. The proposal, if you have read it, is clear from the fact that up to a certain turnover, which is the lowest bar, the company you mentioned here does not belong in this band, as far as I know, but if it belongs there, it is also not exempt from tax, because there is a minimum tax to be paid by everyone in this regard. With regard to the other issue, which concerns the possible reorganization, exit and jobs of the market, I can say for sure that they will not leave the market, at least in terms of the big ones. So the fact that you would leave the Hungarian market with the products of the two or four largest companies involved here is very unlikely. So in this respect, there is no such problem with respect to the employees or the company itself. [[15.30]] I didn't really want to mention this, but since my fellow Member Luke and then my fellow Member Varju here made comments concerning me or about my family, believe me that you do not have to believe everything the press describes. I'd close this case with that much. What is more important, however, from the point of view of the proposal, is the question of who is the real beneficiary of this proposal. Is that clear from the proposal, though, if? And now I'm gonna say it again? everyone pays, some pay more, some pay less, but since everyone pays less, and it is clear from the proposal that it can be used for health, I can clearly say that health, which is the winner of this discount. [[Dr. László Kács: Why doesn't he show up in the budget?]] Of course, a lot of questions have been raised, and sometimes I'm glad I'm not a lawyer, by the way, so I don't want to discuss Saxon mustaches here in Parliament. [[Dr. László Kács: But that was not the most important thing!]] I believe that, of course, everyone can have an opinion on specific social processes, everyone can have an opinion, and indeed must have an opinion, who is sitting here in Parliament, in terms of whether certain social subsystems, whether it be the tobacco industry, whether it is trade or any other area, how the government wants or wants to influence. I thank you for the fact that at least part of this proposal has been supported by many people to agree with its objectives, but I would ask my fellow Members in the MSZP, in particular, not to confuse people's health or the purpose of people's healing with political goals, because they are not the same. So if the proposal clearly includes the need to use the money for health purposes, even if you have doubts about how good or not this band solution is, then believe that it will be translated into health care. [[Dr. László Kács: Godproof? Let's put it in the budget.]] The question also arose as to why it was only for a year. I do not know whether this is an amendment to the general tax system, but I do know that there are items in the budget for next year that are, by the way, a one-off expense for the medical register, for example, the purpose of hospital debt settlement, which was set out in the health expenditure of next year's budget. It's a one-time edition that requires one-off revenues. All I could say at the end of this, perhaps, is that we hope that it will give some comfort to whether the money goes to the right place or not, of course, to sign this in a bill, that this money should be spent specifically on, not necessarily a legislative issue. [[Dr. László Kács: But in the budget, it would be!]] In any case, what I can say is that, of course, I myself have had discussions with the Prime Minister's Office and with the medical wallet on whether or not the costs from here could be signed. I have been promised that, if possible, we would like to use it to develop a hospital, a specific hospital. As a Pest and Budapester, I suggested that this be a hospital in Pest, for which we can spend this amount to develop. [[Dr. László Szakács: Aren't you going to be in Hódmezővásárhely? ? Noise, interventions in Jobbik's ranks: Why Budapest?]] There's a reason for that. I'd be happy to tell you why. Because health institutions in Budapest can benefit less from EU funding because of many others, but I hope that such a decision, which does not necessarily have to be formulated in the bill, will reassure those who would think that there is some other conspiracy behind it. So, in addition to current sources, the current budgetary health resources, can this translate into such a development, which really is? Again? the health-damaging effects of already smoked cigarettes will not be prevented by this bill, but I think that it is a socially eligible goal that will indeed ensure the improvement of Hungarian health care and better preparation of Hungarian healthcare to address the health-damaging effects caused by smoking. For this reason, I would like to thank you once again for the comments that support this goal, and I would like to ask you to give this bill so much confidence that it can really translate for a good purpose. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Dr. László Kács: Restance means something else! ? Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-11-26-154	Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Next up is the 2005 CLXIV on trade. a general debate on the proposed amendment of the Act to ensure fair market conduct in relation to the operation of undertakings until closure. The submission shall be made by T/2086. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I would like to inform you that the detailed discussion of this proposal will be conducted by the Economic Committee as a designated committee. First, I give the floor to Mr. Béla Glattfelder, State Secretary of the Ministry of National Economy.
u2014-11-26-155	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Trade in consumer goods has now become, in the first place, competition from different sales models rather than from companies with the same profile. The competitor of a grocery store operating in a family business is now not only a similar convenience store selling on the street next door, but rather a discount or hypermarket selling cheap products collected from all over Europe. It is well known that the globalisation of the sales network often involves the withdrawal of Hungarian quality products from consumer supply in the case of local products, or the forced commitment to sell price conditions below the production cost level in the case of Hungary. The current uniform trade rules apply to hypermarkets in the same way as small family businesses. In this completely free competition, networks of capital-powered commercial companies are constantly expanding, while more and more small shops are closing. The government aims to protect small and medium-sized enterprises in Hungary, while respecting EU standards. The government has put forward its proposals with these aspects in mind. Here's what these things are all about. Too many explanations do not require that the government intends to prohibit the creation of discount, large supermarkets and hypermarkets in world heritage areas in the metropolitan residential area in order to protect our cultural values. The proposal would also introduce a new provision that, if a company's net sales of daily consumer goods in the previous year exceed HUF 100 billion, it would have a dominant position on the market. This presumption of law does not in itself create any legal disadvantage unless the undertaking in some way abuses this dominant position, but at the same time creates a clear position for the monitoring of competition when investigating an infringement. Some commercial companies can afford to make losses for several years in order to reduce prices, making it impossible for small and medium-sized enterprises that cannot compete in the price competition, since they have to sustain themselves from profits. In view of this, the proposal would ban these companies from carrying out retail activities following the adoption of the report of the second financial year in the event of a loss-making operation with a certain turnover of HUF 50 billion. In their first four financial years, start-ups would be exempt from this, since they typically make one-off, high-value investments that are not covered by revenues in those years. The government's proposal is therefore aimed at countering the development of monopolies and thus also protects the interests of customers, since businesses and shops in monopoly situations would obviously be significantly more expensive. [[15.40]] Dear Parliament, The government's proposals therefore seek to address real problems, which are in line with the European Union's policy to support small and medium-sized enterprises. I therefore ask for the adoption of the bill. Thank you for your kind attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-11-26-156	Dear Parliament, It is now time for the speeches by its representatives. In the first round, the speech will be given by the lead speaker. I give the floor to Mr Kristóf Szatmáry, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2014-11-26-157	Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I think that the bill before us is at least as important, if not more important than the one discussed in the previous four to five hours, the tobacco industry and its various branches, see health care. Wouldn't I be more involved in this? [[Zoltán Pride: Why, are you a CBA?]] It's like the last one, since I used to work in it when I was a kid. [[Interventions from opposition parties. ? Demercation in the ranks of opposition parties.]] But let me add here that unfortunately these submitted proposals... I am proud of this, by the way, fellow Members; after a long debate, one can afford such personal contributions. When I was a kid, I had the pleasure of working on the other side of the counter in a small grocery store, so I know exactly what every segment of this market means, and also how this market has evolved in the last 25 years. I can say that with these proposals we are about 25 years too late. At some point, after the change of regime, the strong base, which is very strong and decisive, and which only ranks small and medium-sized enterprises in Hungary, should have been protected, strengthened and prepared in some way, for the expansion of the European Union's market, and for those serious competitors, who, for 25 years now, have sold nearly sixty percent of the Hungarian food market, if not more than sixty percent, by forcing very, many hundreds of Hungarian families from both ownership and other sides of the market. And how many questions this bill is trying to regulate, again, if you would allow us to see such historical perspectives here as in the previous Expoze. Today, we think of trade a little differently than the societies of a hundred, two hundred years ago. At the time, commercial rights were the main triggers of war. The position of those in a given trade has also been decided to rise and decline empires. In the current bill, I would like to say that there has been a serious attack and a serious press and other echo in the last few days and weeks. However, if you have, by the way, threatened to create or visualise any monopolies in relation to the previous items of the agenda, it is important to note that in the area which you have just submitted, which is intended to regulate in the field of retail or daily consumer goods, almost monopolies have actually developed that involve distortion of the market as a whole. If you just think that in the area of Hungarian daily consumer goods, the 60 percent is dominated by 3-4 large ownership circles, then if you think about the fact that the turnover of daily consumer goods in Hungary is now close to the annual turnover of HUF 4000 billion, then you can see how huge conglomerates, what huge centres have developed in this area. I recommend reading to those who would like to refer to state capitalist intervention in the market economy in connection with the regulation that has now been introduced, just to get into economic waters, Max Weber's work The Spirit of Capitalism, which is mainly about the fact that the greatest enemy of capitalism, which has emerged with the industrial revolution that has brought about the rise of Western civilization, is the formation of monopolies. Is he in this book? which is still intended for Protestant ethics, or is it based on this theory? It also states that, yes, it is the responsibility of the State to try to intervene in market processes by means of regulations where it is not impossible, or at least the smaller ones, trying to help the role and opportunities of the small ones, which give real competition. I think that this description is quite accurate for trade in Hungarian daily consumer goods. If we add that we have been talking about a growing market since 2013 and this year? is this market likely to grow by nearly 3 percent last year, even this year? We can see that the government is not trying to regulate a narrowing market with this proposal, it is trying to ensure a level playing field, it is trying to balance in some way, and we think that if a government has the opportunity to intervene in the trade market within the framework of the European Union at some point, this is exactly the time. Perhaps the most controversial point in the proposal submitted is that it would provide for companies selling daily consumer goods to carry on their activities only if they were not loss-making in two consecutive years. The question arises as to why this is necessary. Am I risking that statement? Having some knowledge of this market, by the way? that there is no long-term loss-making commercial activity. Well, it's not because long-term losers stop doing that. Therefore, there are three reasons why such a large commercial company is losing money. Is one of the most obvious ways and opportunities? because its headquarters do not operate in Hungary? to realize the results of his activities in Hungary somewhere else. I would not like to refer to current debates in the European Union today, but it may have realised this income earlier in Luxembourg, and it does not show any loss in Hungary. The other obvious explanation for why such a company may be loss-making in the long term is that, from the point of view of market acquisition, from the point of view of crowding out competition on the market, as it can, because it is a firm with a strong international background, it is selling below-price sales, i.e. it is loss-making until its neighbouring competitors are essentially executed, it will not destroy the small and medium-sized enterprises operating alongside it, and it will then turn to raising its prices in essence. [[15.50]] I wouldn't care about the third one because I could say that he doesn't know what he's doing, but I wouldn't assume that about the big chains that work in Hungary. So I think, by introducing a regulation that serves that purpose? And in the debate, is it still going to be discussed? In general, the investment is an activity that can lead to losses for companies in terms of profit or loss, but this is usually the case at the beginning of their operation, therefore the proposal submitted provides for the possibility that such a new start-up company should not have to comply with this activity in the first four years. Overall, I think that the proposal submitted would be a substitute, if it were possible to put it this way, that the Hungarian Parliament should have put in place regulations for small and medium-sized enterprises that are no longer in operation today, which remain in the market, and that, in addition to large international chains that are able to abuse their potential and potential, a very, very large number of successful small and medium-sized enterprises in Hungary should have remained in the market of trade, and these proposals, I say once again, are vital, and I think that we are committed here to a step that we are trying to help the vast majority of domestic businesses, to help the domestic market in a way that can result in a balanced trade of domestic daily consumer products that are balanced with opportunities. We therefore support the proposal and thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-11-26-158	I now give the floor to István Józsa, the lead speaker of the MSZP group.
u2014-11-26-159	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear fellow Member, My fellow Members, because there are more of them, although Mr Happy has just stood up so as not to increase the number of participants. I don't want to say happy-happy because Happy isn't here anymore. The national secretary of state mentioned in his introduction that, after all, the competition of sales models was examined as a professional basis for the proposal, and then they came to this proposal, some details of which were made by Mr Kristóf Szatmáry? earlier, as you said, for four years, the Secretary of State responsible for this? He explained it to me. It is true that in Hungary there are relatively uniform rules for both hypermarkets, large supermarkets, discount food shops and smaller, predominantly family-like shops. The legislation in force may not provide adequate protection because the same provisions generally apply uniformly to all types of business. In this free competition, it is reasonable that the position of the capital-powered networks is constantly secured, there is less movement as a result of market processes, there is generally an increase, while in the small ones there is a rather significant fluctuations, but at the same time the close of several small shops, in line with this, almost the same number, so it is a transformation that has been created as a result of market processes. [[In the notary seat, Erzsébet Schmuck is replaced by Ádám Mirkóczki.]] In any case, what the former Secretary of State has said is that about 60 percent of retail sales are involved in large supermarket chains, broadly in line with the rates in the region. There are more favourable rates, for example, in Poland, but the characteristic is about this 50-60 percent, which means the sum of large and small businesses. He said in his comment that Hungarian legislation was late with this type of regulation. It may be a little late, but the fact that this is the regulation that can protect the small ones on a market basis is of some concern. It is not certain that this regulation is; I could say in a somewhat redundant way that if it were, it would probably have come up with this as a secretary of state if it were the solution. It is not so clear that this would result in market and impact as stated here in the justification of the law. The proposal seeks to ensure protection for small and medium-sized enterprises in Hungary and to establish different rules for different types of business by referring to compliance with EU standards. Do you forbid certain types of business? discount, large supermarket and hypermarket? its operation in a world heritage area in a metropolitan residential area. This seems quite categorical in itself, because it may not be a good Hungarian example, but there are solutions in the world where larger stores of size have been solved in an environment appropriate to preserve the values of the built environment. Suddenly, I think of the Manezés in Moscow, where you can't even see from the outside what a huge store is built into the structure of the space, because it is largely hidden from the outer eye of the walker, but there are other examples that can be given. So it seems a little categorical. I accept that this must be tightened up to protect the historic environment, but thus choosing the zero solution may not be appropriate. This could be resolved by other regulatory means, in which the investor still has the market discretion to pay for the higher cost, because such an improvement is, of course, more costly than a greenfield investment. Of course, there are too many possibilities for greenfield investment, because you started by posting the construction ban on the country, so you are forbidden to invest? It was called a malltop. This is extremely popular for some time, but at the same time, seeing the economic development of their first two years, in the second year there was a sharp decline in GDP, this shows that it is not certain that such a highly categorical regulation is fortunate, because it has great limitations. It is also regulated that a company which accounts for more than half of its net turnover from the retail sale of a daily consumer goods and that its net turnover for two consecutive business years is equal to HUF 50 billion for each business year, but that the balance sheet result is zero or negative for both financial years, and that, following the adoption of the accounts of the second financial year, it may no longer engage in such retail sales. It's like, of course, you're protecting the little ones, the little one's allowed to lose money, and he's gonna decide for himself? As Kristóf Szatmáry said? the extent to which it carries out loss-making activities. At the same time, I do not know much of an example that, as you said, any business operator would have a permanent loss-making activity, since it is a stranger to the logic of the business. Companies engage in market activities in order to achieve results. [[16.00]] If there is such regulation, it could be a little more nuanced about the structure of the loss. Therefore, the proposal does not specify or examine why a company is losing money. It may be because of what you thought was obvious that you would realize your results elsewhere, in some tax haven, but this is not in the proposal. This should be differentiated in our opinion; so a little bit of regulation with such a small axe, that we will give it some form, but not in a particularly circumscribed way. There is an exception to this rule: an economic company for which this rule does not apply for the first four business years after its establishment, since in these years companies are still carrying out one-off, high-value investments that are not covered by current revenues, but are essential for the start-up of commercial activities and will return in the longer term. These four years are interesting here, too. In the case of investments linked to this type of real estate development, 6 years of return is already very good, so if 4 years are required, the business plan needs to be pretty tight, but it may be true that there is some requirement that divides this burden and would result sooner. It is not understandable why the newly established company is exempted from the obligation to operate profitablely for exactly 4 years, so we do not believe that this is supported by impact assessments, but these ideas may result in certain planned investments being missed. We also do not see that any estimate has been made that this economic development you consider to be stable, which, in our view, contains quite a lot of temporary effects, so that in a quarter of a year it exceeded 3 per cent, it is not certain that it can be considered stable; for example, such regulations could put the merits of a development at risk. It is also worth taking into account that larger supermarket chains employ an enormous number of people, thousands of people, I add, in a clear, so announced way, which provides a kind of protection for employees; and it is feared that these employees will be the first to feel any restrictions in this area. In the opinion of professional analysts, can certain chains gain a competitive advantage after the presentation or if it enters into force? I'm thinking about CBA, Real and Coop networks? Which, of course, is okay if the CBA doesn't specifically politicalize. When political inscriptions are put out in the window, it may not be a neutral attitude, and it may not be an economic policy approach, as you set up regulators to always favour the CBA. It would be better for the CBA to be able to buy more people based on its activity, quality, supply and quality. At the same time, I do not think that it is apparent in this proposal that the size-efficiency context has been examined. I am sure that, as Mr State Secretary said, there is a significant difference in sales models, but we also see that the benefits of territorial distribution to the small ones are that they are in the immediate vicinity of consumers, as well as a much more predictable price policy, better prices in Hungary and generally more stable quality assurance. We feel that this step can be worse for consumers, because if these rules are enforced in such a rigid way, the chains may also be forced to raise prices, which I do not think the proposal would have been aimed at putting small businesses in a position to push the big ones into a course to raise prices. In the government's view, the proposal is necessary because large supermarket chains are able to keep prices low even with loss-making operations, thus pushing domestic shops out of the market. This may not be correct when looking at the different operating models. Small ones sell in different fields or profiles than big ones. It is proposed that companies with turnover exceeding HUF 50 billion per year should not engage in daily retail consumption, i.e. they cannot sell if they are both loss-making in two consecutive years. This approach does not take into account what happened in 2008 and 2009 when a financial crisis swept the world. So, if there is a financial crisis, are you going to amend this law? In this sense, therefore, it seems rigid, because not only can a company lose money, but also a larger company, because it accounts for its results elsewhere, but also because of objective circumstances that its turnover is falling back. Overall, with a view to protecting the regulation of small and medium-sized enterprises, retailers, which are mainly owned in Hungary? say, asking the opinion of the VOSZ that compresses these units? It is possible to bring similar legislation before this House, but it is not, in our view, and it carries more risk than possibly a hopeful advantage, so we cannot support it in this form. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2014-11-26-160	I now give the floor to Dániel Z. Carpathian, the lead speaker of Jobbik's group.
u2014-11-26-161	Mr President, Dear House, Jobbik has not accidentally stressed on numerous occasions since 2010 that there are indeed multi-enterprises and members of multi-networks in Hungary that make a profit out of our country of a thousand billion-dollar magnitude by avoiding the tax, tax burden and tax liability involved in whole or in part, by using different techniques and practices to escape all or part of their profits into their home country, thus damaging both the Hungarian national economy and, quite simply, avoiding public burdens. It can be seen that there has been a year, as I said, that could have been worth HUF 4000-4500 billion, and if the government's goal is to catch something from this after several years of warning, then I can support this goal. The question is whether something in front of us contains a suitable set of tools for this. In my view, we do not necessarily have to, or at least have, a long debate on this. It can be seen that, combined with the mall stop and a significant increase in the food inspection fee, the government is thinking in a package when different measures are taken against these networks. I find the socialist approach that restricting these large chains can substantially change the Hungarian GDP data in a negative direction. It is clear that our primary economic interest is to increase the daily safety of Hungarian small business operators, the domestic small business sector and their employees, together with the fact that customers should not be at a disadvantage at the level of prices and consumer protection, let alone in absolute terms. However, it can be seen that weirdness arises with regard to the justification. They even talk about the cityscape and the disadvantages of the emergence of certain multi-public institutions in Hungary. True, that is true, but it seems a little late, at the same time, for regulation to think about the capital and the Demszky spree. Would it have been unthinkable to have a similar level of pluralization of the inner parts of the city in a self-respecting capital, or to think of my narrower country, Obuda, that it would have been impossible to carry out regulations or urban planning elsewhere? And it wasn't just socialist leadership? Where the whole service sector is relocated to the area of one or two malls. In other places, small businesses, small businesses, from upholstery through the grinder shop, virtually disappears, they are irresistible, and purchases are concentrated in two or three places that are opposed to the market hall, renovated for billions, such as the one around Kolosy Square, which has been beautifully renovated; two things are missing: sellers and buyers, since they have not sufficiently harmonised the processes that are fed by these renovations and many times from foreign sources. [[16.10]] It can be seen that this problem really needs to be dealt with in a system, up to the point that the network of so-called Chinese shops in the smallest settlements would, yes, be very useful for the benefit of Hungarian entrepreneurs. We're looking at partial solutions here. There are, by the way, a few of them that are eligible, so let's not say that what they have done to us is because they are pro-government, and we are opponents, they are useless and bad, because they are not. There must be a debate about the thousands of billion forints that damage Hungary, because the taxes that follow will be lost year after year, how to draw it into the Hungarian budget, and how to take the money from the work of Hungarian people that is now being used for others. However, what I do miss is that a 50-kilometer rule still does not appear in this proposal or elsewhere, that, yes, it is possible to give preference to locals in such a way that, in the course of the transformation of public procurement or public catering, I choose the local one, or I do not let 2800 kilometers of carrots travel if there is a Hungarian producer and production nearby. So, thinking about it in a system, these very important conditions could be added. Jobbik is not afraid that foreign networks dealing with food trafficking would leave Hungary in bulk, but we need to see that it is in our primary interest that Hungarian businesses, Hungarian small entrepreneurs, perhaps not even Hungarian business chains, but Hungarian small businesses, which, by the way, account for about two thirds of the jobs at national level? Is this really an important two-thirds? They'll get all the support they can get. So I'm gonna say this again, from the Balliberal side, that poor foreign chains are unspeakable, in my opinion, not true, but the press reports we've had so far do not support this. It was Spar that announced that it would postpone some of its investments, and if, let's say, we go through world heritage sites, then there will be a subsequent closure or relocation of one of the plants in Batthyány Square, so there will be sporadic news and initiatives about them. At the same time, interesting things have been left out of the bill, and I hope that Mr Secretary of State will respond to something in this regard. In the press earlier, were there huge storms surrounding what is called Tesco-style buses? Now, regardless of the chain, what do we call them? how the author or government intends to do so, if not impossible, but at least put the Hungarian small entrepreneur in a position not to be pushed down even with this, and not to go to the Hungarian small unit because foreign networks with a dominant position and economies of scale are likely to put the Hungarian buyer at a disadvantage by similar clever means, perhaps even by violating the requirements of various advertising, perhaps by hitting the border, but by any means. Therefore, it is also worth finding out why this is almost entirely excluded from the proposal. We should answer the question of why their suppliers are treated differently by international food retail chains in Eastern Central Europe and why they are treated differently a little further west, because it is obvious that this dominant position, given by multi-networks, may be seen in all European countries. However, this degree of vulnerability, which is not only met by the Hungarian customer, because there are still amazing consumer maladministration in the stores, but also by the Hungarian supplier and the Hungarian small entrepreneur, is perhaps unprecedented in the world. We can safely say that the speaker mentioned here, and perhaps the rapporteur, that sales below the purchase price are a form to be reduced. However, here in Parliament it is stated that it has been forbidden to use such tools for many years. Rather, we see that the old classic instruments, which sell and collect shelf money below the purchase price, are in decline and typically have developed new types of, much trickier or even opaque forms of transfer. But what has to be seen is that what the government has been trying to impose on this sector has actually been passed on to consumers without exception, it has been incorporated into the prices, and no consumer protection tool system has been developed either by this cabinet, by its predecessor or by the public supervisory system in order not to hit the dust on customers. However, in the previous term it was Tamás Gaudi-Nagy who fought him out and, as one of the very few opposition amendments, managed to increase the level of fines that could be imposed on similar multinationals due to consumer problems. At the same time, we see that despite the fact that this amendment has gone through, they are not really using it. It is now possible to punish up to 1 percent of the annual turnover in a new direction, but obviously this is only theoretical in recent years. So once again, it's not sales below the purchase price and it's not shelf money that's typical now, so it's not worth fighting just and only against them. It is worth taking a look at the authorities' investigations, and we note that there are typical cases where a condition resulting in unilaterally beneficial risk-sharing is included in the contract, so this is at the expense of suppliers, as appropriate, and it is not certain that he would sign such a contract on his own. Such a case is also the case where it is stated that only one party has the right to withdraw from the contract, or when a noticeably high penalty or unreasonable time limit is imposed. Obviously, it is not the Hungarian small businessman's choice to sign this. It can be seen that many times the authorities have examined cost items which would initially be charged to the trader, but a contract is signed that this will be further processed. For example, the costs associated with the establishment and operation of the business, but there was also a contract, where the cost of transport from the central warehouse to the store was also charged to the supplier, while the ownership of the goods had long since been transferred to the trader. So here we are in a pre-account but post-acceptance state when it would be totally forbidden to use similar instruments. There it is only fantasy that sets the limit when, for the services actually not performed, different faces are imposed on the small businessman, supplier, multi-store chain or head or local manager, because you can see that here, starting at the cooling fee, at different bonuses, or even in addition to the electronic order fee, even the actions in which suppliers would not otherwise have participated at their own request have been included, and they have to pay for the fact that, let's say, their products appear on the main store's internet site and become available for purchase, while similar charges would be strictly forbidden to be charged to Hungarian entrepreneurs, whether they have been transferred to Hungarian consumers. It can also be seen that there are systemic solutions such as the reverse VAT system, in many sectors, much more than is already mentioned here within the walls of Parliament. The launch of a series of consumer raids would also offer very, very good results, but for some reason we are at a point where the government is holding parts, trying to move forward with some kind of action plan, but not necessarily thinking about the consequences. In our case here and now, we are clearly faced with a problem-solving attempt where the problem can be seen, thousands of billions of forints that are taken out of the country by circumventing public burdens, yet the solution proposal does not guarantee that up to 10 percent of this could be taxed in Hungary, and that the revenue from this can be kept in Hungary. Moreover, no framework ensures that the minimum burden thus generated is not incorporated into prices or passed on to consumers. So we could calmly and calmly support a similar bill, so that if these problems and weaknesses were to be cleared up, and we could have clear guarantees that the legislator sees the problem, and if he intervenes, he will always do so and in all respects for the benefit of the Hungarian small entrepreneur and the Hungarian buyer. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2014-11-26-162	I now give the floor to Congressman Sallai R. Benedek, the lead speaker of the LMP Group.
u2014-11-26-163	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, In the LMP, we have examined and reviewed the full proposal in detail, and I can say that basically with the aims of cutting out international food chains, reducing capitalism and globalising critical ideas, it is very easy for the LMP to agree on the policy, but unfortunately, with the previous speaker, I can say that this legislation does not meet the goals that would help this to happen in many respects. [[16.20]] Let me draw attention to the fact that, at the moment, there are a number of cancer plagues of Hungarian society, one of which has been mentioned several times today, a single-key tax, which does not provide an opportunity to reduce the disruption of society. It would be necessary for people to simply make more money. What is needed is that market interest and trends in the food market are not fundamentally price preferences, and it should not matter in Hungarian society how cheap it is, because at the moment, this social aspect is the determining factor in the vast majority of our consumption habits, and this is what should be changed in order for such a step to be taken. In the event that we succeed in achieving that, as the Hungarian economy grows, the Hungarian people make more money, take more money home and have the opportunity to choose healthy local food against cheap mass production, I would say that this proposal would be fully justified and it would be worth discussing in many respects in order to protect national economic interests. But at the moment, the vast majority of our consumption habits and the majority of Hungarian society? Which I think pretty much everyone has to admit? the price preference is the determining factor, and it does matter how much they get what they get. Unfortunately, it appears in the shops that you want to hit the most, and there is an opportunity for people to get cheap food. This isn't the right way. I am not happy either that it matters to people, but at the same time it should be seen that, on the basis of the tax data for 2012-2013, if we look at the current legislative proposal, Tesco, Auchan, Spar, Aldi and Metro should close around the country. About whether this is a legitimate objective or not, this can be debated, I myself say that this can be a subject of debate in many ways. But as long as Hungarian food production is not strengthened so that we can ensure the market access of producers with local food, as long as local food production is not strengthened in such a way that these foods are largely present in each food chain, there are legitimate problems here. Because if the same lousy mass food is sold by CBA, Coop or Real, which is less than 400 sq m, only more expensive than Tesco, then it is important to consider whether the goal that I want to achieve by winning the market is legitimate. If it does not appear that food of higher quality appears in one store than in the other, I can even say very, very many small businesses in small villages, who, unfortunately, in the Metro and such places are purchasing the supplies necessary for their retail activities, and these retailers will also be subject to this proposal. I do not agree that this is true, and I would appreciate it if it were not. I would like to see Hungarian food production strengthened and there could be local, healthy food everywhere. But now, in the current practice, is this once again a slightly elephant in the porcelain shop a category of legislation, when, in practice, we present a proposal to which, without examining the merits of the effects? Like the previous proposals? its goals are easy to agree with a globalization critical party, such as the May Other Politics, but obviously there are a number of concerns about its implementation. One of the concerns is that the size of the plant you prefer or preferred by law is like the number seven in Hungarian folk tales with the seven-headed dragon and the various phenomena of this kind in fairy tales, that it always returns and returns. These limits have returned at the food inspection fee, these chains have returned in the current process at the malltop law, where we have also handed them over over over 400 square meters or have not yet been handed over, but we will hand over all the provisions to the Hajdú-Bihar County Government Office. Is this the size limit displayed by KDNP? I still can't welcome any of your Members to Parliament? in its proposal to keep the weekend closed. This means that the government wants to prefer some business size, some business structure. I think that this may be, a government can do that to prefer it in some ideology or in any interest. But if that doesn't reach the goal, then it doesn't make sense, because the problem is that I understand the purpose that Fidesz is saying, but I'm not convinced that it can serve that purpose. Obviously, there is always a question of whose interest it might be or why such a proposal might be made. Obviously, it is not enough to look for ideological foundations, and if Max Weber was quoted by the author, then the problem is that the former governments, not only did David C. Korten not read them, but they were not aware of the nature of capitalism. But it's like nothing else matters here, so it doesn't matter that people don't have money for better-quality food, they can't buy more expensive food, it's just these principles that I'm telling you have a legitimate background, and it's possible to argue about how to become the world ruler of the capital companies. Or anything like that? It is not certain that this draft legislation can serve this purpose. The impact on consumers has also been investigated by our experts. It has been considered that even within the justification, it is not possible that these restrictions would be necessary because hypermarkets and discount rates would have been competitive in view of the lower level of service. The truth is, this statement is not real. Unfortunately, this is a lie of existence from which the CBA feeds, which is about the same level that the players in Hungarian football are soothing themselves that we are now bad because the track was not good, and the grass fibers and all that. So it's not true. Unfortunately, it is simply necessary to note that Tesco offers a lot of other better quality services, offers better quality products, and this also contributes to its market advantage. Another question is that it can brazenly abuse its market advantage, but then it must be prevented from misuseing its market advantage rather than fully liquidating it. The CBA and all such chains are also at the forefront of how to destroy local producers. The CBA has been at the forefront of shelving shelving, say, local milk, and then we are surprised that Hungarian dairy producers want to go to the border to cover milk. If we do not correct these regulations, we cannot achieve the goal that we want to serve. People see or still find it interesting from a consumer point of view that it is absolutely not true that this proposal would do anything to increase the quality of service. Not only will it not rise, it will be dangerous in the coming years. I think already on November 18th, Spar announced that it was shutting down its development. This news appeared in HVG that virtually all developments were stopped. How will consumer concerns and interests prevail if development policy objectives are not achieved in business chains at the moment, because at the moment some people are afraid of the economic impact of this? Let me draw attention to one more thing from a social point of view. My colleague and colleague drew attention to the fact that there are workers' rights which have been unfairly regulated by the New Labour Code, which have been very, very detrimental to trade workers. The truth is that there is no one who can tell us how the current draft law affects the labour market or even other related markets and cannot even guess the impact of profitability. It is certain that workers are particularly vulnerable to the large ones in trade, so if, for example, workers' rights were strengthened to the level before 2011, they could benefit the small ones, and there would be a solution that could actually strike the big ones in a way that would serve social goals better. It should be possible for commercial workers who are in employment to make better money and have more workers' rights. There could be much more food from domestic producers in these large trade chains. They could be used for something, if they're already here as resources, instead of aimless destruction. So, overall, we understand the objective, we can agree with part of it, we can support certain elements of it, but at the same time, the kind of regulation that explicitly favours a group of interests, like the tobacco laws, while making others impossible for moral reasons of concern and social concerns. Is it very, very important for the author to think? who represents the Hungarian electorate in Parliament with a very high level of social legitimacy? on the question: Is it in the interest of the people? Is it in the interests of many voters at the moment to strengthen one size while destroying cheap food suppliers? Because I'm me? What did I say? I agree with the globalization critical goal that they are setting out, but at the moment in Hungarian society, especially in rural areas, we have seen in several places that people have shown signatures for the appearance of such a store. You want me to tell you that much? Did I mention that? I'm from a small town of 10,000 from the Great Plain, where in the early nineties there were 23 convenience stores. We were talking to one of the bakery owners this weekend about three of the 23 convenience stores currently available, and instead there's a Coop, there's a CBA, and there's a Tesco. [[16.30]] But the convenience stores didn't close when Tesco came, but long before Coop and CBA got stronger because the circumstances were different. In retail? is it where Congressman Szatmáry could have gained his life experience and I am pleased that there are representatives here in the ranks of Fidesz with such life experience? This will not help retailers who have been identified as target groups, but, unfortunately, the larger business chains that have also been working against retail in the past. For this reason, I would like to ask you to consider the implementation of the proposal, perhaps to consider whether this is a really good objective. And if there is openness, perhaps together we should look for ways to serve this goal differently. Thank you very much.
u2014-11-26-164	Ladies and gentlemen, We have reached the end of the speech. I now give the floor to Congresswoman Zsuzsanna Szelényi of the independent Members.
u2014-11-26-165	Thank you very much. When I came to the Chamber, I was in the elevator with one of the Fidesz MEPs who resented the negotiation of tobacco laws in three items. He said it was safe to negotiate, because they're all about the same thing, the same thing. Well, I also think that this bill fits into this series. Do I have a déj? I have a vu feeling about what is happening here with the supermarket chains in Hungary. It's not the first time we've seen this process we call, say, the Fidesz method. We've seen this before, that's exactly what they did to the banks and then to all kinds of other sectors. A huge special tax has been imposed, all kinds of other brutal regulatory procedures have been put in place to reduce their value. Indeed, it does not necessarily have to be ruined, as Mr Szatmáry said, it is enough for them to just knock you down so that the state or the business players close to the state can buy these destroyed companies cheaply. Even when it came to that? The energy suppliers, the tramps? It was the same text, the fight against multinational companies and the fierce representation of Hungarian interests, although it is obvious that this is not the case. It's not that. It's just that you want the benefit for yourself. [[Zoltán Grimlock: Sure. I get it.]] As I said, the Fidesz method is a somewhat similar story with the Trafiks, the energy suppliers, the banks, the pension fund. The problem with this is that not only do the various benefits that come in the pockets of the billionaires of Fidesz, but also that people have far more expensive access to food, soap, tobacco, internet and banking services. And Fidesz's nearby businesses, which have all been put in the position of these proposals this afternoon, are skimming off the profits. Orbán spoke years ago about the establishment of a national capital class. Let's name things. That's obviously what we're talking about right now. Of course, I am not talking about putting the national capital class in position, but I simply call the phenomenon of corruption that you are practicing, the method of which is to artificially eliminate competition from force, select companies, put it in a position of protectionism, strengthen it well, and then lean on it. That's what a special tax is about, that's what Sunday's closed. The special tax in our case is now something called a food inspection fee. This is what the ban on Tesco flights or the reference to world heritage is about, or the most amazing provision in all of this is the compulsory closure of loss-making companies, as my fellow Member Józsa has already said very well here, what an amazing absurdity this is. Whichever one of these losses is going to shut down on its own, that's the logic of the business. This law, as I said, is yet another embodiment of the Fidesz method. This thigh, this package, this regulatory medley, let me put it this way, show it to me. Maybe some of it might be justified, but your specialty is to do it together, and in the end, you hit a big one to really make different companies impossible and move the money elsewhere. Several people here have been talking about the protection of small companies. Honestly, I don't understand this, because it is quite obvious that they are the beneficiaries of this proposal before us? As many people here have named the child by their names? Real, CBA and Coop. It is quite clear that these rules are tailored to them. We are not talking about many, many thousands of small groceries, we are simply talking about building and putting other food chains in position. That is what these proposals are about. Everything? What we've been talking about so far, and what this discussion was about, by the way, surprisingly? more important is what this means for people. The elimination of the competition that many people bring in here in this room, what's it really about? It's about the fact that the goods here are obviously going to be more expensive. Money matters to everyone. Is the world about the race? In a clearly meaningful way? It's good for you, it's good for you, it's good for you, it's good for you, it's good for you, it's good for you, it's On the other hand, this is obviously not going to happen, and it is expected that prices will increase in these shops, in the chains that are now in position, because they are still selling for more expensive prices. Will another very important effect be that the present tens of thousands of people who work in these larger supermarket chains? Is this about 50,000 to 60,000 people who work in these seven big chain stores? A significant part of these, if the shops close, is obviously on the street. It is highly unlikely that Real, CBA and Coop will be able to absorb thousands of people's workforce in no time with any state help. That's highly unlikely. So, people are gonna lose their jobs, prices are gonna be more expensive, and there's still a third very important prospect. In particular, if you look at Hungary's map of the location of the stores of the various supermarket chains, you can see that in those parts of the country, in those rural and poorer parts of the country, which are primarily in East and South Hungary, these are the cursed multinationals that opened a store, not Real, Coop and CBA, because they like to open a shop in downtown Budapest, where goods can be sold at high prices. Therefore, it is also expected that, in addition to the increase in prices and the dismissal of people, there will be fewer businesses in those parts of the country where it is more difficult to buy food anyway. I think that the fact that this is for Hungarian companies, producers, customers is obviously not true because of what has been said. We are simply talking about the construction and construction of new monopolies and other monopolies. I must say, I was impressed by your discussion, Mr Satmary, of the monopolies. You must know very well what these mean, because we are talking about the construction of monopolies. I think they're companies under cannon fire? which, by the way, are the largest employers in this sector, selling the cheapest goods, and selling the goods of a large number of Hungarian producers, is somehow not included in the discussion, that they also sell the goods of Hungarian suppliers? they are in competition, in competition with each other, in competition with Hungarian-owned companies, and that is obviously your problem. This is the real question of whether there is competition in Hungary today, which can keep prices low or not. If there is no competition, food will be more expensive, and it will be harder to get to them. You guys, we know you don't like competition. Fidesz doesn't like the race. Fidesz companies produce low-quality goods expensively, just as Fidesz is leading Hungary today, with poor quality. You love central power monopolies. That's what two thirds have been doing for almost five years. I think that today the Hungarians are becoming more and more aware of what the Fidesz method is about, what the Fidesz State is about. It is no wonder that more and more people are constantly on the streets, and people do not like centralised monopolies and centralised corruption. That's why they're protesting on the street. I think that this current bill, a series of proposals, is also about what everything is about: centralised corruption and the creation of central monopolies. Obviously, this law cannot be supported. Thank you very much. [[16.40]]
u2014-11-26-166	Now it is possible to make two-minute comments. In this context, I give the floor to Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát.
u2014-11-26-167	Mr President, Dear House, I had the intention of responding to one or two of the government's speeches in the main speaker's round and to my fellow Member of the LMP, but what was said here by our independent fellow Member, in my very amazing view. Talking about eliminating competition in a national economy where there has not been any competition in precisely this multisectoral sector in the last decade and a half is quite annoying. It is clear that we should not have talked about trading below cost then, should not have taken out the shelves, should not have extended the limits of the fine. I have now also discovered in my main speakers about eight types of consumer maladministration, which clearly proves that this was not only about the mutilation of competition, but also about the economies of scale and other advantages of foreign networks, by suppressing Hungarian suppliers and small entrepreneurs in such a way that they gave undue external effects to Hungarian consumers and customers in such a way that it is simply necessary to act against them. I accept from you that this is not necessarily the right method of action; the instrument system of this can be debated. But to claim that there has been a well-functioning competition here so far, which kept prices low, which are now loose, is simply untenable professionally. Yes, protectionist methods can be applied in a national economy. Imagine that in France winery is protected by consumer protection rules in order to prevent the introduction of goods from Germany and to protect the local market and the local economy. All European countries use it. So do not try to take debates in the Hungarian Parliament in such a way that Hungary does not defend its own market, its own producers. And I still find it unacceptable to hear such suggestions when, I say, thousands of billions are being taken out of the country untaxed, and with reference to mere competition, no one should legalise such a situation in Hungary. I do not say that the government is going in the right direction, and I do not want prices to get out, or that Hungarian jobs and suppliers are at risk, but I say that the situation so far is unsustainable and that there is a need to intervene. Thank you. [[Dr. Gábor Staudt applauds.]]
u2014-11-26-168	I now give the floor to Congressman István Happy for two minutes.
u2014-11-26-169	Mr. President. Honourable Members, Z. Carpathian spoke from my heart except for Daniel's last few sentences. So I would no longer answer to the many things that you have raised and which I think you are not right at all. Congressman Józsa, I see that Pakson got the $6 billion for his sense of humor, not just for good welding. I've been waiting to see when you're going to turn your speech into why you don't support this proposal, and in the end, this thing just came out. In fact, it came up at LMP, and we're supposed to be anti-business, not supporting small businesses. I disagree: throughout the whole budget debate, they talked about not supporting small businesses. We've just made a suggestion that we can take advantage of the little ones, because that's exactly what it's going to do for the little ones on some level, or medium-sized shops. They also say we don't support the little ones. I'm sorry, but he's gonna support a lot of small businesses. I have to say, for example, the Real chain is the supplier of a lot of family businesses, so they work together. It works for us, too. So you shouldn't condemn a store network if you take family businesses into it, you can run them. And it is especially good that after two years, companies that operate at loss must be eliminated. Because I don't believe they'd stop working. If, by the way, my dear fellow Member, they're gonna stop if they're losing money, then why does it hurt if we end these two years now? Well, if they're gonna stop anyway, then two years doesn't matter. It is important to conclude, because however we have made all kinds of laws, that we should not push prices below the purchase price, everyone can see that they are selling at prices such as Tesco and other large supermarkets that are already below the producer price. Let's at least be honest here, between us. There are a lot of items below the producer price. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2014-11-26-170	I now give the floor to Congressman Zoltán Gögös in a normal time frame.
u2014-11-26-171	Thank you very much, Mr President, for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, Representative Kristóf Szatmáry, Minister of State, said that the monopoly is the main enemy. I agree with that. They're just making a monopoly right now. They want me. They can't, by the way, but they want to. It must be clearly seen that this regulation is about strengthening a Fidesz-friendly chain at the expense of someone, which operates in the same way as those who have received the increased tax as those who are being shut down as being banned from the historic environment, with one exception that they operate in a franchise system and that their income does not come together. Congressman! The CBA has exactly the same distribution depots as Tesco. They're exactly the same size! And interestingly, so far, their only partner has had billion-dollar VAT fraud, at least what we know. Interesting store fires, burnt cash registers. We have not known since 2001 whether there was a connection between the two, for example, the tax fraud in Abda and the fire in Pesterzsébet. I probably did, but all I get is that they can't keep me informed of an ongoing investigation. How long are you going to investigate this? Still, I'd ask if you've been chasing me around here with different taxes and stuff...? You're not chasing anything like that. There's a circle they're not chasing, and they're gonna give you a huge advantage. But I have some bad news: despite the fact that they are using absolutely non-European methods here, because I have never seen anything like it, and I would ask, say, István Happy, how would you feel about building a house in a historic environment and breaking down four years later that we are sorry, but we have changed the terms. Because that's what's happening here. It is not that they will not allow us to create a world heritage area, but that they will have to be closed by 2015. You should have told me that when you let them work. There's no such thing in Europe. And this is dangerous because it will alert investors coming to Hungary at a level that they will not really know what to do with. Now, the loss of two years: if this had been used before, there would be no car factory in Hungary. In the period of crisis, all car factories, not in Hungary, in Europe, but in the world, have been loss-making for almost two years. If a person knows a little about the economy, he knows that until a loss can be dealt with at some level, with some kind of banking background, it only exists on paper, otherwise it has no particular role in the operation. This means that it really cannot be financed after 2-3 years. That's why it's incomprehensible why we have to do this with violence now. I'm asking the opposite of why you have to say that. He's gonna close in two years if the loss is real. However, one has to know this: when it comes to international networks, within the international network, this happens also to be true of the banking system, they pumped very, very much money into banks, Hungarian banks and mother banks to survive certain periods. So I would not use methods that are sure to be incompatible with European principles and normal market economy principles. You've talked a lot about it here, haven't you? It's connected to the custody fee. Now it looks like I'm going to press 30 billion on this sector in a low voice. I think it's gonna be more, because if we count just a little bit, there's only one company that can have this tax of up to 30 billion, which is likely to cost me a loss, and then I'm gonna close it. That's very direct einstand, quite on purpose. I don't think that's appropriate. You know what's useful? What usually works in Europe is that the supply chain and the distribution chain are trying to agree. Or, let's say, the whole range is in one hand, because it can be done. There are also examples of cooperative-type similar systems. I would rather go in this direction, and not in the direction that it is obviously a given... - not one, because there are supposed to be three beneficiaries here, but I would like to indicate that the other two are not quite like the multinationals, because there is an opportunity for individual shops to purchase independently. By the way, CBA doesn't have it, so I'd like to signal it. So that's why I don't understand that it's okay to do it, but then don't be discriminatory. Because from here on out, it's not about protecting Hungarian interests, it's about protecting a piece of company. And that's how long they've been before the change of regime for the grocery store, and now there's gonna be CBAs. It's just, you know, it's not automatically gonna be the 3.60 bread time. [[16.50]] That's the problem! 'Cause if he comes, I'm gonna tell him it's the best of the worlds. It's just not gonna happen. It's gonna be one who can do whatever he wants. And if someone asks the Hungarian producers who they prefer to deliver to in Hungary today, to the chain of shops that call themselves Hungarians, or to the others, then I have bad news, fellow Members, because I am in the circle where they are talking about them: the business chain that you prefer is indifferent. Because he doesn't pay by deadline, he was just as rubbish with shelf money, or he's even worse than the others, he exploits the Hungarian producer, he shoves it in the mud, so that they can have yachts on the Adriatic. If someone doesn't notice that, they don't want to see what it's about. Do you know what's going on here? Another slice of high-level state corruption! They're pumping resources and markets into a certain circle, and they're waiting for something back. Obviously, if you have to go to a concert in New Zealand, you need money, you have to finance it from somewhere. And I suppose there are circles who are willing to fund that. So I would be very careful not to use such laws to interfere with normal market systems. What's the end of this? It will end up with a tax, which, by the way, is a VAT... Whatever they say, it's VAT, it's just a worse VAT, because it can't be reclaimed. So a traffic-type 6-percent tax cannot be treated lightly. Moreover, the claim that this will improve food safety is completely false. If you look at the budget, the Nebih has 8.4 billion, 4 billion of which are subsidies. All the others have their own income. So the 30 don't go there, but they'll spread out somewhere, so to speak, within the state administration, where there's obviously a level of food security. You just know what's wrong? When this large system was made, for which I was almost killed by my fellow Members Font at the time that we put food safety together, they did not put it together, but put together the entire Hungarian administration. Where you know what the first step was? They took the new cars from the vets, gave them 300 kilometers to operate. Then we expect food safety to be good. Meanwhile, scumbags feed children anthrax cow meat! That's the end of it! Because this system is a dead system. The one thing that works is the Central Commando of the Nébih. We put the $30 billion in it. I wonder, say, Mihály Varga, who referred to this on ATV, whether he would vote in favour of this amendment. Because that would make sense. It would make sense for the garbage to be filtered out. But I have some bad news. The trashiest Brazilian chicken was brought in by CBA. He tricked her into making frozen ice cream. Fortunately, this was banned by the European Union. Not us, but the European Union. He forbade us from playing games like this. 'Cause of course the poor man buys the cheap butt-back. Even if it's purple, because it costs 80 forints a kilo. So this is the problem, ladies and gentlemen, that they are not going to what is important, but to how they can make money for a circle of friends again. That's what this is about. The six percent tax, the one who has to pay, won't be able to swallow it. You'll have to raise your price. Unified, probably. What's going on? The favorite chain of stores will raise only 4 percent, and he will be the good guy; it's true that it will be pure money for him. Because he doesn't pay anything. So that's what this is about? I'm gonna say it again? I'd be very protective of you. If they'd been out on the street, they'd have seen the reaction if they'd seen one of those three-letter shops. 'Cause this is the top of everything. You shouldn't do this at this level. You shouldn't be doing this. I would very, very much like to have less capacity to supply Hungary. But as long as 80 percent of customers in Hungary go to these shops, it is possible to try to transform people, because dictators have tried to do so in a lot of places, but they may not succeed. So wouldn't the goal be, say, from my side of the industry, to try to serve them? Obviously correct, and not by abuse of their power. Otherwise, if the Hungarian suppliers were more organized than they were organised in the Netherlands, Denmark, Germany, there would be no question that any anti-multilateral legislation would be needed. Because they can't enforce their power if they're facing the same organized producer and supplier circle as they are. I think it should be on this side, we should continue, we should agree with them, as time goes by with the melons, the apples, something else. Well, not with the milk, because there's supposed to be VAT fraud, but someone's gotta be worth it, so they're not gonna get it. Just because two tanks are caught doesn't mean that UHT fraud will stop. That's gonna stop if they take the VAT down. So I'm gonna tell the former Secretary of State in charge of this area that it's not the right direction. 'Cause what's important here is that the characters on the field agree with each other. But it is not possible to agree that stores are obviously trying to push this price increase back on suppliers in the first place, because it has already started, and this kind of regulatory circle, which is clearly market-destructive. It's perfectly clear. At the time, I hadn't told you about the opening hours on Sunday, which is the brilliant idea of our Christian brothers, but they didn't ask anyone again. I mean, you should ask people. Adult people live in Hungary. They're not like sheep and sheep that can be controlled. That's what you want. That's why there won't be any normal education, so there won't be anything. Now slowly... [[Kristóf Szatmáry's intervention.]] Don't tell me about Germany and Austria. In Germany, a family of four gets up, they go to lunch together, probably a part of them goes to church before him and then to lunch. But pay for this in Hungary with the minimum wage for a large family! Maybe you can pay for it. Maybe I am, too. But that is not the problem with the Hungarian family! It's that you have to take a leak for your dad and your mom this weekend so they don't starve to death. That's the problem! And not going to church, there's no time. Because they have to work, either there or somewhere else. It's not the demagogy I'm telling you. It's what you want. That's demagogy! We should try to make a real living first. But it's not gonna work, and it's not gonna work with these laws. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2014-11-26-172	I now give the floor to Congressman Font Sándor in a normal time frame.
u2014-11-26-173	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. I'm just wondering what Zoltán Grimlock wanted to talk about. Because he opened a pretty wide repertoire. [[Zoltán Grimlock: It's a general debate, isn't it?]] I would like to reject some of the ideas of your speech, which accuse us and criticise our presentation. [[Zoltán Grimlock: Go!]] A serious mistake is to compare the possible negative business results of a production company requiring applied research and basic research, such as the Mercedes plant, which can make a major technological development today at all, because it produces products, well, comparing such a business with a commercial enterprise, which is now in the law, is a serious mistake! They buy and buy every day, they buy and sell for the first time, and then they give, and they realize the difference between buying and selling as a profit. This is such a serious mistake that if you know a little about economics, you wouldn't dare. [[Zoltán Pride: Yes!]] This may sound very good in front of those TV viewers who accidentally caught this sentence from Zoltán Grimlock. [[Zoltán Grimlock: No TV broadcasts, feel free to speak!]] Well, look what the Fidesz is up to in this case, because Mercedes wouldn't have been able to have this title in Hungary if it was the result of the closure for companies with two years of negative results. [[Zoltán Grimlock: I didn't say we'd close it!]] So don't give such a serious slide and economic nonsense as a basis for discussion and comparison! That's part of it. And the other part is, please, let's get back to the material to be discussed. [[Zoltán Grimlock: That's what I'm talking about, Sanyi!]] So here's a series of accusations that we've come to Nébih, a product fee and all kinds of taxes, and the unfortunate family who can't go to lunch after the Sunday church, I guess neither the viewers nor my fellow Members are tired of these lines of thought. Let me get this straight. By some miracle, these commercial companies have a minimum or, in most cases, a loss in their annual turnover of billions. [[How much for CBA, Sanyi?]] This has not yet occurred to anyone how it can be between the price of the product purchased and the price of the product sold. [[Zoltán Grimlock: Rascals, all of them!]] is it usually a positive number, since there is a law against selling below the purchase price? [[Zoltán Pride: It's a fact!]] Mr. Congressman, former Secretary of State, you know that, don't you? [[Zoltán Haughty: I know that!]] So it can't be in the first place, it's just a positive balance on this sale. [[Zoltán Gőgös: This is also economic nonsense!]] Do I know that there are operating expenses and employee payments? But isn't it suspicious that these billion-dollar businesses are losing money every year for some reason? [[Zoltán Pride: But which one is it? None of them are. Which one is it, Sanyi? Tell me!]] [[17.00]] Isn't that suspicious? Did it not occur to you that, when the auditors looked at the reasons for this, that they were unable to realise a profit in excess of the terrible traffic, there was, among other things, an item about Hungary that could be detected? And the rest of the country, by the way? describes to the parent company a fee for the use of a name or title. In English: if it seems that they are already profitable or very profitable, a huge amount of money will be transferred back to the company in the mother country, let's say under the title of name use, thereby exempting themselves from the obligation to pay taxes, perhaps even turning themselves into negative ones, does not bother them. Well, actually, these are the problems that should be discovered someday, and we're gonna say what we can't do here with the arctic spicy one. He can't do it by putting up with two years more expensive purchases and selling cheaper, and for some reason he doesn't feel bad about it, and he's doing it out of some goodness to consumers that it's okay that I'm losing money, but I can do it for up to two years. You can't do that for a month, or you can't usually do that until two in the arctic spicy? I'm putting this in quotes, so am I talking about a Hungarian-owned small or medium-sized enterprise? He can't do it. And by some miracle, these multi-company companies can do it. The government is trying to respond to this: gentlemen, we love, appreciate, these companies play a role in trade and security of supply, let us not deny it, it is all right, but let us not abuse the fact that with various accounting technologies you are constantly showing losses and do not, for example, participate in tax rates in Hungary. Is this bill practically trying to do this nonsense? Do I think it's the right thing to do? respond. It is very difficult to twist this with all the philosophical thinking that my fellow Member has just tried to do here. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-11-26-174	I now give the floor to Congressman Dániel Z. Karpa in a normal time frame.
u2014-11-26-175	Mr President, Dear House, Have there been several allegations made during the debate? and finally some kind of debate has developed, is this now a rarity in the new type of parliamentarism? Which may not hold their ground. For example, one of them is that when such a plant unit loses money, it closes anyway. This would indeed be the case in a normally functioning market economy, just because of the reasons that we have mentioned and have raised many times before, yes, these companies, networks, chains are artificially manipulating not only the development of their revenue side and profits, but also their consequent obligation to bear public burdens. Two typical forms: they rent an IT system from the parent company, or buy, say, manufacturing technology, know how and so on, neither has a top hat, so hundreds of billions can be transferred home to the parent company. The problem is that the government seems to be aware of this problem, and now several of its representatives have led it up, and the question is whether what they have put on the table will be able to make a difference. So, will you be able to get these companies to pay their taxes honestly after what they have not paid? I have very strong doubts about this. Otherwise, there would be other economic instruments and methods here to determine what the amount for which taxes are not paid is to impose, to prevent it being passed on. This is not what we have in front of us, but obviously, if Jobbiko is asked, let's say, how much the Tescos would keep in Hungary and how much they would caress them, we won't be the first ones in line, I have to state this. [[Zoltán Grimlock: I don't go there either!]] But I have to say that there would be means for Hungary to actually obtain this missing tax mass for itself, to collect it, to prevent it from being incorporated into the prices, so it would be further cut off; not necessarily by closing the units, there would be a number of other methods here. But you also need to see that there are probably no stores going to close here. So I don't want to call it alarm, because it's usually a balliberal sign and slogan like Fidesz-KDNP that still uses it for certain better ideas, but the fears that here, let's say, 50-60 thousand people's jobs could be at risk or shut down, I'd say they're just as baseless as Fidesz-KDNP is used to put something very hard on the table, take an unmercifully threatening step, and then agree with the market players in the background, and then withdraw from this, if you can get the benefits you need from it. This was typically, very often the case with the banking system, so when, after very hard announcements, the banking system was agreed with the members of the Banking Association and then they danced back from it. This is also the case with the so-called Internet tax; it can be found at systemic level that there is still a very tough announcement before us, a very hard-looking package, and then obviously now they will just sit down with the market players after either the House has voted on it, or it has been passed, and then they will back out of it, say, changing it to 4 years to 6 or 8. So I feel this much in the cards, but it's obvious that we're gonna have to decide what's on the table before us, so we don't have to vote on our own assumptions, we're gonna have to vote on what's on the paper. But what you need to see is if the government is really determined? And I really hope it is? in terms of the fact that these thousands of billions of people who have been lured out of Hungary are actually involved under public burden-sharing, come on, start investigating VAT fraud in substance. Take every step to avoid the start of an amazing series of frauds affecting the food industry, agriculture, and by extending the system and implementation of reverse VAT, it is possible to achieve further results. And you need to see that, too? And I might be able to say that as a close? That, when many here, especially from the Balliberal side, refer to competition, that it is absolutely necessary to create competition here, it will reach the lowest prices, and it will reach an ideal market situation where everyone will benefit as best as possible, this might have been true before 2008. But I can't believe in such speeches after the hundreds of billions of taxpayers' money had to help so-called commercial banks out in crisis months, in crisis years. There and at that point, certain dogmas and textbooks of economics have been permanently and permanently overthrown, and the unconditional competition in Hungary has not fulfilled its expectations in this respect. My own claim that it didn't come into existence was, therefore, that obstacles and distorting factors were emerging in the market which, in addition to the lack of a method change, could not have caused perfect competition to take place. I do not say that competition should be suppressed, not at all, but we are very far from it in Hungary, because international distorting factors are ringing in, and once again, there are a thousand billion-dollar magnitude of avoidance of public burdens in Hungary by foreign networks, by those who should be involved in taking on the common burden, that the whole thing is simply unsustainable and must be interfered. Once again, we would have the means to assess the amount of income that is deducted and taxed from public burdens, to collect these taxes, and then to prevent passing on to consumers. It is not certain that the closure of the units will lead to this, as this does not guarantee the inclusion of the missing tax burden. So, yes, the government can now create a situation in which, at the end of which, on the revenue side, it will not be able to show anything, perhaps higher prices and even a few unemployed people; neither is needed by Hungary. So we ask and ask the government to reconsider these points, and to provide meaningful answers, meaningful explanations to the questions raised, as well as how it imagines this at systemic level. After all, it is true that a well-meaning person who prepares for such a debate, talks to market players, talks to traders, talks to producers, realizes that in these producer circles, and this is not my own opinion, but it is not a popular brand name nowadays, the CBA, and indeed, there are maladministrations in consumer protection, and we are indeed facing a flood of complaints that are simply about the quantity and quality of multis in terms of complaints. We also have to say that our mailboxes in relation to Coop are filled with complaints about the quality of the goods, where I understand that individual purchasing channels may open, but it is clear that there are serious concerns from a consumer point of view. When we say that the CBA is not a good brand name in these circles, we really want to say that we would like very strongly to ensure that the Hungarian buyer can obtain fair and proven quality products in Hungarian-owned Hungarian-based plant units, indeed not only a consumer but also a real citizen in his country, who is not vulnerable to these international networks. I very much hope that we will be able to move closer to this in the next period, but it is not certain that the series of ban decisions before us will lead to it. I, myself, wanted to bring up a number of forms of consumer abuse here and to help identify them. Only if we find answers to prevent abuse of a dominant position makes sense. This is not necessarily possible only through the ban, there are plenty of other tools available. At the same time, I must state that the situation so far is unsustainable in Jobbik's view. [[17.10]] It is completely unsustainable for anyone on the Hungarian market to abuse economies of scale and other aspects to the detriment of Hungarian citizens. It must therefore be avoided. And with regard to the asset system, we will certainly argue for a very long time. Thank you. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2014-11-26-176	I now give the floor to Congressman Kristóf Szatmáry in a two-minute time frame.
u2014-11-26-177	Thank you very much. Very briefly. I would rather hear my colleague Szelényi's speech than just that he has just begun his parliamentary mandate. I can't be so forgiving with my proud fellow Member, I apologize. So what you said to me is a sin. So you, who would have had the opportunity to do anything after joining the EU in 2004, to regulate anything in this market for the benefit of small and medium-sized enterprises in Hungary, did nothing, and essentially the tens of thousands of Hungarian traders who owned one store...? I'm not talking about CBA, I'm not talking about Coop, I'm talking about the arctic spicy ones and the groceries and the convenience stores that closed down because, let's say, in a kilometer radius without any regulation, they've been selling at a multi-price for years. And you see that the bill that's not about anything else...? Here is the statement, Congressman: the annual profits of the five largest foreign-owned companies selling HUF 1500 billion annually do you know how much? Minus 20 billion. Don't tell me that anyone in this business has worked a minute to make this realistic. I'm telling you, there are two things: either you sell below the price, despite the ban, in order to destroy the people around you, or you don't realize your profits. You can go, you can see the little ones at home. As much as I could look at, a year or so it's negative, but overall... It is about creating fair competition for the Hungarians to have an opportunity. [[Zoltán Grimlock: One!]] And it doesn't work the other way around, Coop and CBA. In the last 15 years, domestic property has gone from 80% to 42%. We would like to stop this for the benefit of tens of thousands of Hungarian families. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2014-11-26-178	I now give the floor to Congressman Zoltán Gőgös in a two-minute time frame.
u2014-11-26-179	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. As far as employees are concerned, the number of people employed in trade decreased by 15 thousand between 2010 and 13 and the increase will be around 2 percent this year. Now you've put a six-percent tax on it. So it's not normal, there's nothing to explain. It doesn't explain how many times we ran into it, and we always got it back in a backward legislative problem. That's what this is all about, the world heritage stuff. Why do you have to do this? Why? You should've told me that when they cut the tape in threes with all these big fidesz mayors, they were happy about the job, they were happy about the rest. Two-faced, Mr. Secretary, two-faced! That's why all the Fidesz mayors were after [[Interjection from the ranks of Fidesz: What is it?]] To have the biggest Tesco and all. Everyone was going that way. Is that what you're trying to push back on us? Then what about the fields, let's get back! What about the Hortobal? They took the land from the small families to give it to the big ones. So how are we now? So it's a completely twisted logic. No, this is about one thing again, money. So you can't explain it, it's about that. To my fellow Member, Mr Font, I would like to say to Sanyi that I have made it clear that it should have been closed during the crisis period under this law. [[Sándor Font: You steered!]] If we move the car companies to the other side of the economy, when they were all loss-making, but the owners and banks were willing to stand behind them. All meat companies in Hungary could be closed on the basis of this rule, although there is not much innovation there lately, because there is no application either. So from here on out, it's a misconception because as long as a owner is willing to finance a loss, obviously? 'Cause it was there, too, so they put the money in it. You have to look around, only in the food industry, how many of these are there. So that's not the solution. The solution is to strengthen the supply chain so that they cannot abuse their power. But that's not what you're doing. That's what you're beating up. That's exactly what you're doing.
u2014-11-26-180	I now give the floor to Congressman László Varju in a two-minute time frame.
u2014-11-26-181	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, What they're saying here, and what they're talking about, it's really amazing how different it is from what's real. You know perfectly well that these are the largest companies, as well as the largest taxpayers. Today you have flogged the tobacco companies, otherwise only one of them produces more than HUF 400 billion in tax revenues for the Hungarian budget. And it is completely independent that, by the way, the annual result is a few billion forints loss. And what you do in the same companies, in these trading companies, is the same thing, that by the way, you're using tax payments here, and the fact that you're operating at a loss is another question. I would like to draw attention to what our fellow Member, Zoltán Gőgös, has already said that the three-letter company you are very fond of is one of the most expensive and piggy-like networks that is otherwise abusing the situation that he has in this country today. And it's at the expense of the customers today, because they basically have your funding, your support. Is that why it's when they want to further strengthen this with a law? Isn't it the first time now? It's certainly very outrageous, but it's most unjustified. Thank you very much.
u2014-11-26-182	I now give the floor to Congresswoman Zsuzsanna Szelényi in a normal time frame.
u2014-11-26-183	Thank you very much. Mr Szatmáry's delicately paternalist, though politely thoughtful, remark is now let go of my ear, and I do not comment, but I find it practical not to remember it later. Dániel Z. Carpathian spoke about French protectionism. Well, that's true, the French have protectionism, with fine-tunings the French actually intervene in trade and production in certain areas that are of paramount importance to them. But not the whole market, not the whole French race, but the grapes and wine, as you said. There is protectionism in Hungary, and there has always been, so there have been different protection regulators. This is not what we're talking about here, we're talking about Fidesz-type, Orbán protectionism, which is characterized by the fact that it affects everything, that it basically lives with its two-thirds dominant position, and that it doesn't leave free air at all in any area, but sweeps everything down. This is simply 100 times different from French protectionism, and it is pointless to compare it with French protectionism. Kristóf Szatmáry is no wonder that he really hopes that these larger supermarket chains will not leave Hungary. We'd be in enough trouble if they left. Just as we will be in great trouble when, through your blessed activities, dozens of foreign-owned banks will really leave Hungary. The experts of the National Bank have now announced that in a few years there will be only five banks in Hungary, the state will want to buy most of them, and then privatize them in different ways, obviously to Hungarian owners, Viktor Orbán talked about this. So there is this process, and we can see where this leads, but I am very curious whether you will really be pleased with it, because, as Zoltán Gögös said earlier, the 2008-2009 crisis in Hungary was financed by foreign-owned banks, as the large banks of Europe and the United States were financed by the mother countries from bankruptcy. There was no need for such solutions in Hungary, the Hungarian state did not have to recapitalisation banks during the crisis, because the foreign owners did this. Hungary is a small, open economy, and you are now closing it firmly inwards, but Hungary still basically has this nature. We are part of the current processes of the world, which clearly affect us, and we cannot ignore them. It is possible to ensure that the Hungarian market is strengthened at a level such as that it is really large investors, entrepreneurs and foreigners to leave the country, but there is no way that you would be pleased with it, because to date, a significant part of the performance of the Hungarian economy is being provided by companies owned abroad, and at the moment, Mr Orbán is also very happy about it. Thank you very much. [[17.20]]
u2014-11-26-184	I now give the floor to Mr István Happy in a two-minute time frame.
u2014-11-26-185	Mr. President. Dear fellow Members, I am very sorry that, in connection with this law, only CBA and Coop always come to mind the opposition that this is all about them. It should not be forgotten about the thousands of small businesses, small shops that provide small settlements, and there are many of them in cities. There are many in Budapest as well. So far, they've been at a competitive disadvantage, and I'm sorry about the big business. 'Cause if you go into a convenience store, you can see what a competitive disadvantage it is against a big store. Now that we're gonna have to pay a little bit of money for the big shops in the common register, and there's gonna be some tougher rules for them, I think there are some people who are really hurt. I suggest that it doesn't hurt, because we in the Hungarian Parliament must also help Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprises, and not the large foreign-owned companies that, as the example has shown, have forgotten to pay taxes in recent years, have cheated on taxes. Very good rule, I will continue to say that if they are losing money for two years, then they should complete this activity. And I would be happy if we didn't forget that when we make such a rule, that we should support small and medium-sized enterprises, and that the opposition would not only ask us to do so in the budgetary debate, but would also support and support this bill, which, I say once again, represents a particular competitive advantage for small shops that are also found in small towns and large cities, and are owned by Hungary, and are generally family-owned. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of Fidesz.]]
u2014-11-26-186	I now give the floor to Congressman Sallai R. Benedek.
u2014-11-26-187	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, I asked for the floor during the words of Mr Happy, although I did not want to take part in the debate. The data presented by Congressman Szatmáry, which is presented here, are truly worrying and it is worth discussing the means of preventing tax evasion. The question is, if this is the exclusive plan, is this an appropriate instrument to avoid tax. Because there's always another way. If we want to tax over 50 billion companies, they will divide or find any other solution. They'll be divided into legal entities. Isn't it possible that this is a solution? So we're sure we're gonna get ahead of paying taxes? I thought of this in the words of Mr Happy, because I apologize, but I really don't think about small family businesses. How many Tescos or how many Spars? Or how many Spars are there in Kuncsorba? So it doesn't appear as a problem, but as a problem in settlements over 10 thousand, where this and that already appear. The problem with settlements over 10 thousand in this case is that where Tesco has already appeared, there is a good chance that there is a Real, Coop and CBA, and that is also bad for small and medium-sized enterprises. Up to the size of 3 000 and 4 000 settlements, when none of these appear, or at most only appears with a tiny franchise, as the Member said in his words, this is not a specific danger. Is that why it's where we want to protect small and medium-sized enterprises? in settlements over 5,000, but more like over 10,000? There's usually Tesco, there's Spar, or there's others, we know that about the surrounding settlements, and that's just as dangerous to family businesses as big. So that's why I'm concerned, and that's where I get the idea that this regulation isn't healthy, but I understand the reasons. Thank you.
u2014-11-26-188	I now give the floor to Congressman László Varju in two minutes.
u2014-11-26-189	Thank you very much. I would like to reassure my fellow Member that it does not hurt. There is no problem with paying taxes to those who carry out the activity. I just want you to understand that what you're arguing about is a simple lie. I'd say it's a mistake. I think it's obvious from recent years that you're making the wrong argument. And if you look at the data, you'll see that companies you like to refer to pay taxes with integrity. This is the case even if you have to pay for this in your economic policy with a world-class general sales tax, but this is another part of the story, and I don't want to get into it. Just understand what this is about; once again, it doesn't hurt.
u2014-11-26-190	I now give the floor to Congressman Kristóf Szatmáry in a normal time frame.
u2014-11-26-191	Thank you. Just to respond in one sentence to Congressman Varju, the VAT? But anyway, I'm not gonna do it? They'll pay you in a different way. So someone else pays the VAT, and the other thing is they don't pay corporate tax. But does the suggestion of my fellow Member Sallai shed light on a much more interesting policy issue? Who knows this market, you know? That they won't divide. Please, I'm not sure that's gonna be a problem. Is it enough just for me? Let's stick to the names, because there aren't that many people in the market? We're thinking about how Spar works. Apart from Hungary, Spar operates as a franchise everywhere in the world where it is present. By the way, this is the way the world goes, and the Spar goes this way in Hungary. So it's not necessarily wrong to have it in a different structure. What's the story about? [[Zoltán Grimlock: It's okay.]] That's okay. That's what I'm talking about. It would be a good process if Hungarian families or Hungarian communities operated from the ownership side, at least from the operational side. From this point of view, it doesn't matter what three, four or five letters it has on its store. The question of employment has been raised here. Ladies and gentlemen, employment in trade has not been reduced because any intervention has taken place in this area in recent years, but because the labour demand for large areas of sales has, by definition, been reduced. The reason why the number of people employed in trade has decreased by a few thousand in recent years is that there has been a rise in large-scale businesses, where less labour is needed for one square meter. By the way, they may be the largest employers, but they alone have fewer people to employ in trade. There's no mention of it here, but there's a lot of debate about which chain? Regardless of the three, four or five letters? the proportion of Hungarian products marketed. Of course, there are positive and negative comments on all kinds of chains, but according to all statements, the proportion of Hungarian food in the domestic chains is much higher, such as hard discount rates. It's almost double here. In hard discount rates, according to the latest surveys, the proportion of Hungarian food is between 40 and 50 percent, while in Hungary it is somewhere between 70 and 80 percent. Not a hundred percent there, of course there is foreign product, but the proportion of Hungarian products is much higher. I would add that there is a positive process in the Hungarian economy, and perhaps it is time to say a few words about the fact that this is not a classic anti- multi-aversion. He who works, worked, knows this, and on behalf of those that I can safely say that the large international chains established in Hungary have not only given a negative, but also a lot of positives to Hungarian trade, consumer culture, commercial culture, sales models, as well as all the other negatives that have resulted from their operation here, from the narrowing of the market, in many other areas. So, of course, it's not black or white. It is what has been said here that a balanced, conscious or involuntary abuse of a dominant position is being attempted by this law by forcing companies to manage positively in some way. By the way, of course, we're in a debate. I would ask all my fellow Members, if they have an improvement in how to make this more lifelike, not to restrain themselves, but to submit their proposal. Otherwise, it is also necessary to examine what is going on with the chains that clearly have food investments, how and how they should be included in the loss. It's not a big market again, so we know who we're talking about, and I don't want to say names. [[17 .30]] But that is another category, because what Mr Font said would mean that certain companies are not only carrying out commercial activities but also investing in food producers. There the examination of this two - year period may be interesting. I wouldn't want to end here, because it's been a long day, to be very sinister. One thing is certain: I daresay that one job will not be put at risk because of this regulation. Here, fortunately, Hungary has an expanding market, last year 3 percent, and not on a monthly basis, but on an annual basis this market expanded by 3 percent last year.This year it will expand by more than 3 percent. Today's statistics show that on an annual basis, retail sales increased by 4.5 percent. Therefore, because of this regulation alone, only one operator will not leave Hungary. If you leave because you may have, because there has been before, if you remember, French companies have also left the Hungarian market, it is only your own internal European business policy...? As we speak now, let us be honest, because I do not want our socialist fellow Members, let us say, in two or three years' time, to say that this is why they are leaving. Do you read today? Regardless of this unapproved regulation? professional news that one of the largest chains in Hungary is thinking about selling its entire Central European division because of its domestic problems, and not because of this. It's not that. So this, which is submitted, I can say again, perhaps towards the end of the debate, that, of course, knowing and accepting the important role of large chains operating in Hungary in domestic trade, because they market a lot of Hungarian products, I say, they have also brought some new culture and commercial culture to Hungary, and we would like to force them to do so with this law? Is that a word I dare risk? to operate under the same tax conditions, which we also expect from all Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprises. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2014-11-26-192	I am asking my fellow Members if anyone else would like to comment on the debate. [[No one's reporting.]] I don't see a candidate. The general debate is closed and I give the floor to Mr Béla Glattfelder, State Secretary, to respond to what has been said in the debate.
u2014-11-26-193	Thank you very much, Mr President, and thank you to the Members who participated in this debate, especially those who have expressed their constructive views. There are many different opinions on what is the right procedure for regulating Hungarian trade, but the government has rather clear objectives, and only proposals that are in line with these objectives can be supported by the government. And these are the following. The most important thing is to protect the interests of customers, consumers, so that consumers and consumers can obtain products at the right price in the longer term. Another important aspect is the protection of small and medium-sized enterprises in Hungary, the enforcement of market participants' full compliance with the principle of fair market conduct and the failure to abuse any dominant position on the market. The government is committed to preventing the formation of monopolies, because monopolies are bad for the economy, they are bad for competition. Where there are monopolies, everything becomes more expensive. Finally? And that's important? In order for any new legislation to be adopted by Parliament, it must be in line with European law and other international obligations. These are the principles, these are the aspects that we need to take into account at the same time, and this is not easy, because this is a very diverse area. Now, if I may, I would like to respond to some comments. I don't know if they'll allow me to answer Zsuzsa Selényi first; ladies first. [[Dr. Gábor Staudt: He's not here anymore.]] It's not here, it's okay, it's the ladies first, even if they're away. There is no proposal in the law to ban the transport of customers by bus to Tesco. So the congresswoman is wrong, so simply there is no law, so there is no need to fight it. There is nothing in the law that can be interpreted as ending competition. Why would he take it out? On the contrary, the aim of the law is to ensure that competition is lively and sustainable in the longer term. It is not that the law would force anyone to cease their activities in Hungary. Mr Kristóf Szatmáry has just said this very clearly. We have consulted the companies concerned, and in this consultation they have never mentioned that they would withdraw from Hungary because of this or any of the laws that have just been negotiated. These companies have invested an incredible amount of money in Hungary, they have enormous economic interests in order to be able to function effectively here. The other issue is that they may change their European strategy, have difficulties at home, or, let's say, they want to expand in Africa, and that they have sufficient resources there, they will sell their interests in Hungary or even in Eastern Central Europe. But it is certain that they will not make decisions on the basis of hysterical considerations, but on the basis of very, very rational calculations, which, by the way, will obviously not be influenced by these laws we are discussing. Let me tell István Józsa that there is no decline in GDP. I don't know how you know that. On the contrary, Hungarian GDP is showing a particularly significant growth, and the Hungarian economy is growing very fast. Last time we measured an increase of 3.2 percent, while the EU average was only 1.3. Hungary has the second fastest growing economy among the 28 Member States of the European Union. What still belongs to this, because we are discussing a commercial law, that retail sales are growing dynamically, in 15 consecutive months, and in September there was a 4.5 percent increase, which shows the highest retail traffic growth in the last eight years. The other thing he said was that there would be an investment ban in Hungary. Please don't say that, because that's not true. In Hungary, even if we are talking about commercial activities, there is only one authorisation system, which does not work as a prohibition, which is also proof that 135 of the 236 valid building permits submitted in the past have been effective, so they have received the permit, so there is more than half of them; companies such as IKEA have been given the opportunity to build a store. So please don't say this investment ban thing, because it's not good for the country, because it's partly bad for us, and it's partly bad for our chances in the debate with the European Union. Finally, he said that the convenience stores are not really in a bad situation, because some of them are gone, and another is created, and there is some kind of balance here. I'm afraid that's not the case. In 2000, it was in Hungary, thirteen years ago, fourteen years ago 24 505, a store of less than 400 square meters. In 2013 there were only 17 974, so in thirteen years the decrease was 6581 shops. This means that 506 stores disappear on average every year in Hungary, and more precisely this is the reduction in their number. This is an alarming decrease, which suggests that there is a significant reorganization here that needs to be taken care of. Here, I would like to give the truth of what Congressman István Happy said that these debates should not focus solely on the large companies that everyone knows. No, we must put it at the heart of this debate, we must also place the small Hungarian shops, the whole small ones, the independent shops, which do not belong anywhere, which, in every sense, stand on their own feet. [[17.40]] I say to Dániel Z. Kárpát, again, on the basis of the consultations that we have carried out in the past, that this proposal does not entail any additional costs for companies. Consequently, there is no risk that these non-existent costs would be included in any price, but even in the most vehement debates, these were not claimed by those who acted as representatives of interest in the past period. In conclusion, what I wanted to say is that the government's goal is indeed to take action against monopolies, to ensure that Hungarian consumers, Hungarian buyers, can access everyday articles at the most competitive price in the long term. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2014-11-26-194	Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. This brings us to the end of the discussion of today's agendas. It is now time to speak after the agenda. There is one such speech today, Mr Sallai R. Benedek has submitted a speech entitled 'One and a Half Million Steps' in Hungary. I'll give you the floor in five minutes.
u2014-11-26-195	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, I apologise for using your patience at this late hour, and I apologise even more for the fact that I would like to urge you and the members of the Parliament to take this one and a half million steps in Hungary. I scheduled this speech for today because just today 27 years ago, when Pál Rockenbauer died in January 1933, who was born in Budapest and died in 87, and everyone is familiar with his series of films starting with a folk song starting on the road, which received the title of the one and a half million steps in Hungary, and this series was decisive both in the transfer of national awareness movements and local knowledge, historical and ethnographic knowledge. As I said, I would like to walk the Hungarian Members of Parliament through my speech, because I can experience two terrible things in the Hungarian Parliament. One is that if someone knows virtually little about the country, because for a long, long time, let's say, they've only been sitting inside the walls of Parliament and talking and they've lost touch with the real world. This is one thing you can sometimes experience in the case of a leader, that he barely knows that if people are in line with the flames, then what are they talking about? The other experience is that some Members, whether in District V or in a small village, want to draw the experience and conclusions of the country only from their own background, and want to participate in the legislation by determining their opinion and experience. A half a million steps started on 31 July on the National Blue Tour, from the then eastern end point, from the Great Milic in the Zemplén Mountains, and after a total of more than 1000 kilometres, it reached its western end in October 79 under the Irottkő in the Kőszegi Mountains. During the months of filming and filmmaking, the creators introduced not only the Hungarian landscape, but also the Hungarian people living in it, the Hungarian general social problems, public thinking, traditions, and I think that it would still be desirable to learn about them not only in general public education, not only for Hungarian citizens, but also in parliament. In order to ensure that the year 79 is not alarming, I would like to mention that the series was completed in 1986 and 87 and another one million steps in Hungary, showing the landscapes of Western and Southern Transdanubia. In 1990-91 the third part of the series was published, the, Rounds and Steps, which closes the circle and completes the full presentation of the National Blue Tour; and in 2011 a series with the re-entry of the National Blue Tour was made with the title "Another and a Half Million Steps" in Hungary 32 years later, which also tries to present Hungary's natural features and cultural traditions. This work, started and conducted by Pál Rockenbauer, clearly also earned the recognition of the leading civil servants and civil servants in Hungary. On 4 March 2014, on behalf of the President of the Republic, the Minister of Human Resources gave awards to the authors, including the Order of Merit of Hungary, the Cross of Knights and the Cross of Hungarian Gold, but the sadness is that Pál Rockenbauer, who passed away 27 years ago, and since there is no posthumous version of these medals, could never receive these state medals. He died 27 years ago, and I think that it was necessary to remember this because the work he has tried to introduce Hungary to Hungarian citizens is as important to the Members of Parliament here today as it is in general in society. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2014-11-26-196	Thank you for your speech. That concludes the speeches after the agenda. I would like to inform you that the next meeting of the autumn session is expected to be three days and will take place on 1 December 2014. I thank you for your work, and this session is closed. [[The meeting ended at 5:46 p.m.]]
